Whileone of the lovely beings we have so cursorily presented to the reader , was thus lost in thought , the other quickly recovered from the slight alarm which induced the exclamation , and , laughing at her own weakness , she inquired playfully of the youth who rode by her side -- `` Are such spectres frequent in the woods , Heyward ; or is this sight an especial entertainment , ordered in our behalf . 
`` You know him , Duncan , or you would not trust yourself so freely to his keeping ? '' 
`` Say , rather , Alice , that I would not trust you , '' returned the young man , impressively ; `` I do know him , or he would not have my confidence , and least of all , at this moment . 
He is said to be a Canadian , too ; and yet he served with our friends the Mohawks , who , as you know , are one of the six allied nations . 
He was brought amongst us , as I have heard , by some strange accident , in which your father was interested , and in which the savage was rigidly dealt by -- but I forget the idle tale ; it is enough , that he is now our friend . '' 
`` Being little accustomed to the practices of the savages , Alice , you mistake the place of real danger , '' said Heyward . 
It would seem that the domestics had been previously instructed ; for , instead of penetrating the thicket , they followed the route of the column ; a measure , which Heyward stated , had been dictated by the sagacity of their guide , in order to diminish the marks of their trail , if , haply , the Canadian savages should be lurking so far in advance of their army . 
Perhaps the rapidity of the changes from one of these paces to the other , created an optical illusion , which might thus magnify the powers of the beast ; for it is certain that Heyward , who possessed a true eye for the merits of a horse , was unable , with his utmost ingenuity , to decide , by what sort of movement his pursuer worked his sinuous way on his foot-steps , with such persevering hardihood . 
The frown which had gathered around the handsome , open , and manly brow of Heyward , gradually relaxed , and his lips curled into a slight smile , as he regarded the stranger . 
demanded Heyward , when the other had arrived sufficiently nigh to abate his speed ; `` I trust you are no messenger of evil tidings . '' 
`` Even so , '' replied the stranger , making diligent use of his triangular castor , to produce a circulation in the close air of the woods , and leaving his hearers in doubt , to which of the young man 's questions he responded ; when , however , he had cooled his face , and recovered his breath , he continued , `` I hear you are riding to William Henry ; as I am journeying thitherward myself , I concluded good company would seem consistent to the wishes of both parties . '' 
`` The division of voices would appear to be unjustly measured , '' returned Heyward ; `` We are three , whilst you have no one to consult but yourself . '' 
`` If you journey to the lake , you have mistaken your route , '' said Heyward , haughtily ; `` the highway thither is at least half-a-mile behind you . '' 
After simpering in a small way , like one whose modesty prohibited a more open expression of his admiration of a witticism , that was perfectly unintelligible to his hearers , he continued , with becoming gravity , `` It is not prudent for one of my profession to be too familiar with those he has to instruct ; for which reason , I follow not the line of the army : besides which , I conclude that a gentleman of your character , has the best judgment in matters of way-faring ; I have therefore decided to join company , in order that the ride may be made agreeable , and partake of social communion . '' 
exclaimed Heyward , undecided whether to give vent to his growing anger , or to laugh aloud in the other 's face . 
Nay , throw aside that frown , Heyward , and , in pity to my longing ears , suffer him to journey in our train . 
`` Judge not too rashly , from hasty and deceptive appearances , '' said the lady , smiling ; `` though Major Heyward can assume such deep notes , on occasion , believe me , his natural tones are better fitted for a mellow tenor , than the bass you heard . '' 
`` Is he , then , much practised in the art of psalmody ? '' 
Alice felt disposed to laugh , though she succeeded in suppressing the sounds of her merriment , ere she answered , -- `` I apprehend that he is rather addicted to profane song . 
The Indian muttered a few words in broken English , to Heyward , who , in his turn , spoke to the stranger ; at once interrupting , and , for the time , closing his musical efforts . 
`` You will diminish them , indeed , '' returned the arch maiden , `` for never did I hear a more unworthy conjunction of execution and language , than that to which I have been listening ; and I was far gone in a learned inquiry into the causes of such an unfitness between sound and sense , when you broke the charm of my musings by that bass of yours , Duncan ! '' 
`` I know not what you call my bass , '' said Heyward , evidently piqued at her remark , `` but I know that your safety , and that of Cora , is far dearer to me than could be any orchestra of Handel 's music . '' 
He paused , and turned his head quickly towards a thicket , and then bent his eyes suspiciously on their guide , who continued his steady pace in undisturbed gravity . 
Major Heyward was mistaken only in suffering his youthful and generous pride to suppress for a single moment his active watchfulness . 
A gleam of exultation shot across the darkly painted lineaments of the inhabitant of the forest , as he traced the route of his intended victims , who rode unconsciously onward ; the light and graceful forms of the females waving among the trees , in the curvatures of their path , followed at each bend by the manly figure of Heyward ; until , finally , the shapeless person of the singing master was concealed behind the numberless trunks of trees , that rose in dark lines in the intermediate space . 
Leavingthe unsuspecting Heyward , and his confiding companions , to penetrate still deeper into a forest that contained such treacherous inmates , we must use an author 's privilege , and shift the scene a few miles to the westward of the place where we have last seen them . 
`` We will not dispute concerning the excellence of the passage , '' returned Heyward , smiling , for , as the reader has anticipated , it was he . 
`` Enough of this , '' said Heyward , impatiently ; `` I wish not to inquire into the character of a man that I know , and to whom you must be a stranger . 
`` I wish no contention of idle words with you , friend , '' said Heyward , curbing his dissatisfied manner , and speaking in a more gentle voice ; `` if you will tell me the distance to Fort Edward , and conduct me thither , your labour shall not go without its reward . '' 
The scout regarded Heyward a moment in surprise , and then lifting his cap , he answered , in a tone less confident than before -- though still expressing doubt -- `` I have heard a party was to leave the encampment , this morning , for the lake shore ? '' 
`` I should like to look at the creatur ; if it is a true Iroquois I can tell him by his knavish look , and by his paint , '' said the scout , stepping past the charger of Heyward , and entering the path behind the mare of the singing master , whose foal had taken advantage of the halt to exact the maternal contributions . 
Thence he went to the side of the motherly animal , and spending a minute in a fruitless inquiry into the character of her rider , he shook his head and returned to Heyward . 
`` A Mingo is a Mingo , and God having made him so , neither the Mohawks nor any other tribe can alter him , '' he said , when he had regained his former position . 
`` Think you so , '' said Heyward , leaning forward in the saddle , and dropping his voice nearly to a whisper ; `` I confess I have not been without my own suspicions , though I have endeavoured to conceal them , and affected a confidence I have not always felt , on account of my companions . 
returned the scout , placing his finger on his nose in sign of caution . 
`` The thief is leaning against the foot of the sugar sapling that you can see over them bushes ; his right leg is in a line with the bark of the tree , and , '' tapping his rifle , `` I can take him , from where I stand , between the ankle and the knee , with a single shot , putting an end of his tramping through the woods for at least a month to come . 
interrupted Heyward ; `` it will not do -- we must think of some other scheme ; -- and yet I have much reason to believe the rascal has deceived me . '' 
The hunter , who had already abandoned his intention to maim the runner , at the orders of his superior , mused a moment , and then made a gesture , which instantly brought his two red companions to his side . 
`` Now go you back , '' said the hunter , speaking again to Heyward , `` and hold the imp in talk ; these Mohicans here , will take him , without breaking his paint . '' 
`` Nay , '' said Heyward , proudly , `` I will seize him myself . '' 
Heyward prepared to comply , though with strong disgust at the nature of the office he was compelled to execute . 
Each moment , however , pressed upon him a conviction of the critical situation in which he had suffered his invaluable trust to be involved , through his own fearless confidence . 
The sun had already disappeared , and the woods , suddenly deprived of his light , were assuming a dusky hue , which keenly reminded him , that the hour the savage usually chose for his most barbarous and remorseless acts of vengeance or hostility , was speedily drawing at hand . 
Stimulated by these quickened apprehensions , he left the scout , without reply , who immediately entered into a loud conversation with the stranger that had so unceremoniously enlisted himself in the party of the travellers that morning . 
In passing his gentler companions , Heyward uttered a few words of encouragement , and was pleased to find that , though fatigued with the exercise of the day , they appeared to entertain no suspicion that their present embarrassment was other than the result of accident . 
Giving them reason to believe he was merely employed in a consultation concerning their future route , he spurred his charger , and drew the reins again when the animal had carried him within a few yards of the place , where the sullen runner still stood leaning against the tree . 
The Indian riveted his glowing eyes on Heyward as he asked , in his imperfect English , `` Is he alone ? '' 
hesitatingly answered Heyward , to whom deception was too new to be assumed without embarrassment . 
`` Enough , Magua , '' said Heyward ; `` are we not friends ! 
`` The pale faces make themselves dogs to their women , '' muttered the Indian , in his native language . 
The Indian then fastened his eyes keenly on the open countenance of Heyward , but meeting his glance , he turned them quickly away , and seating himself deliberately on the ground , he drew forth the remnant of some former repast , and began to eat , though not without first bending his looks slowly and cautiously around him . 
`` This is well , '' continued Heyward ; `` and le Renard will have strength and sight to find the path in the morning ; '' -- he paused , for sounds like the snapping of a dried stick , and the rustling of leaves , rose from the adjacent bushes , but recollecting himself instantly continued -- `` we must be moving before the sun is seen , or Montcalm may lie in our path , and shut us out from the fortress . '' 
The hand of Magua dropped from his mouth to his side , and though his eyes were fastened on the ground , his head was turned aside , his nostrils expanded , and his ears seemed even to stand more erect than usual , giving to him the appearance of a statue that was made to represent intense attention . 
Heyward , who watched his movements with a vigilant eye , carelessly extricated one of his feet from the stirrup , while he passed a hand towards the bear-skin covering of his holsters . 
Heyward felt it had now become incumbent on him to act ; throwing his leg over the saddle , he dismounted , with a determination to advance and seize his treacherous companion , trusting the result to his own manhood . 
In order , however , to prevent unnecessary alarm , he still preserved an air of calmness and friendship . 
`` Le Renard Subtil does not eat , '' he said , using the appellation he had found most flattering to the vanity of the Indian . 
But when he felt the fingers of Heyward moving gently along his own naked arm , he struck up the limb of the young man , and uttering a piercing cry , as he darted beneath it , plunged , at a single bound , into the opposite thicket . 
Thesuddenness of the flight of his guide , and the wild cries of the pursuers , caused Heyward to remain fixed , for a few moments , in inactive surprise . 
Then recollecting the importance of securing the fugitive , he dashed aside the surrounding bushes , and pressed eagerly forward to lend his aid in the chase . 
Before he had , however , proceeded a hundred yards , he met the three foresters already returning from their unsuccessful pursuit . 
he exclaimed ; `` the scoundrel must be concealed behind some of these trees , and may yet be secured . 
This appalling declaration , which the scout uttered with the cool assurance of a man who fully comprehended , while he did not fear to face the danger , served to remind Heyward of the importance of the charge with which he himself had been intrusted . 
Glancing his eyes around , with a vain effort to pierce the gloom that was thickening beneath the leafy arches of the forest , he felt as if , cut off from all human aid , his unresisting companions would soon lay at the entire mercy of their barbarous enemies , who , like beasts of prey , only waited till the gathering darkness might render their blows more fatally certain . 
His awakened imagination , deluded by the deceptive light , converted each waving bush , or the fragment of some fallen tree , into human forms , and twenty times he fancied he could distinguish the horrid visages of his lurking foes , peering from their hiding places , in neverceasing watchfulness of the movements of his party . 
Looking upward , he found that the thin fleecy clouds , which evening had painted on the blue sky , were already losing their faintest tints of rose-colour , while the embedded stream which glided past the spot where he stood , was to be traced only by the dark boundary of its wooded banks . 
he said , feeling the utter helplessness of doubt in such a pressing strait ; `` desert me not , for God 's sake ! 
His companions , who conversed apart in the language of their tribe , heeded not this sudden and earnest appeal . 
Though their dialogue was maintained in low and cautious sounds , but little above a whisper , Heyward , who now approached , could easily distinguish the earnest tones of the younger warrior . 
Yielding to his powerful interest in the subject , and impatient of a delay that seemed fraught with so much additional danger , Heyward drew still nigher to the dusky groupe , with an intention of making his offers of compensation more definite , when the white man , motioning with his hand as if he conceded the disputed point , turned away , saying in a sort of soliloquy , and in the English tongue : -- `` Uncas is right ! 
Heyward could distinguish the impatient gesture of the scout , through the increasing shadows of the evening , and moved in his footsteps , swiftly , towards the place where he had left the remainder of his party . 
When they rejoined the expecting and anxious females , he briefly acquainted them with the conditions of their new guide , and with the necessity that existed for their hushing every apprehension , in instant and serious exertions . 
Although his alarming communication was not received without much secret terror by the listeners , his earnest and impressive manner , aided perhaps by the nature of their danger , succeeded in bracing their nerves to undergo some unlooked for and unusual trial . 
Silently , and without a moment 's delay , they permitted him to assist them from their saddles , when they descended , quickly , to the water 's edge , where the scout had collected the rest of the party , more by the agency of his expressive gestures than by any use of words . 
Heyward ventured to suggest . 
The sisters shuddered , and clung closer to each other , while Heyward , instinctively , laid his hand on one of the pistols he had just drawn from their holsters , as he placed himself between his charge and those dense shadows , that seemed to draw an impenetrable veil before the bosom of the forest . 
So soon as Cora and Alice were seated , the scout , without regarding the element , directed Heyward to support one side of the frail vessel , and posting himself at the other , they bore it up against the stream , followed by the dejected owner of the dead foal . 
Heyward yielded the guidance of the canoe , implicitly , to the scout , who approached or receded from the shore , to avoid the fragments of rocks , or deeper parts of the river , with a readiness that showed his knowledge of the route they held . 
At length they reached a point in the river , where the roving eye of Heyward became riveted on a cluster of black objects , which had collected at a spot where the high bank threw a deeper shadow than usual on the dark waters . 
Hesitating to advance , he pointed out the place to the attention of his companion . 
The scout directed Heyward and his disconsolate fellow travellers to seat themselves in the forward end of the canoe , and took possession of the other himself , as erect and steady as if he floated in a vessel of much firmer materials . 
demanded Heyward , perceiving that the exertions of the scout had ceased . 
`` We are now fortified , garrisoned , and provisioned , '' cried Heyward , cheerfully , `` and may set Montcalm and his allies at defiance . 
Heyward perceiving that the stubborn adherence of the scout to the cause of his friends the Delawares or Mohicans , for they were branches of the same numerous people , was likely to prolong a useless discussion , adroitly changed the subject . 
It may be as you say , '' he continued , reverting to the purport of Heyward 's last remark ; `` and the greater the reason why we should cut our steaks , and let the carcass drive down the stream , or we shall have the pack howling along the cliffs , begrudging every mouthful we swallow . 
Heyward , and his female companions , witnessed this mysterious movement with secret uneasiness ; for , though the conduct of the white man had hitherto been above reproach , his rude equipments , blunt address , and strong antipathies , together with the character of his silent associates , were all causes for exciting distrust in minds that had been so recently alarmed by Indian treachery . 
* It was the first opportunity possessed by Duncan and his companions , to view the marked lineaments of either of their Indian attendants , and each individual of the party felt relieved from a burthen of doubt , as the proud and determined , though wild , expression of the features of the young warrior forced itself on their notice . 
The ingenuous Alice gazed at his free air and proud carriage , as she would have looked upon some precious relic of the Grecian chisel , to which life had been imparted , by the intervention of a miracle ; while Heyward , though accustomed to see the perfection of form which abounds among the uncorrupted natives , openly expressed his admiration at such an unblemished specimen of the noblest proportions of man . 
Surely , Duncan , those cruel murders , those terrific scenes of torture , of which we read and hear so much , are never acted in the presence of such as he ! '' 
`` This , certainly , is a rare and brilliant instance of those natural qualities , in which these peculiar people are said to excel , '' he answered . 
`` Now Major Heyward speaks , as Major Heyward should , '' murmured Cora ; `` who , that looks at this creature of nature , remembers the shades of his skin ! '' 
demanded Heyward . 
Alice uttered a faint shriek , and even Cora rose to her feet , as this appalling object moved into the light ; but a single word from Heyward calmed them , with the assurance it was only their attendant , Chingachgook , who , lifting another blanket , discovered that the cavern had two outlets . 
Then , holding the brand , he crossed a deep , narrow chasm in the rocks , which ran at right angles with the passage they were in , but which , unlike that , was open to the heavens , and entered another cave , answering to the description of the first , in every essential particular . 
asked Heyward . 
While his auditors received a cheering assurance of the security of their place of concealment , from this untutored description of Glenn 's , they were much inclined to judge differently from Hawk-eye , of its wild beauties . 
The repast , which was greatly aided by the addition of a few delicacies , that Heyward had the precaution to bring with him , when they left their horses , was exceedingly refreshing to the wearied party . 
Uncas acted as attendant to the females , performing all the little offices within his power , with a mixture of dignity and anxious grace , that served to amuse Heyward , who well knew that it was an utter innovation on the Indian customs , which forbid their warriors to descend to any menial employment , especially in favour of their women . 
Had there been one there sufficiently disengaged to become a close observer , he might have fancied that the services of the young chief were not entirely impartial . 
That , while he tendered to Alice the calabash of sweet water , and the venison in a trencher , neatly carved from the knot of the pepperage , with sufficient courtesy , in performing the same offices to her sister , his dark eye lingered on her rich , speaking , countenance , with a softness that banished the bright gleams of pride , that were usually glancing there , entirely from their expression . 
Once or twice he was compelled to speak , to command the attention of those he served . 
In such cases , he made use of English , broken and imperfect , but sufficiently intelligible , and which he rendered so mild and musical , by his * deep , guttural voice , that it never failed to cause both ladies to look up in admiration and astonishment . 
He had seated himself more within the circle of light , where the frequent , uneasy glances of his guests were better enabled to separate the natural expression of his face , from the artificial terrors of the war-paint . 
`` What can be more fitting and consolatory , than to offer up evening praise after a day of such exceeding jeopardy! '' Alice smiled ; but regarding Heyward , she blushed and hesitated . 
`` Indulge yourself , '' he whispered ; `` ought not the suggestion of the worthy namesake of the Psalmist to have its weight at such a moment ? '' 
Encouraged by his opinion , Alice did what both her pious inclinations and her keen relish for gentle sounds , had before so strongly urged upon her . 
repeated Heyward , aloud . 
When he had gone , the scout first spoke in English . 
Before leaving the place , however , she whispered a request to Duncan that he would follow . 
Uncas raised the blanket for their passage , and as the sisters turned to thank him for this act of attention , they saw the scout seated again before the dying embers , with his face resting on his hands , in a manner which showed how deeply he brooded on the unaccountable interruption , which had broken up their evening devotions . 
Heyward took with him a blazing knot , which threw a dim light through the narrow vista of their new apartment . 
Placing it in a favourable position , he joined the females , who now found themselves alone with him , for the first time since they had left the friendly ramparts of fort Edward . 
`` Leave us not , Duncan , '' said Alice ; `` we can not sleep in such a place as this , with that horrid cry still ringing in our ears ! '' 
Ask yourself , Heyward , can daughters forget the anxiety a father must endure , whose children lodge , he knows not where or how , in such a wilderness , and in the midst of so many perils ! '' 
`` He is a soldier , and knows how to estimate the chances of the woods . '' 
`` He is a father , and can not deny his nature . '' 
`` How kind has he ever been to all my follies ! 
`` I may have been rash in pressing his consent in a moment of so much embarrassment , but I would have proved to him , that however others might neglect him , in his strait , his children were faithful ! '' 
`` When he heard of your arrival at Edward , '' said Heyward , kindly , `` there was a powerful struggle in his bosom between fear and love ; though the latter , heightened , if possible , by so long a separation , quickly prevailed . 
` It is the spirit of my noble minded Cora that leads them , Duncan , ' he said , ` and I will not balk it . 
`` And did he not speak of me , Heyward ? '' 
`` Surely , he forgot not altogether his little Elsie ! '' 
`` That were impossible , after having known her so well , '' returned the young man ; `` he called you by a thousand endearing epithets , that I may not presume to use , but to the justice of which I can warmly testify . 
Once , indeed , he said -- '' Duncan ceased speaking ; for while his eyes were rivetted on those of Alice , who had turned towards him with the eagerness of filial affection , to catch his words , the same strong , horrid cry , as before , filled the air , and rendered him mute . 
`` He who makes strange sounds , and gives them out for man 's information , alone knows our danger . 
exclaimed Heyward , taking his pistols from the place where he had laid them , on entering ; `` be it a sign of peace , or a signal of war , it must be looked to . 
`` Here is nothing to be seen but the gloom and quiet of a lovely evening , '' whispered Duncan ; `` how much should we prize such a scene , and all this breathing solitude , at any other moment , Cora ! 
`` Here , then , is one who can undeceive you , '' said Duncan ; `` I know the sound full well , for often have I heard it on the field of battle , and in situations which are frequent in a soldier 's life . 
In such circumstances , common prudence dictated that Heyward , and his companions , should imitate a caution that proceeded from so intelligent a source . 
Heyward himself was posted at hand , so near that he might communicate with his companions without raising his voice to a dangerous elevation ; while David , in imitation of the woodsmen , bestowed his person in such a manner among the fissures of the rocks , that his ungainly limbs were no longer offensive to the eye . 
Duncan cast the wide shawl of Cora before a spectacle he so much loved to contemplate , and then suffered his own head to seek a pillow on the rock . 
He crawled along the rock , and shook Duncan from his heavy slumbers . 
`` Now is the time to journey , '' he whispered ; `` awake the gentle ones , and be ready to get into the canoe when I bring it to the landing place . '' 
`` Have you had a quiet night , '' said Heyward ; for myself , I believe sleep has gotten the better of my vigilance . '' 
By this time Duncan was thoroughly awake , and he immediately lifted the shawl from the sleeping fair ones . 
The motion caused Cora to raise her hand as if to repulse him , while Alice murmured , in her soft , gentle voice , `` No , no , dear father , we were not deserted ; Duncan was with us . '' 
`` Yes , sweet innocence , '' whispered the delighted youth ; `` Duncan is here , and while life continue , or danger remain , he will never quit thee . 
While the words were still on the lips of Heyward , there had arisen such a tumult of yells and cries , as served to drive the swift currents of his own youthful blood , back from its bounding course into the fountains of his heart . 
Duncan listened with intense anxiety for the strokes of the paddle , believing that flight was now their only refuge . 
He had just fancied they were cruelly deserted by the scout , as a stream of flame issued from the rock beneath him , and a fierce yell , blended with a shriek of agony , announced that the messenger of death , hurled from the fatal weapon of Hawk-eye , had found a victim . 
Duncan seized the favourable moment to spring to the body of Gamut , which he bore within the shelter of the narrow chasm that protected the sisters . 
`` The poor fellow has saved his scalp , '' said Hawk-eye , coolly passing his hand over the head of David ; `` but he is a proof that a man may be born with too long a tongue ! 
demanded Cora , in a voice whose husky tones showed how powerfully , natural horror struggled with her assumed firmness . 
asked Heyward . 
`` You hear our probable fortunes , Cora , '' said Duncan ; `` and you know we have every thing to hope from the anxiety and experience of your father . 
The sisters followed him into the outer cave , where David was beginning , by his sighs , to give symptoms of returning consciousness , and , then , commending the wounded man to their attention , he immediately prepared to leave them . 
`` Duncan ! '' 
`` Remember , Duncan , how necessary your safety is to our own -- how you bear a father 's sacred trust -- how much depends on your discretion and care -- in short , '' she added , while the tell-tale blood stole over her features , crimsoning her very temples , `` how very deservedly dear you are to all of the name of Munro . '' 
`` If any thing could add to my own base love of life , '' said Heyward , suffering his unconscious eyes to wander to the youthful form of the silent Alice ; `` it would be so kind an assurance . 
Without waiting for any reply , he tore himself from the presence of the sisters , and joined the scout and his companions , who still lay within the protection of the little chasm , between the two caves . 
`` I tell you , Uncas , '' said the former , as Heyward joined them , `` you are wasteful of your powder , and the kick of the rifle disconcerts your aim ! 
In the centre of the little island , a few short and stinted pines had found root , forming a thicket , into which Hawk-eye darted , with the swiftness of a deer , followed by the active Duncan . 
A long and anxious watch succeeded , but without any further evidences of a renewed attack , and Duncan began to hope that their fire had proved more fatal than was supposed , and that their enemies had been effectually repulsed . 
When he ventured to utter this impression to his companion , it was met by Hawk-eye with an incredulous shake of the head , as he answered -- `` You know not the nature of a Maqua , if you think he is so easily beaten back , without a scalp ! 
Heyward lifted his head from the cover , and beheld what he justly considered a prodigy of rashness and skill . 
The first generous impulse of Duncan , was to rush to the rescue of the hapless wretch , but he felt himself bound to the spot , by the iron grasp of the immoveable scout . 
Duncan caught glimpses of heads above the scattered drift wood , as this signal rose on the air , but they disappeared again as suddenly as they had glanced upon his sight . 
A low , rustling sound , next drew his attention behind him , and turning his head , he beheld Uncas within a few feet , creeping to his side . 
Hawk-eye spoke to him in Delaware , when the young chief took his position with singular caution , and undisturbed coolness . 
To Heyward this was a moment of feverish and impatient suspense ; though the scout saw fit to select it as a fit occasion to read a lecture to his more youthful associates , on the art of using firearms with discretion . 
Heyward felt a burning desire to rush forward to meet them , so intense was the delirious anxiety of the moment , but he was restrained by the deliberate examples of the scout and Uncas . 
Heyward had given one of his pistols to Hawk-eye , and together they rushed down a little declivity towards their foes ; they discharged their weapons at the same instant , and equally without success . 
At the same moment , Duncan found himself engaged with the other , in a similar contest of hand to hand . 
With ready skill , Hawk-eye and his antagonist each grasped that uplifted arm of the other , which held the dangerous knife . 
In the meantime , Heyward had been pressed in a more deadly struggle . 
His slight sword was snapped in the first encounter . 
As he was destitute of any other means of defence , his safety now depended entirely on bodily strength and resolution . 
Though deficient in neither of these qualities , he had met an enemy every way his equal . 
Happily , he soon succeeded in disarming his adversary , whose knife fell on the rock at their feet , and from this moment it became a fierce struggle , who should cast the other over the dizzy height , into a neighbouring cavern of the falls . 
Every successive struggle brought them nearer to the verge , where Duncan perceived the final and conquering effort must be made . 
Each of the combatants threw all his energies into that effort , and the result was , that both tottered on the brink of the precipice . 
Heyward felt the grasp of the other at his throat , and saw the grim smile the savage gave , under the revengeful hope that he hurried his enemy to a fate similar to his own , as he felt his body slowly yielding to a resistless power , and the young man experienced the passing agony of such a moment in all its horrors . 
At that instant of extreme danger , a dark hand and glancing knife appeared before him ; the Indian released his hold , as the blood flowed freely from around the severed tendons of his wrist ; and while Duncan was drawn backward by the saving arm of Uncas , his charmed eyes were still riveted on the fierce and disappointed countenance of his foe , who fell sullenly and disappointed down the irrecoverable precipice . 
cried Hawk-eye , who just then had despatched his enemy ; `` to cover , for your lives ! 
The young Mohican gave a loud shout of triumph , and followed by Duncan , he glided up the acclivity they had descended to the combat , and sought the friendly shelter of the rocks and shrubs . 
`` I can not permit you to accuse Uncas of want of judgment or of skill , '' said Duncan ; `` he saved my life in the coolest and readiest manner , and he has made a friend who never will require to be reminded of the debt he owes . '' 
Uncas partly raised his body , and offered his hand to the grasp of Heyward . 
During this act of friendship , the two young men exchanged looks of intelligence , which caused Duncan to forget the character and condition of his wild associate . 
exclaimed Duncan , involuntarily shrinking from a shot which struck on the rock at his side with a smart rebound . 
Hawk-eye laid his hand on the shapeless metal , and shook his head , as he examined it , saying , `` Falling lead is never flattened ! 
But the rifle of Uncas was deliberately raised toward the heavens , directing the eyes of his companions to a point , where the mystery was immediately explained . 
The clothes of Heyward , which rendered him peculiarly conspicuous , were repeatedly cut , and once blood was drawn from a slight wound in his arm . 
At length , emboldened by the long and patient watchfulness of his enemies , the Huron attempted a better and more fatal aim . 
The quick eyes of the Mohicans caught the dark line of his lower limbs incautiously exposed through the thin foliage , a few inches from the trunk of the tree . 
Their rifles made a common report , when , sinking on his wounded limb , part of the body of the savage came into view . 
cried Duncan , turning away his eyes in horror from the spectacle of a fellow creature in such awful jeopardy . 
From this unsatisfactory examination , however , he was soon called by a loud and piercing exclamation from Uncas , that sounded even to the unpractised ears of Duncan , as the signal of some new and unexpected calamity . 
Every thought filled with apprehension for the precious treasure he had concealed in the cavern , the young man started to his feet , totally regardless of the hazard he incurred by such an exposure . 
demanded Duncan , losing the first feeling of disappointment , in a more manly desire for exertion ; `` what will become of us ? '' 
Duncan turned quickly in the direction indicated by the other 's eyes , and read a confirmation of his worst apprehensions in the conduct of the Indians . 
Chingachgook , placing himself in a dignified posture on another fragment of the rock , had already laid aside his knife and tomahawk , and was in the act of taking the eagle 's plume from his head , and smoothing the solitary tuft of hair , in readiness to perform its last and revolting office . 
His countenance was composed , though thoughtful , while his dark , gleaming eyes , were gradually losing the fierceness of the combat in an expression better suited to the change he expected , momentarily , to undergo . 
said Duncan ; `` even at this very moment succour may be at hand . 
Chingachgook '' -- he spoke in Delaware -- `` my brother , we have fought our last battle together , and the Maquas will triumph in the death of the sage man of the Mohicans , and of the pale face , whose eyes can make night as day , and level the clouds to the mists of the springs ! '' 
said Cora , advancing from the place where natural horror had , until this moment , held her riveted to the rock ; `` the path is open on every side ; fly , then , to the woods , and call on God for succour ! 
`` Go to him , and say , that you left them with a message to hasten to their aid , '' returned Cora , advancing nigher to the scout , in her generous ardour ; `` that the Hurons bear them into the northern wilds , but that by vigilance and speed they may yet be rescued ; and if , after all , it should please heaven , that his assistance come too late , bear to him , '' she continued , the firm tones of her voice gradually lowering , until they seemed nearly choked , `` the love , the blessings , the final prayers of his daughters , and bid him not to mourn their early fate , but to look forward with humble confidence to the Christian 's goal to meet his children . '' 
The hard , weather-beaten features of the scout began sensibly to work , as he listened , and when she had ended , he dropped his chin to his hand , like a man musing profoundly on the nature of her proposal . 
After the last look at Uncas , Cora turned , and , with a quivering lip , addressed herself to Heyward : `` I have heard of your boasted skill in the water , too , Duncan , '' she said ; `` follow , then , the wise example set you by these simple and faithful beings . '' 
`` There are evils even worse than death , '' said Duncan , speaking hoarsely , and as if fretful at her importunity , `` but which the presence of one who would die in your behalf may avert . '' 
Thesudden and almost magical change , from the stirring incidents of the combat , to the stillness that now reigned around him , acted on the heated imagination of Heyward like some exciting dream . 
While all the images and events he had witnessed remained deeply impressed on his memory , he felt a difficulty in persuading himself of their truth . 
Still ignorant of the fate of those who had trusted to the aid of the swift current , he at first listened intently to any signal , or sounds of alarm , which might announce the good or evil fortune of their hazardous undertaking . 
His attention was , however , bestowed in vain ; for with the disappearance of Uncas , every sign of the adventurers had been lost , leaving him in total uncertainty of their subsequent fate . 
In a moment of such painful doubt , Duncan did not hesitate to look about him , without consulting that protection from the rocks which just before had been so necessary to his safety . 
Every effort , however , to detect the least evidence of the approach of their hidden enemies , was as fruitless as the inquiry after his late companions . 
Duncan caught from these natural accompaniments of the solitary scene a glimmering of hope , and he began to rally his faculties to renewed exertions , with something like a reviving confidence in their success . 
`` The Hurons are not to be seen , '' he said , addressing David , whose faculties had by no means recovered from the effects of the stunning blow he had received ; `` let us conceal ourselves in the cavern , and trust the rest to Providence . '' 
`` Is not the air yet filled with shrieks and cries , as though the departed spirits of the damned -- '' `` Not now , not now , '' interrupted the impatient Heyward , `` they have ceased ; and they who raised them , I trust in God , they are gone too ! 
Duncan seized a pile of the sassafras , which he drew before the passage , studiously concealing every appearance of an aperture . 
Within this fragile barrier he arranged the blankets abandonded by the foresters , darkening the inner extremity of the cavern , while its outer received a chastened light from the narrow ravine , through which one arm of the river rushed , to form the junction with its sister branch , a few rods below . 
`` I like not that principle of the natives , which teaches them to submit without a struggle , in emergencies that appear desperate , '' he said , while busied in this employment ; `` our own maxim , which says , ` while life remains there is hope , ' is more consoling , and better suited to a soldier 's temperament . 
`` I am calmer , Duncan , '' said Alice , raising herself from the arms of her sister , and forcing an appearance of composure through her tears ; `` much calmer , now . 
said Heyward , pausing to press her hands as he passed towards the outer entrance of the cavern . 
He then seated himself in the centre of the cavern , grasping his remaining pistol with a hand firmly clenched , while his contracted and frowning eye announced the sullen desperation of his purpose . 
`` The Hurons , if they come , may not gain our position so easily as they think , '' he lowly muttered ; and dropping his head back against the rock , he seemed to await the result in patience , though his gaze was unceasingly bent on the open avenue to their place of retreat . 
With the last sound of his voice , a deep , a long , and almost breathless silence succeeded . 
He was most probably acting all this time under a confused recollection of the promised consolation of Duncan . 
At length , it would seem , his patient industry found its reward ; for , without explanation or apology , he pronounced aloud the characteristic appellation of `` Isle of Wight , '' drew a long , sweet sound from his pitch-pipe , and then ran through the preliminary modulations of the air , whose name he he had just mentioned , with the sweeter tones of his own musical voice . 
asked Cora , glancing her dark eyes at Major Heyward . 
Cora bestowed an approving smile on the pious efforts of the namesake of the Jewish prince , and Heyward soon turned his steady , stern , look from the outlet of the cavern , to fasten it , with a milder character , on the face of David , or to meet the wandering beams which at moments strayed from the humid eyes of Alice . 
`` Not yet , not yet , '' returned the agitated but undaunted Heyward ; `` the sound came from the centre of the island , and it has been produced by the sight of their dead companions . 
Faint and almost despairing as was the prospect of escape , the words of Duncan were not thrown away , for it awakened the powers of the sisters in such a manner , that they awaited the result in silence . 
Heyward abandoned every hope , with the belief it was the signal that they were discovered . 
Again the impression passed away , as he heard the voices collect near the spot where the white man had so reluctantly abandoned his rifle . 
causing the opposite woods to re-echo with a name which Heyward well remembered to have heard , had been given by his enemies to a celebrated hunter and scout of the English camp , and who he now learnt , for the first time , had been his late companion . 
After a vociferous consultation , which was , at times , deafened by bursts of savage joy , they again separated , filling the air with the name of a foe , whose body , Heyward could collect from their expressions , they hoped to find concealed in some crevice of the island . 
`` Now , '' he whispered to the trembling sisters , `` now is the moment of uncertainty ! 
There were now a few minutes of fearful stillness , during which Heyward well knew that the savages conducted their search with greater vigilance and method . 
More than once he could distinguish their footsteps , as they brushed the sassafras , causing the faded leaves to rustle , and the branches to snap . 
Cora folded Agnes to her bosom in agony , and Duncan sprang like lightning to his feet . 
As the inner passages to the two caves were so close to each other , Duncan , believing that escape was no longer possible , passed David and the sisters , to place himself between the latter and the first onset of the terrible meeting . 
Beyond him again , Duncan could look into the deep vault opposite , which was filled with savages , upturning and rifling the humble furniture of the scout . 
One fierce and wild looking warrior , approached the chief , bearing a load of the brush , and pointing , exultingly , to the deep red stains with which it was sprinkled , uttered his joy in Indian yells , whose meaning Heyward was only enabled to comprehend , by the frequent repetition of the name of `` la Longue Carabine ! '' 
When his triumph had ceased , he cast the brush on the slight heap that Duncan had made before the entrance of the second cavern , and closed the view . 
His example was followed by others ; who , as they drew the branches from the cave of the scout , threw them into one pile , adding unconsciously to the security of those they sought . 
As the blankets yielded before the outward pressure , and the branches settled into the fissure of the rock by its own weight , forming a compact body , Duncan once more breathed freely . 
With a light step , and lighter heart , he returned to the centre of the cave , and took the place he had left , where he could command a view of the opening next the river . 
While he was in the act of making this movement , the Indians , as if changing their purpose by a common impulse , broke away from the chasm in a body , and were heard rushing up the island again , towards the point , whence they had originally descended . 
Duncan now ventured to look at his companions ; for , during the most critical moments of their danger , he had been apprehensive that the anxiety of his countenance might communicate some additional alarm , to those who were so little able to sustain it . 
he whispered ; `` Alice , they are returned whence they came , and we are saved ! 
exclaimed the younger sister , rising from the encircling arms of Cora , and casting herself , with enthusiastic gratitude , on the naked rock to her knees ; `` to that heaven who has spared the tears of a gray-headed father ; has saved the lives of those I so much love -- '' Both Heyward , and the more tempered Cora , witnessed the act of involuntary emotion with powerful sympathy , the former secretly believing that piety had never worn a form so lovely , as it had now assumed in the youthful person of Alice . 
Heyward turned the instant she gave a direction to his suspicions , and , peering just above the ledge which formed the threshold of the open outlet of the cavern , he beheld the malignant , fierce , and savage features of le Renard Subtil . 
In that moment of horrid surprise , the self-possession of Heyward did not desert him . 
He observed by the vacant expression of the Indian 's countenance , that his eye , accustomed to the open air , had not yet been able to penetrate the dusky light which pervaded the depth of the cavern . 
Forgetful of every thing but the impulses of his hot blood , Duncan levelled his pistol and fired . 
Rushing to the outlet , Heyward caught a glimpse of his dark figure , stealing around a low and narrow ledge , which soon hid him entirely from his sight . 
The clamorous noises again rushed down the island , and before Duncan had time to recover from the shock , his feeble barrier of brush was scattered to the winds , the cavern was entered at both its extremities , and he and his companions were dragged from their shelter , and borne into the day , where they stood surrounded by the whole band of the triumphant Hurons . 
Theinstant the first shock of this sudden misfortune had abated , Duncan began to make his observations on the appearance and proceedings of their captors . 
Contrary to the usages of the natives in the wantonness of their success , they had respected , not only the persons of the trembling sisters , but his own . 
The rich ornaments of his military attire , had indeed been repeatedly handled by different individuals of the tribe , with eyes expressing a savage longing to possess the baubles , but before the customary violence could be resorted to , a mandate , in the authoritative voice of the large warrior already mentioned , stayed the uplifted hand , and convinced Heyward that they were to be reserved for some object of particular moment . 
Duncan affected not to comprehend the meaning of their repeated and violent interrogatories , while his companion was spared the effort of a similar deception , by his ignorance of French . 
Wearied , at length , by their importunities , and apprehensive of irritating his captors by too stubborn a silence , the former looked about him in quest of Magua , who might interpret his answers to those questions which were , at each moment , becoming more earnest and threatening . 
The conduct of this savage had formed a solitary exception to that of all his fellows . 
When the eyes of Heyward first met those of his recent guide , he turned them away , in horror , at the sinister though calm look he encountered . 
Conquering his disgust , however , he was able , with an averted face , to address his successful enemy : `` Le Renard Subtil is too much of a warrior , '' said the reluctant Heyward , `` to refuse telling an unarmed man what his conquerors say . '' 
`` They ask for the hunter who knows the paths through the woods , '' returned Magua , in his broken English , laying his hand , at the same time , with a ferocious smile , on the bundle of leaves , with which a wound on his own shoulder was bandaged ; `` la Longue Carabine ! 
As Duncan dare not retort upon his accuser , by reminding him of his own premeditated treachery , and disdained to deprecate his resentment by any words of apology , he remained silent . 
Magua seemed also content to rest the controversy , as well as all further communication , there , for he resumed the leaning attitude against the rock , from which , in his momentary energy , he had arisen . 
Duncan , who perceived by the use of these Canadian appellations , that his late companions were much better known to his enemies than to himself , answered , reluctantly : `` He also is gone down with the water . '' 
`` I know not whom you call the ` nimble deer , ' said Duncan , gladly profiting by any excuse to create delay . 
`` Uncas , '' returned Magua , pronouncing the Delaware name with even greater difficulty than he spoke his English words . 
`` Here is some confusion in names between us , le Renard , '' said Duncan , hoping to provoke a discussion . 
`` Yes , '' muttered the Indian , in his native tongue ; `` the pale faces are prattling women ! 
Then changing his language , he continued , adhering to the imperfect nomenclature of his provincial instructers , `` The deer is swift , but weak ; the elk is swift , but strong ; and the son of ` le serpent ' is ` le cerf agile . ' 
As there was nothing improbable to an Indian , in the manner of the escape , Magua admitted the truth of what he had heard , with a readiness that afforded additional evidence how little he would prize such worthless captives . 
With his companions , however , the feeling was manifestly different . 
When Heyward ceased to speak , they turned their eyes , as one man , on Magua , demanding , in this expressive manner , an explanation of what had been said . 
But , while Duncan resorted to these words of consolation , to lull the apprehensions of the sisters , he was not so weak as to deceive himself . 
He well knew that the authority of an Indian chief was so little conventional , that it was oftener maintained by his physical superiority , than by any moral supremacy he might possess . 
The most positive mandate from him , who seemed the acknowledged leader , was liable to be violated , at each moment , by any rash hand that might choose to sacrifice a victim to the manes of some dead friend or relative . 
During this short conference , Heyward finding a respite from his greatest fears , had leisure to admire the cautious manner in which the Hurons had made their approaches , even after hostilities had ceased . 
That such had been the manner of their descent , was rendered quite apparent to Duncan , for they now bore the light bark from the upper end of the rock , and placed it in the water , near the mouth of the outer cavern . 
As resistance was impossible , and remonstrance useless , Heyward set the example of submission , by leading the way into the canoe , where he was soon seated with the sisters , and the still wondering David . 
The great chief , so often mentioned , mounting the charger of Heyward , led the way directly across the river , followed by most of his people , and disappeared in the woods , leaving the prisoners in charge of six savages , at whose head was le Renard Subtil . 
Duncan witnessed all their movements with renewed uneasiness . 
He had been fond of believing , from the uncommon forbearance of the savages , that he was reserved as a prisoner , to be delivered to Montcalm . 
As the thoughts of those who are in misery seldom slumber , and the invention is never more lively , than when it is stimulated by hope , however feeble and remote he had even imagined that the parental feelings of Munro were to be made instrumental in seducing him from his duty to the king . 
The savage spoke carelessly to his comrades , who were busied , after their awkward manner , in preparing the horses for the reception of the sisters , and moved a little to one side , whither , by a cautious gesture , he induced Heyward to follow . 
`` Now speak , '' he said ; `` if the words are such as Magua should hear . '' 
`` Le Renard Subtil has proved himself worthy of the honourable name given to him by his Canada fathers , '' commenced Heyward ; `` I see his wisdom , and all that he has done for us , and shall remember it , when the hour to reward him arrives . 
demanded the Huron , observing that Heyward hesitated in his desire to end the enumeration of benefits with that which might form the climax of an Indian 's wishes . 
Le Renard had listened with the deepest silence , as Heyward slowly proceeded in this subtle speech . 
At the allusion to the injury which Duncan affected to believe had driven the Huron from his native tribe , a gleam of such ungovernable ferocity flashed from the other 's eyes , as induced the adventurous speaker to believe he had struck the proper chord . 
returned Duncan , smiling with well acted disdain . 
Duncan saw that the Indian hesitated . 
In order to complete his victory , he was in the act of recommencing the enumeration of the rewards , when Magua made an expressive gesture , and said -- `` Enough ; le Renard is a wise chief , and what he does will be seen . 
Heyward , perceiving that the eyes of his companion were warily fastened on the rest of the band , fell back immediately , in order to avoid the appearance of any suspicious confederacy with their leader . 
He then signed to Heyward to assist the sisters into their saddles , for he seldom deigned to use the English tongue , unless urged by some motive of more than usual moment . 
There was no longer any plausible pretext for further delay , and Duncan was obliged , however reluctantly , to comply . 
As he performed this office , he whispered his reviving hopes in the ears of the trembling maidens , who , through dread of encountering the savage countenances of their captors , seldom raised their eyes from the ground . 
The mare of David had been taken with the followers of the large chief ; in consequence , its owner , as well as Duncan , were compelled to journey on foot . 
The latter did not , however , so much regret this circumstance , as it might enable him to retard the speed of the party -- for he still turned his longing looks in the direction of fort Edward , in the vain expectation of catching some sound from that quarter of the forest , which might denote the approach of speedy succour . 
The sisters rode in his rear , with Heyward at their side , while the Indians flanked the party , and brought up the close of the march , with a caution that seemed never to tire . 
In this manner they proceeded in uninterrupted silence , except when Heyward addressed some solitary word of comfort to the females , or David gave vent to the moanings of his spirit , in piteous exclamation , which he intended should express the humility of his resignation . 
Notwithstanding this apparent adherence in Magua to the original determination of his conquerors , Heyward could not believe his tempting bait was so soon forgotten ; and he knew the windings of an Indian path too well , to suppose that its apparent course led directly to its object , when artifice was at all necessary . 
Heyward watched the sun , as he darted his meridian rays through the branches of the trees , and pined for the moment when the policy of Magua should change their route to one more favourable to his hopes . 
Sometimes he fancied that the wary savage , despairing of passing the beleaguering army of Montcalm , in safety , was holding his way towards a well known border settlement , where a distinguished officer of the crown , and a favoured friend of the Six Nations , held his large possessions , as well as his usual residence . 
Heyward would have called out twenty times to their leader , and ventured a remonstrance , had there been any thing encouraging in the gloomy reserve of the savage . 
But Magua , during all this time , seldom turned to look at his followers , and never spoke . 
With the sun for his only guide , or aided by such blind marks as are only known to the sagacity of a native , he held his way along the barrens of pine , through occasional little fertile vales , across brooks and rivulets , and over undulating hills , with the accuracy of instinct , and nearly with the directness of a bird . 
He never seemed to hesitate . 
Whether the path was hardly distinguishable , whether it disappeared , or whether it lay beaten and plain before him , made no sensible difference in his speed or certainty . 
It seemed as though fatigue could not affect him . 
Whenever the eyes of the wearied travellers rose from the decayed leaves over which they trode , his dark form was to be seen glancing among the stems of the trees in front , his head immoveably fastened in a forward position , with the light plume on its crest , fluttering in a current of air , made solely by the swiftness of his own motion . 
After crossing a low vale , through which a gushing brook meandered , he suddenly rose a hill , so steep and difficult of ascent , that the sisters were compelled to alight , in order to follow . 
When the summit was gained , they found themselves on a level spot , but thinly covered with trees , under one of which Magua had thrown his dark form , as if willing and ready to seek that rest , which was so much needed by the whole party . 
As Heyward , however , no longer expected that rescue , which time and distance now rendered so improbable , he regarded these little peculiarities with an eye devoid of interest , devoting himself entirely to the comfort and condolence of his feebler companions . 
This abstinence , so remarkable in an Indian , at length attracted the notice of Heyward . 
`` By no means , '' returned Heyward , anxious to recall his error , if he had made one ; `` the white man may , and does often , forget the burial place of his fathers ; he sometimes ceases to remember those he should love , and has promised to cherish ; but the affection of a parent for his child is never permitted to die . '' 
Heyward paused , for he knew not how to construe the remarkable expression that gleamed across the swarthy features of the attentive Indian . 
At first it seemed as if the remembrance of the promised reward grew vivid in his mind , as he listened to the sources of parental feeling which were to assure its possession ; but as Duncan proceeded , the expression of joy became so fiercely malignant , that it was impossible not to apprehend it proceeded from some passion even more sinister than avarice . 
Duncan , who interpreted this speech to express a wish for some additional pledge that the promised gifts should not be withheld , slowly and reluctantly repaired to the place where the sisters were now resting from their fatigue , to communicate its purport to Cora . 
`` Heyward , and yours ! '' 
He then signed with his hand for Heyward to retire , saying , coldly -- `` When the Huron talks to the women , his tribe shut their ears . '' 
Duncan still lingering , as if refusing to comply , Cora said , with a calm smile -- `` You hear , Heyward , and delicacy at least should urge you to retire . 
`` What would you have , '' continued Cora , after a most painful pause , while the conviction forced itself on her mind , that the too sanguine and generous Duncan had been cruelly deceived by the cunning of the savage . 
Heyward flew to the side of the agitated maiden , and demanded the result of a dialogue , that he had watched at a distance with so much interest . 
When he had succeeded in sufficiently awakening the attention of his comrades , Heyward fancied , by his pointing so frequently toward the direction of the great lakes , that he spoke of the land of their fathers , and of their distant tribe . 
Heyward threw himself between the sisters and their enemies , the foremost of whom he grappled with a desperate strength that for a moment checked his violence . 
This unexpected resistance gave Magua time to interpose , and with rapid enunciation and animated gestures , he drew the attention of the band again to himself . 
In that language he knew so well how to assume , he diverted his comrades from their instant purpose , and invited them to prolong the misery of their victims . 
His proposal was received with acclamations , and executed with the swiftness of thought . 
Two powerful warriors cast themselves together on Heyward , while another was occupied in securing the less active singing-master . 
Even David hurled his assailant to the earth ; nor was Heyward secured , until the victory over his companion enabled the Indians to direct their united force to that object . 
He was then bound and fastened to the body of the sapling , on whose branches Magua had acted the pantomime of the falling Huron . 
On his left , the withes which bound her to a pine , performed that office for Alice which her trembling limbs refused , and alone kept her lovely but fragile form from sinking to the ground . 
Her hands were clasped before her in prayer , but instead of looking upward to that power which alone could rescue them , her unconscious looks wandered to the countenance of Duncan , with a species of infantile dependency . 
Some sought knots , to raise the blazing pile ; one was riving the splinters of pine , in order to pierce the flesh of their captives with the burning fragments ; and others bent the tops of two saplings to the earth , in order to suspend Heyward by the arms between the recoiling branches . 
While the less refined monsters of the band prepared , before the eyes of those who were to suffer , these well known and vulgar means of torture , he approached Cora , and pointed out , with the most malign expression of countenance , the speedy fate that awaited her -- `` Ha ! '' 
he added , `` what says the daughter of Munro ? 
demanded the astonished Heyward . 
echoed the fierce Huron , mistaking , in his anger , the meaning of her words ; `` the memory of an Indian is longer than the arm of the palefaces ; his mercy shorter than their justice ! 
`` Alice , '' she said , `` the Huron offers us both life -- nay , more than both ; he offers to restore Duncan -- our invaluable Duncan , as well as you , to our friends -- to our father -- to our heart-stricken , childless father , if I will bow down this rebellious , stubborn pride of mine , and consent -- '' Her voice became choked , and clasping her hand , she looked upward , as if seeking , in her agony , intelligence from a wisdom that was infinite . 
to restore Duncan , how cheerfully could I die ! '' 
He would have me , '' she continued , her accents sinking under a deep consciousness of the degradation of the proposal , `` follow him to the wilderness ; to go to the habitations of the Hurons ; to remain there : in short , to become his wife ! 
And you , Duncan ; guide me ; control me between you ; for I am wholly yours . '' 
Although both Heyward and Cora listened with painful suspense and the deepest attention , no sounds were heard in reply . 
The axe cleaved the air in front of Heyward , and cutting some of the flowing ringlets of Alice , buried itself , and quivered in the tree above her head . 
The sight maddened Duncan to desperation . 
Collecting all his energies in one effort , he snapped the twigs which bound him , and rushed upon another savage , who was preparing , with loud yells , and a more deliberate aim , to repeat the blow . 
The naked body of his antagonist , afforded Heyward no means of holding his adversary , who glided from his grasp , and rose again with one knee on his chest , pressing him down with the weight of a giant . 
Duncan already saw the knife gleaming in the air , when a whistling sound swept past him , and was rather accompanied , than followed , by the sharp crack of a rifle . 
He felt his breast relieved from the load it had endured ; he saw the savage expression of his adversary 's countenance change to a look of vacant wildness , and then the Indian fell prostrate and dead , on the faded leaves by his side . 
Heyward tore the weapon of Magua from the sapling , and rushed eagerly towards the fray . 
Heyward ventured to hurl the tomahawk he had seized , too ardent to await the moment of closing . 
It struck the Indian he had selected on the forehead , and checked for an instant his onward rush . 
At the next moment , the breech of Hawk-eye 's rifle fell on the naked head of his adversary , whose muscles appeared to wither under the shock , as he sunk from the arms of Duncan , flexible and motionless . 
But the conflict was soon decided ; the tomahawk of Heyward , and the rifle of Hawk-eye , descending on the skull of the Huron , at the same moment that the knife of Uncas reached his heart . 
Urged by the different motives of filial affection , friendship , and gratitude , Heyward and his companions rushed with one accord to the place , encircling the little canopy which hung above the warriors . 
In vain did Uncas dart around the cloud , with a wish to strike his knife into the heart of his father 's foe ; the threatening rifle of Hawk-eye was raised and suspended in vain ; while Duncan endeavoured to seize the limbs of the Huron , with hands that appeared to have lost their power . 
But Uncas , denying his habits , we had almost said his nature , flew with instinctive delicacy , accomnied by Heyward to the assistance of the sisters , and quickly releasing Alice , placed her in the open arms of Cora . 
and Duncan , '' she added , looking round upon the youth , with a smile of ineffable purity and innocence , `` even our own brave and noble Duncan has escaped without a hurt ! '' 
The manhood of Heyward felt no shame , in dropping tears over this spectacle of affectionate rapture ; and Uncas stood , fresh and blood-stained from the combat , a calm , and , apparently , an unmoved looker-on , it is true , but with eyes that had already lost their fierceness , and were beaming with a sympathy , that elevated him far above the intelligence , and advanced him probably centuries before the practices of his nation . 
Even Heyward and David were furnished with weapons , nor was ammunition wanting to render them all effectual . 
Aided by Duncan and the younger Mohican , the two latter descended the precipitous sides of that hill which they had so lately ascended , under such very different auspices , and whose summit had so nearly proved the scene of their horrible massacre . 
Heyward , perceiving that their guides now set about their repast in sober earnest , assisted the maidens to alight , and placed himself at their side , not unwilling to enjoy a few moments of grateful rest , after the bloody scene he had just gone through . 
While the culinary process was in hand , curiosity induced him to inquire into the circumstances which had led to their timely and unexpected rescue -- `` How is it that we see you so soon , my generous friend , '' he asked , `` and without aid from the garrison of Edward ? '' 
Uncas permitted his penetrating eyes to turn for an instant on the sturdy countenance of the speaker , but he neither spoke , nor gave any indication of repentance for his error . 
On the contrary , Heyward thought the manner of the young Mohican was disdainful , if not a little fierce , and that he suppressed passions that were ready to explode , as much in compliment to the listeners , as from the deference he usually paid to his white associate . 
Heyward next demanded . 
`` Our captors had the precaution to see us shod like themselves , '' said Duncan , raising a foot , and exhibiting the gayly ornamented buskin he wore . 
`` Uncas was bold enough to say , that the beasts ridden by the gentle ones , '' continued Hawk-eye , glancing his eyes , not without curious interest on the sorrel fillies of the ladies , `` planted the legs of one side on the ground at the same time , which is contrary to the movements of all trotting four-footed animals of my knowledge , except the bear ! 
The Mohicans had suspended their operations about the glimmering fire , to listen , and when Duncan had done , they looked at each other significantly , the father uttering the never-failing exclamation of surprise . 
demanded Heyward , examining , with a more curious eye , the secluded dell , with its bubbling fountain , surrounded , as it was , by earth of a deep dingy brown . 
Heyward took the gourd , and after swallowing a little of the water , threw it aside with violent grimaces of discontent . 
The sisters resumed their saddles ; Duncan and David grasped their rifles , and followed on their footsteps ; the scout leading the advance , and the Mohicans bringing up the rear . 
While Heyward and his companions hesitated to approach a building of such a decayed appearance , Hawk-eye and the Indians entered within the low walls , not only without fear , but with obvious interest . 
While the former surveyed the ruins , both internally and externally , with the curiosity of one whose recollections were reviving at each moment , Chingachgook related to his son , in the language of the Delawares , and with the pride of a conqueror , the brief history of the skirmish which had been fought in his youth , in that secluded spot . 
`` Would not our resting-place have been more retired , my worthy friend , '' demanded the more vigilant Duncan , perceiving that the scout had already finished his short survey , `` had we chosen a spot less known , and one more rarely visited than this ? '' 
Heyward and the sisters arose on the instant from the grassy sepulchre ; nor could the two latter , notwithstanding the terrific scenes they had so recently passed through , entirely suppress an emotion of natural horror , when they found themselves in such familiar contact with the grave of the dead Mohawks . 
`` I had thought the Delawares a pacific people , '' said Duncan , `` and that they never waged war in person ; trusting the defence of their lands to those very Mohawks that you slew ! '' 
said Heyward , apprehensive that the subject might lead to a discussion that would interrupt the harmony , so necessary to the preservation of his fair companions ; `` we have journeyed far , and few among us are blest with forms like that of yours , which seems to know neither fatigue nor weakness . '' 
`` The sinews and bones of a man carry me through it all , '' said the hunter , surveying his muscular limbs with a simplicity that betrayed the honest pleasure the compliment afforded him ; `` there are larger and heavier men to be found in the settlements , but you might travel many days in a city , before you could meet one able to walk fifty miles without stopping to take breath , or who has kept the hounds within hearing during a chase of hours . 
Duncan had prepared himself to pass the night in watchfulness , near them , just without the ruin ; but the scout , perceiving his intention , pointed towards Chingachgook , as he coolly disposed his own person on the grass , and said -- `` The eyes of a white man are too heavy , and too blind , for such a watch as this ! 
`` I proved myself a sluggard on my post during the past night , '' said Heyward , `` and have less need of repose than you , who did more credit to the character of a soldier . 
Heyward perceived , in truth , that the younger Indian had thrown his form on the side of the hillock , while they were talking , like one who sought to make the most of the time allotted to rest , and that his example had been followed by David , whose voice literally ` clove to his jaws ' with the fever of his wound , heightened , as it was , by their toilsome march . 
For many minutes Duncan succeeded in keeping his senses on the alert , and alive to every moaning sound that arose from the forest . 
His vision became more acute , as the shades of evening settled on the place , and even after the stars were glimmering above his head , he was able to distinguish the recumbent forms of his companions , as they lay stretched on the grass , and to note the person of Chingachgook , who sat upright , and motionless as one of the trees , which formed the dark barrier on every side of them . 
He still heard the gentle breathings of the sisters , who lay within a few feet of him , and not a leaf was ruffled by the passing air , of which his ear did not detect the whispering sound . 
At length , however , the mournful notes of a whip-poor-will , became blended with the moanings of an owl ; his heavy eyes occasionally sought the bright rays of the stars , and then he fancied he saw them through the fallen lids . 
At instants of momentary wakefulness , he mistook a bush for his associate sentinel ; his head next sunk upon his shoulder , which , in its turn , sought the support of the round ; and , finally , his whole person became relaxed and pliant , and the young man sunk into a deep sleep , dreaming that he was a knight of ancient chivalry , holding his midnight vigils before the tent of a re-captured princess , whose favour he did not despair of gaining , by such a proof of devotion and watchfulness . 
How long the tired Duncan lay in this insensible state he never knew himself , but his slumbering visions had been long lost in total forgetfulness , when he was awakened by a light tap on the shoulder . 
Aroused by this signal , slight as it was , he sprang upon his feet , with a confused recollection of the self-imposed duty he had assumed with the commencement of the night -- `` Who comes ? '' 
he demanded , feeling for his sword , at the place where it was usually suspended . 
`` We are awake , Duncan , '' said the soft , silvery tones of Alice within the building , `` and ready to travel very fast , after so refreshing a sleep ; but you have watched through the tedious night , in our behalf , after having endured so much fatigue the livelong day ! '' 
`` Nay , Duncan , deny it not , '' interrupted the smiling Alice , issuing from the shadows of the building into the light of the moon , in all the loveliness of her freshened beauty ; `` I know you to be a heedless one , when self is the object of your care , and but too vigilant in favour of others . 
`` No one but Duncan himself , should accuse Duncan of such a weakness ! '' 
exclaimed Heyward . 
While he spoke , however , the young soldier seized his rifle , and advancing towards the front , prepared to atone for his venial remissness , by freely exposing his life in defence of those he attended . 
They were soon mingled with voices , calling to each other , in an Indian dialect , which the hunter , in a whisper , affirmed to Heyward , was the language of the Hurons . 
`` The knaves know our weakness , '' whispered Hawk-eye , who stood by the side of Heyward , in deep shade , looking through an opening in the logs , `` or they would n't indulge their idleness in such a squaw 's march . 
Duncan , brave , and even fierce as he sometimes was in the combat , could not , in such a moment of painful suspense , make any reply to the cool and characteristic remark of the scout . 
muttered Heyward , endeavouring to thrust his rifle through the chink in the logs ; `` let us fire on their approach ! '' 
Duncan cast his eyes anxiously behind him , and saw that the trembling sisters were cowering in the far corner of the building , while the Mohicans stood in the shadow , like two upright posts , ready , and apparently willing , to strike , when the blow should be needed . 
Curbing his impatience , he again looked out upon the area , and awaited the result in silence . 
As he gazed upon the silent block-house , the moon fell full upon his swarthy countenance , and betrayed its surprise and curiosity . 
He made the exclamation , which usually accompanies the former emotion in an Indian , and calling in a low voice , soon drew a companion to his side . 
At this moment , Heyward observed that the scout loosened his knife in its sheath , and lowered the muzzle of his rifle . 
Heyward lent his attention , for a single moment , to his companion , but without replying , he again turned towards those who just then interested him more . 
He heard the two Hurons leave the bushes , and it was soon plain that all the pursuers were gathered about them , in deep attention to their report . 
Hawk-eye waited until a signal from the listening Chingachgook assured him that every sound from the retiring party was completely swallowed by the distance , when he motioned to Heyward to lead forth the horses , and to assist the sisters into their saddles . 
In these brief pauses , Heyward and the sisters listened , with senses rendered doubly acute by their danger , to detect any symptoms which might announce the proximity of their foes . 
When the banks of the little stream were gained , Hawk-eye made another halt ; and , taking the moccasins from his feet , he invited Heyward and Gamut to follow his example . 
said Heyward , advancing , with interest , nigher to the scout . 
continued Hawk-eye , pursuing the train of his own thoughts , rather than replying to the remark of Duncan . 
exclaimed Heyward in the heat of his youthful ardour ; `` the fame of it reached us early in our southern army . '' 
said the scout , erecting his tall person with an air of military pride ; `` there are not many echoes among these hills that have n't rung with the crack of my rifle , nor is there the space of a square mile atwixt Horican and the river , that ` kill-deer ' has n't dropped a living body on , be it an enemy , or be it a brute beast . 
returned the scout , grasping the shoulder of Heyward , with such convulsive strength , as to make the young soldier painfully sensible how much superstitious terror had gotten the mastery of a man , who was usually so dauntless . 
`` France , '' cried Heyward , advancing from the shadow of the trees , to the shore of the pond , within a few yards of the sentinel . 
Je suis capitaine de chasseurs -LRB- Heyward well knew that the other was of a regiment in the line -RRB- -- j' ai ici , avec moi , les filles du commandant de la fortification . 
The soldier made a low and humble acknowledgment for her civility ; and Heyward adding , `` a bonne nuit , mon camarade , '' they moved deliberately forward ; leaving the sentinel pacing along the banks of the silent pond , little suspecting an enemy of so much effrontery , and humming to himself those words which were recalled to his mind by the sight of women , and , perhaps , by recollections of his own distant and beautiful France -- `` Vive le vin , vive l'amour , '' & c. & c. `` 'T is well you understood the knave ! '' 
`` It wasof flesh , but whether the poor fellow still belongs to this world , may well be doubted , '' said Heyward , glancing his eyes quickly around him , and missing Chingachgook from their little band . 
said Heyward , apprehensive the unconscious sisters might comprehend the nature of the detention , and conquering his disgust by a train of reflections very much like that of the hunter ; `` 't is done , and though better it were left undone , can not be amended . 
`` And but little time to do it in , '' added Heyward ; glancing his eyes upward , towards the bank of vapour that concealed the setting moon . 
interrupted the generous Heyward ; `` a soldier might force his way in this manner , but never with such a convoy . '' 
As they held their silent way along the margin of the pond , again , Heyward and the scout stole furtive glances at its appalling dreariness . 
demanded Heyward . 
From the woods , a little farther to the south , rose numerous dark and lurid smokes , that were easily to be distinguished from the purer exhalations of the springs , and which the scout also showed to Heyward , as evidences that the enemy lay in force in that direction . 
`` The place is , indeed , invested , '' returned Duncan ; `` but is there no expedient by which we may enter ? 
`` Heyward , I sicken at the sight of danger , that I can not share , '' said the undaunted but anxious daughter . 
`` Let us go to Montcalm , and demand admission ; he dare no deny a child the boon ! '' 
Heyward assisted the sisters to descend , and in a few minutes they were all far down a mountain , whose sides they had climbed with so much toil and pain . 
The direction taken by Hawk-eye soon brought the travellers to the level of the plain , nearly opposite to a sally-port , in the western curtain of the fort , which lay , itself , at the distance of about half & mile from the point where he halted , to allow Duncan to come up with his charge . 
`` Can not we make a circuit to avoid the danger , '' asked Heyward , `` and come into our path again when it is past ? '' 
He was yet speaking , when a crashing sound was heard , and a cannon ball entered the thicket , striking the body of a sapling , and rebounding to the earth , its force being much expended by previous resistance . 
cried Heyward ; `` first explain your expectations . '' 
This shot that you see , '' added the scout , kicking the harmless iron with his foot , `` has ploughed the ` arth in its road from the fort , and we shall hunt for the furrow it has made , when all other signs may fail . 
Heyward perceiving that , in fact , a crisis had arrived , when acts were more required than words , placed himself between the sisters , and drew them swiftly forward , keeping the dim figure of their leader in his eye . 
They had made their little circuit to the left , and were already inclining again towards the right , having , as Heyward thought , got over nearly half the distance to the friendly works , when his ears were saluted with the fierce summons , apparently within twenty feet of them , of -- `` Qui va la ? '' 
repeated Heyward ; when the summons was renewed by a dozen voices , each of which seemed charged with threatening menaces . 
`` C'est moi , '' cried Duncan , dragging , rather than leading , those he supported , swiftly , onward . 
When Heyward briefly explained the meaning of the words they heard , Hawk-eye halted , and spoke with quick decision and great firmness . 
`` Let us deliver our fire , '' he said ; `` they will believe it a sortie , and give way ; or will wait for reinforcements . '' 
`` We shall draw their entire army upon us , and bring on a general assault , '' said Duncan . 
The scout seemed willing to comply ; but , in the hurry of the moment , and in the change of position , he had lost the direction . 
In vain he turned either cheek towards the light air ; they felt equally cool . 
Duncan willingly relinquished the support of Cora to the offered arm of Uncas , and Cora as readily accepted the welcome assistance . 
Duncan heard the grating of the rusty hinges , and darting to the spot , directed by the sound , he met a long line of dark-red warriors , passing swiftly towards the glacis . 
He knew them for his own battalion of the royal Americans , and flying to their head , soon swept every trace of his pursuers from before the works . 
He was alone , if the solitary sentinel who paced the mound be excepted ; for the artillerists had hastened also to profit by the temporary suspension of their arduous duties . 
It seemed as if , with the termination to the roar of artillery , and the plunging of shot , nature had also seized the moment to assume her mildest and most captivating form . 
The sun poured down his parting glory on the scene , without the oppression of those fierce rays that belong to the climate and the season . 
Duncan had stood in a musing attitude , contemplating this scene a few minutes , when his eyes were directed to the glacis in front of the sally-port , already mentioned , by the sounds of approaching footsteps . 
He walked to an angle of the bastion , and beheld the scout advancing , under the custody of a French officer , to the body of the fort . 
The arrival of flags , to cover the messengers of summons , had occurred so often of late , that when Heyward first threw his careless glance on this groupe , he expected to see another of the officer of the enemy , charged with a similar office ; but the instant he recognised the tall person , and still sturdy , though downcast , features of his friend , the woodsman , he started with surprise , and turned to descend from the bastion into the bosom of the work . 
The sounds of other voices , however , caught his attention , and for a moment caused him to forget his purpose . 
At the inner angle of the mound , he met the sisters , walking along the parapet , in search , like himself , of air and relief from confinement . 
They had not met since that painful moment when he deserted them , on the plain , only to assure their safety . 
He had parted from them , worn with care , and jaded with fatigue ; he now saw them refreshed and blooming , though still timid and anxious . 
`` Heyward ! 
-- Duncan ! '' 
cried Duncan , suffering the cloud to be chased from his countenance by a smile of open pleasure . 
`` Neither ought nor shall be tarnished by circumstances , over which he has had no control , '' Duncan warmly replied . 
She frankly gave him her hand , though her lips quivered , and her cheeks gradually became of an ashy paleness . 
Alice , adieu '' -- his tones changed from admiration to tenderness -- `` adieu , Alice ; we shall soon meet again ; as conquerors , I trust , and amid rejoicings ! '' 
Munro was pacing his narrow apartment with a disturbed air , and gigantic strides , as Duncan entered . 
`` You have anticipated my wishes , Major Heyward , '' he said ; `` I was about to request this favour . '' 
A jesuitical way , that , Major Duncan Heyward , of telling a man of his misfortunes ! '' 
`` But the general and his succour ? 
For the customary attentions of your Marquis of Montcalm -- I warrant me , Duncan , that he of Lothian would buy a dozen such marquessates -- but , if the news of the letter were bad , the gentility of this French monsieur would certainly compel him to let us know it ! '' 
`` He keeps the letter , then , sir , while he releases the messenger ? '' 
`` Ay , that does he , and all for the sake of what you call your ` bonhommie . ' 
`` There were the morning and evening parades , and when one of the provincial loons -- you 'll know , Duncan , your 're half a Scotsman yourself -- when one of them dropped his powder over his porretch , if it touched the coals , it just burnt ! '' 
`` Our decision should be speedy , '' said Duncan , gladly availing himself of this change of humour , to press the more important objects of their interview ; `` I can not conceal from you , sir , that the camp will not be much longer tenable ; and I am sorry to add , that things appear no better in the fort ; -- more than half our guns are bursted . '' 
`` Our walls are crumbling about our ears , and provisions begin to fail us , '' continued Heyward , without regarding this new burst of indignation ; `` even the men show signs of discontent and alarm . '' 
`` Major Heyward , '' said Munro , turning to his youthful associate with all the dignity of his years and superior rank ; `` I should have served his majesty for half a century , and earned these gray hairs , in vain , were I ignorant of all you say , and of the pressing nature of our circumstances ; still , there is every thing due to the honour of the king 's arms , and something to ourselves . 
Without assuming the supererogatory task of entering into a discussion of the comparative merits of national courtesy , Duncan cheerfully assented to supply the place of the veteran , in the approaching interview . 
As Duncan could only act as the representative of the commandant of the fort , the ceremonies which should have accompanied a meeting between the heads of the adverse forces , were of course dispensed with . 
The truce still existed , and with a roll and beat of the drum , and covered by a little white flag , Duncan left the sally-port , within ten minutes after his instructions were ended . 
He was received by the French officer in advance , with the usual formalities , and immediately accompanied to the distant marquee of the renowned soldier , who lead the forces of France . 
Heyward paused short , when , in glancing his eyes rapidly over the dark groupe of the latter , he beheld the malignant countenance of Magua , regarding him with the calm but sullen attention which marked the expression of that subtle savage . 
Duncan , in turning his eyes from the malign expression of Magua , suffered them to rest with pleasure on the smiling and polished features , and the noble , military air of the French general . 
`` Je crois , monsieur , qu'il ne sera pas ncessaire , '' Heyward modestly replied ; `` je parle un peu Franais . '' 
j' en suis bien aise , '' said Montcalm , taking Duncan familiarly by the arm , and leading him deep into the marquee , a little out of ear-shot ; `` je dteste ces fripons l ; on ne sait jamais sur quel pi , on est avec eux . 
monsieur , '' he continued , still speaking in French ; `` though I should have been proud of receiving your commandant , I am very happy that he has seen proper to employ an officer so distinguished , and who , I am sure , is so amiable , as yourself . '' 
Duncan bowed low , pleased with the compliment , in spite of a most heroic determination to suffer no artifice to lure him into a forgetfulness of the interests of his prince ; and Montcalm , after a pause of a moment , as if to collect his thoughts , proceeded -- `` Your commandant is a brave man , and well qualified to repel my assaults . 
`` We consider the qualities as inseparable , '' returned Duncan , smiling ; `` but , while we find in the vigour of your excellency , every motive to stimulate the one , we can , as yet , see no particular call for the exercise of the other . '' 
Montcalm , in his turn , slightly bowed , but it was with the air of a man too practised to remember the language of flattery . 
`` Our accounts vary , '' said Duncan , carelessly ; `` the highest , however , has not exceeded twenty thousand men . '' 
The Frenchman bit his lip , and fastened his eyes keenly on the other , as if to read his thoughts ; then , with a readiness peculiar to himself , he continued , as if assenting to the truth of an enumeration , which he knew was not credited by his visiter . 
Though you think it too soon to listen to the calls of humanity , '' he added , smiling , archly , `` I may be permitted to believe that gallantry is not forgotten by one so young as yourself . 
`` We have a wise ordinance in our Salique laws , which says , ` the crown of France shall never descend the lance to the distaff , ' '' said Montcalm , dryly , and with a little hauteur ; but , instantly adding , with his former frank and easy air , `` as all the nobler qualities are hereditary , I can easily credit you ; though , as I said before , courage has its limits , and humanity must not be forgotten . 
`` I should be sorry to have the defence protracted in such a manner , as to irritate my red friends there , '' continued Montcalm , glancing his eyes at the groupe of grave and attentive Indians , without attending to the other 's question ; `` I find it difficult , even now , to limit them to the usages of war . '' 
Heyward was silent ; for a painful recollection of the dangers he had so recently escaped came over his mind , and recalled the images of those defenceless beings , who had shared in all his sufferings . 
`` Ces messieurs l , '' said Montcalm , following up the advantage which he conceived he had gained , `` are most formidable when baffled ; and it is unnecessary to tell you , with what difficulty they are restrained in their anger . 
It was now Heyward 's turn to bite his lip with vexation , as the other so coolly alluded to a force which the young man knew to be overrated . 
On the other hand , Heyward began to throw sundry inducements in the way of the French general , to betray the discoveries he had made through the intercepted letter . 
The artifice of neither , however , succeeded ; and , after a protracted and fruitless interview , Duncan took his leave , favourably impressed with an opinion of the courtesy and talents of the enemy 's captain , but as ignorant of what he came to learn , as when he arrived . 
There they separated , and Duncan returned to the advanced post of the French , accompanied as before ; whence he instantly proceeded to the fort , and to the quarters of his own commander . 
Of this scene , Duncan , who , in his eagerness to report his arrival , had entered unannounced , stood many moments an unobserved and a delighted spectator . 
At length , he raised his eyes , glistening with a father 's fondness , and exclaimed -- `` They are a pair of excellent girls , Heyward , and such as any one may boast of ! '' 
But I was wrong , Duncan , boy , I was wrong there ; and I am now ready to hear what you have to say . '' 
Your mother was the only child of my bosom friend , Duncan ; and I 'll just give you a hearing , though all the knights of St. Louis were in a body at the sally-port , with the French saint at their head , craving to speak a word , under favour . 
Ye had ancestors in that degree , Duncan , and they were an ornament to the nobles of Scot and . '' 
Heyward , who perceived that his superior took a malicious pleasure in exhibiting his contempt for the message of the French general , was fain to humour a spleen that he knew would be short lived ; he , therefore , replied with as much indifference as he could assume on such a subject -- `` My request , as you know , sir , went so far as to presume to the honour of being your son . '' 
`` On my honour , no , '' exclaimed Duncan , warmly ; `` there would have been an abuse of a confided trust , had I taken advantage of my situation , for such a purpose ! '' 
`` I -- I -- I , was not conscious of having mentioned her name , '' said Duncan , stammering through embarrassment . 
exclaimed the father , in an astonishment equal to that with which Duncan had just repeated the name of her sister . 
At length , he paused directly in front of Heyward , and riveting his eyes upon those of the other , he said , with a lip that quivered violently with his emotions -- `` Duncan Heyward , I have loved you for the sake of him whose blood is in your veins ; I have loved you for your own good qualities ; and I have loved you , because I thought you would contribute to the happiness of my child . 
Without adverting to the impossibility of the other 's comprehending those feelings which were hid in his own bosom , Munro suffered himself to be appeased by the unaltered countenance he met , and with a voice sensibly softened , he continued -- `` You would be my son , Duncan , and you 're ignorant of the history of the man you wish to call your father . 
`` 'T is most unfortunately true , sir , '' said Duncan , unable any longer to prevent his eyes from sinking to the floor in embarrassment . 
returned Duncan , at the same time conscious of such a feeling , and that as deeply rooted as if it had been engrafted in his nature . 
When death deprived me of my wife , I returned to Scotland , enriched by the marriage ; and would you think it , Duncan ! 
exclaimed Duncan , with an eagerness , that might have proved dangerous , at a moment when the thoughts of Munro were less occupied than at present . 
There was something so commanding , if not awful , in the distress of the old man , that Heyward did not dare to venture a syllable of consolation . 
Duncan started , in his turn , and immediately commenced , in an embarrassed voice , to repeat the half-forgotten message . 
It is unnecessary to dwell upon the evasive , though polite manner , with which the French general had eluded every attempt of Heyward to worm from him the purport of the communication he had proposed making , or on the decided , though still polished message , by which he now gave his enemy to understand , that unless he chose to receive it in person , he should not receive it at all . 
As Munro listened to the lengthened detail of Duncan , the excited feelings of the father gradually gave way before the obligations of his station , and when the other was done , he saw before him nothing but the veteran , swelling with the wounded feelings of a soldier . 
Here has this gentleman invited me to a conference , and when I send him a capable substitute , for ye 're all that Duncan , though your years are but few , he answers me with a riddle ! '' 
`` He may have thought less favourably of the substitute , my dear sir , '' returned Duncan , smiling ; `` and you will remember that the invitation , which he now repeats , was to the commandant of the works , and not to his second . '' 
`` Well , sir , is not a substitute clothed with all the power and dignity of him who grants the commission ! 
He wishes to confer with Munro ! 
Duncan , who believed it of the last importance , that they should speedily come at the contents of the letter borne by the scout , gladly encouraged this idea , saying -- `` Without doubt , he could gather no confidence by witnessing our indifference . '' 
We will follow with a small guard , for such respect is due to one who holds the honour of his king in keeping ; and , hark ` ee , Duncan , '' he added , in a half whisper , though they were alone , `` it may be prudent to have some aid at hand , in case there should be treachery at the bottom of it all . '' 
When Duncan had done both these , he led the guard to the sally-port , near which he found his superior already , waiting his appearance . 
`` Speak to the boys to be watchful , sir , '' he said , in an under tone , to Duncan ; `` and to look well to their flints and steel , for one is never safe with a servant of these Louis ; at the same time , we will show them the front of men in deep security . 
He was interrupted by the clamour of a drum from the approaching Frenchmen , which was immediately answered , when each party pushed an orderly in advance , bearing a white flag , and the wary Scotsman halted , with his guard close at his back . 
After uttering the usual words of greeting to Munro , he turned to Duncan , and continued , with a smile of recognition , speaking always in French -- `` I am rejoiced , monsieur , that you have given us the pleasure of your company on this occasion . 
Duncan acknowledged the compliment , when Montcalm , turning to his guard , which , in imitation of that of their enemies , pressed close upon him , he continued -- `` En arriere , mes enfans -- il fait chaud ; retirezvous un peu . '' 
Before Major Heyward would imitate this proof of confidence , he glanced his eyes around the plain , and beheld , with uneasiness , the numerous dusky groupes of savages , who looked out from the margin of the surrounding woods , curious spectators of the pending interview . 
`` Monsieur de Montcalm will readily acknowledge the difference in our situation , '' he said , with some embarrassment , pointing , at the same time , towards those dangerous foes , who were to be seen in almost every direction . 
`` Monsieur , you have the plighted faith of ` un gentil-homme Francais , ' for your safety , '' returned Montcalm , laying his hand impressively on his heart ; `` and it should suffice . '' 
Fall back , '' Duncan added to the officer who led the escort ; `` fall back , sir , beyond hearing , and wait for orders . '' 
retorted Duncan . 
The French general smiled , as Duncan gave him the purport of this reply , and observed -- `` What is now so freely accorded to approved courage , may be refused to useless obstinacy . 
`` I know that the king of France is well served , '' returned the unmoved Scotsman , as soon as Duncan ended his translation ; `` but my own royal master has as many and as faithful troops . '' 
`` Though not at hand , fortunately for us , '' said Montcalm , without waiting , in his ardour , for the interpreter . 
`` Had I been conscious that Monsieur Montcalm was master of the English , I would have spared myself the trouble of so awkward a translation , '' said the vexed Duncan , dryly ; remembering instantly his recent by-play with Munro . 
The veteran seized the offered paper without waiting for Duncan to translate the speech , and with an eagerness that betrayed how important he deemed its contents . 
As his eye passed heavily over the words , his countenance gradually changed from its look of military pride , to one of deep chagrin ; his lip began to quiver ; and , as he suffered the paper to fall from his hand , his head dropped upon his chest , like that of a man whose hopes were all withered at a single blow . 
Duncan caught the letter from the ground , and without apology for the liberty he took , he read , at a glance , its cruel purport . 
Their common superior , so far from encouraging them to resist , advised a speedy surrender , urging , in the plainest language , as a reason , the utter impossibility of his sending a single man to their rescue . 
exclaimed Duncan , examining the billet both inside and out ; `` this is the signature of Webb , and must be the captured letter ! '' 
cried Duncan ; `` we are yet masters of the fort , and of our honour ! 
Duncan explained the other 's meaning . 
`` Monsieur de Montcalm , we will hear you , '' the veteran added , more calmly , as Duncan ended . 
`` To retain the fort is now impossible , '' said his liberal enemy ; `` it is necessary to the interests of my master , that it should be destroyed ; but , as for yourselves , and your brave comrades , there is no privilege dear to a soldier that shall be denied . '' 
demanded Heyward . 
Duncan now turned to explain these proposals to his commander , who heard him with amazement , and a sensibility that was deeply touched by such unusual and unexpected generosity . 
`` Go you , Duncan , '' he said ; `` go with this marquess , as indeed marquess he should be ; go to his marquee , and arrange it all . 
Duncan remained to settle the terms of the capitulation . 
He was seen to re-enter the works during the first watches of the night , and immediately after a private conference with the commandant , to leave them again . 
Duncan was touched at the quiet and impressive exhibition of his grief . 
He had discharged his own duty , and he now pressed to the side of the old man , to know in what particular he might serve him . 
Duncan had heard enough . 
Without losing one of those moments which had now become so precious , he flew towards the quarters of Munro , in quest of the sisters . 
Though the cheeks of Cora were pale , and her countenance anxious , she had lost none of her firmness ; but the eyes of Alice were inflamed , and betrayed how long and bitterly she had wept . 
`` The fort is lost , '' she said , with a melancholy smile ; `` though our good name , I trust , remains ! '' 
Duncan did listen , and on the instant comprehended her meaning . 
The low , and serious sounds of the sacred music , so well known to the eastern provinces , caught his ear , and instantly drew him to an apartment in an adjacent building , which had , already , been deserted by its customary tenants . 
There he found David , pouring out his pious feelings , through the only medium in which he ever indulged . 
Duncan waited , until by the cessation of the movement of the hand , he believed the strain was ended , when , by touching his shoulder , he drew the attention of the other to himself , and in a few words explained his wishes . 
Heyward was fain to wait until the verse was ended ; when seeing David relieving himself from the spectacles , and replacing the book , he continued -- `` It will be your duty , to see that none dare to approach the ladies , with any rude intention , or to offer insult or taunt at the misfortune of their brave father . 
-- `` Enough , '' said Heyward , interrupting the burst of his musical invocation ; `` we understand each other ; it is time that we should , now , assume our respective duties . '' 
Cora received her new , and somewhat extraordinary , protector , courteously at least ; and even the pallid features of Alice lighted , again , with some of their native archness , as she thanked Heyward for his care . 
Duncan took occasion to assure them he had done the best that circumstances permitted , and , as he believed , quite enough for the security of their feelings ; of danger there was none . 
He then spoke gladly of his intention to rejoin them , the moment he had led the advance a few miles towards the Hudson , and immediately took his leave . 
The advance , with Heyward at its head , had already reached the defile , and was slowly disappearing , when the attention of Cora was drawn to a collection of stragglers , by the sounds of contention . 
The reader will perceive , at once , in these respective characters , the Mohicans , and their white friend , the scout ; together with Munro and Heyward . 
Notwithstanding the revolting horror of the exhibition , Munro and Heyward flew towards the festering heap , endeavouring , with a love that no unseemliness could extinguish , to discover whether any vestiges of those they sought , were to be seen among the tattered and many-coloured garments . 
said Heyward , in a voice that was hollow and nearly stifled by apprehension ; `` the storm seems not to have passed this way . '' 
`` Softly , softly , '' said the scout , extending his long rifle in front of the eager Heyward ; `` we now know our work , but the beauty of the trail must not be deformed . 
cried Heyward , bending over the indicated spot ; `` he has trod in the margin of this pool , and the mark can not be mistaken . 
Heyward reluctantly admitted the truth of this intelligence , and now expressed rather his hopes , than his doubts , by saying -- `` One moccasin is so much like another , it is probable there is some mistake . '' 
demanded the startled Heyward . 
`` At least , he has been faithful to his trust , '' said Heyward ; `` and Cora and Alice are not without a friend . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Hawk-eye , dropping his rifle , and leaning on it with an air of visible contempt , `` he will do their singing ! 
`` Here is something like the footstep of one who has worn a shoe , '' said Heyward , gladly changing the discourse from the abuse of David , to whom he now felt the strongest tie of gratitude ; `` can it be that of our friend ? '' 
The aged soldier examined it with eyes that grew dim as he gazed ; nor did he rise from his stooping posture , until Heyward saw that he had watered the graceful trace of his daughter 's passage , with a scalding and heavy tear . 
Heyward drew back , all his ardour to proceed seeming to vanish on the instant . 
demanded the anxious Heyward . 
repeated the scout , who , with his red friends , was already advancing in the order he had prescribed ; `` yes , you can keep in our rear , and be careful not to cross the trail . '' 
`` But still there are no signs of Alice -- of the younger Miss Munro , '' said Duncan . 
Heyward instantly knew it for a trinket , that Alice was fond of wearing , and which he recollected , with the tenacious memory of a lover , to have seen on the fatal morning of the massacre , dangling from the fair neck of his mistress . 
He seized the highly prized jewel , and as he proclaimed the fact , it vanished from the eyes of the wondering scout , who in vain looked for it on the ground , long after it was warmly pressed against the beating heart of Duncan . 
said the disappointed Hawk-eye , ceasing to rake the leaves with the breech of his rifle ; `` 't is a certain sign of age , when the sight begins to weaken . 
`` So much the more reason why we should not delay our march , '' returned Heyward ; `` let us proceed . '' 
Heyward instantly saw , by the manner of the scout , that altercation would be useless . 
The young Indian pointed impressively toward his rude hut , when his labour was ended ; and Heyward , who understood the meaning of the silent gesture , gently urged Munro to enter . 
Leaving the bereaved old man alone with his sorrows , Duncan immediately returned into the open air , too much excited himself to seek the repose he had recommended to his veteran friend . 
Of this scene , so chillingly in accordance with the past , Duncan stood , for many minutes , a rapt observer . 
His eyes wandered from the bosom of the mound , where the foresters were seated around their glimmering fire , to the fainter light , which still lingered in the skies , and then rested long and anxiously on the embodied gloom , which lay like a dreary void on that side of him where reposed the dead . 
He soon fancied that inexplicable sounds arose from the place , though so indistinct and stolen , as to render not only their nature , but even their existence , uncertain . 
Ashamed of his apprehensions , the young man turned towards the water , and strove to divert his attention to the mimic stars , that dimly glimmered along its moving surface . 
Still , his too conscious ears performed their ungrateful duty , as if to warn him of some lurking danger . 
Unable any longer to quiet his uneasiness , Duncan spoke in a low voice to the scout , requesting him to ascend the mound , to the place where he stood . 
Hawk-eye threw his rifle across an arm , and complied , but with an air so unmoved and calm , as to prove how much he accounted on the security of their position . 
`` Listen , '' said Duncan , when the other had placed himself deliberately at his elbow ; `` there are suppressed noises on the plain , which may show that Montcalm has not yet entirely deserted his conquest . '' 
`` For my own part , '' continued Hawk-eye , turning his face , for a moment , in the direction indicated by Heyward , but with a vacant and careless manner , `` I believe that paradise is ordained for happiness ; and that men will be indulged in it according to their dispositions and gifts . 
interrupted Duncan . 
Duncan , who was now made to understand the nature of the noises he had heard , answered , with more attention to the subject which the humour of the scout had chosen for discussion , by saying -- `` It is difficult to account for the feelings that may attend the last great change . '' 
Hawk-eye slowly shook his head , and beckoned for Duncan to follow him to a spot , whither the glare from the fire did not extend . 
When he had taken this precaution , the scout placed himself in an attitude of intense attention , and listened , long and keenly , for a repetition of the low sound that had so unexpectedly startled him . 
His vigilance , however , seemed exercised in vain ; for , after a fruitless pause , he whispered to Duncan -- `` We must give a call to Uncas . 
The young Mohican , who was conversing in a low voice with his father , started as he heard the meaning of an owl , and springing on his feet , he looked toward the black mounds , as if seeking the place whence the sounds proceeded . 
The scout repeated the call , and in a few moments , Duncan saw the figure of Uncas stealing cautiously along the rampart , to the spot where they stood . 
Hawk-eye explained his wishes in a very few words , which were spoken in the Delaware tongue . 
So soon as Uncas was in possession of the reason why he was summoned , he threw himself flat on the turf ; where , to the eyes of Duncan , he appeared to lie quiet and motionless . 
Surprised at the immovable attitude of the young warrior , and curious to observe the manner in which he employed his faculties to obtain the desired information , Heyward advanced a few steps , and bent over the dark object , on which he had kept his eyes intently riveted . 
Then it was he discovered that the form of Uncas had vanished , and that he beheld only the dark outline of an inequality in the embankment . 
he demanded of the scout , stepping back in amazement ; `` it was here that I saw him fall , and I could have sworn that here he yet remained ! '' 
The scout then applied his fingers to his mouth , and raised a low hissing sound , that caused Duncan , at first , to start aside , believing that he heard a serpent . 
The head of Chingachgook was resting on a hand , as he sat musing by himself ; but the moment he heard the warning of the animal whose name he bore , it arose to an upright position , and his dark eyes glanced swiftly and keenly on every side of him . 
His rifle lay untouched , and apparently unnoticed , within reach of his hand . 
The tomahawk that he had loosened in his belt , for the sake of ease , was even suffered to fall from its usual situation to the ground , and his form seemed to sink , like that of a man whose nerves and sinews were suffered to relax for the purpose of rest . 
Cunningly resuming his former position , though with a change of hands , as if the movement had been made merely to relieve the limb , the native awaited the result with a calmness and fortitude , that none but an Indian warrior would have known how to exercise . 
But Heyward saw , that while to a less instructed eye the Mohican chief appeared to slumber , his nostrils were expanded , his head was turned a little to one side , as if to assist the organs of hearing , and that his quick and rapid glances ran incessantly over every object within the power of his vision . 
whispered Hawk-eye , pressing the arm of Heyward ; `` he knows that a look , or a motion , might disconsart our wisdom , and put us at the mercy of them imps -- '' He was interrupted by the flash and report of a rifle . 
The air was filled with sparks of fire , around that spot where the eyes of Heyward were still fastened , with admiration and wonder . 
A second look told him , that Chingachgook had disappeared in the confusion . 
demanded Duncan ; `` we are watched , and , as it would seem , marked for destruction . '' 
Of these several movements , Heyward was a deeply interested and wondering observer . 
It appeared to him as though the foresters had some secret means of intelligence , which had escaped the vigilance of his own faculties . 
It was , in fact , neither the moment nor the occasion for an Indian to boast of his exploits ; and it is probable , that had Heyward neglected to inquire , not another syllable would , just then , have been uttered on the subject . 
demanded Duncan ; `` we heard your rifle , and hoped you had not fired in vain . '' 
The young chief removed a fold of his hunting shirt , and quietly exposed the fatal tuft of hair , which he bore as the symbol of his victory . 
Chingachgook laid his hand on the scalp , and considered it for a moment with deep attention . 
Then dropping it , with powerful disgust depicted in his strong and expressive features , he exclaimed -- `` Hugh ! 
repeated the scout , who was fast losing his interest in the scene , in an apathy nearly assimilated to that of his red associates , but who now advanced with uncommon earnestness to regard the bloody badge . 
Uncas raised his eyes to the face of the scout , and answered , in his soft , musical voice -- `` Oneida . '' 
said Heyward , `` or he would not have attempted the life of a friend . '' 
Heyward withdrew to the rampart , too uneasy and too little accustomed to the warfare of the woods , to remain at ease under the possibility of such insidious attacks . 
Duncan knew enough of Indian customs , to understand the reason that the fire was replenished , and why the warriors , not excepting Hawk-eye , took their seats within the curl of its smoke , with so much gravity and decorum . 
Placing himself at an angle of the works , where he might be a spectator of the scene within , while he kept a watchful eye against any danger from without , he awaited the result , with as much patience as he could summon for the occasion . 
When he had inhaled enough of the fragrance of the soothing weed , he passed the instrument into the hands of the scout . 
In this manner the pipe had made its rounds three several times , amid the most profound silence , before either of the party opened his lips to speak . 
He was answered by the scout ; and Chingachgook rejoined , when the other objected to his opinions . 
But the youthful Uncas continued a silent and respectful listener , until Hawk-eye , in complaisance , demanded his opinion . 
Heyward gathered from the manners of the different speakers , that the father and son espoused one side of a disputed question , while the white man maintained the other . 
The language of the Mohicans was accompanied by gestures so direct and natural , that Heyward had but little difficulty in following the thread of their argument . 
Duncan perceived that even his own powers were spoken lightly of , as the scout extended his palm , and mentioned him by the appellation of the `` open hand ; '' a name his liberality had purchased of all the friendly tribes . 
Imbibing renewed confidence from the security of these experienced foresters , Heyward soon imitated their example ; and long before the night had turned , they who lay in the bosom of the ruined work , seemed to slumber as heavily as the unconscious multitude , whose bones were already beginning to bleach , on the surrounding plain . 
Casting aside their cloaks , Munro and Heyward were on their feet , while the woodsman was still making his low calls , at the entrance of the rude shelter where they had passed the night . 
Heyward was silent , until the Indians had cautiously paddled the canoe some distance from the fort , and within the broad and dark shadow that fell from the eastern mountains , on the glossy surface of the lake ; then he demanded -- `` What need have we for this stolen and hurried departure ? '' 
The reply of Heyward was interrupted by a deep and heavy groan from Munro ; but after he had paused a moment , in deference to the sorrow of his aged friend , he resumed the subject . 
It is possible that Heyward 's estimate of danger , distinguished as he was for spirit , differed in some degree from that of the scout , for , instead of replying , he now sat in silence , while the canoe glided over several miles of water . 
Heyward , who was a doubly interested spectator , as well from the beauties of the place as from the apprehension natural to his situation , was just believing that he had permitted the latter to be excited without sufficient reason , when the paddles ceased moving , in obedience to a signal from Chingachgook . 
exclaimed Uncas , nearly at the moment that the light tap his father had made on the side of the canoe , notified them of the vicinity of danger . 
Duncan 's eyes followed the motion . 
`` Let us then push for the place , and relieve our doubts , '' said the impatient Duncan ; `` the party must be small that can lie on such a bit of land . '' 
`` If you judge of Indian cunning by the rules you find in books , or by white sagacity , they will lead you astray , if not to your death , '' returned Hawk-eye , examining the signs of the place with that acuteness which distinguished him . 
exclaimed Heyward , in a voice far too loud for their circumstances . 
`` Well , well , '' continued Hawk-eye , making a hasty sign to repress his ardour ; `` I am much of your mind myself ; though I thought it becoming my experience to tell the whole . 
These fearful precursors of a coming struggle , produced no change in the countenances and movements of his three guides , so far as Duncan could discover , except that the strokes of their paddles were longer and more in unison , and caused the little bark to spring forward like a creature possessing life and volition . 
`` Hold them there , Sagamore , '' said Hawk-eye , looking coolly backward over his left shoulder , while he still plied his paddle ; `` keep them just there . 
The scout having ascertained that the Mohicans were sufficient of themselves to maintain the requisite distance , deliberately laid aside his paddle , and raised the fatal rifle . 
Three several times he brought the piece to his shoulder , and when his companions were expecting its report , he as often lowered it , to request the Indians would permit their enemies to approach a little nigher . 
At length , his accurate and fastidious eye seemed satisfied , and throwing out his left arm on the barrel , he was slowly elevating the muzzle , when an exclamation from Uncas , who sat in the bow , once more caused him to suspend the shot . 
Duncan observed , with uneasiness , that the scout began to look anxiously about him , as if searching for some further means of assisting their flight . 
`` They are preparing for a shot , '' said Heyward ; `` and as we are in a line with them , it can scarcely fail . '' 
Heyward smiled , as he answered -- `` It would be but an ill example for the highest in rank to dodge , while the warriors were under fire ! '' 
`` All that you say is very true , my friend , '' replied Heyward ; `` still , our customs must prevent us from doing as you wish . '' 
A volley from the Hurons interrupted the discourse , and as the bullets whistled about them , Duncan saw the head of Uncas turned , looking back at himself and Munro . 
No perceptible emotion could be discovered in the Mohicans during this critical moment , their rigid features expressing neither hope nor alarm ; but the scout again turned his head , and laughing in his own silent manner , he said to Heyward -- `` The knaves love to hear the sounds of their pieces ; but the eye is not to be found among the Mingoes that can calculate a true range in a dancing canoe ! 
Duncan , who was not altogether as easy under this nice estimate of distances as his companions , was glad to find , however , that owing to their superior dexterity , and the diversion among their enemies , they were very sensibly obtaining the advantage . 
Heyward seized the paddle , and applied himself to the work with an eagerness that supplied the place of skill , while Hawk-eye was engaged in inspecting the priming of his rifle . 
The Huron in the bows of the leading canoe had risen with a similar object , and he now fell backward , suffering his gun to escape from his hands into the water . 
In an instant , however , he recovered his feet , though his gestures were wild and bewildered . 
At the same moment his companions suspended their efforts , and the chasing canoes clustered together , and became stationary . 
Chingachgook and Uncas profited by the interval to regain their wind , though Duncan continued to work with the most persevering industry . 
`` We forget our errand , '' returned the diligent Duncan . 
Throwing a last and lingering glance at the distant canoes , he laid aside his rifle , and relieving the wearied Duncan , resumed the paddle , which he wielded with sinews that never tired . 
His efforts were seconded by those of the Mohicans , and a very few minutes served to place such a sheet of water between them and their enemies , that Heyward once more breathed freely . 
Hawk-eye and Heyward ascended an adjacent bluff , where the former , after considering the expanse of water beneath him , attentively , for many minutes , pointed out to the latter a small black object , hovering under a head-land , at the distance of several miles . 
Although the rugged outline of mountain , to which they were steering , presented no distinctive marks to the eyes of Duncan , the Mohican entered the little haven he had selected with the confidence and accuracy of an experienced pilot . 
The adventurers assumed their arms and packs , and the scout announced to Munro and Heyward , that he and the Indians were at last in readiness to proceed . 
Imitating the example , and emulating the confidence of their more experienced associates , Munro and Duncan slept without fear , if not without uneasiness . 
During one of these conferences , Heyward observed that Uncas stood a patient and silent , though , as he imagined , an interested listener . 
He was strongly tempted to address the young chieftain , and demand his opinion of their progress ; but the calm and dignified demeanour of the native , induced him to believe , that , like himself , the other was wholly dependent on the sagacity and intelligence of the seniors of the party . 
exclaimed Duncan . 
`` 'T is extraordinary , that he should have withheld his knowledge so long , '' muttered Duncan , at his elbow . 
said Uncas , pointing north and south , at the evident marks of the broad trail on either side of him ; `` the dark-hair has gone towards the frost . '' 
Look sharp for wheels , Sagamore , '' he continued , looking back and laughing , in his newly awakened satisfaction ; `` we shall soon have the fool journeying in a coach , and that with three of the best pair of eyes on the borders in his rear . '' 
At a little distance , Heyward discovered , and contemplated with tender emotion , the small bower under which , he was fain to believe , that Cora and Alice had reposed . 
said Duncan , turning pale , and glancing his eyes around him , as if he feared the brush and leaves were about to give up some horrid secret . 
`` But , '' cried Duncan , `` I see no signs of -- '' `` The gentle ones , '' interrupted the scout ; `` the varlet has found a way to carry them , until he supposed he had thrown any followers off the scent . 
demanded Heyward . 
said Heyward , pointing towards the fragments of a sort of hand-barrow , that had been rudely constructed of boughs , and bound together with withes , and which now seemed carelessly cast aside as useless . 
When the meal was ended , the scout cast a glance upward at the setting sun , and pushed forward with a rapidity , to equal which compelled Heyward and the still vigorous Munro to exert all their muscles . 
Before an hour had elapsed , however , the speed of Hawk-eye sensibly abated , and his head , instead of maintaing its former direct and forward look , began to turn suspiciously from side to side , as if he were conscious of approaching danger . 
He soon stopped again , and awaited for the whole party to come up . 
`` I scent the Hurons , '' he said , speaking to the Mohicans ; `` yonder is open sky , through the tree-tops , and we are getting too nigh their encampment . 
Heyward soon pressed to the side of their guide , eager to catch an early glimpse of those enemies he had pursued with so much toil and anxiety . 
His companion told him to steal to the edge of the wood , which , as usual , was fringed with a thicket , and wait his coming , for he wished to examine certain suspicious signs a little on one side . 
Duncan obeyed , and soon found himself in a situation to command a view which he found as extraordinary as it was novel . 
A short distance from the place where Duncan stood , the stream had seemingly expanded into a little lake , covering most of the low land , from mountain to mountain . 
At least , so thought Duncan for many minutes ; but , at length , he fancied he discovered several human forms , advancing towards him on all fours , and apparently dragging in their train some heavy , and , as he was quick to apprehend , some formidable engine . 
Alarmed at these suspicious and inexplicable movements , he was about to attempt the signal of the crows , when the rustling of leaves at hand , drew his eyes in another direction . 
An instant of calm observation , served to assure Duncan that he was undiscovered . 
It was impossible to discover the expression of his features , through the grotesque masque of paint , under which they were concealed ; though Duncan fancied it was rather melancholy than savage . 
His head was shaved , as usual , with the exception of the crown , from whose tuft three or four faded feathers , from a hawk 's wing , were loosely dangling . 
Duncan was still curiously observing the person of his neighbour , when the scout stole silently and cautiously to his side . 
Hawk-eye started , and dropped his rifle , when , directed by the finger of his companion , the stranger came under his view . 
The scout turned to Heyward , and regarded him a moment with unconcealed amazement . 
Then opening wide his mouth , he indulged in unrestrained and heartfelt laughter , though in that silent and peculiar manner , which danger had so long taught him to practise . 
he added , `` so much for schooling and passing a boyhood in the settlements ! 
Heyward had already permitted his companion to bury part of his person in the thicket , when stretching forth an arm , he arrested him , in order to ask -- `` If I see you in danger , may I not risk a shot ? '' 
Hawk-eye regarded him a moment , like one who knew not how to take the question ; then nodding his head , he answered , still laughing , though inaudibly -- `` Fire a whole platoon , major . '' 
In the next moment he was concealed by the leaves . 
Duncan waited several minutes in feverish impatience , before he caught another glimpse of the scout . 
Then he re-appeared , creeping along the earth , from which his dress was hardly distinguishable , directly in the rear of his intended captive . 
Having reached within a few yards of the latter , he arose to his feet , silently and slowly . 
At that instant , several loud blows were struck on the water , and Duncan turned his eyes just in time to perceive that a hundred dark forms were plunging , in a body , into the troubled little sheet . 
Grasping his rifle , his looks were again bent on the Indian near him . 
Instead of taking the alarm , the unconscious savage stretched forward his neck , as if he also watched the movements about the gloomy lake , with a sort of silly curiosity . 
In the mean time , the uplifted hand of Hawk-eye was above him . 
Thereader may better imagine , than we describe , the surprise of Heyward . 
His lurking Indians were suddenly converted into four-footed beasts ; his lake into a beaver pond ; his cataract into a dam , constructed by those industrious and ingenious quadrupeds ; and a suspected enemy into his tried friend , David Gamut , the master of psalmody . 
David shut his sensitive ears , and even Heyward . 
apprised as he was of the nature of the cry , looked upward in quest of the bird , as the cawing of a crow rang in the air about them . 
demanded the breathless Heyward . 
murmured Heyward ; `` she has lost the consolation of her sister 's presence ! '' 
Heyward , however , hastily interrupted his pious purpose , by continuing questions concerning the past and present condition of his fellow captives , and in a manner more methodical than had been permitted by his feelings in the opening of their interview . 
Duncan 's eyes followed the movement , and he perceived that the animal just mentioned was beautifully , though faintly , worked in a blue tint , on the swarthy breast of the chief . 
`` Explain , '' said Duncan . 
The scout nodded his head in assent , though he seemed anxious to waive the further discussion of a subject that appeared painful . 
The impatient Duncan now made several hasty and desperate propositions to attempt the release of the sisters . 
Remember , then , when you hear the whippoor-will 's call three times repeated , you are to come into the bushes , where the bird might be supposed -- '' `` Stop , '' interrupted Heyward ; `` I will accompany him . '' 
But Duncan , who , in deference to the other 's skill and services , had hitherto submitted somewhat implicitly to his dictation , now assumed the superior , with a loftiness of manner , that was not easily resisted . 
He waved his hand , in sign of his dislike to all remonstrance , and then , in more tempered language , he continued -- `` You have the means of disguise ; change me ; paint me too , if you will ; in short , alter me to any thing -- a fool . '' 
`` Listen , '' interrupted Duncan ; `` you have heard from this faithful follower of the captives , that the Indians are of two tribes , if not of different nations . 
The awakened spirit of the young soldier gleamed in his eyes , and his form dilated , and became imposing under its influence . 
Perhaps there was something in the proposal that suited his own hardy nature , and that secret love of desperate adventure , which had increased with his daily experience , until hazard and danger had become , in some measure , necessary to the enjoyment of his existence . 
Instead of continuing to oppose the scheme of Duncan , his humour suddenly altered , and he lent himself to its execution . 
`` Come , '' he said , with a good humoured smile ; `` the buck that will take to the water must be headed , and not followed ! 
Duncan complied , and the Mohican , who had been an attentive listener to the discourse , readily undertook the office . 
Long practised in all the subtle arts of his race , he drew , with great dexterity and quickness , the fantastic shadow that the natives were accustomed to consider as the evidence of a friendly and jocular disposition . 
Every line that could possibly be interpreted into a secret inclination for war , was carefully avoided ; while , on the other hand , he studied those conceits that might be construed into a wish for amity . 
In short , he entirely sacrificed every appearance of the warrior , to the masquerade of a buffoon . 
Such exhibitions were not uncommon among the Indians ; and as Duncan was already sufficiently disguised in his dress , there certainly did exist some reason for believing , that with his knowledge of French , he might pass for a juggler from Ticonderoga , straggling among the allied and friendly tribes . 
When he was thought to be sufficiently painted , the scout gave him much friendly advice ; concerted signals , and appointed the place where they should meet , in the event of mutual success . 
The scout led Heyward aside , and acquainted him with his intention to leave the veteran in some safe encampment , in charge of Chingachgook , while he and Uncas pursued their inquiries among the people they had reason to believe were Delawares . 
Then renewing his cautions and advice , he concluded , by saying , with a solemnity and warmth of feeling , with which Duncan was deeply touched -- `` And now God bless you ! 
Duncan shook his worthy and reluctant associate warmly by the hand , once more recommended his aged friend to his care , and returning his good wishes , he motioned to David to proceed . 
The route taken by Duncan and David , lay directly across the clearing of the beavers , and along the margin of their pond . 
When the former found himself alone with one so simple , and so little qualified to render any assistance in desperate emergencies , he first began to be sensible of the difficulties of the task he had undertaken . 
The fading light increased the gloominess of the bleak and savage wilderness , that stretched so far on every side of him , and there was even a fearful character in the stillness of those little huts , that he knew were so abundantly peopled . 
A very natural sensation caused Duncan to hesitate a moment , unwilling to leave the cover of their bushy path , as a man pauses to collect his energies , before he essays any hazardous experiment , in which he is secretly conscious they will all be needed . 
Indeed , so very inferior were they , in the two latter particulars , to the village Duncan had just seen , that he began to expect a second surprise , no less astonishing than the former . 
This expectation was in no degree diminished , when , by the doubtful twilight , he beheld twenty or thirty forms , rising alternately , from the cover of the tall , coarse grass , in front of the lodges , and then sinking again from the sight , as it were to burrow in the earth . 
By the sudden and hasty glimpses that he caught of these figures , they seemed more like dark glancing spectres , or some other unearthly beings , than creatures fashioned with the ordinary and vulgar materials of flesh and blood . 
David , observing that his companion lingered , pursued the direction of his gaze , and in some measure recalled the recollection of Heyward , by speaking -- `` There is much fruitful soil uncultivated here , '' he said ; `` and I may add , without the sinful leaven of self-commendation , that , since my short sojourn in these heathenish abodes , much good seed has been scattered by the way-side . '' 
`` The tribes are fonder of the chase , than of the arts of men of labour , '' returned the unconscious Duncan , still gazing at the objects of his wonder . 
David closed his ears against the juvenile pack , whose yells just then rang shrilly through the forest ; and Duncan , suffering his lip to curl in a proud smile , as in mockery at his own momentary superstition , said firmly -- `` We will proceed . '' 
Without removing the safeguards from his ears , the master of song complied , and together they pursued their way , boldly , towards what David was sometimes wont to call `` the tents of the Philistines . '' 
When Duncan and David , therefore , found themselves in the centre of the busy children , who played the antics already mentioned , it was without the least previous intimation of their approach . 
The naked , tawny bodies of the crouching urchins , blended so nicely , at that hour , with the withered herbage , that at first it seemed as if the earth had , in truth , swallowed up their forms ; though when surprise had permitted Duncan to bend his own wondering looks more curiously about the spot , he found them every where met by dark , quick , and rolling eye-balls . 
Gathering no encouragement from this startling presage , of the nature of the scrutiny he was likely to undergo from the more mature judgments of the men , there was an instant when the young soldier would gladly have retreated . 
Duncan found it difficult to assume the necessary appearance of unconcern , as he brushed the dark and powerful frames of the savages who thronged its threshold ; but , conscious that his existence depended on his presence of mind , he trusted to the discretion of his companion , whose footsteps he closely followed , endeavouring , as he proceeded , to rally his thoughts for the occasion . 
His blood had stagnated for a moment , when he found himself in absolute contact with such fierce and implacable enemies ; but he so far mastered his feelings , as to pursue his way into the centre of the lodge , with an exterior that did not betray the weakness . 
Imitating the example of the deliberate Gamut , he drew a bundle of fragrant brush from beneath a pile , that filled a corner of the hut , and seated himself , in silence . 
So soon as their visiter had passed , the observant warriors fell back from the entrance , and arranging themselves about him , they seemed patiently to await the moment when it might comport with the dignity of the stranger to speak . 
Duncan profited by its light , to read , with jealous looks , the probable character of his reception , in the countenances of his hosts . 
But his ingenuity availed him little , against the cold artifices of the people he had encountered . 
The chiefs in front scarce cast a glance at his person , keeping their eyes fastened on the ground , with an air that might have been intended for respect , but which it was quite easy to construe into distrust . 
Duncan soon detected their searching , but stolen looks , which , in truth , scanned his person and attire inch by inch ; leaving no emotion of the countenance , no gesture , no line of the paint , nor even the fashion of a garment , unheeded , and without its secret comment . 
At length , one whose hair was beginning to be sprinkled with gray , but whose sinewy limbs and firm tread announced that he was still equal to the arduous duties of manhood , advanced from out the gloom of a corner , whither he had probably posted himself to make his observations unseen , and spoke . 
He used the language of the Wyandots , or Hurons : his words were , consequently , unintelligible to Heyward , though they seemed , by the gestures that accompanied them , to be uttered more in courtesy than anger . 
The latter shook his head , and made a gesture indicative of his inability to reply . 
he said , in the former language , looking about him , from countenance to countenance , in hopes of finding a nod of assent . 
Though more than one head turned , as if to catch the meaning of his words , they remained unanswered . 
`` I should be grieved to think , '' continued Duncan , speaking slowly , and using the simplest French of which he was the master , `` to believe that none of this wise and brave nation understand the language that the ` Grand Monarque ' uses , when he talks to his children . 
A long and grave pause succeeded , during which no movement of a limb , nor any expression of an eye , betrayed the impression produced by his remark . 
Duncan , who knew that silence was a virtue amongst his hosts , gladly had recourse to the custom , in order to arrange his ideas . 
`` He knows no difference in his children , whether the colour of the skin be red , or black , or white , '' returned Duncan , evasively ; `` though chiefly is he satisfied with the brave Hurons . '' 
`` They were his enemies , '' said Duncan , shuddering involuntarily ; `` and , doubtless , he will say it is good -- my Hurons are very valiant . '' 
Another long and deep silence succeeded this annunciation of the character Duncan had assumed . 
Every eye was simultaneously bent on his person , as if to inquire into the truth or falsehood of the declaration , with an intelligence and keenness , that caused the subject of their scrutiny to tremble for the result . 
He was , however , relieved again , by the former speaker . 
`` When an Indian chief comes among his white fathers , '' returned Duncan , with great steadiness , `` he lays aside his buffalo robe , to carry the shirt that is offered him . 
Duncan began to breathe more freely , believing that the weight of his examination was past ; and as he had already prepared a simple and probable tale to support his pretended occupation , his hopes of ultimate success grew brighter . 
After a silence of a few moments , as if adjusting his thoughts , in order to make a suitable answer to the declaration their guest had just given , another warrior arose , and placed himself in an attitude to speak . 
The sudden and terrible interruption caused Duncan to start from his seat , unconscious of every thing , but the effect produced by so frightful a cry . 
At the same moment , the warriors glided in a body from the lodge , and the outer air was filled with loud shouts , that nearly drowned those awful sounds , which the organs of Duncan occasionally announced , were still ringing beneath the arches of the woods . 
Though astounded , at first , by the uproar , Heyward was soon enabled to find its solution by the scene that followed . 
The startling sounds that Duncan had heard , were what the whites have , not inappropriately , called the `` deathhalloo ; '' and each repetition of the cry was intended to announce to the tribe , the fate of an enemy . 
Thus far the knowledge of Heyward assisted him in the explanation ; and as he now knew that the interruption was caused by the unlooked-for return of a successful war-party , every disaggreeable sensation was quieted , in inward congratulations , for the opportune relief and insignificance it conferred on himself . 
The high spirited Duncan felt a powerful impulse of admiration and pity towards the former , though no opportunity could offer to exhibit his generous emotions . 
He watched his slightest movement , however , with eager eyes ; and as he traced the fine outline of his admirably proportioned and active frame , he endeavoured to persuade himself , that if the powers of man , seconded by such noble resolution , could bear one harmless through so severe a trial , the youthful captive before him , might hope for success in the hazardous race he was about to run . 
Once more he tried the throng , as if seeking safety in its blindness , and then several moments succeeded , during which Duncan believed the active and courageous young stranger was irretrievably lost . 
Now and then , Duncan caught a glimpse of a light form cleaving the air in some desperate bound , and he rather hoped than believed , that the captive yet retained the command of his astonishing powers of activity . 
Profiting by the momentary opening , he darted from among the warriors , and made a desperate , and what seemed to Duncan , a final effort to gain the wood . 
Duncan thrust forth a foot , and the shock precipitated the eager savage , headlong , many feet in advance of his intended victim . 
Thought itself is not quicker than was the motion with which the latter profited by the advantage ; he turned , gleamed like a meteor again before the eyes of Duncan , and at the next moment , when the latter recovered his recollection , and gazed around in quest of the captive , he saw him quietly leaning against a small painted post , which stood before the door of the principal lodge . 
Apprehensive that the part he had taken in the escape might prove fatal to himself , Duncan left the place without delay . 
He followed the crowd , which drew nigh the lodges , gloomy and sullen , like any other multitude that had been disappointed in an execution . 
Curiosity , or , perhaps , a better feeling , induced him to approach the stranger . 
He found him , standing , with one arm cast about the protecting post , and breathing thick and hard , after his incredible exertions , but still disdaining to permit a single sign of suffering to escape . 
His person was now protected , by immemorial and sacred usage , until the tribe in council had deliberated and determined on his fate . 
But the action and the change of posture had permitted Duncan to exchange glances with the firm and piercing eyes of Uncas . 
Breathless with amazement , and heavily oppressed with the critical situation of his friend , Heyward recoiled before the look , trembling lest its meaning expression might , in some unknown manner , hasten the prisoner 's fate . 
Thither all the chiefs , and most of the distinguished warriors , followed , among whom the anxious Heyward found means to enter , without attracting any dangerous attention to himself . 
The case was different with the individual , whom Duncan had observed to stand forth with his friend , previously to the desperate trial of speed ; and who , instead of joining in the chase , had remained , throughout all its turbulent uproar , like a cringing statue , expressive of shame and disgrace . 
Though not a hand had been extended to greet him , nor yet an eye had condescended to watch his movements , he had also entered the lodge , as though impelled by a fate , to whose decrees he submitted , seemingly , without a struggle . 
Heyward profited by the first opportunity to gaze in his face , secretly apprehensive he might find the features of another acquaintance , but they proved to be those of a stranger , and what was still more inexplicable , of one who bore all the distinctive marks of a Huron warrior . 
Duncan , who understood the Mohican to allude to the fatal rifle of the scout , bent forward in earnest observation of the effect it might produce on the conquerors ; but the chief was content with simply retorting -- `` If the Lenape are so skilful , why is one of their bravest warriors here ? '' 
The light rendered every limb and joint discernible , and Duncan turned away in horror , when he saw they were writhing in irrepressible agony . 
The whole shuddering groupe of spectators glided from the lodge , like troubled sprites ; and Duncan thought that he and the yet throbbing body of the victim of an Indian judgment , had now become its only tenants . 
A singlemoment , however , served to convince the youth that he was mistaken . 
A hand was laid , with a powerful pressure , on his arm , and then the low voice of Uncas muttered in his ears -- `` The Hurons are dogs ! 
Heyward would gladly have heard more , but a timely effort from his friend , urged him toward the door , and admonished him of the danger that might attend the discovery of their intercourse . 
Slowly and reluctantly yielding to the necessity , he quitted the place , and mingled with the throng that hovered nigh . 
After this solemn termination of the scene , Duncan wandered among the lodges , unquestioned and unnoticed , endeavouring to find some trace of her , in whose behalf he incurred the risk he ran . 
In the present temper of the tribe , it would have been easy to have fled and rejoined his companions , had such a wish crossed his mind . 
But , in addition to the never-ceasing anxiety on account of Alice , a fresher , though feebler , interest in the fate of Uncas , assisted to chain him to the spot . 
He continued , therefore , to stray from hut to hut , looking into each only to encounter additional disappointments , until he had made the entire circuit of the village . 
Abandoning a species of inquiry that proved so fruitless , he retraced his steps to the council lodge , resolved to seek and question David , in order to put an end to doubts that were becoming painful . 
Though the return of Duncan was likely to remind them of his character , and the suspicious circumstances of his visit , it produced no visible sensation . 
So far , the terrible scene that had just occurred , proved favourable to his views , and he required no other prompter than his own feelings to convince , him of the expediency of profiting by so unexpected an advantage . 
Without seeming to hesitate , he walked into the lodge , and took his seat with a gravity that accorded , admirably , with the deportment of his hosts . 
A hasty , but searching glance , sufficed to tell him , that though Uncas still remained where he had left him , David had not re-appeared . 
Heyward had , too recently , witnessed a frightful instance of the prompt punishments of the people , into whose hands he had fallen , to hazard an exposure by any officious boldness . 
He would greatly have preferred silence and meditation to speech , when a discovery of his real condition might prove so instantly fatal . 
Unfortunately for this prudent resolution , his entertainers appeared otherwise disposed . 
He had not long occupied the seat he had wisely taken , a little in the shade , when another of the elder warriors , who spoke the French language , addressed him -- `` My Canada father does not forget his children ! '' 
Heyward possessed some knowledge of the mummery practised among the Indians , in the cases of such supposed visitations . 
He saw , at a glance , that the circumstance might possibly be improved to further his own ends . 
It would , therefore , have been difficult , just then , to have uttered a proposal , that would have given him more satisfaction . 
Aware of the necessity of preserving the dignity of his imaginary character , however , he repressed his feelings , and answered with suitable mystery -- `` Spirits differ ; some yield to the power of wisdom , while others are too strong . '' 
The Huron was content with the assurance , and resuming his pipe , he awaited the proper moment to move . 
The impatient Heyward , inwardly execrating the cold customs of the savages , which required such a sacrifice to appearances , was fain to assume an air of indifference , equal to that maintained by the chief , who was , in truth , a near relative of the afflicted woman . 
Just then , a warrior of powerful frame darkened the door , and stalking silently among the attentive groupe , he seated himself on one end of that low pile of brush , which sustained Duncan on its other . 
The latter cast an impatient look at his neighbour , and felt his flesh creep with uncontrollable horror , when he found himself in actual contact with Magua . 
Ten minutes , which appeared so many ages to Duncan , might have passed in this manner ; and the warriors were fairly enveloped in a could of white smoke , before one of them uttered the significant word -- `` Welcome ! 
Duncan had seen the threatening action , and sprang upon his feet , with a heart which , while it leaped into his throat , swelled with the most generous resolution in behalf of his friend . 
A glance told him that the blow had failed , and terror changed to admiration . 
Uncas stood , still looking his enemy in the eye , with features that seemed superior to every emotion . 
Marble could not be colder , calmer , or steadier , than the countenance he put upon this sudden and vindictive attack . 
Then , as if pitying a want of skill , which had proved so fortunate to himself , he smiled , and muttered a few words of contempt , in his own soft and musical tongue . 
There he turned , and in the sweeping and haughty glance that he threw around the circle of his enemies , Duncan caught a look , which he was glad to construe into an expression that he was not entirely deserted by hope . 
Magua was content with his success , or too much occupied with his secret purposes , to push his inquiries any further . 
Shaking his mantle , and folding it on his bosom , he also quitted the place , without pursuing a subject that might have proved so fatal to the individual at his elbow . 
Notwithstanding his rising resentment , his natural firmness , and his anxiety in behalf of Uncas , Heyward felt sensibly relieved by the absence of so dangerous and so subtle a foe . 
When the chief who had solicited the aid of Duncan had finished his pipe , he made a final and successful movement towards departing . 
A motion of a finger was the intimation he gave the supposed physician to follow ; and passing through the clouds of smoke , Duncan was glad , on more accounts than one , to be able , at last , to breathe the pure air of a cool and refreshing summer evening . 
Instead of pursuing his way among those lodges , where Heyward had already made his unsuccessful search , his companion turned aside , and proceeded directly toward the base of an adjacent mountain , which overhung the temporary village . 
The blaze of one of these fires lighted the way of the chief and Duncan , and gave a character of additional wildness to the rude scenery . 
Then even Duncan knew it , by its restless and sideling attitudes , which kept the upper part of its form in constant motion , while the animal itself appeared seated , to be a bear . 
Duncan , who knew that the animal was often found domesticated among the Indians , followed the example of his companion , believing that some favourite of the tribe had found its way into the thicket , in search of food . 
Though obliged to come nearly in contact with the monster , the Huron , who had at first so warily determined the character of his strange visiter , was now content with proceeding without wasting a moment in further examination ; but Heyward was unable to prevent his eyes from looking backward , in a sort of salutary watchfulness against attacks in the rear . 
His uneasiness was in no degree diminished , when he perceived the beast rolling along their path , and following their footsteps . 
He would have spoken , but the Indian at that moment shoved aside a door of bark , and entered a cavern in the bosom of the mountain . 
Profiting by so easy a method of retreat , Duncan stepped after him , and was gladly closing the slight cover to the opening , when he felt it drawn from his hand by the beast , whose shaggy form immediately darkened the passage . 
How long the nerves of Heyward would have sustained him in this extraordinary situation , it might be difficult to decide , for , happily , he soon found relief . 
The apartment into which Duncan and his guide first entered , had been exclusively devoted to her accommodation . 
The latter approached her bed-side , which was surrounded by females , in the centre of whom , Heyward was surprised to find his missing friend David . 
A single look was sufficient to apprise the pretended leech , that the invalid was far beyond his powers of healing . 
Heyward was far from regretting that his mummeries were to be performed on one who was much too ill to take an interest in their failure or success . 
The slight qualm of conscience which had been excited by the intended deception , was instantly appeased at the sight , and he began , busily , to collect his thoughts , in order to enact his part with suitable spirit , when he found he was about to be anticipated in his skill , by an attempt to prove the power of music . 
Gamut , who had stood prepared to pour forth his spirit in song when the visiters entered , after delaying a moment , drew a strain from his pipe , and commenced a hymn , that might have worked a miracle , had faith in its efficacy been of much avail . 
He was allowed to proceed to the close , the Indians respecting his imaginary infirmity , and Duncan too glad of the delay to hazard the slightest interruption . 
As the dying cadence of his strains was falling on the ears of the latter , he started aside at hearing them repeated behind him , in a voice half human and half sepulchral . 
Looking around , he beheld the shaggy monster seated on end , in a shadow of the cavern , where , while his restless body swung in the uneasy manner of the animal , it repeated , in a sort of low growl , sounds , if not words , which bore some slight resemblance to the melody of the singer . 
A deep laid scheme of communicating some important intelligence to Heyward , was driven from his recollection by an emotion which very nearly resembled fear , but which he was fain to believe was admiration . 
Under its influence , he exclaimed aloud -- `` She expects you , and is at hand '' -- and precipitately left the cavern . 
The words of Gamut were , as has been seen , in his native tongue ; and to Duncan they seemed pregnant with some hidden meaning , though nothing present assisted him in discovering the object of their allusion . 
Thus unequivocally called on to exercise the functions of his assumed character , Heyward was apprehensive that the smallest delay might prove dangerous . 
Endeavouring then to collect his ideas , he prepared to commence that species of incantation , and those uncouth rites , under which the Indian conjurers are accustomed to conceal their actual ignorance and impotency . 
It is more than probable , that in the disordered state of his thoughts , he would soon have fallen into some suspicious , if not fatal error , had not his incipient attempts been interrupted by a fierce growl from the quadruped . 
Three several times did he renew his efforts to proceed , and as often was he met by the same unaccountable opposition , each interruption seeming more savage and threatening than the preceding . 
Peace , '' he added , beckoning to the discontented beast to be quiet ; `` I go . '' 
The chief was instantly as good as his word , and Duncan now found himself alone in that wild and desolate abode , with the helpless invalid , and the fierce and dangerous brute . 
The latter listened to the movements of the Indian , with that air of sagacity that a bear is known to possess , until another echo announced that he had also left the cavern , when it turned and came waddling up to Duncan , before whom it seated itself , in its natural attitude , erect like a man . 
The huge and unwieldy talons pawed stupidly about the grinning muzzle , and while Heyward kept his eyes riveted on its movements , with jealous watchfulness , the grim head fell on one side , and in its place appeared the honest , sturdy countenance of the scout , who was indulging , from the bottom of his soul , in his own peculiar expression of merriment . 
said the wary woodsman , interrupting Heyward 's exclamation of surprise ; `` the varlets are about the place , and any sounds that are not natural to witchcraft , would bring them back upon us in a body ! '' 
`` Keep to your tale , '' said the impatient Heyward ; `` we know not at what moment the Hurons may return . '' 
exclaimed Duncan . 
Duncan , who had already sprung eagerly forward , drew instantly back , on hearing these discouraging words . 
he demanded , with an air of manifest chagrin . 
See , '' he added , pointing to a place where the water trickled from a rock , forming a little crystal spring , before it found an issue through the adjacent crevices ; `` you may easily get rid of the Sagamore 's daub , and when you come back , I will try my hand at a new embellishment . 
The deliberate woodsman had little occasion to hunt for arguments to enforce his advice . 
He was yet speaking , when Duncan availed himself of the water . 
In a moment , every frightful or offensive mark was obliterated , and the youth appeared again in the fine and polished lineaments with which he had been gifted by nature . 
Thus prepared for an interview with his mistress , he took a hasty leave of his companion , and disappeared through the indicated passage . 
Duncan had no other guide than a distant glimmering light , which served , however , the office of a polar star to the lover . 
`` Duncan ! '' 
`` I knew , Duncan , that you would never desert me , '' she said , looking up with a momentary glow of pleasure beaming on her otherwise dejected countenance . 
Duncan , observing that she trembled in a manner which betrayed an inability to continue standing , gently induced her to be seated , while he recounted those leading incidents which it has been our task to record . 
The soothing tenderness of Duncan , however , soon quieted the first burst of her emotions , and she then heard him to the close with undivided attention , if not with composure . 
`` And now , Alice , '' he added , `` you will see how much is still expected of you . 
continued the youth , gently pressing the hand he held in both his own . 
The look of innocence and surprise which he received , in return , convinced Duncan of the necessity of being more explicit . 
`` This is neither the place nor the occasion to detain you with selfish wishes , sweet Alice , '' he added ; `` but what heart loaded like mine would not wish to cast its burthen ! 
`` And dearest Cora , Duncan ; surely Cora was not forgotten ! '' 
`` I would gladly believe her such , '' returned Duncan , hastily ; `` I could wish her to be even more ; but with you , Alice , I have the permission of your father to aspire to a still nearer and dearer tie . '' 
`` Heyward , '' she said , looking him full in the eye , with a touching expression of innocence and dependency , `` give me the sacred presence and the holy sanction of that parent , before you urge me farther . '' 
`` Though more I should not , less I could not say , '' the youth was about to answer , when he was interrupted by a light tap on his shoulder . 
Starting to his feet , he turned , and confronting the intruder , his looks fell on the dark form and malignant visage of Magua . 
The deep , guttural laugh of the savage , sounded , at such a moment , to Duncan , like the hellish taunt of a demon . 
Had he pursued the sudden and fierce impulse of the instant , he would have cast himself on the Huron , and committed their fortunes to the issue of a deadly struggle . 
But , without arms of any description , ignorant of what succours his subtle enemy could command , and charged with the safety of one who was just then dearer than ever to his heart , he no sooner entertained , than he abandoned the desperate intention . 
said Alice , meekly folding her arms on her bosom , and struggling to conceal an agony of apprehension in behalf of Heyward , in the usual cold and distant manner with which she received the visits of her captor . 
He regarded both his captives for a moment with a steady look , and then stepping aside , he dropped a log of wood across a door different from that by which Duncan had entered . 
The latter now comprehended the manner of his surprise , and believing himself irretrivably lost , he drew Alice to his bosom , and stood prepared to meet a fate which he hardly regretted , since it was to be suffered in such company . 
His first measures were very evidently taken to secure his new captive ; nor did he even bestow a second glance at the motionless forms in the centre of the cavern , until he had completely cut off every hope of retreat through the private outlet he had himself used . 
He was watched in all his movements by Heyward , who however remained firm , still folding the fragile form of Alice to his heart , at once too proud and too hopeless to ask favour of an enemy so often foiled . 
When Magua had effected his object , he approached his prisoners , and said , in English -- `` The pale-faces trap the cunning beavers ; but the red-skins know how to take the Yengeese ! '' 
exclaimed the excited Heyward , forgetful that a double stake was involved in his life ; `` you and your vengeance are alike despised . '' 
asked Magua ; manifesting , at the same time , how little faith he had in the other 's resolution , by the sneer that accompanied his words . 
`` Here ; singly to your face , '' continued the undaunted Heyward , `` or in the presence of your assembled nation ! '' 
He turned away while speaking , and was about to leave the place through the avenue by which Duncan had approached , when a low , menacing growl , caught his ear , and caused him to hesitate . 
Heyward had watched the whole procedure , on the part of Hawk-eye , with breathless interest . 
At first he relinquished his hold of Alice ; then he caught up a thong of buckskin , which had been used around some bundle , and when he beheld his enemy with his two arms pinned to his side , by the iron muscles of the scout , he rushed upon him , and effectually secured them there . 
When the formidable Huron was completely pinioned , the scout released his hold , and Duncan laid his enemy on his back , utterly helpless . 
Throughout the whole of this sudden and extraordinary operation , Magua , though he had struggled violently , until assured he was in the hands of one whose nerves were far better strung than his own , had not uttered the slightest exclamation . 
But when Hawk-eye , by way of making a summary explanation of his conduct , removed the shaggy jaws of the beast , and exposed his own rugged and earnest countenance to the gaze of the Huron , the philosophy of the latter was so far mastered , as to permit him to utter the never-failing -- `` Hugh ! '' 
said his undisturbed conqueror ; `` now , in order that you shall not use it to our ruin , I must make free to stop your mouth . '' 
Duncan pointed out the door by which Magua had come , and which now presented too many obstacles to a quick retreat . 
`` Bring on the gentle one then , '' continued his friend ; `` we must make a push for the woods by the other outlet . '' 
said Duncan ; `` fear has overcome her , and she is helpless . 
Duncan , as may be gathered from the words of his companion , was eagerly obeying ; and as the other finished speaking , he took the light person of Alice in his arms , and followed on the footsteps of the scout . 
Duncan kept close at his heels , and soon found himself in the centre of a cluster of twenty anxious relatives and friends . 
`` Thy child , '' returned Duncan , gravely ; `` the disease has gone out of her ; it is shut up in the rocks . 
The chief himself waved his hand for Duncan to proceed , saying aloud , in a firm voice , and with a lofty manner -- `` Go -- I am a man , and I will enter the rock and fight the wicked one ! '' 
Heyward had gladly obeyed , and was already past the little groupe , when these startling words arrested him . 
he exclaimed ; `` is he cruel ! 
`` Now let me make an effort to walk , '' she said , when they had entered the forest , blushing , though unseen , that she had not been sooner able to quit the arms of Duncan ; `` I am , indeed , restored . '' 
The maiden struggled gently to release herself , and the reluctant Heyward was compelled to part with his precious burthen . 
demanded Heyward , in surprise ; `` surely we part not here ! '' 
Not in the least offended with the decided preference that the sturdy woodsman gave to one who might , in some degree , be called the child of his adoption , Duncan still continued to urge such reasons against so desperate an effort , as presented themselves . 
He was aided by Alice , who mingled her entreaties with those of Heyward , that he would abandon a resolution that promised so much danger , with such little hopes of success . 
The scout heard them attentively , but impatiently , and finally closed the discussion , by answering , in a tone that instantly silenced Alice , while it told Heyward how fruitless any further remonstrances would be . 
`` I have heard , '' he said , `` that there is a feeling in youth , which binds man to woman , closer than the father is tied to the son . 
Duncan released his hold on the arm of the scout , who turned , and steadily retraced his steps towards the lodges . 
After pausing a moment to gaze at his retiring form , the successful and yet sorrowful Heyward , and his mistress , took their way together towards the distant village of the Delawares . 
Notwithstandingthe high resolution of Hawk-eye , he fully comprehended all the difficulties and dangers he was about to incur . 
In his return to the camp , his acute and practised intellects were intently engaged in devising means to counteract a watchfulness and suspicion on the part of his enemies , that he knew were , in no degree , inferior to his own . 
Nothing but the colour of his skin saved the lives of Magua and the conjuror , who would have been the first victims to his security , had not the scout believed such an act , however congenial it might be to the nature of an Indian , utterly unworthy of one who boasted a descent from men that knew no cross of blood . 
The young Mohican , who , at first , believed his enemies had sent in a real beast to torment him , and try his nerves , detected , in those performances that to Heyward had appeared so accurate , certain blemishes , that at once betrayed the counterfeit . 
Had Hawk-eye been aware of the low estimation in which the more skilful Uncas held his representations , he would , probably , have prolonged the entertainment a little in pique . 
The whole deception practised by both Duncan and Hawk-eye , was , of course , laid naked ; and no room was found , even for the most superstitious of the tribe , any longer to affix a doubt on the character of the occurrences . 
Close at their side stood Heyward , with an interest in both , that , at such a moment of intense uncertainty , scarcely knew a preponderance in favour of her whom he most loved . 
Hawk-eye had placed himself a little in the rear , with a deference to the superior rank of his companions , that no similarity in the state of their present fortunes could induce him to forget . 
Neither Duncan nor the scout made any answer . 
The former , however , glanced his eyes around the dark and silent assembly , and recoiled a pace , when they fell on the malignant visage of Magua . 
He saw , at once , that this wily savage had some secret agency in their present arraignment before the nation , and determined to throw every possible impediment in the way of the execution of his sinister plans . 
He had witnessed one instance of the summary punishments of the Indians , and now dreaded that his companion was to be selected for a second . 
In this dilemma , with little or no time for reflection , he suddenly determined to cloak his invaluable friend , at any or every hazard to himself . 
Before he had time , however , to speak , the question was repeated in a louder voice , and with a clearer utterance . 
returned the chief , regarding Heyward with that sort of curious interest , which seems inseparable from man , when first beholding one of his fellows , to whom merit or accident , virtue or crime , has given notoriety . 
Duncan , a little at a loss in what manner to proceed , remained silent ; but the scout , who had listened attentively to all that passed , now advanced boldly to the front , and assumed the task of explaining . 
The eyes of all present , which had hitherto been gravely scanning the person of Duncan , were now turned , on the instant , towards the upright , iron frame of this new pretender to so distinguished an appellation . 
exclaimed Duncan , still more confirmed in the evil intentions of his ancient enemy ; `` a dog never lies , but when was a wolf known to speak the truth ! '' 
The eyes of Magua flashed fire ; but suddenly recollecting the necessity of maintaining his presence of mind , he turned away in silent disdain , well assured that the sagacity of the Indians would not fail to extract the real merits of the point in controversy . 
He was not deceived ; for , after another short consultation , the wary Delaware turned to him again , and expressed the determination of the chiefs , though in the most considerate language . 
`` My brother has been called a liar , '' he said ; `` and his friends are angry . 
Magua affected to consider the expedient , which he well knew proceeded from distrust of himself , as a compliment , and made a gesture of acquiescence , well content that his veracity should be supported by so skilful a marksman as the scout . 
Heyward smiled to himself , at the idea of such a competition with the scout , though he determined to persevere in the deception , until apprised of the designs of Magua . 
The scout laughed tauntingly , and aloud -- a noise that produced the startling effect of unnatural sounds on Heyward -- and then dropping the piece , heavily , into his extended left hand , it was discharged , apparently by the shock , driving the fragments of the vessel high into the air , and scattering them on every side of the stump . 
Almost at the same instant , the heavy rattling sound of the rifle was heard , as he suffered it to fall , contemptuously , to the earth . 
Heyward was not slow to confirm an opinion that was so favourable to his own pretensions . 
he exclaimed ; `` none can shoot without an aim ! '' 
echoed the excited woodsman , who was now stubbornly bent on maintaining his identity , at every hazard , and on whom the secret hints of Heyward to acquiesce in the deception were entirely lost . 
`` That the Huron is a liar , is very evident , '' returned Heyward , coolly ; `` you have , yourself , heard him assert you to be la Longue Carabine . '' 
It were impossible to say what violent assertion the stubborn Hawk-eye would have next made , in his headlong wish to vindicate his identity , had not the aged Delaware once more interposed . 
`` The hawk which comes from the clouds , can return when he will , '' he said ; `` give them the guns . '' 
Duncan noted the object , and prepared himself to renew the trial . 
Had his life depended on the issue , the aim of Duncan could not have been more deliberate and guarded . 
He fired ; and three or four young Indians , who sprang forward at the report , announced with a shout , that the ball was in the tree , a very little on one side of the proper object . 
The warriors uttered a common ejaculation of pleasure , and then turned their eyes , inquiringly , on the movements of his rival . 
said Hawk-eye , laughing once more in his own silent , heartfelt , manner ; `` but had my gun often turned so much from the true line , many a martin , whose skin is in a lady 's muff , would now be in the woods ; ay , and many a bloody Mingo , who has departed to his final account , would be acting his deviltries at this very day , atween the provinces . 
Those curious and admiring eyes which had been turned again on Heyward , were finally directed to the weather-beaten form of the scout , who immediately became the principal object of attention , to the simple and unsophisticated beings , by whom he was surrounded . 
he said , addressing Duncan ; `` are the Delawares fools , that they could not know the young panther from the cat ? '' 
`` They will yet find the Huron a singing-bird , '' said Duncan , endeavouring to adopt the figurative language of the natives . 
On Hawk-eye he cast a glance of respectful enmity ; on Duncan , a look of inextinguishable hatred ; the shrinking figure of Alice , he scarcely deigned to notice ; but when his glance met the firm , commanding , and yet lovely form of Cora , his eye lingered a moment , with an expression , that it might have been difficult to define . 
The words were barely uttered , when four or five of the younger warriors stepping behind Heyward and the scout , passed thongs so dexterously and rapidly around their arms , as to hold them both in instant bondage . 
The former was too much engrossed with his precious and nearly insensible burthen , to be aware of their intentions before they were executed ; and the latter , who considered even the hostile tribes of the Delawares a superior race of beings , submitted without resistance . 
Then recollecting his former artifice , he raised Alice from the arms of the warrior , against whom she leaned , and beckoning Heyward to follow , he motioned for the encircling crowd to open . 
Heyward struggled madly with his captors ; the anxious eyes of Hawk-eye began to look around him , with an expression of peculiar earnestness ; and Cora again threw herself at the feet of the patriarch , once more a supplicant for mercy . 
cried Duncan , springing forward ; `` Huron , have mercy ! 
exclaimed Heyward , clasping his hands together in agony , `` can this be suffered ! 
`` The words of the Delaware are said , '' returned the sage , closing his eyes , and dropping back into his seat , alike wearied with his mental and his bodily exertion . 
`` That a chief should not misspend his time in unsaying what has once been spoken , is wise and reasonable , '' said Hawk-eye , motioning to Duncan to be silent ; `` but it is also prudent in every warrior to consider well before he strikes his tomahawk into the head of his prisoner . 
demanded Magua , hesitatingly ; for he had already made a motion towards quitting the place with his victim . 
`` No , no ; I have not said so much as that , '' returned Hawk-eye , drawing back , with suitable discretion , when he noted the eagerness with which Magua listened to his proposal . 
Magua shook his head in cold disdain , and made an impatient sign for the crowd to open . 
Her voice became choked , and for an instant she was silent then advancing a step nigher to Duncan , who was supporting her unconscious sister , she continued in more subdued tones , but in which her feelings , and the habits of her sex , maintained a fearful struggle -- `` I need not tell you to cherish the treasure you will possess . 
You love her , Heyward ; that would conceal a thousand faults , though she had them . 
`` Ay , go , '' cried Duncan , placing Alice in the arms of an Indian girl ; `` go , Magua , go . 
`` The woods are open , '' he was content with answering ; `` the ` open hand ' can follow . '' 
`` Hold , '' cried Hawk-eye , seizing Duncan by the arm , and detaining him by violence ; `` you know not the craft of the imp . 
He would lead you to an ambushment , and your death -- '' `` Huron , '' interrupted Uncas , who , submissive to the stern customs of his people , had been an attentive and grave listener to all that passed ; `` Huron , the justice of the Delawares comes from the Manitto . 
`` Go , '' he added , shaking his hand at the crowd , which had slowly opened to admit his passage -- `` Where are the petticoats of the Delawares ! 
His parting gibes were listened to in a dead , boding , silence ; and , with these biting words in his mouth , the triumphant Magua passed unmolested into the forest , followed by his passive captive , and protected by the inviolable laws of Indian hospitality . 
So long as their enemy and his victim continued in sight , the multitude remained , motionless as beings charmed to the place by some power that was friendly to the Huron ; but the instant he disappeared , it became tossed and agitated by fierce and powerful passion . 
Uncas maintained his elevated stand , keeping his eyes on the form of Cora , until the colours of her dress were blended with the foliage of the forest ; when he descended , and moving silently through the throng , he disappeared in that lodge , from which he had so recently issued . 
In the mean time , Duncan saw Alice to a place of safety , and then sought the scout , with features that denoted how eagerly he , also , panted for the approaching contest . 
He merely cast an occasional look at the number and quality of the warriors , who , from time to time , signified their readiness to accompany Uncas to the field . 
In this particular he was soon satisfied ; for , as has been already seen , the power of the young chief quickly embraced every fighting man in the nation . 
When Heyward joined him , the scout was coolly awaiting the result of this experiment . 
He gave the Delawares to understand the rank of Heyward among the troops of the Yengeese , and then tendered to him a trust of equal authority . 
But Duncan declined the charge , professing his readiness to serve as a volunteer by the side of the scout . 
After this disposition , the young Mohican appointed various native chiefs to fill the different situations of responsibility , and the time now pressing , he gave forth the word to march . 
He was cheerfully , but silently , obeyed , by more than two hundred men . 
interrupted Heyward ; `` 't is well that we know its situation ! 
`` I like it much , '' cried Duncan , who saw that the release of Cora was the primary object in the mind of the scout ; `` I like it much . 
`` We are likely to have a good day for a fight , '' he said , in English , addressing Heyward , and glancing his eye upwards at the clouds , which began to move in broad sheets across the firmament ; `` a bright sun and a glittering barrel are no friends to true sight . 
Pointing in the direction he wished to proceed , Hawk-eye advanced , the band breaking off in single files , and following so accurately in his footsteps , as to leave , if we except Heyward and David , the trail of but a single man . 
The band dispersed at the word , and before Heyward had well recovered from his surprise , he found himself standing alone with David . 
Heyward threw himself among the combatants , and imitating the necessary caution of his companions , he supported quick discharges with his own rifle . 
But the chances were gradually growing unfavourable to Hawk-eye and his band . 
The quick sighted scout perceived all his danger , without knowing how to remedy it . 
He saw it was more dangerous to retreat than to maintain his ground ; while he found his enemy throwing out men on his flank , which rendered the task of keeping themselves covered so very difficult to the Delawares , as nearly to silence their fire . 
At this embarrasing moment , when they began to think the whole of the hostile tribe was gradually encircling them , to their destruction , they heard the yell of combatants , and the rattling of arms , echoing under the arches of the wood , at the place where Uncas was posted ; a bottom which , in a manner , lay beneath the ground on which Hawk-eye and his party were contending . 
In this crisis , Hawk-eye found means to get behind the same tree , as that which served for a cover to Heyward ; most of his own combatants being within call , a little on his right , where they maintained rapid , though fruitless , discharges on their sheltered enemies . 
`` This is a subject that might better be discussed another time , '' returned Heyward ; `` shall we charge ? '' 
And yet , '' he added , bending his head aside , to catch the sounds of the distant combat , `` if we are to be of use to Uncas , these knaves in our front must be now gotten rid of ! '' 
Then turning , with a prompt and decided air , from Duncan , he called aloud to his Indians , in their own language . 
His words were answered by a shout , and at a given signal , each warrior made a swift movement around his particular tree . 
We shall not pause to detail the meeting between the scout and Chingachgook , or the more touching interview that Duncan held with the anxious father of his mistress . 
A few brief and hurried words served to explain the state of things to both parties ; and then Hawk-eye , pointing out the Sagamore to his band , resigned the chief authority into the hands of the Mohican chief . 
`` The fight is coming up the ascent , '' said Duncan , pointing in the direction of a new explosion of fire-arms ; `` we are too much in the centre of their line to be effective . '' 
Heyward began to grow impatient , and turned his eyes anxiously in the direction of Chingachgook . 
said Duncan . 
At that instant the whoop was given , and a dozen Hurons fell by a discharge from Chingachgook and his band . 
Waving his hands right and left , the young chief pointed out the enemy to his followers , who instantly separated in the pursuit . 
One little knot of Hurons , however , had disdained to seek a cover , and were retiring , like lions at bay , slowly and sullenly up the acclivity , which Chingachgook and his band had just deserted to mingle , more closely , in the fray . 
Magua was conspicuous in this party , both by his fierce and savage mien , and by the air of haughty authority he yet maintained . 
In his eagerness to expedite the pursuit , Uncas had left himself nearly alone ; but the moment his eye caught the figure of le Subtil , every other consideration was forgotten . 
Raising his cry of battle , which recalled some six or seven warriors , and reckless of the disparity in their numbers , he rushed upon his enemy . 
But Uncas , who had vainly sought him in the ml , bounded forward in pursuit ; Hawk-eye , Heyward , and David , still pressing on his footsteps . 
Heyward and the scout still pressed on his rear , actuated , though , possibly , in a less degree , by a common feeling . 
exclaimed Heyward , in a voice in which horror and delight were wildly mingled . 
Heyward rashly imitated his example , though both were , a moment afterwards , admonished of its madness , by hearing the bellowing of a piece , that the Hurons found time to discharge down the passage in the rocks , the bullet from which even gave the young Mohican a slight wound . 
Uncas and Heyward increased efforts that already seemed superhuman , and they issued from the cavern on the side of the mountain , in time to note the route of the pursued . 
Encumbered by his rifle , and , perhaps , not sustained by so deep an interest in the captive as his companions , the scout suffered the latter to precede him a little ; Uncas , in his turn , taking the lead of Heyward . 
Huron , '' cried Heyward , from above , in tones nearly choked by horror ; `` give mercy , and thou shalt receive it ! '' 
Heyward was also nigh , supporting himself against a tree , and endeavouring to keep down those sudden risings of sorrow , that it required his utmost manhood to subdue . 
Seated , as in life , with his form and limbs arranged in grave and decent composure , Uncas appeared , arrayed in the most gorgeous ornaments that the wealth of the tribe could furnish . 
Rich plumes nodded above his head ; wampum , gorgets , bracelets , and medals , adorned his person in profusion ; though his dull eye , and vacant lineaments , too strongly contradicted the idle tale of pride they would convey . 
Directly in front of the corpse , Chingachgook was placed , without arms , paint , or adornment of any sort , except the bright blue blazonry of his race , that was indelibly impressed on his naked bosom . 
Happily for the self-command of both Heyward and Munro , they knew not the meaning of the wild sounds they heard . 
Heyward gladly obeyed a summons that took them from a spot , where , each instant , he felt his self-control was about to desert him . 
While his companions were mounting , however , he found time to press the hand of the scout , and to repeat the terms of an engagement they had made , to meet again within the posts of the British army . 
Then gladly throwing himself into the saddle , he spurred his charger to the side of the litter , whence low and stifled sobs , alone announced the presence of Alice . 
In this manner , the head of Munro again dropping on his bosom , with Heyward and David following in sorrowing silence , and attended by the Aide of Montcalm with his guard , all the white men , with the exception of Hawk-eye , passed from before the eyes of the Delawares , and were soon buried in the vast forests of that region . 
