Early in life Mr. Harding found himself located at Barchester . 
A fine voice and a taste for sacred music had decided the position in which he was to exercise his calling , and for many years he performed the easy but not highly paid duties of a minor canon . 
At the age of forty a small living in the close vicinity of the town increased both his work and his income , and at the age of fifty he became precentor of the cathedral . 
Mr. Harding had married early in life , and was the father of two daughters . 
Scandal at Barchester affirmed that had it not been for the beauty of his daughter , Mr. Harding would have remained a minor canon ; but here probably Scandal lied , as she so often does ; for even as a minor canon no one had been more popular among his reverend brethren in the close , than Mr. Harding ; and Scandal , before she had reprobated Mr. Harding for being made precentor by his friend the bishop , had loudly blamed the bishop for having so long omitted to do something for his friend Mr. Harding . 
Such was the condition of Hiram 's twelve old men when Mr. Harding was appointed warden ; but if they may be considered as well-to-do in the world according to their condition , the happy warden was much more so . 
Murmurs , very slight murmurs , had been heard in Barchester , -- few indeed , and far between , -- that the proceeds of John Hiram 's property had not been fairly divided : but they can hardly be said to have been of such a nature as to have caused uneasiness to any one : still the thing had been whispered , and Mr. Harding had heard it . 
Such was his character in Barchester , so universal was his popularity , that the very fact of his appointment would have quieted louder whispers than those which had been heard ; but Mr. Harding was an open-handed , just-minded man , and feeling that there might be truth in what had been said , he had , on his instalment , declared his intention of adding twopence a day to each man 's pittance , making a sum of sixty-two pounds eleven shillings and fourpence , which he was to pay out of his own pocket . 
In doing so , however , he distinctly and repeatedly observed to the men , that though he promised for himself , he could not promise for his successors , and that the extra twopence could only be looked on as a gift from himself , and not from the trust . 
The bedesmen , however , were most of them older than Mr. Harding , and were quite satisfied with the security on which their extra income was based . 
This munificence on the part of Mr. Harding had not been unopposed . 
Mr. Chadwick had mildly but seriously dissuaded him from it ; and his strong-minded son-in-law , the archdeacon , the man of whom alone Mr. Harding stood in awe , had urgently , nay , vehemently , opposed so impolitic a concession : but the warden had made known his intention to the hospital before the archdeacon had been able to interfere , and the deed was done . 
Beyond this row of buttresses , and further from the bridge , and also further from the water which here suddenly bends , are the pretty oriel windows of Mr. Harding 's house , and his well-mown lawn . 
On passing through this portal , never closed to any one from six A. M. till ten P. M. , and never open afterwards , except on application to a huge , intricately hung , mediæeaval bell , the handle of which no uninitiated intruder can possibly find , the six doors of the old men 's abodes are seen , and beyond them is a slight iron screen , through which the more happy portion of the Barchester élite pass into the Elysium of Mr. Harding 's dwelling . 
Mr. Harding is a small man , now verging on sixty years , but bearing few of the signs of age ; his hair is rather grizzled , though not grey , his eye is very mild , but clear and bright , though the double glasses which are held swinging from his hand , unless when fixed upon his nose , show that time has told upon his sight : his hands are delicately white , and both hands and feet are small ; he always wears a black frock coat , black knee-breeches , and black gaiters , and somewhat scandalises some of his more hyperclerical brethren by a black neck-handkerchief . 
Mr. Harding 's warmest admirers can not say that he was ever an industrious man ; the circumstances of his life have not called on him to be so ; and yet he can hardly be called an idler . 
Since his appointment to his precentorship , he has published , with all possible additions of vellum , typography , and gilding , a collection of our ancient church music , with some correct dissertations on Purcell , Crotch , and Nares . 
We must mention one other peculiarity of Mr. Harding . 
As we have before stated , he has an income of eight hundred a year , and has no family but his one daughter ; and yet he is never quite at ease in money matters . 
The vellum and gilding of `` Harding 's Church Music , '' cost more than any one knows , except the author , the publisher , and the Rev. Theophilus Grantly , who allows none of his father-in-law 's extravagances to escape him . 
No doubt with such an income Mr. Harding should be above the world , as the saying is ; but at any rate , he is not above Archdeacon Theophilus Grantly , for he is always more or less in debt to his son-in-law , who has , to a certain extent , assumed the arrangement of the precentor 's pecuniary affairs . 
Mr. Harding has been now precentor of Barchester for ten years ; and , alas , the murmurs respecting the proceeds of Hiram 's estate are again becoming audible . 
It is not that any one begrudges to Mr. Harding the income which he enjoys , and the comfortable place which so well becomes him ; but such matters have begun to be talked of in various parts of England . 
Mr. Harding , whose conscience in the matter is clear , and who has never felt that he had received a pound from Hiram 's will to which he was not entitled , has naturally taken the part of the church in talking over these matters with his friend , the bishop , and his son-in-law , the archdeacon . 
With such a tower of strength to back both his arguments and his conscience , it may be imagined that Mr. Harding has never felt any compunction as to receiving his quarterly sum of two hundred pounds . 
Indeed , the subject has never presented itself to his mind in that shape . 
He has talked not unfrequently , and heard very much about the wills of old founders and the incomes arising from their estates , during the last year or two ; he did even , at one moment , feel a doubt -LRB- since expelled by his son-in-law 's logic -RRB- as to whether Lord Guildford was clearly entitled to receive so enormous an income as he does from the revenues of St. Cross ; but that he himself was overpaid with his modest eight hundred pounds ; -- he who , out of that , voluntarily gave up sixty-two pounds eleven shillings and fourpence a year to his twelve old neighbours ; -- he who , for the money , does his precentor 's work as no precentor has done it before , since Barchester Cathedral was built ; -- such an idea has never sullied his quiet , or disturbed his conscience . 
Nevertheless , Mr. Harding is becoming uneasy at the rumour which he knows to prevail in Barchester on the subject . 
He is aware that , at any rate , two of his old men have been heard to say , that if every one had his own , they might each have their hundred pounds a year , and live like gentlemen , instead of a beggarly one shilling and sixpence a day ; and that they had slender cause to be thankful for a miserable dole of twopence , when Mr. Harding and Mr. Chadwick , between them , ran away with thousands of pounds which good old John Hiram never intended for the like of them . 
It is the ingratitude of this which stings Mr. Harding . 
One of this discontented pair , Abel Handy , was put into the hospital by himself ; he had been a stonemason in Barchester , and had broken his thigh by a fall from a scaffolding , while employed about the cathedral ; and Mr. Harding had given him the first vacancy in the hospital after the occurrence , although Dr. Grantly had been very anxious to put into it an insufferable clerk of his at Plumstead Episcopi , who had lost all his teeth , and whom the archdeacon hardly knew how to get rid of by other means . 
Dr. Grantly has not forgotten to remind Mr. Harding how well satisfied with his one and sixpence a day old Joe Mutters would have been , and how injudicious it was on the part of Mr. Harding to allow a radical from the town to get into the concern . 
There is living at Barchester , a young man , a surgeon , named John Bold , and both Mr. Harding and Dr. Grantly are well aware that to him is owing the pestilent rebellious feeling which has shown itself in the hospital ; yes , and the renewal , too , of that disagreeable talk about Hiram 's estates which is now again prevalent in Barchester . 
Nevertheless , Mr. Harding and Mr. Bold are acquainted with each other ; we may say , are friends , considering the great disparity in their years . 
Dr. Grantly , however , has a holy horror of the impious demagogue , as on one occasion he called Bold , when speaking of him to the precentor ; and being a more prudent far-seeing man than Mr. Harding , and possessed of a stronger head , he already perceives that this John Bold will work great trouble in Barchester . 
He considers that he is to be regarded as an enemy , and thinks that he should not be admitted into the camp on anything like friendly terms . 
Dr. Grantly would have him avoided as the plague ; but the old Doctor and Mr. Harding were fast friends . 
Young Johnny Bold used to play as a boy on Mr Harding 's lawn ; he has many a time won the precentor 's heart by listening with wrapt attention to his sacred strains ; and since those days , to tell the truth at once , he has nearly won another heart within the same walls . 
He has not thought it wise as yet to speak to his father-in-law on the subject , for he knows how foolishly indulgent is Mr. Harding in everything that concerns his daughter ; but he has discussed the matter with his all-trusted helpmate , within that sacred recess formed by the clerical bedcurtains at Plumstead Episcopi . 
Mr. Harding himself has seen no reason why his daughter should not love John Bold . 
He has not been unobservant of her feelings , and perhaps his deepest regret at the part which he fears Bold is about to take regarding the hospital , arises from a dread that he may be separated from his daughter , or that she may be separated from the man she loves . 
He has never spoken to Eleanor about her lover ; he is the last man in the world to allude to such a subject unconsulted , even with his own daughter ; and had he considered that he had ground to disapprove of Bold , he would have removed her , or forbidden him his house ; but he saw no such ground . 
He would probably have preferred a second clerical son-in-law , for Mr. Harding , also , is attached to his order ; and , failing in that , he would at any rate have wished that so near a connection should have thought alike with him on church matters . 
He would not , however , reject the man his daughter loved because he differed on such subjects with himself . 
Hitherto Bold had taken no steps in the matter in any way annoying to Mr. Harding personally . 
Some months since , after a severe battle , which cost him not a little , he gained a victory over a certain old turnpike woman in the neighbourhood , of whose charges another old woman had complained to him . 
He got the act of Parliament relating to the trust , found that his protégée had been wrongly taxed , rode through the gate himself , paying the toll , then brought an action against the gate-keeper , and proved that all people coming up a certain by-lane , and going down a certain other by-lane , were toll free . 
The fame of his success spread widely abroad , and he began to be looked on as the upholder of the rights of the poor of Barchester . 
Not long after this success , he heard from different quarters that Hiram 's bedesmen were treated as paupers , whereas the property to which they were , in effect , heirs , was very large ; and he was instigated by the lawyer whom he had employed in the case of the turnpike , to call upon Mr. Chadwick for a statement as to the funds of the estate . 
Bold soon found that if he interfered with Mr. Chadwick as steward , he must also interfere with Mr. Harding as warden ; and though he regretted the situation in which this would place him , he was not the man to flinch from his undertaking from personal motives . 
As soon as he had determined to take the matter in hand , he set about his work with his usual energy . 
He got a copy of John Hiram 's will , of the wording of which he made himself perfectly master . 
`` Suppose I were to see Mr. Harding first , '' suggested Bold . 
`` Yes , yes , by all means , '' said the acquiescing Finney ; `` though , perhaps , as Mr. Harding is no man of business , it may lead -- lead to some little difficulties ; but perhaps you 're right . 
Mr. Bold , I do n't think seeing Mr. Harding can do any harm . '' 
The day was now far advanced , but he knew that Mr. Harding dined in the summer at four , that Eleanor was accustomed to drive in the evening , and that he might therefore probably find Mr. Harding alone . 
It was between seven and eight when he reached the slight iron gate leading into the precentor 's garden , and though , as Mr. Chadwick observed , the day had been cold for June , the evening was mild , and soft , and sweet . 
As he raised the latch he heard the notes of Mr. Harding 's violoncello from the far end of the garden , and , advancing before the house and across the lawn , he found him playing : and not without an audience . 
`` Well , well , Mr. Harding ; you 're too good , much too good , '' he 'd always say , as the second glass was filled ; but when that was drunk , and the halfhour over , Bunce stood erect , and with a benediction which his patron valued , retired to his own abode . 
As Bold walked silently over the lawn , Mr. Harding did not at first perceive him , and continued to draw his bow slowly across the plaintive wires ; but he soon found from his audience that some stranger was there , and looking up , began to welcome his young friend with frank hospitality . 
`` Pray , Mr. Harding ; pray do n't let me disturb you , '' said Bold ; `` you know how fond I am of sacred music . '' 
it 's nothing , '' said the precentor , shutting up the book , and then opening it again as he saw the delightfully imploring look of his old friend Bunce . 
`` Quite true , Mr. Harding , '' said the other ; `` but I fear I 've reversed the order of things , and I owe you much apology for troubling you on business at such an hour ; but it is on business that I have called just now . '' 
Mr. Harding looked blank and annoyed ; there was something in the tone of the young man 's voice , which told him that the interview was intended to be disagreeable , and he shrank back at finding his kindly greeting so repulsed . 
`` Well , I think she will , if she 's careful ; but , Mr. Harding , I hope you wo n't object to discuss with me what I have to say about the hospital . '' 
Mr. Harding gave a deep , long-drawn sigh . 
He did object , very strongly object , to discuss any such subject with John Bold ; but he had not the business tact of Mr. Chadwick , and did not know how to relieve himself from the coming evil ; he sighed sadly , but made no answer . 
`` I have the greatest regard for you , Mr. Harding , '' continued Bold ; `` the truest respect , the most sincere -- '' `` Thank ye , thank ye , Mr. Bold , '' interjaculated the precentor somewhat impatiently ; `` I 'm much obliged , but never mind that ; I 'm as likely to be in the wrong as another man -- quite as likely . '' 
`` But , Mr. Harding , I must express what I feel , lest you should think there is personal enmity in what I 'm going to do . '' 
He walked on awhile in silence before he recommenced his attack , during which Mr. Harding , who had still the bow in his hand , played rapidly on an imaginary violoncello . 
`` I fear there is reason to think that John Hiram 's will is not carried out to the letter , Mr. Harding , '' said the young man at last ; `` and I have been asked to see into it . '' 
`` Only one word more , Mr. Harding . 
Bold , however , felt that he could not sit down at ease with Mr. Harding and his daughter after what had passed , and therefore excused himself with much awkward apology ; and merely raising his hat and bowing as he passed Eleanor and the poney chair , left her in disappointed amazement at his departure . 
Mr. Harding 's demeanour certainly impressed Bold with a full conviction , that the warden felt that he stood on strong grounds , and almost made him think that he was about to interfere without due warrant in the private affairs of a just and honourable man ; but Mr. Harding himself was anything but satisfied with his own view of the case . 
In the first place , he wished for Eleanor 's sake to think well of Bold and to like him , and yet he could not but feel disgusted at the arrogance of his conduct . 
What right had he to say that John Hiram 's will was not fairly carried out ? 
Thoughts of this kind , these first moments of much misery , oppressed Mr. Harding as he sat sipping his tea , absent and ill at ease . 
Mr. Harding thought long and deeply over these things , both before he went to bed , and after it , as he lay awake , questioning within himself the validity of his claim to the income which he enjoyed . 
It seemed clear at any rate that , however unfortunate he might be at having been placed in such a position , no one could say that he ought either to have refused the appointment first , or to have rejected the income afterwards . 
To how much blame , however , would he have been open had he rejected it ! 
How mad would he have been thought had he declared , when the situation was vacant and offered to him , that he had scruples as to receiving 800l . 
Such a contest would give no comfort to Mr. Harding 's doubts ; he was not so anxious to prove himself right , as to be so . 
The bishop and Mr. Harding loved each other warmly . 
When one of them was a bishop and the other only a minor canon they were even then much together ; but since their children had married , and Mr. Harding had become warden and precentor , they were all in all to each other . 
Mr. Harding determined to open his mind , and confess his doubts to his old friend ; and to him he went on the morning after John Bold 's uncourteous visit . 
It was a long story that Mr. Harding had to tell before he made the bishop comprehend his own view of the case ; but we need not follow him through the tale . 
`` Refer him to the archdeacon , '' he repeated , as Mr. Harding spoke of Bold and his visit . 
`` The archdeacon will set you quite right about that , '' he kindly said , when his friend spoke with hesitation of the justness of his cause . 
It made Mr. Harding feel that many others -- indeed , all others of his own order -- would think him right ; but it failed to prove to him that he truly was so . 
`` Bishop , '' said he , at last , after both had sat silent for a while , `` I should deceive you and myself too , if I did not tell you that I am very unhappy about this . 
Mr. Harding well knew what that pressure meant . 
The bishop had no further argument to adduce ; he could not fight for the cause as his son would do ; he could not prove all the precentor 's doubts to be groundless ; but he could sympathise with his friend , and he did so ; and Mr. Harding felt that he had received that for which he came . 
Mr. Harding had fully made up his mind to tell the bishop everything ; to speak of his daughter 's love , as well as his own troubles ; to talk of John Bold in his double capacity of future son-in-law and present enemy ; and though he felt it to be sufficiently disagreeable , now was his time to do it . 
The bishop stared ; he was not so far gone in orthodoxy and church-military as his son , but still he could not bring himself to understand how so declared an enemy of the establishment could be admitted on terms of intimacy into the house , not only of so firm a pillar as Mr. Harding , but one so much injured as the warden of the hospital . 
Mr. Harding saw what an effect his communication had made , and almost repented the openness of his disclosure ; he , however , did what he could to moderate the grief of his friend and patron . 
`` But , Harding , '' said the bishop , `` how are you to oppose him , if he is your son-in-law ? '' 
`` I do n't mean to oppose him ; it is he who opposes me : if anything is to be done in defence , I suppose Chadwick will do it . 
Mr. Harding reminded the bishop that the archdeacon and the reformer were not yet brothers , and very probably never would be ; exacted from him a promise that Eleanor 's name should not be mentioned in any discussion between the father bishop and son archdeacon respecting the hospital ; and then took his departure , leaving his poor old friend bewildered , amazed , and confounded . 
Oh , Mr. Harding , if you had but taken the archdeacon 's advice in that disputed case , when Joe Mutters was this ungrateful demagogue 's rival candidate ! 
`` But , '' said Skulpit , apologetically , `` Mr. Harding 's not so bad -- he did give us twopence a day , did n't he now ? '' 
muttered Moody with a curse ; `` sink his twopence ! '' 
Mr. Harding owned , somewhat unwillingly , that he had heard of it . 
`` Well , '' -- the archdeacon looked for some expression of opinion , but none coming , he continued , -- `` We must be doing something , you know ; we must n't allow these people to cut the ground from under us while we sit looking on . '' 
The archdeacon , who was a practical man , allowed himself the use of every-day expressive modes of speech when among his closest intimates , though no one could soar into a more intricate labyrinth of refined phraseology when the church was the subject , and his lower brethren were his auditors . 
Mr. Harding knew not how to resist , and the disagreeable order was given . 
The quad , as it was familiarly called , was a small quadrangle , open on one side to the river , and surrounded on the others by the high wall of Mr. Harding 's garden , by one gable end of Mr. Harding 's house , and by the end of the row of buildings which formed the residences of the bedesmen . 
It was flagged all round , and the centre was stoned ; small stone gutters ran from the four corners of the square to a grating in the centre ; and attached to the end of Mr. Harding 's house was a conduit with four cocks covered over from the weather , at which the old men got their water , and very generally performed their morning toilet . 
`` Well , warden , of course you 're coming , '' said he , seeing that Mr. Harding did not prepare to follow him . 
`` I wish you 'd excuse me , '' said Mr. Harding . 
Mr. Harding was afraid ; he was afraid that he was being led to do that which was not his duty : he was not , however , strong enough to resist , so he got up and followed his son-in-law . 
You will never get a hundred pence a year more than what you have now : it is very possible that you may get less ; it is very possible that my lord the bishop , and your warden may make changes -- '' `` No , no , no , '' interrupted Mr. Harding , who had been listening with indescribable misery to the tirade of his son-in-law ; `` no , my friends . 
`` God bless you , Mr. Harding , '' said Bunce ; and `` God bless you , Mr. Harding , God bless you sir , we know you was always our friend , '' was exclaimed by enough of the men to make it appear that the sentiment was general . 
The archdeacon had been interrupted in his speech before he had quite finished it ; but he felt that he could not recommence with dignity after this little ebullition , and he led the way back into the garden , followed by his father-in-law . 
`` Well , '' said he , as soon as he found himself within the cool retreat of the warden 's garden ; `` I think I spoke to them plainly . '' 
And he wiped the perspiration from his brow ; for making a speech under a broiling mid-day sun in summer , in a full suit of thick black cloth , is warm work . 
And this compromise would not have been made from any prudential motive of saving what would yet remain , for Mr. Harding still felt little doubt but he should be left for life in quiet possession of the good things he had , if he chose to retain them . 
No ; he would have done so from the sheer love of quiet , and from a horror of being made the subject of public talk . 
He had very often been moved to pity -- to that inward weeping of the heart for others ' woes ; but none had he ever pitied more than that old lord , whose almost fabulous wealth , drawn from his church preferments , had become the subject of so much opprobrium , of such public scorn ; that wretched clerical octogenarian Croesus , whom men would not allow to die in peace -- whom all the world united to decry and to abhor . 
After much painful doubting , on one thing only could Mr. Harding resolve . 
He determined that at any rate he would take no offence , and that he would make this question no cause of quarrel either with Bold or with the bedesmen . 
In furtherance of this resolution , he himself wrote a note to Mr. Bold , the same afternoon , inviting him to meet a few friends and hear some music on an evening named in the next week . 
Had not this little party been promised to Eleanor , in his present state of mind he would probably have avoided such gaiety ; but the promise had been given , the invitations were to be written , and when Eleanor consulted her father on the subject , she was not ill pleased to hear him say , `` Oh , I was thinking of Bold , so I took it into my head to write to him myself , but you must write to his sister . '' 
Well , if Mr. Harding becomes fashionable , the world is going to change . '' 
Her brother understood immediately the nature and intention of the peace offering ; but it was not so easy for him to behave well in the matter , as it was for Mr. Harding . 
`` I fear I can not go to Mr. Harding 's house any more as a friend , just at present . '' 
`` Why , '' said he at last , `` I 've taken up the case of these twelve old men of Hiram 's Hospital , and of course that brings me into contact with Mr. Harding . 
I may have to oppose him , interfere with him , perhaps injure him . '' 
`` And you mean to take away from Mr. Harding his share of it ? '' 
`` But is there no one to do this but you , who have known Mr. Harding so long ? 
Surely , John , as a friend , as a young friend , so much younger than Mr. Harding -- '' `` That 's woman 's logic , all over , Mary . 
Because I esteem Mr. Harding , is that a reason that I should neglect a duty which I owe to these old men ? 
or should I give up a work which my conscience tells me is a good one , because I regret the loss of his society ? '' 
`` Of this about the hospital , -- of all this about Mr. Harding , -- of what you say about those old men . 
If there was a plain , a positive duty before you , I would be the last to bid you neglect it for any woman 's love ; but this -- oh , think again , before you do anything to make it necessary that you and Mr. Harding should be at variance . '' 
And so they all were gone , and Mr. Harding was left alone with his daughter . 
Mr. Harding was not the man to judge harshly of any one , much less of the daughter whom he now loved better than any living creature ; but still he did judge her wrongly at this moment . 
He knew that she loved John Bold ; he fully sympathised in her affection ; day after day he thought more of the matter , and , with the tender care of a loving father , tried to arrange in his own mind how matters might be so managed that his daughter 's heart should not be made the sacrifice to the dispute which was likely to exist between him and Bold . 
When Mr. Harding met his daughter at breakfast the next morning , there was no further discussion on the matter , nor was the subject mentioned between them for some days . 
I must for the present leave my readers to imagine the state of Mr. Harding 's mind after reading the above article . 
Two hundred thousand readers then would hear this accusation against him ; two hundred thousand hearts would swell with indignation at the griping injustice , the bare-faced robbery of the warden of Barchester Hospital ! 
Sorry as Bold was to see Mr. Harding attacked so personally , it still gave him a feeling of elation to find his cause taken up by so powerful an advocate : and as to Finney , the attorney , he was beside himself . 
They are proceeding against Mr. Harding and myself , and Sir Abraham holds that , under the wording of the will , and subsequent arrangements legally sanctioned , Mr. Harding and I are only paid servants . 
`` But , '' said Mr. Chadwick , `` we must , of course , tell your father and Mr. Harding so much of Sir Abraham 's opinion as will satisfy them that the matter is doing well . '' 
`` You had better let them know that Sir Abraham is of opinion that there is no case at any rate against Mr. Harding ; and that as the action is worded at present , it must fall to the ground ; they must be nonsuited if they carry it on ; you had better tell Mr. Harding , that Sir Abraham is clearly of opinion that he is only a servant , and as such , not liable -- or if you like it , I 'll see Mr. Harding myself . '' 
`` Oh , I must see him to-morrow , and my father too , and I 'll explain to them exactly so much , -- you wo n't go before lunch , Mr. Chadwick : well , if you will , you must , for I know your time is precious ; '' and he shook hands with the diocesan steward , and bowed him out . 
It was very clear that to Sir Abraham , the justice of the old men 's claim or the justice of Mr. Harding 's defence were ideas that had never presented themselves . 
Of the intense desire which Mr. Harding felt to be assured on fit authority , that he was wronging no man , that he was entitled in true equity to his income , that he might sleep at night without pangs of conscience , that he was no robber , no spoiler of the poor ; that he and all the world might be openly convinced that he was not the man which the Jupiter had described him to be ; of such longings on the part of Mr. Harding , Sir Abraham was entirely ignorant ; nor , indeed , could it be looked on as part of his business to gratify such desires . 
He knew Mr. Harding could not pay all the expense of these doings ; for these long opinions of Sir Abraham 's , these causes to be pleaded , these speeches to be made , these various courts through which the case was , he presumed , to be dragged . 
The bishop wanted peace on the subject ; a settled peace if possible , but peace at any rate till the short remainder of his own days had spun itself out ; but Mr. Harding required , not only success and peace , but he also demanded that he might stand justified before the world . 
It was Mr. Harding 's wont , whenever he spent a morning at the palace , to seat himself immediately at the bishop 's elbow , the bishop occupying a huge armchair fitted up with candle-sticks , a reading table , a drawer , and other paraphernalia , the position of which chair was never moved , summer or winter ; and when , as was very usual , the archdeacon was there also , he confronted the two elders , who thus were enabled to fight the battle against him together ; and together submit to defeat , for such was their constant fate . 
There was a gentleness about the bishop to which the soft womanly affection of Mr. Harding particularly endeared itself , and it was quaint to see how the two mild old priests pressed each other 's hands , and smiled and made little signs of love . 
Mr. Harding had heard so much , and was most anxious to know the result . 
Mr. Harding looked at the mighty bearer of the important news for confirmation of these glad tidings . 
`` At any rate I will not if I am one of the servants , '' said Mr. Harding . 
`` But according to that , '' said Mr. Harding , `` I might as well have sixteen hundred a year as eight , if the managers choose to allot it to me ; and as I am one of the managers , if not the chief manager , myself , that can hardly be a just arrangement . '' 
Mr. Harding again sat silent for awhile , during which the bishop once and again pressed his arm , and looked in his face to see if he could catch a gleam of a contented and eased mind ; but there was no such gleam , and the poor warden continued playing sad dirges on invisible stringed instruments in all manner of positions : he was ruminating in his mind on this opinion of Sir Abraham , looking to it wearily and earnestly for satisfaction , but finding none . 
Mr. Harding rose from his seat and paced thoughtfully up and down the library , the bishop the while watching him painfully at every turn , and the archdeacon continuing to pour forth his convictions that the affair was in a state to satisfy any prudent mind . 
Mr. Harding sat down with his back to the further wall , playing to himself some air fitted for so calamitous an occasion , and the archdeacon said out his say standing , with his back to the empty fireplace . 
Mr. Harding sat unmoved , gazing on his son-in-law . 
The poor warden groaned as he sat perfectly still , looking up at the hard-hearted orator who thus tormented him , and the bishop echoed the sound faintly from behind his hands ; but the archdeacon cared little for such signs of weakness , and completed his exhortation . 
Mr. Harding was now stirred to action -- he must speak and move , so he got up and took one turn before he answered . 
And so without another word he took his leave , escaping quickly through the palace hall , and down the lofty steps , nor did he breathe freely till he found himself alone under the huge elms of the silent close . 
Here he walked long and slowly , thinking on his case with a troubled air , and trying in vain to confute the archdeacon 's argument . 
He then went home , resolved to bear it all -- ignominy , suspense , disgrace , self-doubt , and heart-burning -- and to do as those would have him , who he still believed were most fit and most able to counsel him aright . 
Mr. Harding was a sadder man than he had ever yet been when he returned to his own house . 
He had been wretched enough on that well remembered morning when he was forced to expose before his son-in-law the publisher 's account for ushering into the world his dear book of sacred music ; when after making such payments as he could do unassisted , he found that he was a debtor of more than three hundred pounds : but his sufferings then were as nothing to his present misery ; -- then he had done wrong , and he knew it , and was able to resolve that he would not sin in like manner again ; but now he could make no resolution , and comfort himself by no promises of firmness . 
He had been forced to think that his lot had placed him in a false position , and he was about to maintain that position against the opinion of the world and against his own convictions . 
He had read with pity , amounting almost to horror , the strictures which had appeared from time to time against the Earl of Guildford as master of St. Cross , and the invectives that had been heaped on rich diocesan dignitaries and overgrown sinecure pluralists . 
Mr. Harding walked on , and shook his head impatiently . 
Mr. Harding could not well speak now , for the warm tears were running down his cheeks like rain in May , but he held his child close to his heart , and squeezed her hand as a lover might , and she kissed his forehead and his wet cheeks , and lay upon his bosom , and comforted him as a woman only can do . 
He would write to her and beseech her not to allow the performance of a public duty to injure him in her estimation ; he would write to Mr. Harding , explain all his views , and boldly claim the warden 's daughter , urging that the untoward circumstances between them need be no bar to their ancient friendship , or to a closer tie ; he would throw himself on his knees before his mistress ; he would wait and marry the daughter when the father had lost his home and his income ; he would give up the lawsuit and go to Australia , with her of course , leaving the Jupiter and Mr. Finney to complete the case between them . 
He began to talk , asked after her health -- said something about London being very stupid , and more about Barchester being very pleasant : declared the weather to be very hot , and then inquired after Mr. Harding . 
`` No one who knows Mr. Harding personally , accuses him for a moment , '' said Bold . 
`` It is he that has to bear the punishment ; it is he that suffers , '' said Eleanor ; `` and what for ? 
what has he done wrong ? 
how has he deserved this persecution ? 
he that never had an unkind thought in his life , he that never said an unkind word ! '' 
Bold , for the fifth or sixth time , declared that neither he nor any of his friends imputed any blame personally to Mr. Harding . 
`` Then why should he be persecuted ? '' 
ejaculated Eleanor through her tears , forgetting in her eagerness that her intention had been to humble herself as a suppliant before John Bold -- `` why should he be singled out for scorn and disgrace ? 
why should he be made so wretched ? 
To speak the truth , the reformer 's punishment was certainly come upon him , for his present plight was not enviable ; he had nothing for it but to excuse himself by platitudes about public duty , which it is by no means worth while to repeat , and to reiterate his eulogy on Mr. Harding 's character . 
His position was certainly a cruel one : had any gentlemen called upon him on behalf of Mr. Harding he could of course have declined to enter upon the subject ; but how could he do so with a beautiful girl , with the daughter of the man whom he had injured , with his own love ? 
In a while she was partly recovered , and got up to go , and would have gone , had not Bold made her understand that it was necessary for him to explain to her how far it was in his power to put an end to the proceedings which had been taken against Mr. Harding . 
Had he spoken on any other subject , she would have vanished , but on that she was bound to hear him ; and now the danger of her position commenced . 
While she had an active part to play , while she clung to him as a suppliant , it was easy enough for her to reject his proffered love , and cast from her his caressing words ; but now -- now that he had yielded , and was talking to her calmly and kindly as to her father 's welfare , it was hard enough for her to do so . 
He promised , however , that he would use his best influence to prevent any further personal allusion being made to Mr. Harding . 
He then suggested that he would on that afternoon ride over himself to Dr. Grantly , and inform him of his altered intentions on the subject , and with this view , he postponed his immediate return to London . 
We know you 'll be glad to hear it , because you 're such a friend of grandpapa Harding , and so much in love with aunt Nelly ! '' 
`` And so , Mr. Bold , I 'm to understand , I believe , that you are desirous of abandoning this attack upon Mr. Harding . '' 
`` Any demand of such a nature which Mr. Harding 's lawyer may have to make , will doubtless be made to my lawyer . '' 
`` Mr. Harding 's lawyer and my lawyer ! 
`` Be that as it may , here it is ; he declares most explicitly that under no phasis of the affair whatever have you a leg to stand upon ; that Mr. Harding is as safe in his hospital as I am here in my rectory ; that a more futile attempt to destroy a man was never made , than this which you have made to ruin Mr. Harding . 
Here , '' and he slapped the paper on the table , `` I have this opinion from the very first lawyer in the land ; and under these circumstances you expect me to make you a low bow for your kind offer to release Mr. Harding from the toils of your net ! 
Sir , your net is not strong enough to hold him ; sir , your net has fallen to pieces , and you knew that well enough before I told you -- and now , sir , I 'll wish you good morning , for I 'm busy . '' 
It was to the last of the three leaders , which are generally furnished daily for the support of the nation , that Mr. Harding directed her attention . 
It named some sons of bishops , and grandsons of archbishops ; men great in their way , who had redeemed their disgrace in the eyes of many by the enormity of their plunder ; and then having disposed of these leviathans , it descended to Mr. Harding . 
An action has been taken against Mr. warden Harding , on behalf of the almsmen , by a gentleman acting solely on public grounds , and it is to be argued that Mr. Harding takes nothing but what he receives as a servant of the hospital , and that he is not himself responsible for the amount of stipend given to him for his work . 
`` If this plea be put forward , we trust Mr. Harding will be forced as a witness to state the nature of his employment ; the amount of work that he does ; the income which he receives , and the source from whence he obtained his appointment . 
We do not think he will receive much public sympathy to atone for the annoyance of such an examination . '' 
To tell the truth Mr. Harding had made up his mind to steal a march upon the archdeacon . 
He was aware that he could take no steps without informing his dread son-in-law , but he had resolved that he would send out a note to Plumstead Episcopi detailing his plans , but that the messenger should not leave Barchester till he himself had started for London ; so that he might be a day before the doctor , who , he had no doubt , would follow him . 
In that day , if he had luck , he might arrange it all ; he might explain to Sir Abraham that he , as warden , would have nothing further to do with the defence about to be set up ; he might send in his official resignation to his friend the bishop , and so make public the whole transaction , that even the doctor would not be able to undo what he had done . 
Crabtree Parva was the name of the small living which Mr. Harding had held as a minor canon , and which still belonged to him . 
It was only worth some eighty pounds a year , and a small house and glebe , all of which were now handed over to Mr. Harding 's curate ; but it was to Crabtree glebe that Mr. Harding thought of retiring . 
I need n't trouble you with all the history ; but the fact is that the conduct of Mr. Harding -- Mr. Harding is the -- '' `` Oh yes , the master of the place ; the man who takes all the money and does nothing , '' said Tom Towers , interrupting him . 
Mr. Harding has felt what it has said deeply ; and I thought that if I could explain to you that he personally has not been to blame , these articles might be discontinued . '' 
`` Come , come , Towers , '' said Bold , plucking up his courage , and remembering that for Eleanor 's sake he was bound to make his best exertion ; `` I have no doubt in my own mind but that you wrote the articles yourself ; and very well written they were : it will be a great favour if you will in future abstain from any personal allusion to poor Harding . '' 
He was ready enough to take my word for gospel when it suited his own views , and to set Mr. Harding up before the public as an impostor on no other testimony than my chance conversation ; but when I offer him real evidence opposed to his own views , he tells me that private motives are detrimental to public justice ! 
Bold finished the number ; and as he threw it aside , he thought that that at least had no direct appliance to Mr. Harding , and that the absurdly strong colouring of the picture would disenable the work from doing either good or harm . 
He was wrong . 
No schoolboy ever ran away from school with more precaution and more dread of detection ; no convict , slipping down from a prison wall , ever feared to see the gaoler more entirely than Mr. Harding did to see his son-in-law , as he drove up in the pony carriage to the railway station , on the morning of his escape to London . 
The evening before he went , he wrote a note to the archdeacon , explaining that he should start on the morrow on his journey ; that it was his intention to see the attorney-general if possible , and to decide on his future plans in accordance with what he heard from that gentleman ; he excused himself for giving Dr. Grantly no earlier notice , by stating that his resolve was very sudden ; and having entrusted this note to Eleanor , with the perfect , though not expressed , understanding that it was to be sent over to Plumstead Episcopi without haste , he took his departure . 
He also prepared and carried with him a note for Sir Abraham Haphazard , in which he stated his name , explaining that he was the defendant in the case of `` The Queen on behalf of the Wool-carders of Barchester v. Trustees under the will of the late John Hiram , '' for so was the suit denominated , and begged the illustrious and learned gentleman to vouchsafe to him ten minutes ' audience at any hour on the next day . 
Mr. Harding calculated that for that one day he was safe ; his son-in-law , he had no doubt , would arrive in town by an early train , but not early enough to reach the truant till he should have escaped from his hotel after breakfast ; and could he thus manage to see the lawyer on that very day , the deed might be done before the archdeacon could interfere . 
On his arrival in town the warden drove , as was his wont , to the Chapter Hotel and Coffee House , near St. Paul 's . 
His visits to London of late had not been frequent ; but in those happy days when Harding 's church music was going through the press , he had been often there ; and as the publisher 's house was in Paternoster Row , and the printer 's press in Fleet Street , the Chapter Hotel and Coffee House had been convenient . 
To the House Mr. Harding went , and left his note , not finding Sir Abraham there . 
Having gone through this , Mr. Harding got into another omnibus , and again returned to the House . 
Mr. Harding 's note had been delivered to him ; and if Mr. Harding would wait some two or three hours , Sir Abraham could be asked whether there was any answer . 
The House was not full , and perhaps Mr. Harding might get admittance into the Strangers ' Gallery , which admission , with the help of five shillings , Mr. Harding was able to effect . 
A florid-faced gentleman with a nice head of hair , from the south of Ireland , had succeeded in catching the speaker 's eye by the time that Mr. Harding had got into the gallery , and was denouncing the proposed sacrilege , his whole face glowing with a fine theatrical frenzy . 
said he . 
When Mr. Harding had listened to this and much more of the same kind of about three hours , he returned to the door of the house , and received back from the messenger his own note with the following words scrawled in pencil on the back of it : -- `` To-morrow , 10 P.M. -- my chambers . 
A. H. '' He was so far successful , -- but 10 P.M. : what an hour Sir Abraham had named for a legal interview ! 
Mr. Harding felt perfectly sure that long before that Dr. Grantly would be in London . 
Dr. Grantly could not , however , know that this interview had been arranged , nor could he learn it unless he managed to get hold of Sir Abraham before that hour ; and as this was very improbable , Mr. Harding determined to start from his hotel early , merely leaving word that he should dine out , and unless luck were much against him , he might still escape the archdeacon till his return from the attorney-general 's chambers . 
He was at breakfast at nine , and for the twentieth time consulted his `` Bradshaw , '' to see at what earliest hour Dr Grantly could arrive from Barchester . 
As he examined the columns , he was nearly petrified by the reflection that perhaps the archdeacon might come up by the night mail-train ! 
His heart sank within him at the horrid idea , and for a moment he felt himself dragged back to Barchester without accomplishing any portion of his object . 
Then he remembered that had Dr. Grantly done so , he would have been in the hotel , looking for him long since . 
`` Waiter , '' said he , timidly . 
The waiter approached , creaking in his shoes , but voiceless . 
Mr. Harding was reassured . 
`` Waiter , '' said he again , and the waiter again creaked up ; `` If any one calls for me , I am going to dine out , and shall return about eleven o'clock . '' 
The waiter nodded , but did not this time vouchsafe any reply ; and Mr. Harding , taking up his hat , proceeded out to pass a long day in the best way he could , somewhere out of sight of the archdeacon . 
`` Bradshaw '' had told him twenty times that Dr. Grantly could not be at Paddington station till 2 P.M. , and our poor friend might therefore have trusted to the shelter of the hotel for some hours longer with perfect safety ; but he was nervous . 
Mr. Harding had friends in town , had he chosen to seek them ; but he felt that he was in no humour for ordinary calls , and he did not now wish to consult with any one as to the great step which he had determined to take . 
As he had said to his daughter , no one knows where the shoe pinches but the wearer . 
Mr. Harding did n't want to walk anywhere , and declined , merely observing that he was waiting for the morning service . 
The verger seeing that he was a clergyman , told him that the doors of the choir were now open , and showed him into a seat . 
This was a great point gained ; the archdeacon would certainly not come to morning service at Westminster Abbey , even though he were in London ; and here the warden could rest quietly , and when the time came , duly say his prayers . 
Mr. Harding was not much edified by the manner of the service . 
On the whole , Mr. Harding was of opinion that things were managed better at Barchester , though even there he knew that there was room for improvement . 
When the two ladies with the gilt crosses , the old man with his crutch , and the still palpitating housemaid were going , Mr. Harding found himself obliged to go too . 
The verger stood in his way , and looked at him and looked at the door , and so he went . 
But he returned again in a few minutes , and re-entered with another twopence . 
There was no other sanctuary so good for him . 
As he walked slowly down the nave , and then up one aisle , and then again down the nave and up the other aisle , he tried to think gravely of the step he was about to take . 
He was going to give up eight hundred a year voluntarily ; and doom himself to live for the rest of his life on about a hundred and fifty . 
He knew that he had hitherto failed to realise this fact as he ought to do . 
Could he maintain his own independence and support his daughter on a hundred and fifty pounds a year without being a burden on any one ? 
His son-in-law was rich , but nothing could induce him to lean on his son-in-law after acting , as he intended to do , in most direct opposition to his counsel . 
The bishop was rich , but he was about to throw away the bishop 's best gift , and that in a manner to injure materially the patronage of the giver : he could neither expect nor accept anything further from the bishop . 
Thinking of such things , turning over in his own mind together small desires and grave duties , but never hesitating for a moment as to the necessity of leaving the hospital , Mr. Harding walked up and down the abbey , or sat still meditating on the same stone step , hour after hour . 
One verger went and another came , but they did not disturb him ; every now and then they crept up and looked at him , but they did so with a reverential stare , and , on the whole , Mr. Harding found his retreat well chosen . 
About four o'clock his comfort was disturbed by an enemy in the shape of hunger ; it was necessary that he should dine , and it was clear that he could not dine in the abbey ; so he left his sanctuary not willingly , and betook himself to the neighbourhood of the Strand to look for food . 
His eyes had become so accustomed to the gloom of the church , that they were dazed when he got out into the full light of day , and he felt confused and ashamed of himself , as though people were staring at him . 
He hurried along , still in dread of the archdeacon , till he came to Charing Cross , and then remembered that in one of his passages through the Strand he had seen the words `` Chops and Steaks '' on a placard in a shop window . 
He remembered the shop distinctly ; it was next door to a trunkseller 's , and there was a cigar shop on the other side . 
He could n't go to his hotel for dinner , which to him hitherto was the only known mode of dining in London at his own expense ; and , therefore , he would get a steak at the shop in the Strand . 
Archdeacon Grantly would certainly not come to such a place for his dinner . 
He found the house easily -- just as he had observed it , between the trunks and the cigars . 
He was rather daunted by the huge quantity of fish which he saw in the window . 
There were barrels of oysters , hecatombs of lobsters , a few tremendous-looking crabs , and a tub full of pickled salmon ; not , however , being aware of any connexion between shell-fish and iniquity , he entered , and modestly asked a slatternly woman , who was picking oysters out of a great watery reservoir , whether he could have a mutton chop and a potatoe . 
The woman looked somewhat surprised , but answered in the affirmative , and a slipshod girl ushered him into a long back room , filled with boxes for the accommodation of parties , in one of which he took his seat . 
In a more miserably forlorn place he could not have found himself : the room smelt of fish , and sawdust , and stale tobacco smoke , with a slight taint of escaped gas ; everything was rough , and dirty , and disreputable ; the cloth which they put before him was abominable ; the knives and forks were bruised , and hacked , and filthy ; and everything was impregnated with fish . 
He had one comfort , however : he was quite alone ; there was no one there to look on his dismay ; nor was it probable that any one would come to do so . 
About one o ' clock at night the place would be lively enough , but at the present time his seclusion was as deep as it had been in the abbey . 
In about half an hour the untidy girl , not yet dressed for her evening labours , brought him his chop and potatoes , and Mr. Harding begged for a pint of sherry . 
He was impressed with an idea , which was generally prevalent a few years since , and is not yet wholly removed from the minds of men , that to order a dinner at any kind of inn , without also ordering a pint of wine for the benefit of the landlord , was a kind of fraud ; not punishable , indeed , by law , but not the less abominable on that account . 
Mr. Harding remembered his coming poverty , and would willingly have saved his half-crown , but he thought he had no alternative ; and he was soon put in possession of some horrid mixture procured from the neighbouring public-house . 
His chop and potatoes , however , were eatable , and having got over as best he might the disgust created by the knives and forks , he contrived to swallow his dinner . 
He was not much disturbed : one young man , with pale face and watery fish-like eyes , wearing his hat ominously on one side , did come in and stare at him , and ask the girl , audibly enough , ` Who that old cock was ; ' but the annoyance went no further , and the warden was left seated on his wooden bench in peace , endeavouring to distinguish the different scents arising from lobsters , oysters , and salmon . 
Unknowing as Mr. Harding was in the ways of London , he felt that he had somehow selected an ineligible dining-house , and that he had better leave it . 
It was hardly five o'clock -- how was he to pass the time till ten ? 
He was already tired , and it was impossible that he should continue walking so long . 
He thought of getting into an omnibus , and going out to Fulham for the sake of coming back in another : this , however , would be weary work , and as he paid his bill to the woman in the shop , he asked her if there were any place near where he could get a cup of coffee . 
Though she did keep a shell-fish supper-house , she was very civil , and directed him to the cigar divan on the other side of the street . 
Mr. Harding had not a much correcter notion of a cigar divan than he had of a London dinner-house , but he was desperately in want of rest , and went as he was directed . 
He thought he must have made some mistake when he found himself in a cigar shop , but the man behind the counter saw immediately that he was a stranger , and understood what he wanted . 
And so Mr. Harding ascended to the divan , with his ticket for coffee , but minus the cigar . 
The place seemed much more suitable to his requirements than the room in which he had dined : there was , to be sure , a strong smell of tobacco , to which he was not accustomed ; but after the shellfish , the tobacco did not seem disagreeable . 
Mr. Harding then closed his magazine , keeping his place with his finger , and lay , listening with closed eyes to the clock . 
Soon the clock seemed to turn into a violoncello , with piano accompaniments , and Mr. Harding began to fancy the old waiter was the Bishop of Barchester ; he was inexpressibly shocked that the bishop should have brought him his coffee with his own hands ; then Dr. Grantly came in , with a basket full of lobsters , which he would not be induced to leave down stairs in the kitchen ; and then the warden could n't quite understand why so many people would smoke in the bishop 's drawing-room ; and so he fell fast asleep , and his dreams wandered away to his accustomed stall in Barchester Cathedral , and the twelve old men he was so soon about to leave for ever . 
Mr. Harding was shown into a comfortable inner sitting-room , looking more like a gentleman 's book-room than a lawyer 's chambers , and there waited for Sir Abraham . 
Mr. Harding assured him that he was aware that it was he that should apologise . 
Mr. Harding said he hoped so , but he did n't at all understand what Sir Abraham meant . 
Mr. Harding explained to the lawyer that he knew nothing of this , although he had heard in a round-about way that such an intention had been talked of ; and he also at length succeeded in making Sir Abraham understand that even this did not satisfy him . 
The attorney-general stood up , put his hands into his breeches pockets , and raised his eyebrows , as Mr. Harding proceeded to detail the grievance from which he now wished to rid himself . 
`` None of such institutions are , Mr. Harding , nor can they be ; the altered circumstances in which we live do not admit of it . '' 
Sir Abraham declared that he could n't exactly say in so many words that Mr. Harding was legally entitled to , & c. , & c. , & c. , and ended in expressing a strong opinion that it would be madness to raise any further question on the matter , as the suit was to be , -- nay , was , abandoned . 
Mr. Harding , seated in his chair , began to play a slow tune on an imaginary violoncello . 
`` I can resign , '' said Mr. Harding , slowly playing away with his right hand , as though the bow were beneath the chair in which he was sitting . 
said Mr. Harding , piteously , appealing to the sympathy of the lawyer . 
Mr. Harding declared vehemently that he could not wait , and Sir Abraham began seriously to doubt his sanity . 
Why , Mr. Harding , how do you mean to live ? '' 
Mr. Harding proceeded to explain to the man of law that he meant to keep his precentorship , -- that was eighty pounds a year ; and , also , that he meant to fall back upon his own little living of Crabtree , which was another eighty pounds . 
That , to be sure , the duties of the two were hardly compatible ; but perhaps he might effect an exchange . 
`` I really think , Mr. Harding , you had better wait for the archdeacon . 
`` Have you not a daughter , Mr. Harding , -- an unmarried daughter ? '' 
`` Pray excuse me , Mr. Harding , if what I say seems impertinent : but surely it is you that should be prudent on her behalf . 
As he had never before seen Mr. Harding , the meaning of these wild gesticulations was lost upon him ; but he perceived that the gentleman who had a few minutes since been so subdued as to be unable to speak without hesitation , was now impassioned -- nay , almost violent . 
`` You 'll sleep on this , Mr. Harding , and to-morrow -- '' `` I have done more than sleep upon it , '' said the warden ; `` I have laid awake upon it , and that night after night . 
The attorney-general had no answer to make to this ; so he expressed a quiet hope that whatever settlement was finally made would be satisfactory ; and Mr. Harding withdrew , thanking the great man for his kind attention . 
Mr. Harding was sufficiently satisfied with the interview to feel a glow of comfort as he descended into the small old square of Lincoln 's Inn . 
Mr. Harding signified that he had . 
And the archdeacon raised his huge hands in the manner in which his friends are so accustomed to see him express disapprobation and astonishment . 
Mr. Harding could not say that he had . 
Mr. Harding could not deny this . 
To this proposition also Mr. Harding was obliged to assent . 
Mr. Harding was now standing on the rug , moving uneasily from one foot to the other . 
He made no distinct answer to the archdeacon 's last proposition , for his mind was chiefly engaged on thinking how he could escape to bed . 
That his resignation was a thing finally fixed on , a fact all but completed , was not in his mind a matter of any doubt ; he knew his own weakness ; he knew how prone he was to be led ; but he was not weak enough to give way now , to go back from the position to which his conscience had driven him , after having purposely come to London to declare his determination : he did not in the least doubt his resolution , but he greatly doubted his power of defending it against his son-in-law . 
`` You must be very tired , Susan , '' said he : `` would n't you like to go to bed ? '' 
Mr. Harding made no answer , but slowly proceeded to light his candle . 
Mr. Harding still made no reply , but looked meekly into his son-in-law 's face . 
The archdeacon thought he knew his father-in-law , but he was mistaken ; he thought that he had already talked over a vacillating man to resign his promise . 
`` Come , '' said he , `` promise Susan to give up this idea of resigning the wardenship . '' 
`` God , that feeds the young ravens , will take care of me also , '' said Mr. Harding , with a smile , as though afraid of giving offence by making his reference to scripture too solemn . 
Mr. Harding was prepared to argue this point , and began to do so , but Dr. Grantly stopped him . 
`` My dear warden , '' said he , `` this is all nonsense . 
`` Then , Mr. Harding , there is nothing before you but ruin , '' said the archdeacon , now moved beyond all endurance . 
The tamest animal will turn when driven too hard , and even Mr. Harding was beginning to fight for his own way . 
There was another long pause , during which Mr. Harding continued to study his `` Bradshaw . '' 
Having written these letters and made a copy of the former one for the benefit of the archdeacon , Mr. Harding , whom we must now cease to call the warden , he having designated himself so for the last time , found that it was nearly two o'clock , and that he must prepare for his journey . 
Yes , from this time he never again admitted the name by which he had been so familiarly known , and in which , to tell the truth , he had rejoiced . 
But warden he was no longer , and the name of precentor , though the office was to him so dear , confers in itself no sufficient distinction ; our friend , therefore , again became Mr. Harding . 
Mrs. Grantly had gone out ; he had , therefore , no one to delay him by further entreaties to postpone his journey ; he had soon arranged his bag , and paid his bill , and , leaving a note for his daughter , in which he put the copy of his official letter , he got into a cab and drove away to the station with something of triumph in his heart . 
Had he not cause for triumph ? 
Had he not been supremely successful ? 
Had he not for the first time in his life held his own purpose against that of his son-in-law , and manfully combated against great odds , -- against the archdeacon 's wife as well as the archdeacon ? 
Had he not gained a great victory , and was it not fit that he should step into his cab with triumph ? 
He had not told Eleanor when he would return , but she was on the look out for him by every train by which he could arrive , and the pony carriage was at the Barchester station when the train drew up at the platform . 
Mr. Harding was strangely ignorant as to lawyers ' bills ; he had no idea , from twenty pounds to two thousand , as to the sum in which he was in indebted for legal assistance . 
True , he had called in no lawyer himself ; true , he had been no consenting party to the employment of either Cox and Cumming , or Sir Abraham ; he had never been consulted on such matters ; -- the archdeacon had managed all this himself , never for a moment suspecting that Mr. Harding would take upon him to end the matter in a way of his own . 
Had the lawyers ' bills been ten thousand pounds , Mr. Harding could not have helped it ; but he was not on that account disposed to dispute his own liability . 
The question never occurred to him ; but it did occur to him that he had very little money at his banker 's , that he could receive nothing further from the hospital , and that the sale of the furniture was his only resource . 
`` Not quite all , my dear , '' said he ; `` that is , if we can help it . 
The game was up ; he plainly saw that Mr. Harding in this matter was not to be moved ; his only remaining business on this head was to pay the bill and have done with it : and I think it may be taken for granted , that whatever the cause may be that takes a gentleman to a lawyer 's chambers , he never goes there to pay his bill . 
To be sure Puddingdale is only four hundred , but that would be saving something out of the fire : Mr. Harding would have a curate , and still keep three hundred or three hundred and fifty . '' 
`` The newspapers , '' continued Mr. Cumming , `` might hammer away at Quiverful every day for the next six months without his minding them . '' 
On the morning after Mr. Harding 's return home , he received a note from the bishop full of affection , condolence , and praise . 
Mr. Harding did go to him at once ; and long and confidential was the consultation between the two old friends . 
There they sat together the whole long day plotting to get the better of the archdeacon , and to carry out little schemes of their own , which they knew would be opposed by the whole weight of his authority . 
The bishop 's first idea was , that Mr. Harding , if left to himself , would certainly starve -- not in the figurative sense in which so many of our ladies and gentlemen do starve on incomes form one to five hundred a year not that he would be starved as regarded dress coats , port wine , and pocket-money ; but that he would positively perish of inanition for want of bread . 
His first proposition to Mr. Harding was , that they should live together at the palace . 
He , the bishop , positively assured Mr. Harding that he wanted another resident chaplain : not a young , working chaplain , but a steady , middle-aged chaplain ; one who would dine and drink a glass of wine with him , talk about the archdeacon , and poke the fire . 
The bishop did not positively name all these duties , but he gave Mr. Harding to understand that such would be the nature of the service required . 
It was not without much difficulty that Mr. Harding made his friend see that this would not suit him ; that he could not throw up the bishop 's preferment , and then come and hang on at the bishop 's table ; that he could not allow people to say of him that it was an easy matter to abandon his own income , as he was able to sponge on that of another person . 
He , the bishop , had in his will left certain moneys to Mr. Harding 's two daughters , imagining that Mr. Harding would himself want no such assistance during his own lifetime . 
This legacy amounted to three thousand pounds each , duty free ; and he now pressed it as a gift on his friend . 
`` The girls , you know , '' said he , `` will have it just the same when you 're gone -- and they wo n't want it sooner -- and as for the interest during my lifetime , it is n't worth talking about . 
With much difficulty and heartfelt sorrow , Mr. Harding refused also this offer . 
No ; his wish was to support himself , however poorly , -- not to be supported on the charity of any one . 
Touching the precentorship , the bishop was clearly of opinion that it could be held without the other situation -- an opinion from which no one differed ; and it was therefore soon settled among all the parties concerned , that Mr. Harding should still be the precentor of the cathedral . 
On the day following Mr. Harding 's return , the archdeacon reached Plumstead full of Mr. Cumming 's scheme regarding Puddingdale and Mr. Quiverful . 
His lordship looked very unhappy , and shuffled about in his chair , but still did n't give way ; he thought Puddingdale would n't do for Mr. Harding ; it was too far from Barchester . 
The bishop also thought that Mr. Quiverful would n't do for the hospital ; such an exchange would n't look well at such a time ; and , when pressed harder , he declared he did n't think Mr. Harding would accept of Puddingdale under any circumstances . 
The archdeacon then left his father , and went down to the hospital ; but Mr. Harding would n't listen at all to the Puddingdale scheme . 
To his eyes it had no attraction ; it savoured of simony , and was likely to bring down upon him harder and more deserved strictures than any he had yet received : he positively declined to become vicar of Puddingdale under any circumstances . 
The archdeacon waxed wroth , talked big , and looked bigger ; he said something about dependence and beggary , spoke of the duty every man was under to earn his bread , made passing allusions to the follies of youth and waywardness of age , as though Mr. Harding were afflicted by both , and ended by declaring that he had done . 
He felt that he had left no stone unturned to arrange matters on the best and easiest footing ; that he had , in fact , so arranged them , that he had so managed that there was no further need of any anxiety in the matter . 
And how had he been paid ? 
His advice had been systematically rejected ; he had been not only slighted , but distrusted and avoided ; he and his measures had been utterly thrown over , as had been Sir Abraham , who , he had reason to know , was much pained at what had occurred . 
Mr. Harding allowed himself no rest till everything was prepared for his departure from the hospital . 
It may be as well to mention that he was not driven to the stern necessity of selling all his furniture : he had been quite in earnest in his intention to do so , but it was soon made known to him that the claims of Messrs. Cox and Cumming made no such step obligatory . 
The archdeacon had thought it wise to make use of the threat of the lawyer 's bill , to frighten his father-in-law into compliance ; but he had no intention to saddle Mr. Harding with costs , which had been incurred by no means exclusively for his benefit . 
For his present use Mr. Harding took a lodging in Barchester , and thither were conveyed such articles as he wanted for daily use -- his music , books , and instruments , his own arm-chair , and Eleanor 's pet sofa ; her teapoy and his cellaret , and also the slender but still sufficient contents of his wine-cellar . 
Opinion was much divided as to the propriety of Mr. Harding 's conduct . 
They said such conduct was very weak and undignified ; that Mr. Harding evinced a lamentable want of esprit de corps , as well as courage ; and that such an abdication must do much harm , and could do but little good . 
On the evening before he left , he summoned all the bedesmen into his parlour to wish them good-bye . 
When first the news had reached them that Mr. Harding was going to leave the hospital , it had been received with a kind of triumph ; -- his departure was , as it were , a prelude to success . 
He had admitted his want of right to the money about which they were disputing ; and as it did not belong to him , of course it did to them . 
It was first notified to them that the income abandoned by Mr. Harding would not come to them ; and these accounts were confirmed by attorney Finney . 
They were then informed that Mr. Harding 's place would be at once filled by another . 
That the new warden could not be a kinder man they all knew ; that he would be a less friendly one most suspected ; and then came the bitter information that , from the moment of Mr. Harding 's departure , the twopence a day , his own peculiar gift , must of necessity be withdrawn . 
When they were all in their places , Mr. Harding rose to address them ; and then finding himself not quite at home on his legs , he sat down again . 
`` My dear old friends , '' said he , `` you all know that I am going to leave you . '' 
There was a sort of murmur ran round the room , intended , perhaps , to express regret at his departure ; but it was but a murmur , and might have meant that or anything else . 
`` No , '' continued Mr. Harding ; `` I am sure you did not wish to turn me out ; but I thought it best to leave you . 
`` I am neither angry nor displeased with any man in the hospital , '' repeated Mr. Harding , emphatically . 
The men all declared that they would from henceforth be entirely guided by Mr. Harding 's opinion in their affairs . 
`` Yes , Mr. Harding , '' said Bunce , opening his mouth for the first time ; `` I believe they do understand it now , now that they 've driven from under the same roof with them such a master as not one of them will ever know again -- now that they 're like to be in sore want of a friend . '' 
`` Come , come , Bunce , '' said Mr. Harding , blowing his nose , and manoeuvring to wipe his eyes at the same time . 
`` Oh , as to that , '' said Handy , `` we none of us never wanted to do Mr. Harding no harm ; if he 's going now , it 's not along of us ; and I do n't see for what Mr. Bunce speaks up agen us that way . '' 
`` Nonsense , Bunce , '' said Mr. Harding ; `` there 's nobody ruined at all . 
You 'll have a good friend , I do n't doubt , in your new warden ; and if ever you want any other , why after all I 'm not going so far off but that I shall sometimes see you ; '' and then , having finished his speech , Mr. Harding filled all the glasses , and himself handed each a glass to the men round him , and raising his own , said , -- `` God bless you all ! 
and Mr. Harding drank his wine . 
Another murmur , somewhat more articulate than the first , passed round the circle , and this time it was intended to imply a blessing on Mr. Harding . 
As they left the hall-door , Mr. Harding shook hands with each of the men , and spoke a kind word to them about their individual cases and ailments ; and so they departed , answering his questions in the fewest words , and retreated to their dens , a sorrowful repentant crew . 
`` There 's poor old Bell , '' said Mr. Harding , `` I must n't go without saying a word to him ; come through with me , Bunce , and bring the wine with you ; '' and so they went through to the men 's cottages , and found the old man propped up as usual in his bed . 
`` I 've come to say good-bye to you , Bell , '' said Mr. Harding , speaking loud , for the old man was deaf . 
said Mr. Harding ; `` good-bye , my old friend . '' 
The poor old bed-ridden creature still kept Mr. Harding 's hand in his own , and the warden thought that he had met with something like warmth of feeling in the one of all his subjects from whom it was the least likely to be expected , for poor old Bell had nearly outlived all human feelings . 
How gently did Mr. Harding try to extinguish the false hope of money which had been so wretchedly raised to disturb the quiet of the dying man ! 
Mr. Harding returned to his parlour , meditating with a sick heart on what he had seen , and Bunce with him . 
`` It is all over for me in this world , '' said he , as he gave the last squeeze to Mr. Harding 's hand ; `` I have now to forgive those who have injured me -- and to die . '' 
And so the old man went out , and then Mr. Harding gave way to his grief , and he too wept aloud . 
On the morning after the day last alluded to , Mr. Harding , at an early hour , walked out of the hospital , with his daughter under his arm , and sat down quietly to breakfast at his lodgings over the chemist 's shop . 
There was no parade about his departure ; no one , not even Bunce , was there to witness it : had he walked to the apothecary 's thus early to get a piece of court plaster , or a box of lozenges , he could not have done it with less appearance of an important movement . 
There was a tear in Eleanor 's eye as she passed through the big gateway and over the bridge ; but Mr. Harding walked with an elastic step , and entered his new abode with a pleasant face . 
`` Now , my dear , '' said he , `` you have everything ready , and you can make tea here just as nicely as in the parlour at the hospital . '' 
How can I describe the astonishment which confounded him , when his father declared that he would appoint no successor to Mr. Harding ? 
`` If we can get the matter set to rights , Mr. Harding will return , '' said the bishop ; `` and if we can not , it will be wrong to put any other gentleman into so cruel a position . '' 
It was in vain that the archdeacon argued and lectured , and even threatened ; in vain he my-lorded his poor father in his sternest manner ; in vain his `` good heavens ! '' 
Nothing would induce his father to fill up the vacancy caused by Mr. Harding 's retirement . 
Even John Bold would have pitied the feelings with which the archdeacon returned to Plumstead : the church was falling , nay , already in ruins ; its dignitaries were yielding without a struggle before the blows of its antagonists ; and one of its most respected bishops , his own father -- the man considered by all the world as being in such matters under his , Dr. Grantly 's control -- had positively resolved to capitulate , and own himself vanquished ! 
It is now some years since Mr. Harding left it , and the warden 's house is still tenantless . 
Mr. Harding , indeed , did not desert them ; from him they had such consolation as a dying man may receive from his Christian pastor ; but it was the occasional kindness of a stranger which ministered to them , and not the constant presence of a master , a neighbour , and a friend . 
Mr. Harding did not go out to Crabtree Parva . 
An arrangement was made which respected the homestead of Mr. Smith and his happy family , and put Mr. Harding into possession of a small living within the walls of the city . 
Such is the church of St. Cuthbert at Barchester , of which Mr. Harding became rector , with a clear income of seventy-five pounds a-year . 
Here he performs afternoon service every Sunday , and administers the Sacrament once in every three months . 
His audience is not large ; and , had they been so , he could not have accommodated them : but enough come to fill his six pews , and , on the front seat of those devoted to the poor is always to be seen our old friend Mr. Bunce , decently arrayed in his bedesman 's gown . 
Mr. Harding is still precentor of Barchester ; and it is very rarely the case that those who attend the Sunday morning service miss the gratification of hearing him chant the Litany , as no other man in England can do it . 
Mr. Harding , we say , is not an unhappy man ; he keeps his lodgings , but they are of little use to him , except as being the one spot on earth which he calls his own . 
His time is spent chiefly at his daughter 's or at the palace ; he is never left alone , even should he wish to be so ; and within a twelvemonth of Eleanor 's marriage his determination to live at his own lodging had been so far broken through and abandoned , that he consented to have his violoncello permanently removed to his daughter 's house . 
Every other day a message is brought to him from the bishop . 
`` The bishop 's compliments , and his lordship is not very well to-day , and he hopes Mr. Harding will dine with him . '' 
Mr. Harding does dine with him very often , which means going to the palace at three and remaining till ten ; and whenever he does not the bishop whines , and says that the port wine is corked , and complains that nobody attends to him , and frets himself off to bed an hour before his time . 
It was long before the people of Barchester forgot to call Mr. Harding by his long well-known name of Warden . 
