`` You shall understand , '' says Master Abacuk Pricket , from whose Journal this is taken , `` that our master kept in his house in London , a young man named Henrie Greene , borne in Kent , of worshipfull parents , but by his lewd life and conversation hee lost the good will of all his friends , and spent all that hee had . 
This Henry Greene was not set down in the owners ' bookes , nor any wages made for him . 
But Robert Juet -LRB- the master 's mate -RRB- would needs burn his fingers in the embers , and told the carpenter a long tale -LRB- when hee was drunk -RRB- that our master had brought in Greene to worke his credit that should displease him ; which words came to the master 's eares , who when he understood it would have gone back to Island , when he was forty degrees from thence , to have sent home his mate , Robert Juet , in a fisherman . 
So Henry Greene stood upright and very inward with the master , and was a serviceable man every way for manhood : but for religion , he would say he was cleane paper whereon he might write what hee would . 
This gunner had a graye cloth gowne which Greene prayed the master to friend him so much to let him have it , paying for it as another would give . 
The master saith he should , and therefore he answered some that sought to have it , that Greene should have it , and none else , and so it rested . 
`` The next day after the master and the carpenter fell out , the carpenter took his peece and Henry Greene with him , for it was an order that none should go out alone , but one with a peece , and the other with a pike . 
This did moove the master so much the more against Henry Greene , that Robert Billet , his mate , must have the gowne , and had it delivered to him ; which when Henry Greene saw he challenged the master 's promise ; but the master did so raile on Greene with so many words of disgrace , telling him that all his friends would not trust him with twenty shillings , and therefore why should hee ? 
But you shall see how the devil out of this so wrought with Greene , that hee did the master what mischiefe hee could in seeking to discredit him , and to thrust him and many other honest men out of the ship in the end . '' 
It appears that Greene having come to an understanding with others whom he had corrupted , a plot was laid to seize Hudson and those of the crew that remained faithful to him , put them on board a small shallop which was used in making excursions for food or observations , and run away with the ship . 
Of the manner in which this was consummated the same writer gives the following relation : `` Being thus in the ice on Saturday the one and twentieth day of June , -LRB- 1610 , -RRB- at night Wilson the boatswayne and Henry Greene came to mee lying in my cabbin lame , and told me that they and the rest of their associates would shift the company and turne the master and all the sick men into the shallop , and let them shift for themselves . 
Pricket refuses and expostulates with Wilson and Greene . 
`` Henry Greene then told me I must take my chance in the shallop . 
Pricket tries to persuade them to put off their design for two days , nay for twelve hours , that he might persuade Hudson to return home with the ship ; but , to this they would not consent , and proceeded to execute their plot as follows : `` In the mean time , Henry Greene and another went to the carpenter , and held him with a talke till the master -LRB- Hudson -RRB- came out of his cabbin ; -LRB- which he soon did ;-RRB- then came John Thomas and Bennett before him , while Wilson bound his arms behind him . 
Nay , says I , it is that villaine Henry Greene , and I spake it not softly . 
`` John Thomas and William Wilson had their bowels cut , and Michael Pearce and Henry Greene being mortally wounded , came tumbling in the boat together . 
Henry Greene crieth coragio , and layeth about him with his truncheon . 
The savages betook themselves to their bowes and arrows which they sent among us , wherewith Henry Greene was slaine outright , and Michael Pearce received many wounds , and so did the rest . 
Henry Greene was thrown out of the boat into the sea , and the rest were had on board . 
Thus you have heard the tragicale of Henry Greene and his mates , whom they called the captaine , these four being the only lustie men in all the ship . '' 
`` Sometime in the autumn of the year 1694 , just when the woods were on the change , Yffrow , or Vrouw Katrinchee Van Noorden , was sitting at breakfast , surrounded by her husband and family , consisting of six stout boys , and as many strapping girls , all dressed in their best , for it was of a Sunday morning . 
Vrouw Katrinchee , had a loaf of fresh rye bread between her knees , the top of which was about on a line with her throat , the other end resting upon a napkin on the floor ; and was essaying with the edge of a sharp knife to cut off the upper crust for the youngest boy , who was the pet ; when unfortunately it recoiled from the said crust , and before the good Vrouw had time to consider the matter , sliced off her head as clean as a whistle , to the great horror of Mynheer Van Noorden , who actually stopt eating his breakfast . 
Neither Washington , Greene , nor any of the members of the court martial escape the most degrading imputations : and the three young men who captured Andre are stigmatized with cowardice , as well as treachery ! 
Washington and Greene require no guardians to defend their memory , at one time assailed by women and dotards , on the score of having , the one presided at the just condemnation of a spy ; the other of having refused his pardon to the threats and bullyings of the enemy . 
