His wife had been , for a considerable time , a cook-maid to Sir Thomas Kirkpatrick of Closeburn , who procured for her husband , from the Duke of Queensberry , an advantageous lease of the freestone quarry of Gatelowbrigg , in the parish of Morton . 
The first fell upon the young plebeian , who , as he took his stand , half-uncloaked his rustic countenance , and said to the gallant in green , `` Ye see , Mr Henry , if it were ony other day , I could hae wished to miss for your sake ; but Jenny Dennison is looking at us , sae I maun do my best . '' 
`` Will you do me the honour to use him for the next trial , on condition you will lend me yours ? '' 
Lord Evandale was ashamed to accept this courtesy , as conscious how much it would diminish the value of victory ; and yet , unable to suppress his wish to redeem his reputation as a marksman , he added , `` that although he renounced all pretensions to the honour of the day , '' -LRB- which he said some-what scornfully , -RRB- `` yet , if the victor had no particular objection , he would willingly embrace his obliging offer , and change horses with him , for the purpose of trying a shot for love . '' 
`` The son of the late Colonel Morton of Milnwood , who commanded a regiment of horse with great courage at Dunbar and Inverkeithing , '' said a gentleman who sate on horseback beside Lady Margaret . 
`` Come , gentlemen , '' said Morton , who became impatient of their insolence , `` we are here met as good subjects , and on a merry occasion ; and we have a right to expect we shall not be troubled with this sort of discussion . '' 
So , after honouring Morton with a broad and fierce stare , he said , `` Well , Mr Popinjay , I shall not disturb your reign ; I reckon it will be out by twelve at night . 
-- Is it not an odd thing , Halliday , '' he continued , addressing his companion , `` that they should make such a fuss about cracking off their birding-pieces at a mark which any woman or boy could hit at a day 's practice ? 
If Captain Popinjay now , or any of his troop , would try a bout , either with the broadsword , backsword , single rapier , or rapier and dagger , for a gold noble , the first-drawn blood , there would be some soul in it , -- or , zounds , would the bumpkins but wrestle , or pitch the bar , or putt the stone , or throw the axle-tree , if -LRB- touching the end of Morton 's sword scornfully with his toe -RRB- they carry things about them that they are afraid to draw . '' 
Morton 's patience and prudence now gave way entirely , and he was about to make a very angry answer to Bothwell 's insolent observations , when the stranger stepped forward . 
cried Morton and his companions , `` it was all fair play ; your comrade sought a fall , and he has got it . '' 
The stranger seemed to think that the hint was not to be neglected ; he flung down his reckoning , and going into the stable , saddled and brought out a powerful black horse , now recruited by rest and forage , and turning to Morton , observed , `` I ride towards Milnwood , which I hear is your home ; will you give me the advantage and protection of your company ? '' 
`` Certainly , '' said Morton ; although there was something of gloomy and relentless severity in the man 's manner from which his mind recoiled . 
Morton and his companion had attained some distance from the town before either of them addressed the other . 
There was something , as we have observed , repulsive in the manner of the stranger , which prevented Morton from opening the conversation , and he himself seemed to have no desire to talk , until , on a sudden , he abruptly demanded , `` What has your father 's son to do with such profane mummeries as I find you this day engaged in ? '' 
`` I do my duty as a subject , and pursue my harmless recreations according to my own pleasure , '' replied Morton , somewhat offended . 
`` I suppose from your style of conversation , '' said Morton , `` that you are one of those who have thought proper to stand out against the government . 
`` Thou canst not help it , Henry Morton , '' said his companion ; `` thy Master has his uses for thee , and when he calls , thou must obey . 
`` We are of the presbyterian persuasion , like yourself , '' said Morton ; for his uncle 's family attended the ministry of one of those numerous presbyterian clergymen , who , complying with certain regulations , were licensed to preach without interruption from the government . 
The stranger , therefore , answered with great disdain to Morton 's profession of faith . 
`` My uncle , '' said Morton , `` is of opinion , that we enjoy a reasonable freedom of conscience under the indulged clergymen , and I must necessarily be guided by his sentiments respecting the choice of a place of worship for his family . '' 
`` My father , '' replied Morton , `` was indeed a brave and gallant man . 
He pointed towards a pass leading up into a wild extent of dreary and desolate hills ; but as he was about to turn his horse 's head into the rugged path , which led from the high-road in that direction , an old woman wrapped in a red cloak , who was sitting by the cross-way , arose , and approaching him , said , in a mysterious tone of voice , `` If ye be of our ain folk , gangna up the pass the night for your lives . 
`` I am very sorry for your distress , '' said Morton ; `` and had I a house or place of shelter that could be called my own , I almost think I would risk the utmost rigour of the law rather than leave you in such a strait . 
`` I assure you , '' said Morton , much embarrassed , `` that I have not the means of receiving you at Milnwood without my uncle 's consent and knowledge ; nor , if I could do so , would I think myself justifiable in engaging him unconsciously in danger , which , most of all others , he fears and deprecates . '' 
`` I am that Balfour , '' said his companion . 
A thousand recollections thronged on the mind of Morton at once . 
His father , whose memory he idolized , had often enlarged upon his obligations to this man , and regretted , that , after having been long comrades , they had parted in some unkindness at the time when the kingdom of Scotland was divided into Resolutioners and Protesters ; the former of whom adhered to Charles II . 
These circumstances the deceased Colonel Morton had often mentioned to his son , and always with an expression of deep regret , that he had never , in any manner , been enabled to repay the assistance , which , on more than one occasion , he had received from Burley . 
To hasten Morton 's decision , the night-wind , as it swept along , brought from a distance the sullen sound of a kettle-drum , which , seeming to approach nearer , intimated that a body of horse were upon their march towards them . 
Here Morton paused . 
`` I must leave you here for a little while , '' he whispered , `` until I can provide a bed for you in the house . '' 
It occurred to Morton at the same moment , that to attempt to introduce the fugitive within the house , would materially increase the danger of detection . 
In this untenanted loft Morton left his companion , with a caution so to shade his light that no reflection might be seen from the window , and a promise that he would presently return with such refreshments as he might be able to procure at that late hour . 
This last , indeed , was a subject on which he felt by no means confident , for the power of obtaining even the most ordinary provisions depended entirely upon the humour in which he might happen to find his uncle 's sole confidant , the old housekeeper . 
If she chanced to be a-bed , which was very likely , or out of humour , which was not less so , Morton well knew the case to be at least problematical . 
Cursing in his heart the sordid parsimony which pervaded every part of his uncle 's establishment , he gave the usual gentle knock at the bolted door , by which he was accustomed to seek admittance , when accident had detained him abroad beyond the early and established hours of rest at the house of Milnwood . 
`` This is a fine time o ' night , Mr Henry , '' said the old dame , with the tyrannic insolence of a spoilt and favourite domestic ; -- `` a braw time o ' night and a bonny , to disturb a peaceful house in , and to keep quiet folk out o ' their beds waiting for you . 
`` Well , then , Mistress Alison , '' said Morton , `` I really am sorry to have kept you up waiting till I came in . '' 
`` And now that you are come in , Mr Henry , '' said the cross old woman , `` what for do you no tak up your candle and gang to your bed ? 
-- and ale , Mr Henry ? 
Extremely vexed , yet anxious , on account of his guest , to procure refreshments if possible , Morton suppressed his resentment , and good-humouredly assured Mrs Wilson , that he was really both hungry and thirsty ; `` and as for the shooting at the popinjay , I have heard you say you have been there yourself , Mrs Wilson -- I wish you had come to look at us . '' 
`` Ah , Maister Henry , '' said the old dame , `` I wish ye binna beginning to learn the way of blawing in a woman 's lug wi ' a ' your whilly-wha 's ! 
-LRB- surveying him with the candle , -RRB- `` there 's nae fault to find wi ' the outside , if the inside be conforming . 
To do Mrs Wilson justice , her nocturnal harangues upon such occasions not unfrequently terminated with this sage apophthegm , which always prefaced the producing of some provision a little better than ordinary , such as she now placed before him . 
She now eyed Mr Henry , as she called him , with great complacency , as he partook of her good cheer . 
Sae , gude-night to ye , Mr Henry , and see that ye tak gude care o ' the candle . '' 
Morton promised to attend punctually to her caution , and requested her not to be alarmed if she heard the door opened , as she knew he must again , as usual , look to his horse , and arrange him for the night . 
Mrs Wilson then retreated , and Morton , folding up his provisions , was about to hasten to his guest , when the nodding head of the old housekeeper was again thrust in at the door , with an admonition , to remember to take an account of his ways before he laid himself down to rest , and to pray for protection during the hours of darkness . 
Being at length rid of the housekeeper 's presence , Morton made a collection of what he had reserved from the provisions set before him , and prepared to carry them to his concealed guest . 
He did not think it necessary to take a light , being perfectly acquainted with every turn of the road ; and it was lucky he did not do so , for he had hardly stepped beyond the threshold ere a heavy trampling of horses announced , that the body of cavalry , whose kettle-drumsRegimental music is never played at night . 
Ere Morton could recover from the alarm into which this proposal had thrown him , a third speaker rejoined , `` I can not think it at all necessary ; Milnwood is an infirm , hypochondriac old man , who never meddles with politics , and loves his moneybags and bonds better than any thing else in the world . 
When the last of them had disappeared , young Morton resumed his purpose of visiting his guest . 
Upon entering the place of refuge , he found him seated on his humble couch with a pocket Bible open in his hand , which he seemed to study with intense meditation . 
His broadsword , which he had unsheathed in the first alarm at the arrival of the dragoons , lay naked across his knees , and the little taper that stood beside him upon the old chest , which served the purpose of a table , threw a partial and imperfect light upon those stern and harsh features , in which ferocity was rendered more solemn and dignified by a wild cast of tragic enthusiasm . 
His brow was that of one in whom some strong o'ermastering principle has overwhelmed all other passions and feelings , like the swell of a high spring-tide , when the usual cliffs and breakers vanish from the eye , and their existence is only indicated by the chasing foam of the waves that burst and wheel over them . 
He raised his head , after Morton had contemplated him for about a minute . 
`` I perceive , '' said Morton , looking at his sword , `` that you heard the horsemen ride by ; their passage delayed me for some minutes . '' 
`` Eat and refresh yourself , '' said Morton ; `` tomorrow your safety requires you should leave this place , in order to gain the hills , so soon as you can see to distinguish the track through the morasses . '' 
`` These are subjects , Mr Balfour , on which I am ill qualified to converse with you , '' answered Morton ; `` but I own I should strongly doubt the origin of any inspiration which seemed to dictate a line of conduct contrary to those feelings of natural humanity , which Heaven has assigned to us as the general law of our conduct . '' 
`` These are the sentiments , '' said Morton , `` that your enemies impute to you , and which palliate , if they do not vindicate , the cruel measures which the council have directed against you . 
''' `` Mr Balfour , '' answered Morton , `` I neither undertake to subscribe to or refute your complaints against the government . 
With a promise on Morton 's part that he would call the refugee when it was time for him to pursue his journey , they parted for the night . 
Morton retired to a few hours ' rest ; but his imagination , disturbed by the events of the day , did not permit him to enjoy sound repose . 
There was a blended vision of horror before him , in which his new friend seemed to be a principal actor . 
The fair form of Edith Bellenden also mingled in his dream , weeping , and with dishevelled hair , and appearing to call on him for comfort and assistance , which he had not in his power to render . 
He awoke from these unrefreshing slumbers with a feverish impulse , and a heart which foreboded disaster . 
`` I have slept too long , '' he exclaimed to himself , `` and must now hasten to forward the journey of this unfortunate fugitive . '' 
He dressed himself as fast as possible , opened the door of the house with as little noise as he could , and hastened to the place of refuge occupied by the Covenanter . 
Morton entered on tiptoe , for the determined tone and manner , as well as the unusual language and sentiments of this singular individual , had struck him with a sensation approaching to awe . 
A ray of light streamed on his uncurtained couch , and showed to Morton the working of his harsh features , which seemed agitated by some strong internal cause of disturbance . 
He had not undressed . 
Both his arms were above the bed-cover , the right hand strongly clenched , and occasionally making that abortive attempt to strike which usually attends dreams of violence ; the left was extended , and agitated , from time to time , by a movement as if repulsing some one . 
The perspiration stood on his brow , `` like bubbles in a late disturbed stream , '' and these marks of emotion were accompanied with broken words which escaped from him at intervals -- `` Thou art taken , Judas -- thou art taken -- Cling not to my knees -- cling not to my knees -- hew him down ! 
Much alarmed at the import of these expressions , which seemed to burst from him even in sleep with the stern energy accompanying the perpetration of some act of violence , Morton shook his guest by the shoulder in order to awake him . 
The first words he uttered were , `` Bear me where ye will , I will avouch the deed ! '' 
His glance around having then fully awakened him , he at once assumed all the stern and gloomy composure of his ordinary manner , and throwing himself on his knees , before speaking to Morton , poured forth an ejaculatory prayer for the suffering Church of Scotland , entreating that the blood of her murdered saints and martyrs might be precious in the sight of Heaven , and that the shield of the Almighty might be spread over the scattered remnant , who , for His name 's sake , were abiders in the wilderness . 
When he had finished his prayer he arose , and , taking Morton by the arm , they descended together to the stable , where the Wanderer -LRB- to give Burley a title which was often conferred on his sect -RRB- began to make his horse ready to pursue his journey . 
When the animal was saddled and bridled , Burley requested Morton to walk with him a gun-shot into the wood , and direct him to the right road for gaining the moors . 
Morton readily complied , and they walked for some time in silence under the shade of some fine old trees , pursuing a sort of natural path , which , after passing through woodland for about half a mile , led into the bare and wild country which extends to the foot of the hills . 
There was little conversation between them , until at length Burley suddenly asked Morton , `` Whether the words he had spoken over-night had borne fruit in his mind ? '' 
Morton answered , `` That he remained of the same opinion which he had formerly held , and was determined , at least as far and as long as possible , to unite the duties of a good Christian with those of a peaceful subject . '' 
Think ye , '' he continued , `` to touch pitch and remain undefiled ? 
He then mounted his horse , and , turning to Morton , repeated the text of Scripture , `` An heavy yoke was ordained for the sons of Adam from the day they go out of their mother 's womb , till the day that they return to the mother of all things ; from him who is clothed in blue silk and weareth a crown , even to him who weareth simple linen , -- wrath , envy , trouble , and unquietness , rigour , strife , and fear of death in the time of rest . '' 
Having uttered these words he set his horse in motion , and soon disappeared among the boughs of the forest . 
`` Farewell , stern enthusiast , '' said Morton , looking after him ; `` in some moods of my mind , how dangerous would be the society of such a companion ! 
`` But I am no slave , '' he said aloud , and drawing himself up to his full stature -- `` no slave , in one respect , surely . 
When he had formed this determination , he found himself near the door of his uncle 's house , and resolved to lose no time in making him acquainted with it . 
In this mood he entered the wainscotted parlour , in which his uncle was already placed at his morning 's refreshment , a huge plate of oatmeal porridge , with a corresponding allowance of butter-milk . 
Splay feet of unusual size , long thin hands , garnished with nails which seldom felt the steel , a wrinkled and puckered visage , the length of which corresponded with that of his person , together with a pair of little sharp bargain-making grey eyes , that seemed eternally looking out for their advantage , completed the highly unpromising exterior of Mr Morton of Milnwood . 
As it would have been very injudicious to have lodged a liberal or benevolent disposition in such an unworthy cabinet , nature had suited his person with a mind exactly in conformity with it , that is to say , mean , selfish , and covetous . 
When this amiable personage was aware of the presence of his nephew , he hastened , before addressing him , to swallow the spoonful of porridge which he was in the act of conveying to his mouth , and , as it chanced to be scalding hot , the pain occasioned by its descent down his throat and into his stomach , inflamed the ill-humour with which he was already prepared to meet his kinsman . 
was his first ejaculation , apostrophizing his mess of porridge . 
`` Thereabouts , sir , I believe , '' answered Morton , in an indifferent tone . 
`` I suppose you know the reason very well , sir , '' said Morton ; `` I had the fortune to be the best marksman of the day , and remained , as is usual , to give some little entertainment to the other young men . '' 
Milnwood , entertaining no thought or purpose of parting with his nephew , who was , moreover , very useful to him in many respects , was thunderstruck at this abrupt declaration of independence from a person whose deference to him had hitherto been unlimited . 
He recovered himself , however , immediately . 
`` I have no thoughts of ever marrying , '' answered Henry . 
-- `` I will keep a few links , '' continued the young man , `` to remind me of him by whom it was won , and the place where he won it , '' continued Morton ; `` the rest shall furnish me the means of following the same career in which my father obtained that mark of distinction . '' 
exclaimed his uncle . 
`` I 'll settle it myself wi'Niel Blane , the first time I gang down to the clachan , '' said Alison , `` cheaper than your honour or Mr Harry can do ; '' and then whispered to Henry , `` Dinna vex him onymair ; I 'll pay the lave out o ' the butter siller , and nae mair words about it . '' 
Morton left the room , perceiving plainly that he had at present no chance of gaining his purpose , and , perhaps , not altogether displeased at the obstacles which seemed to present themselves to his leaving the neighbourhood of Tillietudlem . 
The housekeeper followed him into the next room , patting him on the back , and bidding him `` be a gude bairn , and pit by his braw things . '' 
There was something in the latter part of the prognostic which sounded so agreeably in the ears of Morton , that he shook the old dame cordially by the hand , and assured her he was much obliged by her good advice , and would weigh it carefully before he proceeded to act upon his former resolution . 
That unfortunate man-at-arms was forthwith commanded to drive his feathered charge to the most remote parts of the common moor , and on no account to awaken the grief or resentment of his lady , by appearing in her presence while the sense of the affront was yet recent . 
Howsomever , mither , ye hae some guess o ' a wee bit kindness that 's atween Miss Edith and young Mr Henry Morton , that suld be ca 'd young Milnwood , and that I hae whiles carried a bit book , or maybe a bit letter , quietly atween them , and made believe never to ken wha it cam frae , though I kend brawly . 
It was evening when Mr Henry Morton perceived an old woman , wrapped in her tartan plaid , supported by a stout , stupid-looking fellow , in hoddin-grey , approach the house of Milnwood . 
Old Mause made her courtesy , but Cuddie took the lead in addressing Morton . 
Indeed , he had previously stipulated with his mother that he was to manage matters his own way ; for though he readily allowed his general inferiority of understanding , and filially submitted to the guidance of his mother on most ordinary occasions , yet he said , `` For getting a service , or getting forward in the warld , he could somegate gar the wee pickle sense he had gang muckle farther than hers , though she could crack like ony minister o ' them a ' . '' 
Accordingly , he thus opened the conversation with young Morton : `` A braw night this for the rye , your honour ; the west park will be breering bravely this e ` en . '' 
whispered Cuddie to his mother , `` an ye come out wi ' your whiggery , they 'll no daur open a door to us through the haill country ! '' 
Then aloud and addressing Morton , `` My mother 's auld , stir , and she has rather forgotten hersell in speaking to my leddy , that canna weel bide to be contradickit , -LRB- as I ken nae-body likes it if they could help themsells , -RRB- especially by her ain folk , -- and Mr Harrison the steward , and Gudyill the butler , they 're no very fond o ' us , and it 's ill sitting at Rome and striving wi ' the Pope ; sae I thought it best to flit before ill came to waur -- and here 's a wee bit line to your honour frae a friend will maybe say some mair about it . '' 
Morton took the billet , and crimsoning up to the ears , between joy and surprise , read these words : `` If you can serve these poor helpless people , you will oblige E. B. '' It was a few instants before he could attain composure enough to ask , `` And what is your object , Cuddie ? 
Morton shook his head . 
Morton had first to bring over the housekeeper , who made a thousand objections , as usual , in order to have the pleasure of being besought and entreated ; but , when she was gained over , it was comparatively easy to induce old Milnwood to accept of a servant , whose wages were to be in his own option . 
As for Morton , he exhausted his own very slender stock of money in order to make Cuddie such a present , under the name of arles , as might show his sense of the value of the recommendation delivered to him . 
`` And now we 're settled ance mair , '' said : Cuddie to his mother , `` and if we 're no sae bien and comfortable as we were up yonder , yet life 's life ony gate , and we 're wi ' decent kirk-ganging folk o ' your ain persuasion , mither ; there will be nae quarrelling about that . '' 
Henry Morton was discomposed with more special cause , for he remembered that he stood answerable to the laws for having harboured Burley . 
-- You attend Poundtext , the presbyterian parson , I understand , Mr Morton ? '' 
Mr Morton hastened to slide in a confession and apology . 
`` By the indulgence of his gracious majesty and the government , for I wad do nothing out of law -- I hae nae objection whatever to the establishment of a moderate episcopacy , but only that I am a country-bred man , and the ministers are a hamelier kind of folk , and I can follow their doctrine better ; and , with reverence , sir , it 's a mair frugal establishment for the country . '' 
`` Like me , I suppose , '' said Bothwell ; and then , pushing the bottle to Henry , he said , `` Here , young man , pledge you the king 's health . '' 
Henry filled a moderate glass in silence , regardless of the hints and pushes of his uncle , which seemed to indicate that he ought to have followed his example , in preferring beer to wine . 
`` I should have little objection to answer you , '' said Henry , `` if I knew what right you had to put the question . '' 
-- You ask me for my right to examine you , sir -LRB- to Henry -RRB- ; my cockade and my broadsword are my commission , and a better one than ever Old Nol gave to his roundheads ; and if you want to know more about it , you may look at the act of council empowering his majesty 's officers and soldiers to search for , examine , and apprehend suspicious persons ; and , therefore , once more , I ask you your opinion of the death of Archbishop Sharpe -- it 's a new touch-stone we have got for trying people 's metal . '' 
Henry had , by this time , reflected upon the useless risk to which he would expose the family by resisting the tyrannical power which was delegated to such rude hands ; he therefore read the narrative over , and replied , composedly , `` I have no hesitation to say , that the perpetrators of this assassination have committed , in my opinion , a rash and wicked action , which I regret the more , as I foresee it will be made the cause of proceedings against many who are both innocent of the deed , and as far from approving it as myself . '' 
While Henry thus expressed himself , Bothwell , who bent his eyes keenly upon him , seemed suddenly to recollect his features . 
`` I saw you once , '' answered Henry , `` in the public-house of the town of -- . '' 
`` I did leave the house with the person you have named , '' answered Henry , `` I scorn to deny it ; but , so far from knowing him to be a murderer of the primate , I did not even know at the time that such a crime had been committed . '' 
`` But you knew Burley , '' continued Bothwell , still addressing Henry , and regardless of his uncle 's interruption , `` to be an intercommuned rebel and traitor , and you knew the prohibition to deal with such persons . 
-LRB- Henry was silent . -RRB- 
said his uncle ; `` he dared not for his neck bring ony traitor into a house of mine . '' 
`` As you charge it to me as a crime , '' said Henry , `` you will excuse my saying any thing that will criminate myself . '' 
-- the bonny lands of Milnwood , that have been in the name of Morton twa hundred years ! '' 
exclaimed his uncle ; `` they are barking and fleeing , outfield and infield , haugh and holme ! '' 
`` No , sir , '' said Henry , `` you shall not suffer on my account . 
-- I own , '' he continued , addressing Bothwell , `` I did give this man a night 's lodging , as to an old military comrade of my father . 
`` You will excuse my answering that question , sir , '' said Morton ; `` the same cogent reasons which induced me to afford him hospitality at considerable risk to myself and my friends , would command me to respect his secret , if , indeed , he had trusted me with any . '' 
`` I have none to give , '' returned Henry . 
`` O , for pity 's sake , sir , '' said old Alison apart to her master , `` gie them siller -- it 's siller they 're seeking -- they 'll murder Mr Henry , and yoursell next ! '' 
Milnwood groaned in perplexity and bitterness of spirit , and , with a tone as if he was giving up the ghost , exclaimed , `` If twenty p -- p -- punds would make up this unhappy matter '' -- `` My master , '' insinuated Alison to the sergeant , `` would gie twenty punds sterling '' -- `` Punds Scotch , ye b -- h ! '' 
`` I will not whisht , Cuddie , '' replied his mother , `` I will uplift my voice and spare not -- I will confound the man of sin , even the scarlet man , and through my voice shall Mr Henry be freed from the net of the fowler . '' 
`` Se now , mither , what ye hae dune , '' whispered Cuddie ; `` there 's the Philistines , as ye ca ' them , are gaun to whirry awa ' Mr Henry , and a ' wi ' your nash-gab , deil be o n't ! '' 
`` There 's a fine sound of doctrine for you , Mr Morton ! 
said Bothwell , aside to him ; `` can not you see she 's better where she is , so long as there is a respectable , sponsible , money-broking heritor , like Mr Morton of Milnwood , who has the means of atoning her trespasses ? 
Let the old mother fly to raise another brood , she 's too tough to be made any thing of herself -- Here , '' he cried , `` one other round to Milnwood and his roof-tree , and to our next merry meeting with him ! 
-- which I think will not be far distant , if he keeps such a fanatical family . '' 
Mrs Wilson , with weeping eyes , made up a small parcel of necessaries for Henry 's compelled journey , and as she bustled about , took an opportunity , unseen by the party , to slip into his hand a small sum of money . 
`` That vexes me more than the rest , '' said Henry . 
`` I am by no means sure , '' answered Morton , `` that such a sentence is not the best thing that can happen to me . '' 
`` I have hitherto meddled with no party in the state , '' said Henry , `` but have remained quietly at home ; and sometimes I have had serious thoughts of joining one of our foreign regiments . '' 
said Morton , `` Par excellence , '' said Bothwell ; `` women , wine , and wassail , all to be had for little but the asking ; and if you find it in your conscience to let a fat priest think he has some chance to convert you , gad he 'll help you to these comforts himself , just to gain a little ground in your good affection . 
`` Why , nowhere , I agree with you , '' said Henry ; `` but what was your chief duty ? '' 
Thus speaking , he pulled out his purse , took out some of the contents , and offered them to Henry without counting them . 
Young Morton declined the favour ; and , not judging it prudent to acquaint the sergeant , notwithstanding his apparent generosity , that he was actually in possession of some money , he assured him he should have no difficulty in getting a supply from his uncle . 
But it is a good thing in these times , '' he continued , addressing himself to Henry , `` that the King 's soldier can not pass a house without getting a refreshment . 
`` And you purpose , '' said Henry , anxiously , `` to go upon that errand up to the tower younder ? '' 
`` Then , for heaven 's sake , '' said Henry , `` if you are determined to go there , do not mention my name , or expose me to a family that I am acquainted with . 
There is a singular work , entitled Memoirs of Prince William Henry , Duke of Gloucester , -LRB- son of Queen Anne , -RRB- from his birth to his ninth year , in which Jenkin Lewis , an honest Welshman in attendance on the royal infant 's person , is pleased to record that his Royal Highness laughed , cried , crow 'd , and said Gig and Dy , very like a babe of plebeian descent . 
There is a singular work , entitled Memoirs of Prince William Henry , Duke of Gloucester , -LRB- son of Queen Anne , -RRB- from his birth to his ninth year , in which Jenkin Lewis , an honest Welshman in attendance on the royal infant 's person , is pleased to record that his Royal Highness laughed , cried , crow 'd , and said Gig and Dy , very like a babe of plebeian descent . 
Old Gudyill associated himself with a party so much to his taste , pretty much as Davy , in the Second Part of Henry the Fourth , mingles in the revels of his master , Justice Shallow . 
He ran down to the cellar at the risk of breaking his neck , to ransack some private catacomb , known , as he boasted , only to himself , and which never either had , or should , during his superintendence , renden forth a bottle of its contents to any one but a real king 's friend . 
Her face and figure thus concealed , Edith , holding by her attendant 's arm , hastened with trembling steps to the place of Morton 's confinement . 
The door , which slowly opened , discovered Morton with both arms reclined upon a table , and his head resting upon them in a posture of deep dejection . 
He raised his face as the door opened , and , perceiving the female figures which it admitted , started up in great surprise . 
All the plans of aid , relief , or comfort , which she had proposed to lay before her lover , seemed at once to have vanished from her recollection , and left only a painful chaos of ideas , with which was mingled a fear that she had degraded herself in the eyes of Morton by a step which might appear precipitate and unfeminine . 
Morton , in the meantime , was timidly advancing , suspecting the truth ; for what other female in the house , excepting Edith herself , was likely to take an interest in his misfortunes ? 
and yet afraid , owing to the doubtful twilight and the muffled dress , of making some mistake which might be prejudicial to the object of his affections . 
`` Mr Morton , Miss Edith 's very sorry for your present situation , and '' -- It was needless to say more ; he was at her side , almost at her feet , pressing her unresisting hands , and loading her with a profusion of thanks and gratitude which would be hardly intelligible from the mere broken words , unless we could describe the tone , the gesture , the impassioned and hurried indications of deep and tumultuous feeling , with which they were accompanied . 
For two or three minutes , Edith stood as motionless as the statue of a saint which receives the adoration of a worshipper ; and when she recovered herself sufficiently to withdraw her hands from Henry 's grasp , she could at first only faintly articulate , `` I have taken a strange step , Mr Morton -- a step , '' she continued with more coherence , as her ideas arranged themselves in consequence of a strong effort , `` that perhaps may expose me to censure in your eyes -- But I have long permitted you to use the language of friendship -- perhaps I might say more -- too long to leave you when the world seems to have left you . 
`` Be what it will , '' answered Henry , contriving to make himself master of the hand that had escaped from him , but which was now again abandoned to his clasp , `` be what it will , it is to me from this moment the most welcome incident of a weary life . 
`` But is it even thus , Mr Morton ? '' 
replied Morton , in a calm , but melancholy tone ; `` I believe that will be entirely in the bosoms of my judges . 
`` I knew not even that such a crime had been committed , '' replied Morton , `` when I gave unhappily a night 's lodging and concealment to one of those rash and cruel men , the ancient friend and comrade of my father . 
`` Under that of Colonel Grahame of Claverhouse , I am given to understand , '' said Morton ; `` one of the military commission , to whom it has pleased our king , our privy council , and our parliament , that used to be more tenacious of our liberties , to commit the sole charge of our goods and of our lives . '' 
His expressions made me shudder , even when I could not guess that -- that -- a friend '' -- `` Do not be too much alarmed on my account , my dearest Edith , '' said Henry , as he supported her in his arms ; `` Claverhouse , though stern and relentless , is , by all accounts , brave , fair , and honourable . 
`` Wi ' your leddyship 's pardon , Miss Edith , and young Mr Morton 's , we maunna waste time . 
Let Milnwood take my plaid and gown ; I 'll slip them aff in the dark corner , if he 'll promise no to look about , and he may walk past Tam Halliday , who is half blind with his ale , and I can tell him a canny way to get out o ' the Tower , and your leddyship will gang quietly to your ain room , and I 'll row mysell in his grey cloak , and pit on his hat , and play the prisoner till the coast 's clear , and then I 'll cry in Tam Halliday , and gar him let me out . '' 
said Morton ; `` they 'll make your life answer it . '' 
`` I hope , '' said Morton , very anxiously , `` you will not mention this circumstance , my good friend , and trust to my honour to acknowledge your civility in keeping the secret . 
`` Farewell , Edith , '' whispered Morton , assuming a firmness he was far from possessing ; `` do not remain here -- leave me to my fate -- it can not be beyond endurance since you are interested in it . 
Thus saying , he resigned her to her attendant , by whom she was quietly led and partly supported out of the apartment . 
A party of soldiers have last night brought your friend , young Mr Henry Morton of Milnwood , hither as a prisoner . 
On the road he formed the prudent resolution to say nothing to the old lady -LRB- whose dislike to presbyterians of all kinds he knew to be inveterate -RRB- of the quality and rank of the prisoner detained within her walls , but to try his own influence with Claverhouse to obtain Morton 's liberation . 
The sense that she was in the presence of the dreadful chief upon whose fiat the fate of Henry Morton must depend -- the recollection of the terror and awe which were attached to the very name of the commander , deprived her for some time , not only of the courage to answer , but even of the power of looking upon him . 
Edith 's heart sprung to her lips during this conversation ; for it instantly occurred to her , that , through her influence over Lord Evandale , she might find some means of releasing Morton from his present state of danger , in case her uncle 's intercession with Claverhouse should prove ineffectual . 
She determined , therefore , to wait the issue of her uncle 's intercession , and , should it fail , which she conjectured she should soon learn , either from the looks or language of the open-hearted veteran , she would then , as a last effort , make use in Morton 's favour of her interest with Lord Evandale . 
She watched their conference with eyes almost dazzled by the eagerness of suspense , and , with observation rendered more acute by the internal agony of her mind , could guess , from the pantomimic gestures which accompanied the conversation , the progress and fate of the intercession in behalf of Henry Morton . 
`` I will answer for Henry Morton as I would for my own son . 
He is a lad of as good church-principles as any gentleman in the Life-Guards . 
He has gone to church service with me fifty times , and I never heard him miss one of the responses in my life . 
While Claverhouse endeavoured to soothe the terrors of Lady Margaret , and to reconcile the veteran Major to his opinion of Morton , Evandale , getting the better of that conscious shyness which renders an ingenuous youth diffident in approaching the object of his affections , drew near to Miss Bellenden , and accosted her in a tone of mingled respect and interest . 
Edith had now the opportunity she wished to bespeak the young nobleman 's intercession and protection for Henry Morton , and it seemed the only remaining channel of interest by which he could be rescued from impending destruction . 
There is no friend I esteem more highly , or to whom I would more readily grant every mark of regard -- providing -- But '' -- A deep sigh made her turn her head suddenly , ere she had well uttered the last word ; and , as she hesitated how to frame the exception with which she meant to close the sentence , she became instantly aware she had been overheard by Morton , who , heavily ironed and guarded by soldiers , was now passing behind her in order to be presented to Claverhouse . 
As their eyes met each other , the sad and reproachful expression of Morton 's glance seemed to imply that he had partially heard , and altogether misinterpreted , the conversation which had just passed . 
Henry Morton was one of those gifted characters , which possess a force of talent unsuspected by the owner himself . 
He had inherited from his father an undaunted courage , and a firm and uncompromising detestation of oppression , whether in politics or religion . 
But his enthusiasm was unsullied by fanatic zeal , and unleavened by the sourness of the puritanical spirit . 
From these his mind had been freed , partly by the active exertions of his own excellent understanding , partly by frequent and long visits at Major Bellenden 's , where he had an opportunity of meeting with many guests whose conversation taught him , that goodness and worth were not limited to those of any single form of religious observance . 
The base parsimony of his uncle had thrown many obstacles in the way of his education ; but he had so far improved the opportunities which offered themselves , that his instructors as well as his friends were surprised at his progress under such disadvantages . 
Still , however , the current of his soul was frozen by a sense of dependence , of poverty , above all , of an imperfect and limited education . 
These feelings impressed him with a diffidence and reserve which effectually concealed from all but very intimate friends , the extent of talent and the firmness of character , which we have stated him to be possessed of . 
When Edith Bellenden was recalled to her mother 's castle , it was astonishing by what singular and recurring accidents she often met young Morton in her sequestered walks , especially considering the distance of their places of abode . 
It followed , as a consequence of this state of things , as well as of the diffidence of Morton 's disposition at this period , that his confidence in Edith 's return of his affection had its occasional cold fits . 
Her situations was in every respect so superior to his own , her worth so eminent , her accomplishments so many , her face so beautiful , and her manners so bewitching , that he could not but entertain fears that some suitor more favoured than himself by fortune , and more acceptable to Edith 's family than he durst hope to be , might step in between him and the object of his affections . 
It frequently and inevitably happened , that engagements to which Lord Evandale was a party , interfered with the meeting of the lovers , and Henry could not but mark that Edith either studiously avoided speaking of the young nobleman , or did so with obvious reserve and hesitation . 
These symptoms , which , in fact , arose from the delicacy of her own feelings towards Morton himself , were misconstrued by his diffident temper , and the jealousy which they excited was fermented by the occasional observations of Jenny Dennison . 
This arose from no ill-will to Henry Morton , who , both on her mistress 's account and his own handsome form and countenance , stood high in her esteem . 
But then Lord Evandale was also handsome ; he was liberal far beyond what Morton 's means could afford , and he was a lord , moreover , and , if Miss Edith Bellenden should accept his hand , she would become a baron 's lady , and , what was more , little Jenny Dennison , whom the awful housekeeper at Tillietudlem huffed about at her pleasure , would be then Mrs Dennison , Lady Evandale 's own woman , or perhaps her ladyship 's lady-in-waiting . 
The impartiality of Jenny Dennison , therefore , did not , like that of Mrs Quickly , extend to a wish that both the handsome suitors could wed her young lady ; for it must be owned that the scale of her regard was depressed in favour of Lord Evandale , and her wishes in his favour took many shapes extremely tormenting to Morton ; being now expressed as a friendly caution , now as an article of intelligence , and anon as a merry jest , but always tending to confirm the idea , that , sooner or later , his romantic intercourse with her young mistress must have a close , and that Edith Bellenden would , in spite of summer walks beneath the greenwood tree , exchange of verses , of drawings , and of books , end in becoming Lady Evandale . 
These hints coincided so exactly with the very point of his own suspicions and fears , that Morton was not long of feeling that jealousy which every one has felt who has truly loved , but to which those are most liable whose love is crossed by the want of friends ' consent , or some other envious impediment of fortune . 
Edith , as true in friendship as in love , was somewhat hurt at the severe strictures which escaped from Morton on this occasion , and which , perhaps , were not the less strongly expressed on account of their supposed rivalry . 
She entered into Lord Evandale 's defence with such spirit as hurt Morton to the very soul , and afforded no small delight to Jenny Dennison , the usual companion of their walks . 
said Morton . 
He advanced to put on the irons ; but , seizing the oaken-seat upon which he had rested , Morton threatened to dash out the brains of the first who should approach him . 
Here he employed himself in putting on the fetters , against which , Morton , thunderstruck by this intelligence , no longer offered the least resistance . 
`` I will not , '' replied Morton , in a determined tone , while his boldness seemed to electrify all around him . 
`` For God 's sake , Henry Morton , '' he continued , in a tone between rebuke and entreaty , `` remember you are speaking to one of his majesty 's officers high in the service . '' 
`` It is for that very reason , sir , '' returned Henry , firmly , `` that I desire to know what right he has to detain me without a legal warrant . 
Were he a civil officer of the law I should know my duty was submission . '' 
`` As I know no right you have to ask such a question , '' replied Morton , `` I decline replying to it . '' 
`` Die in what manner I may , '' replied Morton , `` I will die like the son of a brave man ; and the ignominy you mention shall remain with those who shed innocent blood . '' 
He then stepped forward to the table , and bent his eyes keenly on Morton , as if to observe what effect the pause of awful suspense between death and life , which seemed to freeze the bystanders with horror , would produce upon the prisoner himself . 
Morton maintained a degree of firmness , which nothing but a mind that had nothing left upon earth to love or to hope , could have supported at such a crisis . 
`` If my life , '' said Morton , stung with the idea that he owed his respite to the intercession of a favoured rival , `` if my life be granted at Lord Evandale 's request '' -- `` Take the prisoner away , Bothwell , '' said Colonel Grahame , interrupting him ; `` I have neither time to make nor to hear fine speeches . '' 
Bothwell forced off Morton , saying , as he conducted him into the court-yard , `` Have you three lives in your pocket , besides the one in your body , my lad , that you can afford to let your tongue run away with them at this rate ? 
Thus speaking , the sergeant , who , in his rude manner , did not altogether want sympathy for a gallant young man , hurried Morton down to the courtyard , where three other prisoners , -LRB- two men and a woman , -RRB- who had been taken by Lord Evandale , remained under an escort of dragoons . 
`` I shall be happy to hear of your success , Colonel , '' said Major Bellenden ; `` but take an old soldier 's advice , and spare blood when battle 's over , -- and once more let me request to enter bail for young Morton . '' 
`` Meanwhile , be assured his life shall be safe . '' 
We left Morton , along with three companions in captivity , travelling in the custody of a small body of soldiers , who formed the rear-guard of the column under the command of Claverhouse , and were immediately under the charge of Sergeant Bothwell . 
No sooner were they past than Bothwell halted the body which he commanded , and disencumbered Morton of his irons . 
-- You can not call that using you uncivilly , '' he continued , addressing himself to Morton , `` it 's the rules of war , you know . 
Morton , overwhelmed with a complication of feelings , was totally indifferent to the various arrangements made for his secure custody , and even to the relief afforded him by his release from the fetters . 
He experienced that blank and waste of the heart which follows the hurricane of passion , and , no longer supported by the pride and conscious rectitude which dictated his answers to Claverhouse , he surveyed with deep dejection the glades through which he travelled , each turning of which had something to remind him of past happiness and disappointed love . 
The eminence which they now ascended was that from which he used first and last to behold the ancient tower when approaching or retiring from it ; and , it is needless to add , that there he was wont to pause , and gaze with a lover 's delight on the battlements , which , rising at a distance out of the lofty wood , indicated the dwelling of her , whom he either hoped soon to meet or had recently parted from . 
Instinctively he turned his head back to take a last look of a scene formerly so dear to him , and no less instinctively he heaved a deep sigh . 
It was echoed by a loud groan from his companion in misfortune , whose eyes , moved , perchance , by similar reflections , had taken the same direction . 
This indication of sympathy , on the part of the captive , was uttered in a tone more coarse than sentimental ; it was , however , the expression of a grieved spirit , and so far corresponded with the sigh of Morton . 
In turning their heads their eyes met , and Morton recognised the stolid countenance of Cuddie Headrigg , bearing a rueful expression , in which sorrow for his own lot was mixed with sympathy for the situation of his companion . 
`` I am sorry to see you here , Cuddie , '' said Morton , who , even in his own distress , did not lose feeling for that of others . 
`` And sae am I , Mr Henry , '' answered Cuddie , `` baith for mysell and you ; but neither of our sorrows will do muckle gude that I can see . 
To be sure , for me , '' continued the captive agriculturist , relieving his heart by talking , though he well knew it was to little purpose , -- `` to be sure , for my part , I hae nae right to be here ava ' , for I never did nor said a word against either king or curate ; but my mither , puir body , couldna haud the auld tongue o ' her , and we maun baith pay for ` t , it 's like . '' 
said Morton , hardly knowing what he said . 
said Morton . 
Eh , Mr Henry ! 
Ye might hae heard him a mile down the wind -- He routed like a cow in a fremd loaning . 
-- Weel , thinks I , there 's nae place in this country they ca ' Roman Gilead -- it will be some gate in the west muirlands ; and or we win there I 'll see to slip awa wi ' this mither o ' mine , for I winna rin my neck into a tether for ony Kettledrummle in the country side -- Aweel , '' continued Cuddie , relieving himself by detailing his misfortunes , without being scrupulous concerning the degree of attention which his companion bestowed on his narrative , `` just as I was wearying for the tail of the preaching , cam word that the dragoons were upon us . 
said Morton , who probably felt , that , at that moment , he himself would have encountered Lord Evandale on much slighter grounds . 
said Morton , half speaking to himself ; `` here is a poor peaceable fellow , whose only motive for joining the conventicle was a sense of filial piety , and he is chained up like a thief or murderer , and likely to die the death of one , but without the privilege of a formal trial , which our laws indulge to the worst malefactor ! 
`` To be sure , '' said Cuddie , hearing , and partly understanding , what had broken from Morton in resentment of his injuries , `` it is no right to speak evil o ' dignities -- my auld leddy aye said that , as nae doubt she had a gude right to do , being in a place o ' dignity hersell ; and troth I listened to her very patiently , for she aye ordered a dram , or a sowp kale , or something to us , after she had gien us a hearing on our duties . 
`` It would be very strange if you did , '' answered Morton , with suppressed emotion . 
said Morton , unable to refrain from taking some interest in a story which seemed to bear a singular coincidence with his own . 
said Morton . 
Cuddie was probably engaged in regretting the rejection of his mistress 's bounty , and Henry Morton in considering from what motives , or upon what conditions , Miss Bellenden had succeeded in procuring the interference of Lord Evandale in his favour . 
Apparently , Cuddie , though with less refinement , was following out a similar train of ideas ; for he suddenly asked Morton in a low whisper -- `` Wad there be ony ill in getting out o ' thae chields ' hands an ane could compass it ? '' 
`` None in the world , '' said Morton ; `` and if an opportunity occurs of doing so , depend on it I for one will not let it slip . '' 
`` I will resist any authority on earth , '' said Morton , `` that invades tyrannically my chartered rights as a freeman ; and I am determined I will not be unjustly dragged to a jail , or perhaps a gibbet , if I can possibly make my escape from these men either by address or force . '' 
`` The charter that I speak of , '' said Morton , `` is common to the meanest Scotchman . 
answered Morton ; `` alas ! 
-- said he , stopping and interrupting himself . 
`` Probably not , '' replied Morton . 
`` I fear , '' said Morton , `` there is very little chance , my good friend Cuddie , of our getting back to our old occupation . '' 
`` Fiend hae me , '' said Cuddie , addressing himself to Morton , `` if I dinna think our mither preaches as weel as the minister ! 
It was not , therefore , without a peculiar feeling of emotion , that Morton beheld , at the distance of about half a mile , the body of the cavalry to which his escort belonged , creeping up a steep and winding path which ascended from the more level moor into the hills . 
`` Surely , '' said Morton to himself , `` a handful of resolute men may defend any defile in these mountains against such a small force as this is , providing that their bravery is equal to their enthusiasm . '' 
While he made these reflections , the rapid movement of the horsemen who guarded him , soon traversed the space which divided them from their companions ; and ere the front of Claverhouse 's column had gained the brow of the hill which they had been seen ascending , Bothwell , with his rearguard and prisoners , had united himself , or nearly so , with the main body led by his commander . 
The second line closed upon them , and also the rear-guard with the prisoners ; so that Morton and his companions in captivity could , in like manner , see the form of opposition which was now offered to the farther progress of their captors . 
The reader may perhaps receive some farther information on the subject of Cornet Grahame 's death and the flight of Claverhouse , from the following Latin lines , a part of a poem entitled , Bellum Bothuellianum , by Andrew Guild , which exists in manuscript in the Advocates ' Library : During the severe skirmish of which we have given the details , Morton , together with Cuddie and his mother , and the Reverend Gabriel Kettledrummle , remained on the brow of the hill , near to the small cairn , or barrow , beside which Claverhouse had held his preliminary council of war , so that they had a commanding view of the action which took place in the bottom . 
`` Much is not necessary , Cuddie , '' answered Morton ; `` they have a strong position , and weapons in their hands , and are more than three times the number of their assailants . 
Accordingly , strong curiosity on the part of Morton and Cuddie , together with the heated enthusiasm of old Mause , detained them on the spot from which they could best hear and see the issue of the action , leaving to Kettledrummle to occupy alone his place of security . 
Morton and the old woman , whose hands were at liberty , lost no time in undoing the bonds of Cuddie and of the clergyman , both of whom had been secured by a cord tied round their arms above the elbows . 
Morton , on the other hand , rushed forward to save his life , if possible , in order at once to indulge his natural generosity , and to requite the obligation which Lord Evandale had conferred on him that morning , and under which circumstances had made him wince so acutely . 
made a blow at the young nobleman , which Morton parried with difficulty , exclaiming to the rider , who was no other than Burley himself , `` Give quarter to this gentleman , for my sake -- for the sake , '' he added , observing that Burley did not immediately recognise him , `` of Henry Morton , who so lately sheltered you . '' 
`` Henry Morton ? '' 
`` You must not , and you shall not , slay him , more especially while incapable of defence , '' said Morton , planting himself before Lord Evandale so as to intercept any blow that should be aimed at him ; `` I owed my life to him this morning -- my life , which was endangered solely by my having sheltered you ; and to shed his blood when he can offer no effectual resistance , were not only a cruelty abhorrent to God and man , but detestable ingratitude both to him and to me . '' 
`` Cuddie , '' said Morton , `` for God 's sake catch a horse as quickly as you can . 
he continued , addressing himself to his prisoner , who , half-stunned by the fall , was but beginning to recover himself . 
-- Do I owe my life to Mr Morton ? '' 
`` My interference would have been the same from common humanity , '' replied Morton ; `` to your lordship it was a sacred debt of gratitude . '' 
-- Mr Morton , '' he continued , addressing Henry , `` this makes us more than even -- rely on it , I will never forget your generosity -- Farewell . '' 
Lord Evandale had just rode off , when several of the insurgents , who were in the front of the pursuit , came up , denouncing vengeance on Henry Morton and Cuddie for having aided the escape of a Philistine , as they called the young nobleman . 
Kettledrummle , whose fear was much dissipated since the firing had ceased , again took upon him to be intercessor , and grown bold , as he felt his good word necessary for the protection of his late fellow-captives , he laid claim to no small share of the merit of the victory , appealing to Morton and Cuddie , whether the tide of battle had not turned while he prayed on the Mount of Jehovah-Nissi , like Moses , that Israel might prevail over Amalek ; but granting them , at the same time , the credit of holding up his hands when they waxed heavy , as those of the prophet were supported by Aaron and Hur . 
The reports on the subject were various ; but it was universally agreed , that young Morton of Milnwood , the son of the stout soldier of the Covenant , Silas Morton , together with the precious Gabriel Kettledrummle , and a singular devout Christian woman , whom many thought as good as himself at extracting a doctrine or an use , whether of terror or consolation , had arrived to support the good old cause , with a reinforcement of a hundred well-armed men from the Middle Ward . 
She knew him generous , and faithful to his word ; but it seemed too plain that he suspected the object of her intercession to be a successful rival ; and was it not expecting from him an effort above human nature , to suppose that he was to watch over Morton 's safety , and rescue him from all the dangers to which his state of imprisonment , and the suspicions which he had incurred , must repeatedly expose him ? 
Edith longed to enquire the fate of Henry Morton , but could find no pretext for doing so , and could only hope that it had made a subject of some part of the long private communication which her uncle had held with Claverhouse . 
We return to Henry Morton , whom we left on the field of battle . 
He was eating , by one of the watch-fires , his portion of the provisions which had been distributed to the army , and musing deeply on the path which he was next to pursue , when Burley suddenly came up to him , accompanied by the young minister , whose exhortation after the victory had produced such a powerful effect . 
`` Henry Morton , '' said Balfour abruptly , `` the council of the army of the Covenant , confiding that the son of Silas Morton can never prove a lukewarm Laodicean , or an indifferent Gallio , in this great day , have nominated you to be a captain of their host , with the right of a vote in their council , and all authority fitting for an officer who is to command Christian men . '' 
`` Mr Balfour , '' replied Morton , without hesitation , `` I feel this mark of confidence , and it is not surprising that a natural sense of the injuries of my country , not to mention those I have sustained in my own person , should make me sufficiently willing to draw my sword for liberty and freedom of conscience . 
`` I will own frankly , Mr Balfour , '' replied Morton , `` much of this sort of language , which , I observe , is so powerful with others , is entirely lost on me . 
`` I distress you , sir , '' said Morton ; `` but , perhaps , it is because you will not hear me out . 
-- Listen to me , Morton . 
`` Most certainly , '' said Morton ; `` such I esteem legitimate causes of warfare , and for such I will fight while I can wield a sword . '' 
That we may be enabled to dispense with detailing at length the arguments by which he urged Morton to join the insurgents , we shall take this opportunity to give a brief sketch of the person by whom they were used , and the motives which he had for interesting himself so deeply in the conversion of young Morton to his cause . 
He was , on this account , particularly anxious to secure the accession of Henry Morton to the cause of the insurgents . 
The memory of his father was generally esteemed among the presbyterians ; and as few persons of any decent quality had joined the insurgents , this young man 's family and prospects were such as almost ensured his being chosen a leader . 
Through Morton 's means , as being the son of his ancient comrade , Burley conceived he might exercise some influence over the more liberal part of the army , and ultimately , perhaps , ingratiate himself so far with them , as to be chosen commander-in-chief , which was the mark at which his ambition aimed . 
He had , therefore , without waiting till any other person took up the subject , exalted to the council the talents and disposition of Morton , and easily obtained his elevation to the painful rank of a leader in this disunited and undisciplined army . 
The arguments by which Balfour pressed Morton to accept of this dangerous promotion , as soon as he had gotten rid of his less wary and uncompromising companion , Macbriar , were sufficiently artful and urgent . 
Morton wanted not these arguments to induce him to join in any insurrection , which might appear to have a feasible prospect of freedom to the country . 
He doubted , indeed , greatly , whether the present attempt was likely to be supported by the strength sufficient to ensure success , or by the wisdom and liberality of spirit necessary to make a good use of the advantages that might be gained . 
Upon the whole , however , considering the wrongs he had personally endured , and those which he had seen daily inflicted on his fellow-subjects ; meditating also upon the precarious and dangerous situation in which he already stood with relation to the government , he conceived himself , in every point of view , called upon to join the body of presbyterians already in arms . 
But while he expressed to Burley his acquiescence in the vote which had named him a leader among the insurgents , and a member of their council of war , it was not without a qualification . 
`` Frankly , '' answered Morton , `` such is my meaning . '' 
`` I have no wish to judge this individual action , '' replied Morton , `` further than is necessary to make you fully aware of my principles . 
`` You deceive yourself , Mr Balfour , '' said Morton ; `` such circumstances of facility of execution and escape have often attended the commission of the most enormous crimes . 
Morton arose and followed him in silence ; not greatly delighted with his associate , and better satisfied with the general justice of the cause which he had espoused , than either with the measures or the motives of many of those who were embarked in it . 
Towards this spot Burley guided Morton , who was surprised , as he approached it , at the multifarious confusion of sounds which issued from its precincts . 
By expostulation , by threats , and even by some degree of violence , Burley , the sternness of whose character maintained a sort of superiority over these disorderly forces , compelled the intruders to retire , and , introducing Morton into the cottage , secured the door behind them against impertinent curiosity . 
It was the din of this conflict , maintained chiefly between Poundtext and Kettledrummle , together with the clamour of their adherents , which had saluted Morton 's ears upon approaching the cottage . 
Indeed , as both the divines were men well gifted with words and lungs , and each fierce , ardent , and intolerant in defence of his own doctrine , prompt in the recollection of texts wherewith they battered each other without mercy , and deeply impressed with the importance of the subject of discussion , the noise of the debate betwixt them fell little short of that which might have attended an actual bodily conflict . 
Balfour took advantage of the momentary pause to present to the council Mr Henry Morton of Milnwood , as one touched with a sense of the evils of the times , and willing to peril goods and life in the precious cause for which his father , the renowned Silas Morton , had given in his time a soul-stirring testimony . 
Morton was instantly received with the right hand of fellowship by his ancient pastor , Poundtext , and by those among the insurgents who supported the more moderate principles . 
They added , however , that , on this great day of calling , they would not refuse society with any who should put hand to the plough ; and so Morton was installed in his office of leader and counsellor , if not with the full approbation of his colleagues , at least without any formal or avowed dissent . 
In this partition , the insurgents of Poundtext 's parish and congregation were naturally placed under the command of Morton ; an arrangement mutually agreeable to both parties , as he was recommended to their confidence , as well by his personal qualities as his having been born among them . 
Morton 's heart throbbed high when he heard the Tower of Tillietudlem named as one of the most important positions to be seized upon . 
While he spoke thus , the orator struggled forward to the inner part of the circle , and presented to Morton 's wondering eyes a figure worthy of such a voice and such language . 
said Morton , in a whisper to Poundtext , surprised , shocked , and even startled , at this ghastly apparition , which looked more like the resurrection of some cannibal priest , or druid red from his human sacrifice , than like an earthly mortal . 
`` This is utter abomination and daring impiety , '' said Morton , unable to contain his indignation . 
Astonished , disgusted , and horror-struck , at what he had seen and heard , Morton turned away from the circle and left the cottage . 
He was followed by Burley , who had his eye on his motions . 
said the latter , taking him by the arm . 
`` No cause , '' replied Morton , indignantly -- `` no cause can prosper , so conducted . 
One party declares for the ravings of a bloodthirsty madman ; another leader is an old scholastic pedant ; a third '' -- he stopped , and his companion continued the sentence -- `` Is a desperate homicide , thou wouldst say , like John Balfour of Burley ? 
`` But their affairs , '' replied Morton , `` were wisely conducted , and the violence of their zeal expended itself in their exhortations and sermons , without bringing divisions into their counsels , or cruelty into their conduct . 
`` Thou must have patience , Henry Morton , '' answered Balfour ; `` thou must not leave the cause of thy religion and country either for one wild word , or one extravagant action . 
`` It will give me pleasure , doubtless , '' answered Morton , `` to be the means of softening the horrors of civil war ; and I will not leave the post I have taken , unless I see measures adopted at which my conscience revolts . 
`` I own to you , '' replied Morton , `` that I feel still more abhorrent at cold-blooded and premeditated cruelty , than at that which is practised in the heat of zeal and resentment . '' 
With this concession Morton was compelled to be satisfied for the present ; and Burley left him , advising him to lie down and get some rest , as the host would probably move in the morning . 
`` And you , '' answered Morton , `` do not you go to rest also ? '' 
He turned away , and left Morton to his repose . 
The place in which he found himself was not ill adapted for the purpose , being a sheltered nook , beneath a large rock , well protected from the prevailing wind . 
Morton wrapped himself in the horse-man 's cloak which he had still retained , stretched himself on the ground , and had not long indulged in melancholy reflections on the state of the country , and upon his own condition , ere he was relieved from them by deep and sound slumber . 
With the first peep of day Henry awoke , and found the faithful Cuddie standing beside him with a portmanteau in his hand . 
said Morton , `` you must be dreaming . '' 
said Morton , `` for how else could you come by that portmanteau ? '' 
said Morton . 
`` There can be no harm , Cuddie , '' said Morton , `` in making use of this money , since we know how he came by it ; but you must divide with me . '' 
`` Upon my word , you have made a very successful foray for a beginner , '' said his new master . 
`` But , Cuddie , '' said Morton , `` I really can not take these things from you without some recompense . '' 
Not being able to prevail on the self-constituted and disinterested follower to accept of any thing for himself out of these warlike spoils , Morton resolved to take the first opportunity of returning Lord Evandale 's property , supposing him yet to be alive ; and , in the meanwhile , did not hesitate to avail himself of Cuddie 's prize , so far as to appropriate some changes of linen and other triffling articles amongst those of more value which the portmanteau contained . 
In a secret pocket of the book , which Morton did not discover without some trouble , were one or two letters , written in a beautiful female hand . 
Without having time to peruse them accurately , Morton perceived that they contained the elegant yet fond expressions of female affection directed towards an object whose jealousy they endeavoured to soothe , and of whose hasty , suspicious , and impatient temper , the writer seemed gently to complain . 
With these letters was a lock of hair wrapped in a copy of verses , written obviously with a feeling , which atoned , in Morton 's opinion , for the roughness of the poetry , and the conceits with which it abounded , according to the taste of the period : Thy hue , dear pledge , is pure and bright , As in that well-remember 'd night , When first thy mystic braid was wove , And first my Agnes whisper 'd love . 
As he finished reading these lines , Morton could not forbear reflecting with compassion on the fate of this singular and most unhappy being , who , it appeared , while in the lowest state of degradation , and almost of contempt , had his recollections continually fixed on the high station to which his birth seemed to entitle him ; and , while plunged in gross licentiousness , was in secret looking back with bitter remorse to the period of his youth , during which he had nourished a virtuous , though unfortunate attachment . 
what are we , '' said Morton , `` that our best and most praiseworthy feelings can be thus debased and depraved -- that honourable pride can sink into haughty and desperate indifference for general opinion , and the sorrow of blighted affection inhabit the same bosom which license , revenge , and rapine , have chosen for their citadel ? 
he continued . 
Morton gave him some brief account of Cuddie 's successful marauding party , and handed him the pocket-book of Bothwell , with its contents . 
`` Your ideas of duty , then , '' said Morton , `` exclude love of the fine arts , which have been supposed in general to purify and to elevate the mind ? '' 
`` I have heard my father observe , '' replied Morton , `` that many who assumed power in the name of Heaven , were as severe in its exercise , and as unwilling to part with it , as if they had been solely moved by the motives of worldly ambition -- But of this another time . 
Morton accompanied him to a sequestered grassplot , where their colleagues awaited them . 
On the part of the Cameronians , were Burley , Macbriar , and Kettledrummle ; and on that of the moderate party , Poundtext , Henry Morton , and a small proprietor , called the Laird of Langcale . 
Such was the determination of the council of management ; and thus Morton 's first enterprise in active life was likely to be the attack of a castle belonging to the parent of his mistress , and defended by her relative , Major Bellenden , to whom he personally owed many obligations ! 
`` I was unhorsed and defenceless , and the sword raised to dispatch me , when young Mr Morton , the prisoner for whom you interested yourself yesterday morning , interposed in the most generous manner , preserved my life , and furnished me with the means of escaping . '' 
Major Bellenden , who would never have observed the emotions of either party , even had they been much more markedly expressed , contented himself with saying , `` Since Henry Morton has influence with these rascals , I am glad he has so exerted it ; but I hope he will get clear of them as soon as he can . 
I know his principles , and that he detests their cant and hypocrisy . 
I have heard him laugh a thousand times at the pedantry of that old presbyterian scoundrel , Poundtext , who , after enjoying the indulgence of the government for so many years , has now , upon the very first ruffle , shown himself in his own proper colours , and set off , with three parts of his cropeared congregation , to join the host of the fanatics . 
`` Just that Henry Morton of Milnwood is out wi ' the rebels , and ane o ' their chief leaders . '' 
Henry Morton is incapable of such treachery to his king and country -- such cruelty to me -- to -- to all the innocent and defenceless victims , I mean , who must suffer in a civil war -- I tell you he is utterly incapable of it , in every sense . '' 
With this consolatory reflection the damsel went about her usual occupations , leaving her mistress to school her mind as she best might , for eradicating the sentiments which she had hitherto entertained towards Henry Morton . 
I ought to observe , that the report of the spies had now been regularly made and received ; but the Major treated the report that Morton was in arms against the government with the most scornful incredulity . 
`` I know the lad better , '' was the only reply he deigned to make ; `` the fellows have not dared to venture near enough , and have been deceived by some fanciful resemblance , or have picked up some story . '' 
The letter to Major Bellenden was from Henry Morton . 
Therefore , although in the first moment of resentment you may reject the proposal I make to you , let not that prevent you from resuming the topic , if future events should render it more acceptable ; for whenever , or howsoever , I can be of service to you , it will always afford the greatest satisfaction to `` Henry Morton . '' 
`` I would not have believed this , '' he said , `` of Henry Morton , if half mankind had sworn it ! 
A strong party of marksmen , -LRB- many of them competitors at the game of the popinjay , -RRB- under the command of Henry Morton , glided through the woods where they afforded them the best shelter , and , avoiding the open road , endeavoured , by forcing their way through the bushes and trees , and up the rocks which surrounded it on either side , to gain a position , from which , without being exposed in an intolerable degree , they might annoy the flank of the second barricade , while it was menaced in front by a second attack from Burley . 
The council nominated Henry Morton , with others , to this last service , and appointed Burley to the command of a chosen body of five hundred men , who were to remain behind , for the purpose of blockading the Tower of Tillietudlem . 
Morton testified the greatest repugnance to this arrangement . 
`` He had the strongest personal motives , '' he said , `` for desiring to remain near Tillietudlem ; and if the management of the siege were committed to him , he had little doubt but that he would bring it to such an accommodation , as , without being rigorous to the besieged , would fully answer the purpose of the besiegers . '' 
Burley readily guessed the cause of his young colleague 's reluctance to move with the army ; for , interested as he was in appreciating the characters with whom he had to deal , he had contrived , through the simplicity of Cuddie , and the enthusiasm of old Mause , to get much information concerning Morton 's relations with the family of Tillietudlem . 
He therefore took the advantage of Poundtext 's arising to speak to business , as he said , for some short space of time , -LRB- which Burley rightly interpreted to mean an hour at the very least -RRB- , and seized that moment to withdraw Morton from the hearing of their colleagues , and to hold the following argument with him : `` Thou art unwise , Henry Morton , to desire to sacrifice this holy cause to thy friendship for an uncircumcised Philistine , or thy lust for a Moabitish woman . '' 
`` I neither understand your meaning , Mr Balfour , nor relish your allusions , '' replied Morton , indignantly ; `` and I know no reason you have to bring so gross a charge , or to use such uncivil language . '' 
`` If you mean , that I would willingly terminate this war without any bloody victory , and that I am more anxious to do this than to acquire any personal fame or power , you may be , '' replied Morton , `` perfectly right . '' 
`` Certainly , '' replied Morton ; `` I am too much obliged to Major Bellenden not to wish to be of service to him , as far as the interest of the cause I have espoused will permit . 
`` This is not the case , '' answered Morton ; `` we know his stores are hardly equal to a week 's consumption . '' 
said Morton . 
continued Morton . 
`` There are many proofs , '' replied Burley ; and he put into his hands a number of requisitions sent forth by Major Bellenden , with receipts on the back to various proprietors , for cattle , corn , meal , & c. , to such an amount , that the sum total seemed to exclude the possibility of the garrison being soon distressed for provisions . 
But Burley did not inform Morton of a fact which he himself knew full well , namely , that most of these provisions never reached the garrison , owing to the rapacity of the dragoons sent to collect them , who readily sold to one man what they took from another , and abused the Major 's press for stores , pretty much as Sir John Falstaff did that of the King for men . 
`` And why , '' continued Morton , who felt an inexpressible reluctance to acquiesce in Balfour 's reasoning -- `` why not permit me to remain in the command of this smaller party , and march forward yourself to Glasgow ? 
Stung by this last observation , to which , as a gentleman and soldier , he could offer no suitable reply , Morton hastily acquiesced in the proposed arrangement . 
Yet he was unable to divest himself of certain feelings of distrust which he involuntarily attached to the quarter from which he received this information . 
`` Mr Balfour , '' he said , `` let us distinctly understand each other . 
With this qualified promise Morton was obliged to rest satisfied . 
`` Our defeat will relieve the garrison , '' said he , internally , `` ere they can be reduced to surrender at discretion ; and , in case of victory , I already see , from the numbers of the moderate party , that I shall have a voice as powerful as Burley 's in determining the use which shall be made of it . '' 
He therefore followed Balfour to the council , where they found Kettledrummle adding to his lastly a few words of practical application . 
When these were expended , Morton testified his willingness to accompany the main body of the army , which was destined to drive the regular troops from Glasgow . 
His companions in command were named , and the whole received a strengthening exhortation from the preachers who were present . 
It was in vain that Morton and other leaders exposed their persons with the utmost gallantry , and endeavoured to bring their antagonists to a close action ; their followers shrunk from them in every direction . 
And yet , though Henry Morton was one of the very last to retire , and exerted himself in bringing up the rear , maintaining order in the retreat , and checking every attempt which the enemy made to improve the advantage they had gained by the repulse , he had still the mortification to hear many of those in his ranks muttering to each other , that `` this came of trusting to latitudinarian boys ; and that , had honest , faithful Burley led the attack , as he did that of the barricades of Tillietudlem , the issue would have been as different as might be . '' 
It was with burning resentment that Morton heard these reflections thrown out by the very men who had soonest exhibited signs of discouragement . 
The unjust reproach , however , had the effect of firing his emulation , and making him sensible that , engaged as he was in a perilous cause , it was absolutely necessary that he should conquer or die . 
`` I have no retreat , '' he said to himself . 
`` All shall allow -- even Major Bellenden -- even Edith -- that in courage , at least , the rebel Morton was not inferior to his father . '' 
Many of these attached themselves particularly to Morton 's division . 
He had , however , the mortification to see that his unpopularity among the more intolerant part of the Covenanters increased rapidly . 
The prudence beyond his years , which he exhibited in improving the discipline and arrangement of his followers , they termed a trusting in the arm of flesh , and his avowed tolerance for those of religious sentiments and observances different from his own , obtained him , most unjustly , the nickname of Gallio , who cared for none of those things . 
What was worse than these misconceptions , the mob of the insurgents , always loudest in applause of those who push political or religious opinions to extremity , and disgusted with such as endeavour to reduce them to the yoke of discipline , preferred avowedly the more zealous leaders , in whose ranks enthusiasm in the cause supplied the want of good order and military subjection , to the restraints which Morton endeavoured to bring them under . 
In short , while bearing the principal burden of command , -LRB- for his colleagues willingly relinquished in his favour every thing that was troublesome and obnoxious in the office of general , -RRB- Morton found himself without that authority , which alone could render his regulations effectual.These feuds , which tore to pieces the little army of insurgents , turned merely on the point whether the king 's interest or royal authority was to be owned or not , and whether the party in arms were to be contented with a free exercise of their own religion , or insist upon the re-establishment of Presbytery in its supreme authority , and with full power to predominate over all other forms of worship . 
It can not be doubted that Morton 's anxiety to measure himself with Colonel Grahame of Claverhouse , at whose hands he had sustained such injury , had its share in giving motive to his uncommon exertions . 
The insurgents of course entered Glasgow without resistance , and without Morton having the opportunity , which he so deeply coveted , of again encountering Claverhouse personally . 
But , although he had not an opportunity of wiping away the disgrace which had befallen his division of the army of the Covenant , the retreat of Claverhouse , and the possession of Glasgow , tended greatly to animate the insurgent army , and to increase its numbers . 
The necessity of appointing new officers , of organizing new regiments and squadrons , of making them acquainted with at least the most necessary points of military discipline , were labours , which , by universal consent , seemed to be devolved upon Henry Morton , and which he the more readily undertook , because his father had made him acquainted with the theory of the military art , and because he plainly saw , that , unless he took this ungracious but absolutely necessary labour , it was vain to expect any other to engage in it . 
Morton remained here for about a fortnight after the attack on Glasgow , actively engaged in his military duties . 
He had received more than one communication from Burley , but they only stated , in general , that the Castle of Tillietudlem continued to hold out . 
The Reverend Mr Poundtext took the same opportunity to pay a visit to his own residence in the neighbourhood of Milnwood , and favoured Morton with his company on the journey . 
When Morton was left alone to his own reflections , with what a complication of feelings did he review the woods , banks , and fields , that had been familiar to him ! 
His character , as well as his habits , thoughts , and occupations , had been entirely changed within the space of little more than a fortnight , and twenty days seemed to have done upon him the work of as many years . 
Upon approaching Milnwood , Henry 's knock upon the gate no longer intimated the conscious timidity of a stripling who has been out of bounds , but the confidence of a man in full possession of his own rights , and master of his own actions , -- bold , free , and decided . 
said Morton , smiling at her alarm . 
`` It is , however , my own self , '' said Henry , sighing and smiling at the same time ; `` I believe this dress may make me look taller , and these times , Ailie , make men out of boys . '' 
`` You were always my advocate , Ailie , '' said he , and the housekeeper no longer resented the familiar epithet , `` and would let no one blame me but yourself , I am aware of that , -- Where is my uncle ? '' 
said Henry . 
said Morton ; `` how do you mean ? '' 
`` Then , '' said Morton , hastily , `` the garrison must be straitened for provisions ? '' 
A light instantly glanced on Morton 's mind . 
Such was his inward thought ; he said aloud , `` I can not stay , Mrs Wilson , I must go forward directly . '' 
bide to eat a mouthfu ' , '' entreated the affectionate housekeeper , `` and I 'll mak it ready for you as I used to do afore thae sad days , '' `` It is impossible , '' answered Morton . 
said Morton , in the greatest surprise . 
`` Fed , or unfed , '' exclaimed Morton , `` saddle the horses instantly , Cuddie . 
Morton failed not to halt at the dwelling of Poundtext , and summon him to attend him to the camp . 
That honest divine had just resumed for an instant his pacific habits , and was perusing an ancient theological treatise , with a pipe in his mouth , and a small jug of ale beside him , to assist his digestion of the argument . 
It was with bitter ill-will that he relinquished these comforts -LRB- which he called his studies -RRB- in order to recommence a hard ride upon a high-trotting horse . 
However , when he knew the matter in hand , he gave up , with a deep groan , the prospect of spending a quiet evening in his own little parlour ; for he entirely agreed with Morton , that whatever interest Burley might have in rendering the breach between the presbyterians and the government irreconcilable , by putting the young nobleman to death , it was by no means that of the moderate party to permit such an act of atrocity . 
And it is but doing justice to Mr Poundtext to add , that , like most of his own persuasion , he was decidedly adverse to any such acts of unnecessary violence ; besides , that his own present feelings induced him to listen with much complacence to the probability held out by Morton , of Lord Evandale 's becoming a mediator for the establishment of peace upon fair and moderate terms . 
Morton instantly demanded to speak with Burley , and was directed to his quarters . 
They found him reading the Scriptures , with his arms lying beside him , as if ready for any sudden alarm . 
He started upon the entrance of his colleagues in office . 
`` No , '' replied Morton ; `` but we understand that there are measures adopted here in which the safety of the army is deeply concerned -- Lord Evandale is your prisoner ? '' 
`` We are in arms , '' replied Morton , `` to put down such cruelties , and not to imitate them , far less to avenge upon the innocent the acts of the guilty . 
`` Gentlemen , '' said Morton , `` cease this irritating and unavailing recrimination ; and do you , Mr Balfour , inform us , whether it is your purpose to oppose the liberation of Lord Evandale , which appears to us a profitable measure in the present position of our affairs ? '' 
`` This , '' said Morton , `` we would not decline , if we could trust the hands in whom we are to leave the prisoner . 
`` Mr Balfour , '' said Morton , laying his hand on his sword , `` this language requires satisfaction . '' 
He is my prisoner , made by my sword and spear , while you , Mr Morton , were playing the adjutant at drills and parades , and you , Mr Poundtext , were warping the Scriptures into Erastianism . 
-- Dingwall , '' he continued , calling a sort of aid-de-camp , who slept in the next apartment , `` let the guard posted on the malignant Evandale give up their post to those whom Captain Morton shall appoint to relieve them . 
-- The prisoner , '' he said , again addressing Poundtext and Morton , `` is now at your disposal , gentlemen . 
So saying , he turned abruptly into an inner apartment , without bidding them good evening . 
His two visitors , after a moment 's consideration , agreed it would be prudent to ensure the prisoner 's personal safety , by placing over him an additional guard , chosen from their own parishioners . 
By Morton 's desire , four of these lads readily undertook the task of sentinels , and he left with them Headrigg , on whose fidelity he could depend , with instructions to call him , if any thing remarkable happened . 
This arrangement being made , Morton and his colleague took possession , for the night , of such quarters as the over-crowded and miserable hamlet could afford them . 
Morton could not but strongly hope that these terms , which comprehended all that was wanted , or wished for , by the moderate party among the insurgents , might , when thus cleared of the violence of fanaticism , find advocates even among the royalists , as claiming only the ordinary rights of Scottish freemen . 
He had the more confidence of a favourable reception , that the Duke of Monmouth , to whom Charles had intrusted the charge of subduing this rebellion , was a man of gentle , moderate , and accessible disposition , well known to be favourable to the presbyterians , and invested by the king with full powers to take measures for quieting the disturbances in Scotland . 
It seemed to Morton , that all that was necessary for influencing him in their favour was to find a fit and sufficiently respectable channel of communication , and such seemed to be opened through the medium of Lord Evandale . 
Morton had finished the revisal and the making out of a fair copy of the paper on which he and Poundtext had agreed to rest as a full statement of the grievances of their party , and the conditions on which the greater part of the insurgents would be contented to lay down their arms ; and he was about to betake himself to repose , when there was a knocking at the door of his apartment . 
`` Enter , '' said Morton ; and the round bullethead of Cuddie Headrigg was thrust into the room . 
`` Come in , '' said Morton , `` and tell me what you want . 
enquired Morton . 
`` Ane o ' your auld acquaintance , '' said Cuddie ; and , opening the door more fully , he half led , half dragged in a woman , whose face was muffled in her plaid . 
-- `` Come , come , ye needna be sae bashfu ' before auld acquaintance , Jenny , '' said Cuddie , pulling down the veil , and discovering to his master the well-remembered countenance of Jenny Dennison . 
said Morton , kindly . 
answered Morton . 
`` My friends at Tillietudlem judge too hastily and too ill of me , '' answered Morton . 
replied Morton , `` I have heard of scarcity , but not of famine ! 
Morton was greatly shocked . 
`` Sit down , '' he said , `` for God 's sake ! '' 
forcing her into the only chair the apartment afforded , while he himself strode up and down the room in horror and impatience . 
`` I knew not of this , '' he exclaimed in broken ejaculations , -- `` I could not know of it . 
Confounded at her state , and reflecting with horror on the distress which must have been in the Castle , Morton repeated his commands to Headrigg in a peremptory manner ; and when he had departed , endeavoured to soothe his visitor . 
`` Be assured , Jenny , '' said Morton , observing that she hesitated , `` that you will best serve your mistress by dealing sincerely with me . '' 
said Morton ; `` why do they not make terms for all in the Castle ? '' 
`` And you were sent , '' continued Morton , `` to carry to Lord Evandale the unpleasant news of the men 's mutiny ? '' 
said Morton ; `` he is a prisoner . '' 
`` Well-a-day , ay , '' answered the afflicted damsel ; `` but maybe he could mak fair terms for us -- or , maybe , he could gie us some good advice -- or , maybe , he might send his orders to the dragoons to be civil -- or '' -- `` Or , maybe , '' said Morton , `` you were to try if it were possible to set him at liberty ? '' 
`` True , Jenny , '' replied Morton , `` I were most ungrateful to forget it . 
`` It willna be amiss ye should ken , '' said Cuddie to his master , `` that this Jenny -- this Mrs Dennison , was trying to cuittle favour wi ' Tam Rand , the miller 's man , to win into Lord Evandale 's room without ony body kennin ' . 
`` And an unco fright ye gae me when ye cam ahint and took a grip o ' me , '' said Jenny , giving him a sly twitch with her finger and her thumb -- `` if ye hadna been an auld acquaintance , ye daft gomeril '' -- Cuddie , somewhat relenting , grinned a smile on his artful mistress , while Morton wrapped himself up in his cloak , took his sword under his arm , and went straight to the place of the young nobleman 's confinement . 
He asked the sentinels if any thing extraordinary had occurred . 
`` The purpose , I presume , '' said Morton , with an affectation of indifference , `` was to call them hither . '' 
He is summoning a triumphant majority of the council , thought Morton to himself , for the purpose of sanctioning whatever action of atrocity he may determine upon , and thwarting opposition by authority . 
When he entered the place of Lord Evandale 's confinement , he found him ironed , and reclining on a flock bed in the wretched garret of a miserable cottage . 
He was either in a slumber , or in deep meditation , when Morton entered , and turned on him , when aroused , a countenance so much reduced by loss of blood , want of sleep , and scarcity of food , that no one could have recognised in it the gallant soldier who had behaved with so much spirit at the skirmish of Loudon-hill . 
He displayed some surprise at the sudden entrance of Morton . 
`` I have heard you are an admirer of poetry , '' answered the prisoner ; `` in that case , Mr Morton , you may remember these lines , -- ` Stone walls do not a prison make , Or iron bars a cage ; A free and quiet mind can take These for a hermitage . ' 
said Morton . 
`` But Major Bellenden , '' said Morton , `` may surrender , in order to preserve your life . '' 
Morton hastened to acquaint him with the mutiny among the dragoons , and their resolution to surrender the Castle , and put the ladies of the family , as well as the Major , into the hands of the enemy . 
`` Hear me , my lord , '' said Morton . 
`` Permit me , my lord '' -- continued Morton . 
`` Mr Morton , '' he said , `` in my simple judgment , I see little objection that can be made to the measure here recommended ; nay , farther , I believe , in many respects , they may meet the private sentiments of the Duke of Monmouth : and yet , to deal frankly with you , I have no hopes of their being granted , unless , in the first place , you were to lay down your arms . '' 
`` The doing so , '' answered Morton , `` would be virtually conceding that we had no right to take them up ; and that , for one , I will never agree to . '' 
`` It is all we can wish or expect , '' replied Morton ; `` the issue is in God 's hands , who disposes the hearts of princes . 
said Morton . 
`` You are in that case free , '' said Morton . 
Leaving Lord Evandale in great surprise and joy at this unexpected deliverance , Morton hastened to get a few chosen men under arms and on horseback , each rider holding the rein of a spare horse . 
`` Miss Bellenden , '' answered Henry Morton , raising his face , and speaking in his natural tone , `` the person who has lost such a highly-valued place in your esteem , has yet too much spirit to plead his cause as a criminal ; and , conscious that he can no longer claim a friend 's interest in your bosom , he would be silent under your hard censure , were it not that he can refer to the honoured testimony of Lord Evandale , that his earnest wishes and most active exertions are , even now , directed to the accomplishment of such a peace as the most loyal can not censure . '' 
He bowed with dignity to Miss Bellenden , who , though her language intimated that she well knew to whom she had been speaking , probably had not expected that he would justify himself with so much animation . 
She returned his salute , confused and in silence . 
Morton then rode forward to the head of the party . 
`` Henry Morton ! '' 
`` The same , '' answered Morton ; `` who is sorry that he labours under the harsh construction of Major Bellenden and his family . 
He commits to my Lord Evandale , '' he continued , turning towards the young nobleman , and bowing to him , `` the charge of undeceiving his friends , both regarding the particulars of his conduct and the purity of his motives . 
`` Believe me , '' said Lord Evandale , `` your confidence , Mr Morton , is not misplaced ; I will endeavour to repay the great services I have received from you by doing my best to place your character on its proper footing with Major Bellenden , and all whose esteem you value . '' 
`` I expected no less from your generosity , my lord , '' said Morton . 
He then called his followers , and rode off along the heath in the direction of Hamilton , their feathers waving and their steel caps glancing in the beams of the rising sun . 
`` You must have been blind , Jenny , '' said the Major : `` Henry Morton is tall and fair , and that youth is the very man . '' 
`` You are deceived , madam , '' said Lord Evandale ; `` Mr Morton merits such a title from no one , but least from us . 
He then went into a particular narrative of the events with which the reader is acquainted , dwelling upon the merits of Morton , and expatiating on the risk at which he had rendered them these important services , as if he had been a brother instead of a rival . 
`` I were worse than ungrateful , '' he said , `` were I silent on the merits of the man who has twice saved my life . '' 
`` I would willingly think well of Henry Morton , my lord , '' replied Major Bellenden ; `` and I own he has behaved handsomely to your lordship and to us ; but I can not have the same allowances which it pleases your lordship to entertain for his present courses . '' 
`` I should have , madam , were every whig as moderate as Morton , and every loyalist as disinterested as Major Bellenden . 
`` Civil feuds and domestic prejudices , '' she said , `` may render it necessary for me to tear his remembrance from my heart ; but it is not small relief to know assuredly , that it is worthy of the place it has so long retained there . '' 
Morton endeavoured to fortify the minds of the common people by pointing out the probable exaggeration of these reports , and by reminding them of the strength of their own situation , with an unfordable river in front , only passable by a long and narrow bridge . 
He called to their remembrance their victory over Claverhouse when their numbers were few , and then much worse disciplined and appointed for battle than now ; showed them that the ground on which they lay afforded , by its undulation , and the thickets which intersected it , considerable protection against artillery , and even against cavalry , if stoutly defended ; and that their safety , in fact , depended on their own spirit and resolution . 
But while Morton thus endeavoured to keep up the courage of the army at large , he availed himself of those discouraging rumours to endeavour to impress on the minds of the leaders the necessity of proposing to the government moderate terms of accommodation , while they were still formidable as commanding an unbroken and numerous army . 
He pointed out to them , that , in the present humour of their followers , it could hardly be expected that they would engage , with advantage , the well-appointed and regular force of the Duke of Monmouth ; and that if they chanced , as was most likely , to be defeated and dispersed , the insurrection in which they had engaged , so far from being useful to the country , would be rendered the apology for oppressing it more severely . 
They then entered into similar resolutions , and agreed to guarantee the petition and remonstrance which had been drawn up by Morton . 
The prudence of Morton found sufficient occupation in stemming the furious current of these contending parties , when , two days after his return to Hamilton , he was visited by his friend and colleague , the Reverend Mr Poundtext , flying , as he presently found , from the face of John Balfour of Burley , whom he left not a little incensed at the share he had taken in the liberation of Lord Evandale . 
When the worthy divine had somewhat recruited his spirits , after the hurry and fatigue of his journey , he proceeded to give Morton an account of what had passed in the vicinity of Tillietudlem after the memorable morning of his departure . 
The night march of Morton had been accomplished with such dexterity , and the men were so faithful to their trust , that Burley received no intelligence of what had happened until the morning was far advanced . 
Burley then dispatched a messenger to Morton 's quarters to summon him to an immediate council . 
The messenger returned with news that he had left the place . 
Poundtext was next summoned ; but he thinking , as he said himself , that it was ill dealing with fractious folk , had withdrawn to his own quiet manse , preferring a dark ride , though he had been on horseback the whole preceding day , to a renewal in the morning of a controversy with Burley , whose ferocity overawed him when unsupported by the firmness of Morton . 
Burley 's next enquiries were directed after Lord Evandale ; and great was his rage when he learned that he had been conveyed away over night by a party of the marksmen of Milnwood , under the immediate command of Henry Morton himself . 
He was interrupted by the arrival of one of Morton 's followers , sent to report to him the evacuation of the place , and its occupation by the insurgent forces . 
At all events , the Moabitish woman shall be despoiled of her inheritance , and neither the malignant Evandale , nor the erastian Morton , shall possess yonder castle and lands , though they may seek in marriage the daughter thereof . '' 
`` And ye see , '' concluded Poundtext , with a deep sigh , `` that they will then possess a majority in the council ; for Langcale , though he has always passed for one of the honest and rational party , can not be suitably or preceesely termed either fish , or flesh , or gude red-herring -- whoever has the stronger party has Langcale . '' 
Morton exhorted him to patience , temper , and composure ; informed him of the good hope he had of negotiating for peace and indemnity through means of Lord Evandale , and made out to him a very fair prospect that he should again return to his own parchment-bound Calvin , his evening pipe of tobacco , and his noggin of inspiring ale , providing always he would afford his effectual support and concurrence to the measures which he , Morton , had taken for a general pacification . 
On the arrival of Morton and Poundtext at the place of assembly , they found their brethren already seated . 
`` By my authority and Mr Morton 's , '' replied Poundtext ; who , besides being anxious to give his companion a good opinion of his courage , confided heartily in his support , and , moreover , had much less fear of encountering one of his own profession , and who confined himself to the weapons of theological controversy , in which Poundtext feared no man , than of entering into debate with the stern homicide Balfour . 
`` It was so , '' replied Morton , who saw his companion begin to flinch before the fierce eye of Balfour -- `` it was so ; and what then ? 
`` It is false , '' said Morton ; `` they blaspheme who pretend to expect miracles , and neglect the use of the human means with which Providence has blessed them . 
The debate would now have run higher than ever , but they were interrupted by intelligence that the Duke of Monmouth had commenced his march towards the west , and was already advanced half way from Edinburgh . 
`` Let that be no obstacle , '' said Morton ; `` I will with pleasure encounter any risk attached to the bearer of your errand . '' 
The motion , therefore , received no contradiction even from those who were expected to have been most active in opposing it ; and it was agreed that Henry Morton should go to the camp of the Duke of Monmouth , in order to discover upon what terms the insurgents would be admitted to treat with him . 
As soon as his errand was made known , several of the more moderate party joined in requesting him to make terms upon the footing of the petition intrusted to Lord Evandale 's hands ; for the approach of the King 's army spread a general trepidation , by no means allayed by the high tone assumed by the Cameronians , which had so little to support it , excepting their own headlong zeal . 
With these instructions , and with Cuddie as his attendant , Morton set forth towards the royal camp , at all the risks which attend those who assume the office of mediator during the heat of civil discord . 
Morton had not proceeded six or seven miles , before he perceived that he was on the point of falling in with the van of the royal forces ; and , as he ascended a height , saw all the roads in the neighbourhood occupied by armed men marching in great order towards Bothwell-muir , an open common , on which they proposed to encamp for that evening , at the distance of scarcely two miles from the Clyde , on the farther side of which river the army of the insurgents was encamped . 
He gave himself up to the first advanced-guard of cavalry which he met , as bearer of a flag of truce , and communicated his desire to obtain access to the Duke of Monmouth . 
The non-commissioned officer who commanded the party made his report to his superior , and he again to another in still higher command , and both immediately rode to the spot where Morton was detained . 
`` You are but losing your time , my friend , and risking your life , '' said one of them , addressing Morton ; `` the Duke of Monmouth will receive no terms from traitors with arms in their hands , and your cruelties have been such as to authorize retaliation of every kind . 
`` I can not think , '' said Morton , `` that even if the Duke of Monmouth should consider us as criminals , he would condemn so large a body of his fellow-subjects without even hearing what they have to plead for themselves . 
said Morton . 
-- Your name , sir , I presume , is Henry Morton ? '' 
`` It is , sir , '' answered Morton . 
`` We will not oppose your seeing the Duke , sir , '' said the officer , with more civility of manner ; `` but you may assure yourself it will be to no purpose ; for , were his Grace disposed to favour your people , others are joined in commission with him who will hardly consent to his doing so . '' 
`` I shall be sorry to find it thus , '' said Morton ; `` but my duty requires that I should persevere in my desire to have an interview with him . '' 
`` Lumley , '' said the superior officer , `` let the Duke know of Mr Morton 's arrival , and remind his Grace that this is the person of whom Lord Evandale spoke so highly . '' 
The officer returned with a message that the General could not see Mr Morton that evening , but would receive him by times in the ensuing morning . 
He was detained in a neighbouring cottage all night , but treated with civility , and every thing provided for his accommodation . 
The Duke was in the centre , nearly a mile from the place where Morton had passed the night . 
In riding towards the General , he had an opportunity of estimating the force which had been assembled for the suppression of the hasty and ill-concerted insurrection . 
Morton also observed several strong parties of Highlanders drawn from the points nearest to the Lowland frontiers , a people , as already mentioned , particularly obnoxious to the western whigs , and who hated and despised them in the same proportion . 
The officer who accompanied Morton endeavoured to gather from his looks the feelings with which this splendid and awful parade of military force had impressed him . 
But , true to the cause he had espoused , he laboured successfully to prevent the anxiety which he felt from appearing in his countenance , and looked around him on the warlike display as on a sight which he expected , and to which he was indifferent . 
`` If I had no appetite for it , '' replied Morton , `` I should not have been accompanying you at this moment . 
When Captain Lumley , the officer who accompanied Morton , had whispered in Monmouth 's ear his name and errand , the Duke made a signal for all around him to retire , excepting only two general officers of distinction . 
While they spoke together in whispers for a few minutes before Morton was permitted to advance , he had time to study the appearance of the persons with whom he was to treat . 
It was impossible for any one to look upon the Duke of Monmouth without being captivated by his personal graces and accomplishments , of which the great High-Priest of all the Nine afterwards recorded -- `` Whate'er he did was done with so much ease , In him alone 't was natural to please ; His motions all accompanied with grace , And Paradise was open 'd in his face . '' 
Beside him stood Claverhouse , whom we have already fully described , and another general officer whose appearance was singularly striking . 
The presence of these two generals , one of whom he knew by person , and the other by description , seemed to Morton decisive of the fate of his embassy . 
But , notwithstanding his youth and inexperience , and the unfavourable reception which his proposals seemed likely to meet with , he advanced boldly towards them upon receiving a signal to that purpose , determined that the cause of his country , and of those with whom he had taken up arms , should suffer nothing from being intrusted to him . 
Monmouth received him with the graceful courtesy which attended even his slightest actions ; Dalzell regarded him with a stern , gloomy , and impatient frown ; and Claverhouse , with a sarcastic smile and inclination of his head , seemed to claim him as an old acquaintance . 
`` You come , sir , from these unfortunate people , now assembled in arms , '' said the Duke of Monmouth , `` and your name , I believe , is Morton ; will you favour us with the pupport of your errand ? '' 
`` It is contained , my lord , '' answered Morton , `` in a paper , termed a Remonstrance and Supplication , which my Lord Evandale has placed , I presume , in your Grace 's hands ? '' 
`` He has done so , sir , '' answered the Duke ; `` and I understand , from Lord Evandale , that Mr Morton has behaved in these unhappy matters with much temperance and generosity , for which I have to request his acceptance of my thanks . '' 
Here Morton observed Dalzell shake his head indignantly , and whisper something into Claverhouse 's ear , who smiled in return , and elevated his eyebrows , but in a degree so slight as scarce to be perceptible . 
`` There are , Mr Morton , in this paper , proposals , as to the abstract propriety of which I must now waive delivering any opinion . 
Some of them appear to me reasonable and just ; and , although I have no express instructions from the King upon the subject , yet I assure you , Mr Morton , and I pledge my honour , that I will interpose in your behalf , and use my utmost influence to procure you satisfaction from his Majesty . 
`` To do so , my Lord Duke , '' replied Morton , undauntedly , `` were to acknowledge ourselves the rebels that our enemies term us . 
`` Mr Morton , '' replied the Duke , `` you are young , but you must have seen enough of the world to perceive , that requests , by no means dangerous or unreasonable in themselves , may become so by the way in which they are pressed and supported . '' 
`` We may reply , my lord , '' answered Morton , `` that this disagreeable mode has not been resorted to until all others have failed . '' 
`` Mr Morton , '' said the Duke , `` I must break this conference short . 
-- I think , gentlemen , '' he added , turning to his two colleagues , `` this is the utmost length to which I can stretch my instructions in favour of these misguided persons ? '' 
`` You hear , '' he said , addressing Morton , `` General Dalzell blames me for the length which I am disposed to go in your favour . '' 
`` General Dalzell 's sentiments , my lord , '' replied Morton , `` are such as we expected from him ; your Grace 's such as we were prepared to hope you might please to entertain . 
The Duke made a signal to Morton to withdraw . 
That officer no sooner saw Morton , than he advanced and addressed him with perfect politeness of manner . 
`` I think this is not the first time I have seen Mr Morton of Milnwood ? '' 
`` It is not Colonel Grahame 's fault , '' said Morton , smiling sternly , `` that he or any one else should be now incommoded by my presence . '' 
`` Allow me at least to say , '' replied Claverhouse , `` that Mr Morton 's present situation authorizes the opinion I have entertained of him , and that my proceedings at our last meeting only squared to my duty . '' 
`` To reconcile your actions to your duty , and your duty to your conscience , is your business , Colonel Grahame , not mine , '' said Morton , justly offended at being thus , in a manner , required to approve of the sentence under which he had so nearly suffered . 
`` I should owe Lord Evandale my thanks , '' answered Morton , coldly , `` did not his scheme imply an opinion that I might be prevailed on to desert those with whom I am engaged . 
When Morton had left the well-ordered outposts of the regular army , and arrived at those which were maintained by his own party , he could not but be peculiarly sensible of the difference of discipline , and entertain a proportional degree of fear for the consequences . 
Morton , therefore , viewed the pass carefully , and formed the hope , that by occupying two or three houses on the left bank of the river , with the copse and thickets of alders and hazels that lined its side , and by blockading the passage itself , and shutting the gates of a portal , which , according to the old fashion , was built on the central arch of the bridge of Bothwell , it might be easily defended against a very superior force . 
Morton then conjured the party at this important post to be watchful and upon their guard , and promised them a speedy and strong reinforcement . 
Morton 's intelligence and activity gained the confidence of these men , and with better hope and heart than before , they began to fortify their position in the manner he recommended , and saw him depart with three loud cheers . 
Morton now galloped hastily towards the main body of the insurgents , but was surprised and shocked at the scene of confusion and clamour which it exhibited , at the moment when good order and concord were of such essential consequence . 
Scandalized at a scene so extraordinary , Morton endeavoured to make his way through the press to learn , and , if possible , to remove , the cause of this so untimely disorder . 
While he is thus engaged , we shall make the reader acquainted with that which he was some time in discovering . 
But as the worthy divine , with slow and stately steps , was advancing towards the rostrum which had been prepared for him , he was prevented by the unexpected apparition of Habakkuk Mucklewrath , the insane preacher , whose appearance had so much startled Morton at the first council of the insurgents after their victory at Loudon-hill . 
It is not known whether he was acting under the influence and instigation of the Cameronians , or whether he was merely compelled by his own agitated imagination , and the temptation of a vacant pulpit before him , to seize the opportunity of exhorting so respectable a congregation . 
It is only certain that he took occasion by the forelock , sprung into the pulpit , cast his eyes wildly round him , and , undismayed by the murmurs of many of the audience , opened the Bible , read forth as his text from the thirteenth chapter of Deuteronomy , `` Certain men , the children of Belial , are gone out from among you , and have withdrawn the inhabitants of their city , saying , let us go and serve other gods , which you have not known ; '' and then rushed at once into the midst of his subject . 
The harangue of Mucklewrath was as wild and extravagant as his intrusion was unauthorized and untimely ; but it was provokingly coherent , in so far as it turned entirely upon the very subjects of discord , of which it had been agreed to adjourn the consideration until some more suitable opportunity . 
Not a single topic did he omit which had offence in it ; and , after charging the moderate party with heresy , with crouching to tyranny , with seeking to be at peace with God 's enemies , he applied to Morton , by name , the charge that he had been one of those men of Belial , who , in the words of his text , had gone out from amongst them , to withdraw the inhabitants of his city , and to go astray after false gods . 
To him , and all who followed him , or approved of his conduct , Mucklewrath denounced fury and vengeance , and exhorted those who would hold themselves pure and undefiled to come up from the midst of them . 
`` Fear not , '' he said , `` because of the neighing of horses , or the glittering of breastplates . 
Wherefore , I say , take this Henry Morton -- this wretched Achan , who hath brought the accursed thing among ye , and made himself brethren in the camp of the enemy -- take him and stone him with stones , and thereafter burn him with fire , that the wrath may depart from the children of the Covenant . 
He hath not taken a Babylonish garment , but he hath sold the garment of righteousness to the woman of Babylon -- he hath not taken two hundred shekels of fine silver , but he hath bartered the truth , which is more precious than shekels of silver or wedges of gold . '' 
It was at this moment when Morton arrived in the field and joined the army , in total confusion , and on the point of dissolving itself . 
His arrival occasioned loud exclamations of applause on the one side , and of imprecation on the other . 
he exclaimed to Burley , who , exhausted with his vain exertions to restore order , was now leaning on his sword , and regarding the confusion with an eye of resolute despair . 
`` It means , '' he replied , `` that God has delivered us into the hands of our enemies . '' 
`` Not so , '' answered Morton , with a voice and gesture which compelled many to listen ; `` it is not God who deserts us , it is we who desert him , and dishonour ourselves by disgracing and betraying the cause of freedom and religion . 
-- Hear me , '' he exclaimed , springing to the pulpit which Mucklewrath had been compelled to evacuate by actual exhaustion -- `` I bring from the enemy an offer to treat , if you incline to lay down your arms . 
Morton , who beheld the columns of the enemy already beginning to appear on the right bank , and directing their march upon the bridge , raised his voice to its utmost pitch , and , pointing at the same time with his hand , exclaimed , -- `` Silence your senseless clamours , yonder is the enemy ! 
The multitude had turned their heads in the direction to which he pointed . 
Yet when Morton , springing from the rostrum , directed his steps towards the bridge , he was followed by about an hundred of the young men who were particularly attached to his command . 
`` Tarry , '' replied Macbriar ; `` it is not by Henry Morton , or such as he , that our goings-out and our comings-in are to be meted ; therefore tarry with us . 
I fear treachery to the host from this nullifidian Achan -- Thou shalt not go with him . 
`` Hinder me not , '' replied Burley ; `` he hath well said that all is lost , if the enemy win the bridge -- therefore let me not . 
-- Array yourselves under your leaders -- let us not lack supplies of men and ammunition ; and accursed be he who turneth back from the work on this great day ! '' 
There was a deep and disheartened pause when Morton and Burley departed . 
Ere Morton or Burley had reached the post to be defended , the enemy had commenced an attack upon it with great spirit . 
The latter suffered severely , but still gained ground , and the head of their column was already upon the bridge , when the arrival of Morton changed the scene ; and his marksmen , commencing upon the pass a fire as well aimed as it was sustained and regular , compelled the assailants to retire with much loss . 
The insurgents , sheltered by copsewood along the bank of the river , or stationed in the houses already mentioned , fought under cover , while the royalists , owing to the precautions of Morton , were entirely exposed . 
Morton and Burley fought in the very front of their followers , and encouraged them with their pikes , halberds , and partisans , to encounter the bayonets of the Guards , and the broadswords of the Highlanders . 
Burley and Morton were near each other at this critical moment . 
Morton saw the importance of the advice , and , throwing himself on the horse which cuddie held in readiness for him behind the thicket , galloped towards a body of cavalry which chanced to be composed entirely of Cameronians . 
Ere he could speak his errand , or utter his orders , he was saluted by the execrations of the whole body . 
`` I do not fly , '' said Morton . 
And while Morton argued , entreated , and commanded in vain , the moment was lost in which the advance might have been useful ; and the outlet from the bridge , with all its defences , being in complete possession of the enemy , Burley and his remaining followers were driven back upon the main body , to whom the spectacle of their hurried and harassed retreat was far from restoring the confidence which they so much wanted . 
Burley and Morton were both hurried off the field by the confused tide of fugitives . 
Morton also now saw that the continuing his unavailing efforts to rally the fliers could only end in his own death or captivity , and , followed by the faithful Cuddie , he extricated himself from the press , and , being well mounted , leaped his horse over one or two enclosures , and got into the open country . 
`` It is impossible they can ever make head again , '' said Morton . 
Morton saw the necessity of following the advice of his trusty squire . 
Evening had fallen ; and , for the last two hours , they had seen none of their ill-fated companions , when Morton and his faithful attendant gained the moorland , and approached a large and solitary farmhouse , situated in the entrance of a wild glen , far remote from any other habitation . 
`` Our horses , '' said Morton , `` will carry us no farther without rest or food , and we must try to obtain them here , if possible . '' 
So speaking , he led the way to the house . 
Morton , however , again called to the party within , and insisted on admittance ; but , finding his entreaties still disregarded , he opened one of the lower windows , and pushing asunder the shutters , which were but slightly secured , stepped into the large kitchen from which the voice had issued . 
Cuddie followed him , muttering betwixt his teeth , as he put his head within the window , `` That he hoped there was nae scalding brose on the fire ; '' and master and servant both found themselves in the company of ten or twelve armed men , seated around the fire , on which refreshments were preparing , and busied apparently in their devotions . 
In the gloomy countenances , illuminated by the fire-light , Morton had no difficulty in recognising several of those zealots who had most distinguished themselves by their intemperate opposition to all moderate measures , together with their noted pastor , the fanatical Ephraim Macbriar , and the maniac , Habakkuk Mucklewrath . 
Morton , finding into what unfriendly society he had unwittingly intruded , began to think of retreating ; but , on turning his head , observed with some alarm , that two strong men had silently placed themselves beside the window , through which they had entered . 
With this he pointed to the window , out of which Cuddie jumped without hesitation ; for the intimation he had received plainly implied the personal danger he would otherwise incur . 
`` Winnocks are no lucky wi ' me , '' was his first reflection when he was in the open air ; his next was upon the probable fate of his master . 
So saying , Cuddie hastened to the stable , and taking the best horse he could find instead of his own tired animal , he galloped off in the direction he proposed . 
The noise of his horse 's tread alarmed for an instant the devotion of the fanatics . 
As it died in the distance , Macbriar brought his exercise to a conclusion , and his audience raised themselves from the stooping posture , and louring downward look , with which they had listened to it , and all fixed their eyes sternly on Henry Morton . 
`` You bend strange countenances on me , gentlemen , '' said he , addressing them . 
There was a movement among the party ; and deeply did Morton regret at that moment the incautious haste with which he had ventured into their company . 
He was armed only with his sword , for he had left his pistols at the bow of his saddle ; and , as the whigs were all provided with fire-arms , there was little or no chance of escaping from them by resistance . 
-- Come , '' he said , addressing himself to Morton , `` we will reckon with thee ere we avenge the cause thou hast betrayed . 
-- Hast thou not , '' he continued , `` made thy face as hard as flint against the truth in all the assemblies of the host ? '' 
`` Gentlemen , '' said Morton , `` if you mean to bear me down by clamour , and take my life without hearing me , it is perhaps a thing in your power ; but you will sin before God and man by the commission of such a murder . '' 
Silence being obtained , Morton proceeded to assert the good faith which he had displayed in the treaty with Monmouth , and the active part he had borne in the subsequent action . 
`` I may not , gentlemen , '' he said , `` be fully able to go the lengths you desire , in assigning to those of my own religion the means of tyrannizing over others ; but none shall go farther in asserting our own lawful freedom . 
`` I am proud to say , that you have spoken the truth in both instances , '' replied Morton . 
`` You are incapable , '' answered Morton , boldly , `` of appreciating my feelings towards that young lady ; but all that I have done I would have done had she never existed . '' 
`` I never heard of such a scheme , '' said Morton , `` and therefore I could not thwart it . 
The command was so unexpectedly given , and so suddenly executed by those of the party who had gradually closed behind and around Morton , that he was overpowered , disarmed , and a horse-girth passed round his arms , before he could offer any effectual resistance . 
The fanatics ranged themselves around a large oaken table , placing Morton amongst them bound and helpless , in such a manner as to be opposite to the clock which was to strike his knell . 
Morton 's eye frequently took the same course , with the sad reflection , that there appeared no posibility of his life being expanded beyond the narrow segment which the index had yet to travel on the circle until it arrived at the fatal hour . 
Faith in his religion , with a constant unyielding principle of honour , and the sense of conscious innocence , enabled him to pass through this dreadful interval with less agitation than he himself could have expected , had the situation been prophesied to him . 
Yet there was a want of that eager and animating sense of right which supported him in similar circumstances , when in the power of Claverhouse . 
Then he was conscious , that , amid the spectators , were many who were lamenting his condition , and some who applauded his conduct . 
But now , among these pale-eyed and ferocious zealots , whose hardened brows were soon to be bent , not merely with indifference , but with triumph , upon his execution , -- without a friend to speak a kindly word , or give a look either of sympathy or encouragement , -- awaiting till the sword destined to slay him crept out of the scabbard gradually , and as it were by strawbreadths , and condemned to drink the bitterness of death drop by drop , -- it is no wonder that his feelings were less composed than they had been on any former occasion of danger . 
His destined executioners , as he gazed around them , seemed to alter their forms and features , like spectres in a feverish dream ; their figures became larger , and their faces more disturbed ; and , as an excited imagination predominated over the realities which his eyes received , he could have thought himself surrounded rather by a band of demons than of human beings ; the walls seemed to drop with blood , and the light tick of the clock thrilled on his ear with such loud , painful distinctness , as if each sound were the prick of a bodkin inflicted on the naked nerve of the organ . 
It was with pain that he felt his mind wavering , while on the brink between this and the future world . 
He made a strong effort to compose himself to devotional exercises , and unequal , during that fearful strife of nature , to arrange his own thoughts into suitable expressions , he had , instinctively , recourse to the petition for deliverance and for composure of spirit which is to be found in the Book of Common Prayer of the Church of England . 
`` It is the galloping of horse , '' said Morton to himself , his sense of hearing rendered acute by the dreadful situation in which he stood ; `` God grant they may come as my deliverers ! '' 
cried one who had opened the window , in obedience to his order . 
Several pistol-shots were fired ; the whig who stood next to Morton received a shot as he was rising , stumbled against the prisoner , whom he bore down with his weight , and lay stretched above him a dying man . 
This accident probably saved Morton from the damage he might otherwise have received in so close a struggle , where fire-arms were discharged and sword-blows given for upwards of five minutes . 
The groans of the wounded man were silenced by a thrust with a rapier , and Morton , disencumbered of his weight , was speedily raised and in the arms of the faithful Cuddie , who blubbered for joy when he found that the blood with which his master was covered had not flowed from his own veins . 
A whisper in Morton 's ear , while his trusty follower relieved him from his bonds , explained the secret of the very timely appearance of the soldiers . 
He then turned his attention to Morton , and there was politeness , and even kindness , in the manner in which he addressed him . 
`` You would have saved yourself risk from both sides , Mr Morton , if you had honoured my counsel yesterday morning with some attention ; but I respect your motives . 
When Morton had passed his word to that effect , Claverhouse bowed civilly , and , turning away from him , called for his sergeant-major . 
-- Let Mr Morton be civilly used , and see that the men look well after their horses ; and let my groom wash Wild-blood 's shoulder with some vinegar , the saddle has touched him a little . '' 
They had no sooner left the room than Claverhouse applied himself to some food , which one or two of his party had hastily provided , and invited Morton to follow his example , observing , it had been a busy day for them both . 
Morton declined eating ; for the sudden change of circumstances -- the transition from the verge of the grave to a prospect of life , had occasioned a dizzy revulsion in his whole system . 
But the same confused sensation was accompanied by a burning thirst , and he expressed his wish to drink . 
-- My service to you , Mr Morton , '' he said , filling one horn of ale for himself , and handing another to his prisoner . 
Morton raised it to his head , and was just about to drink , when the discharge of carabines beneath the window , followed by a deep and hollow groan , repeated twice or thrice , and more faint at each interval , announced the fate of the three men who had just left them . 
Morton shuddered , and set down the untasted cup . 
`` You are but young in these matters , Mr Morton , '' said Claverhouse , after he had very composedly finished his draught ; `` and I do not think the worse of you as a young soldier for appearing to feel them acutely . 
`` I trust , '' said Morton , `` they will never reconcile me to such scenes as these . '' 
But in truth , Mr Morton , why should we care so much for death , light upon us or around us whenever it may ? 
When I think of death , Mr Morton , as a thing worth thinking of , it is in the hope of pressing one day some well-fought and hard-won field of battle , and dying with the shout of victory in my ear -- that would be worth dying for , and more , it would be worth having lived for ! '' 
Morton was much shocked at this extraordinary scene , and the prophecy of the dying man , which tallied so strangely with the wish which Claverhouse had just expressed ; and he often thought of it afterwards when that wish seemed to be accomplished . 
-- This is a new incident , Mr. Morton , that dead men should rise and push us from our stools . 
-- But we have had a busy day ; they are tired , and their blades blunted with their bloody work ; and I suppose you , Mr Morton , as well as I , are well disposed for a few hours ' repose . '' 
So saying , he yawned , and taking a candle which a soldier had placed ready , saluted Morton courteously , and walked to the apartment which had been prepared for him . 
Morton was also accommodated , for the evening , with a separate room . 
Being left alone , his first occupation was the returning thanks to Heaven for redeeming him from danger , even through the instrumentality of those who seemed his most dangerous enemies ; he also prayed sincerely for the Divine assistance in guiding his course through times which held out so many dangers and so many errors . 
And having thus poured out his spirit in prayer before the Great Being who gave it , he betook himself to the repose which he so much required . 
So deep was the slumber which succeeded the agitation and embarrassment of the preceding day , that Morton hardly knew where he was when it was broken by the tramp of horses , the hoarse voice of men , and the wild sound of the trumpets blowing the rveill . 
The sergeant-major immediately afterwards came to summon him , which he did in a very respectful manner , saying the General -LRB- for Claverhouse now held that rank -RRB- hoped for the pleasure of his company upon the road . 
In some situations an intimation is a command , and Morton considered that the present occasion was one of these . 
He waited upon Claverhouse as speedily as he could , found his own horse saddled for his use , and Cuddie in attendance . 
Both were deprived of their fire-arms , though they seemed , otherwise , rather to make part of the troop than of the prisoners ; and Morton was permitted to retain his sword , the wearing which was , in those days , the distinguishing mark of a gentleman . 
Claverhouse seemed also to take pleasure in riding beside him , in conversing with him , and in confounding his ideas when he attempted to appreciate his real character . 
The gentleness and urbanity of that officer 's general manners , the high and chivalrous sentiments of military devotion which he occasionally expressed , his deep and accurate insight into the human bosom , demanded at once the approbation and the wonder of those who conversed with him ; while , on the other hand , his cold indifference to military violence and cruelty seemed altogether inconsistent with the social , and even admirable qualities which he displayed . 
Morton could not help , in his heart , contrasting him with Balfour of Burley ; and so deeply did the idea impress him , that he dropped a hint of it as they rode together at some distance from the troop . 
`` Yet you both shed blood without mercy or remorse , '' said Morton , who could not suppress his feelings . 
`` Your distinction is too nice for my comprehension , '' replied Morton . 
`` But yet , '' said Morton -- `` But yet , '' interrupted Grahame , taking up the word , `` you would say you were the same when I first met you that you are now ? 
`` Do you expect , General , '' said Morton , `` that I ought to be particularly grateful for such a mark of your esteem ? '' 
`` No , '' was Morton 's answer . 
`` There is one ploughman in your possession , General , for whom , '' said Morton , `` in despite of the contempt in which you hold a profession which some philosophers have considered as useful as that of a soldier , I would humbly request your favour . '' 
`` He has no ambition to be a martyr , I believe , '' said Morton . 
The sergeant , having committed to his commander this ominous record of the disaffected , which was arranged in alphabetical order , Claverhouse , turning over the leaves as he rode on , began to read names as they occurred . 
-- O , here is Headrigg -- Cuthbert ; his mother a bitter puritan -- himself a simple fellow -- like to be forward in action , but of no genius for plots -- more for the hand than the head , and might be drawn to the right side , but for his attachment to '' -- -LRB- Here Claverhouse looked at Morton , and then shut the book and changed his tone . -RRB- 
`` Faithful and true are words never thrown away upon me , Mr Morton . 
`` Does it not revolt a mind like yours , '' said Morton , `` to follow a system which is to be supported by such minute enquiries after obscure individuals ? '' 
replied Morton . 
Morton felt an involuntary shudder at hearing words which implied a banishment from his native land ; but ere he answered , Claverhouse proceeded to read , `` Henry Morton , son of Silas Morton , Colonel of horse for the Scottish Parliament , nephew and apparent heir of Morton of Milnwood -- imperfectly educated , but with spirit beyond his years -- excellent at all exercises -- indifferent to forms of religion , but seems to incline to the presbyterian -- has high-flown and dangerous notions about liberty of thought and speech , and hovers between a latitudinarian and an enthusiast . 
He is -- Here follow three red crosses , Mr Morton , which signify triply dangerous . 
Claverhouse glanced it over , laughed scornfully , bade him tell his master to send his prisoners to Edinburgh , for there was no answer ; and , as the man turned back , said contemptuously to Morton -- `` Here is an ally of yours deserted from you , or rather , I should say , an ally of your good friend Burley -- Hear how he sets forth -- 'D ear Sir , ' -LRB- I wonder when we were such intimates , -RRB- ` may it please your Excellency to accept my humble congratulations on the victory ' -- hum -- hum -- ` blessed his Majesty 's army . 
`` A relative of Lady Margaret Bellenden , '' replied Morton , `` is he not ? '' 
`` He takes an ill mode of recommending himself , '' said Morton , suppressing his feelings , `` to the family at Tillietudlem , by corresponding with our unhappy party . '' 
With conversation on this and other matters they beguiled the way , Claverhouse all the while speaking with great frankness to Morton , and treating him rather as a friend and companion than as a prisoner ; so that , however uncertain of his fate , the hours he passed in the company of this remarkable man were so much lightened by the varied play of his imagination , and the depth of his knowledge of human nature , that since the period of his becoming a prisoner of war , which relieved him at once from the cares of his doubtful and dangerous station among the insurgents , and from the consequences of their suspicious resentment , his hours flowed on less anxiously than at any time since his having commenced actor in public life . 
So saying , he gave up the command of the forces to Allan , -LRB- now a Lieutenant-colonel , -RRB- and , turning his horse into a by-lane , rode into the city privately , accompanied by Morton and two or three servants . 
When Claverhouse arrived at the quarters which he usually occupied in the Canongate , he assigned to his prisoner a small apartment , with an intimation , that his parole confined him to it for the present . 
After about a quarter of an hour spent in solitary musing on the strange vicissitudes of his late life , the attention of Morton was summoned to the window by a great noise in the street beneath . 
Trumpets , drums , and kettle-drums , contended in noise with the shouts of a numerous rabble , and apprised him that the royal cavalry were passing in the triumphal attitude which Claverhouse had mentioned . 
Morton felt himself heart-sick while he gazed on the dismal spectacle , and recognised in the bloody heads , and still more miserable and agonized features of the living sufferers , faces which had been familiar to him during the brief insurrection . 
He sunk down in a chair in a bewildered and stupified state , from which he was awakened by the voice of Cuddie . 
`` You must immediately attend the Council Mr Morton , '' said Claverhouse , who entered while Cuddie spoke , `` and your servant must go with you . 
It will be readily supposed that Morton did not venture to dispute this invitation , however unpleasant . 
He rose and accompanied Claverhouse . 
`` I must apprise you , '' said the latter , as he led the way down stairs , `` that you will get off cheap ; and so will your servant , provided he can keep his tongue quiet . '' 
Cuddie caught these last words to his exceeding joy . 
`` Deil a fear o ' me , '' said he , `` an my mither disna pit her finger in the pie . '' 
At that moment his shoulder was seized by old Mause , who had contrived to thrust herself forward into the lobby of the apartment . 
said she to Cuddie , hanging upon his neck , `` glad and proud , and sorry and humbled am I , a ` in ane and the same instant , to see my bairn ganging to testify for the truth gloriously with his mouth in council , as he did with his weapon in the field ! '' 
`` O , Cuddie , man , laith wad I be they suld hurt ye , '' said old Mause , divided grievously between the safety of her son 's soul and that of his body ; `` but mind , my bonny bairn , ye hae battled for the faith , and dinna let the dread o ' losing creature-comforts withdraw ye frae the gude fight . '' 
He had been already preceded by Claverhouse and Morton . 
The clerk read forth a bond , in which General Grahame of Claverhouse and Lord Evandale entered themselves securities , that Henry Morton , younger of Milnwood , should go abroad and remain in foreign parts , until his Majesty 's pleasure was further known , in respect of the said Henry Morton 's accession to the late rebellion , and that under penalty of life and limb to the said Henry Morton , and of ten thousand marks to each of his securities . 
`` Do you accept of the King 's mercy upon these terms , Mr Morton ? '' 
`` I have no other choice , my lord , '' replied Morton . 
Morton did so without reply , conscious that , in the circumstances of his case , it was impossible for him to have escaped more easily . 
Macbriar , who was at the same instant brought to the foot of the council-table , bound upon a chair , for his weakness prevented him from standing , beheld Morton in the act of what he accounted apostasy . 
he exclaimed , with a deep groan -- `` A fallen star ! 
Morton , who was unprepared for this ghastly apparition , started when the curtain arose , but Macbriar 's nerves were more firm . 
Morton , whose blood boiled within him at witnessing such cruelty , could bear no longer , and , although unarmed and himself in great danger , was springing forward , when Claverhouse , who observed his emotion , withheld him by force , laying one hand on his arm and the other on his mouth , while he whispered , `` For God 's sake , think where you are ! '' 
This movement , fortunately for him , was observed by no other of the councillors , whose attention was engaged with the dreadful scene before them . 
The Council broke up , and Morton found himself again in the carriage with General Grahame . 
said Morton , as he reflected upon Macbriar 's conduct ; `` what a pity it is that with such self-devotion and heroism should have been mingled the fiercer features of his sect ! '' 
-- But wot ye where you are now bound , Mr Morton ? '' 
`` We are on the road to Leith , I observe , '' answered Morton . 
Morton sighed deeply as he answered , `` No -- it would avail nothing . 
Morton heard all this and received the parcel with an astounded and confused look , so sudden was the execution of the sentence of banishment . 
he said . 
A boat waited for Captain Morton , with the trunks and baggage belonging to his rank . 
Claverhouse shook him by the hand , and wished him good fortune , and a happy return to Scotland in quieter times . 
`` I shall never forget , '' he said , `` the gallantry of your behaviour to my friend Evandale , in circumstances when many men would have sought to rid him out of their way . '' 
As Morton descended the pier to get into the boat , a hand placed in his a letter folded up in very small space . 
He looked round . 
The person who gave it seemed much muffled up ; he pressed his finger upon his lip , and then disappeared among the crowd . 
The incident awakened Morton 's curiosity ; and when he found himself on board of a vessel bound for Rotterdam , and saw all his companions of the voyage busy making their own arrangements , he took an opportunity to open the billet thus mysteriously thrust upon him . 
It ran thus : -- '' Thy courage on the fatal day when Israel fled before his enemies , hath , in some measure , atoned for thy unhappy owning of the Erastian interest . 
This extraordinary letter was subscribed J. B. of B. ; but the signature of these initials was not necessary for pointing out to Morton that it could come from no other than Burley . 
Morton , however , hesitated for an instant , whether he should not send the Major or Lord Evandale intimation of Burley 's threats . 
While Morton was thus employed the vessel was unmoored , and the white sails swelled out before a favourable north-west wind . 
The city and port from which he had sailed became undistinguishable in the distance ; the hills by which they were surrounded melted finally into the blue sky , and Morton was separated for several years from the land of his nativity . 
