The idea of this contrast was taken from the ingenious and unfortunate Logan 's tragedy of Runnamede , in which , about the same period of history , the author had seen the Saxon and Norman barons opposed to each other on different sides of the stage . 
They did , however , survive as a people , and some of the ancient Saxon families possessed wealth and power , although they were exceptions to the humble condition of the race in general . 
Could I have hoped to render it worthy of your patronage , the public would at once have seen the propriety of inscribing a work designed to illustrate the domestic antiquities of England , and particularly of our Saxon forefathers , to the learned author of the Essays upon the Horn of King Ulphus , and on the Lands bestowed by him upon the patrimony of St Peter . 
The whole race of Saxon princes and nobles had been extirpated or disinherited , with few or no exceptions ; nor were the numbers great who possessed land in the country of their fathers , even as proprietors of the second , or of yet inferior classes . 
All the monarchs of the Norman race had shown the most marked predilection for their Norman subjects ; the laws of the chase , and many others , equally unknown to the milder and more free spirit of the Saxon constitution , had been fixed upon the necks of the subjugated inhabitants , to add weight , as it were , to the feudal chains with which they were loaded . 
On this singular gorget was engraved , in Saxon characters , an inscription of the following purport : -- `` Gurth , the son of Beowulph , is the born thrall of Cedric of Rotherwood . '' 
He had thin silver bracelets upon his arms , and on his neck a collar of the same metal , bearing the inscription , `` Wamba , the son of Witless , is the thrall of Cedric of Rotherwood . '' 
These oppressive enactments were the produce of the Norman Conquest , for the Saxon laws of the chase were mild and humane ; while those of William , enthusiastically attached to the exercise and its rights , were to the last degree tyrannical . 
These oppressive enactments were the produce of the Norman Conquest , for the Saxon laws of the chase were mild and humane ; while those of William , enthusiastically attached to the exercise and its rights , were to the last degree tyrannical . 
`` And swine is good Saxon , '' said the Jester ; `` but how call you the sow when she is flayed , and drawn , and quartered , and hung up by the heels , like a traitor ? '' 
`` I am very glad every fool knows that too , '' said Wamba , `` and pork , I think , is good Norman-French ; and so when the brute lives , and is in the charge of a Saxon slave , she goes by her Saxon name ; but becomes a Norman , and is called pork , when she is carried to the Castle-hall to feast among the nobles ; what dost thou think of this , friend Gurth , ha ? '' 
`` Nay , I can tell you more , '' said Wamba , in the same tone ; `` there is old Alderman Ox continues to hold his Saxon epithet , while he is under the charge of serfs and bondsmen such as thou , but becomes Beef , a fiery French gallant , when he arrives before the worshipful jaws that are destined to consume him . 
Mynheer Calf , too , becomes Monsieur de Veau in the like manner ; he is Saxon when he requires tendance , and takes a Norman name when he becomes matter of enjoyment . '' 
The finest and the fattest is for their board ; the loveliest is for their couch ; the best and bravest supply their foreign masters with soldiers , and whiten distant lands with their bones , leaving few here who have either will or the power to protect the unfortunate Saxon . 
God 's blessing on our Master Cedric , he hath done the work of a man in standing in the gap ; but Reginald Front-de-Boeuf is coming down to this country in person , and we shall soon see how little Cedric 's trouble will avail him . 
Prior Aymer , therefore , and his character , were well known to our Saxon serfs , who made their rude obeisance , and received his `` benedicite , mes filz , '' in return . 
It is probable , too , that the language in which the benediction was conferred , and the information asked , sounded ungracious , though not probably unintelligible , in the ears of the Saxon peasants . 
`` I asked you , my children , '' said the Prior , raising his voice , and using the lingua Franca , or mixed language , in which the Norman and Saxon races conversed with each other , `` if there be in this neighbourhood any good man , who , for the love of God , and devotion to Mother Church , will give two of her humblest servants , with their train , a night 's hospitality and refreshment ? '' 
This he spoke with a tone of conscious importance , which formed a strong contrast to the modest terms which he thought it proper to employ . 
`` Cedric , '' answered the Prior ; `` Cedric the Saxon . 
`` The road will be uneasy to find , '' answered Gurth , who broke silence for the first time , `` and the family of Cedric retire early to rest . '' 
-- Tell me , good fellow , '' said he to Wamba , and seconded his speech by a small piece of silver coin , `` the way to Cedric the Saxon 's ; you can not be ignorant of it , and it is your duty to direct the wanderer even when his character is less sanctified than ours . '' 
`` I forgive thy wit , '' replied the Abbot , `` on condition thou wilt show me the way to Cedric 's mansion . '' 
`` Thou art right , '' said Gurth ; `` it were ill that Aymer saw the Lady Rowena ; and it were worse , it may be , for Cedric to quarrel , as is most likely he would , with this military monk . 
We return to the riders , who had soon left the bondsmen far behind them , and who maintained the following conversation in the Norman-French language , usually employed by the superior classes , with the exception of the few who were still inclined to boast their Saxon descent . 
`` Ay , but , '' answered Prior Aymer , `` every land has its own manners and fashions ; and , besides that beating this fellow could procure us no information respecting the road to Cedric 's house , it would have been sure to have established a quarrel betwixt you and him had we found our way thither . 
He stands up so sternly for the privileges of his race , and is so proud of his uninterrupted descent from Hereward , a renowned champion of the Heptarchy , that he is universally called Cedric the Saxon ; and makes a boast of his belonging to a people from whom many others endeavour to hide their descent , lest they should encounter a share of the vae victis , or severities imposed upon the vanquished . '' 
`` Prior Aymer , '' said the Templar , `` you are a man of gallantry , learned in the study of beauty , and as expert as a troubadour in all matters concerning the arrets of love ; but I shall expect much beauty in this celebrated Rowena , to counterbalance the self-denial and forbearance which I must exert , if I am to court the favour of such a seditious churl as you have described her father Cedric . '' 
`` Cedric is not her father , '' replied the Prior , `` and is but of remote relation ; she is descended from higher blood than even he pretends to , and is but distantly connected with him by birth . 
Cedric the Saxon , if offended , -- and he is noway slack in taking offence , -- is a man who , without respect to your knighthood , my high office , or the sanctity of either , would clear his house of us , and send us to lodge with the larks , though the hour were midnight . 
`` We did but wish to ask you , '' said the Prior , `` the road to Rotherwood , the abode of Cedric the Saxon . '' 
`` Thou shalt have both thanks and reward , my friend , '' said the Prior , `` if thou wilt bring us to Cedric 's in safety . '' 
The path soon led deeper into the woodland , and crossed more than one brook , the approach to which was rendered perilous by the marshes through which it flowed ; but the stranger seemed to know , as if by instinct , the soundest ground and the safest points of passage ; and by dint of caution and attention , brought the party safely into a wider avenue than any they had yet seen ; and , pointing to a large low irregular building at the upper extremity , he said to the Prior , `` Yonder is Rotherwood , the dwelling of Cedric the Saxon . '' 
`` I was born a native of these parts , '' answered their guide , and as he made the reply they stood before the mansion of Cedric ; -- a low irregular building , containing several court-yards or enclosures , extending over a considerable space of ground , and which , though its size argued the inhabitant to be a person of wealth , differed entirely from the tall , turretted , and castellated buildings in which the Norman nobility resided , and which had become the universal style of architecture throughout England . 
In a hall , the height of which was greatly disproportioned to its extreme length and width , a long oaken table formed of planks rough-hewn from the forest , and which had scarcely received any polish , stood ready prepared for the evening meal of Cedric the Saxon . 
The other appointments of the mansion partook of the rude simplicity of the Saxon period , which Cedric piqued himself upon maintaining . 
In the centre of the upper table , were placed two chairs more elevated than the rest , for the master and mistress of the family , who presided over the scene of hospitality , and from doing so derived their Saxon title of honour , which signifies `` the Dividers of Bread . '' 
One of these seats was at present occupied by Cedric the Saxon , who , though but in rank a thane , or , as the Normans called him , a Franklin , felt , at the delay of his evening meal , an irritable impatience , which might have become an alderman , whether of ancient or of modern times . 
His long yellow hair was equally divided on the top of his head and upon his brow , and combed down on each side to the length of his shoulders ; it had but little tendency to grey , although Cedric was approaching to his sixtieth year . 
His dress was a tunic of forest green , furred at the throat and cuffs with what was called minever ; a kind of fur inferior in quality to ermine , and formed , it is believed , of the skin of the grey squirrel . 
This doublet hung unbuttoned over a close dress of scarlet which sate tight to his body ; he had breeches of the same , but they did not reach below the lower part of the thigh , leaving the knee exposed . 
His feet had sandals of the same fashion with the peasants , but of finer materials , and secured in the front with golden clasps . 
He had bracelets of gold upon his arms , and a broad collar of the same precious metal around his neck . 
About his waist he wore a richly studded belt , in which was stuck a short straight two-edged sword , with a sharp point , so disposed as to hang almost perpendicularly by his side . 
Behind his seat was hung a scarlet cloth cloak lined with fur , and a cap of the same materials richly embroidered , which completed the dress of the opulent landholder when he chose to go forth . 
A short boar-spear , with a broad and bright steel head , also reclined against the back of his chair , which served him , when he walked abroad , for the purposes of a staff or of a weapon , as chance might require . 
Several domestics , whose dress held various proportions betwixt the richness of their master 's , and the coarse and simple attire of Gurth the swine-herd watched the looks and waited the commands of the Saxon dignitary . 
Other attendants there were of a different description ; two or three large and shaggy greyhounds , such as were then employed in hunting the stag and wolf ; as many slow-hounds of a large bony breed , with thick necks , large heads , and long ears ; and one or two of the smaller dogs , now called terriers , which waited with impatience the arrival of the supper ; but , with the sagacious knowledge of physiognomy peculiar to their race , forbore to intrude upon the moody silence of their master , apprehensive probably of a small white truncheon which lay by Cedric 's trencher , for the purpose of repelling the advances of his four-legged dependants . 
One grisly old wolf-dog alone , with the liberty of an indulged favourite , had planted himself close by the chair of state , and occasionally ventured to solicit notice by putting his large hairy head upon his master 's knee , or pushing his nose into his hand . 
Even he was repelled by the stern command , `` Down , Balder , down ! 
In fact , Cedric , as we have observed , was in no very placid state of mind . 
There were as yet no tidings of Gurth and his charge , which should long since have been driven home from the forest ; and such was the insecurity of the period , as to render it probable that the delay might be explained by some depredation of the outlaws , with whom the adjacent forest abounded , or by the violence of some neighbouring baron , whose consciousness of strength made him equally negligent of the laws of property . 
The matter was of consequence , for great part of the domestic wealth of the Saxon proprietors consisted in numerous herds of swine , especially in forest land , where those animals easily found their food . 
Besides these subjects of anxiety , the Saxon thane was impatient for the presence of his favourite clown Wamba , whose jests , such as they were , served for a sort of seasoning to his evening meal , and to the deep draughts of ale and wine with which he was in the habit of accompanying it . 
Add to all this , Cedric had fasted since noon , and his usual supper hour was long past , a cause of irritation common to country squires , both in ancient and modern times . 
His displeasure was expressed in broken sentences , partly muttered to himself , partly addressed to the domestics who stood around ; and particularly to his cupbearer , who offered him from time to time , as a sedative , a silver goblet filled with wine -- `` Why tarries the Lady Rowena ? '' 
on the part of the Saxon , with the addition , `` I wish her devotion may choose fair weather for the next visit to St John 's Kirk ; -- but what , in the name of ten devils , '' continued he , turning to the cupbearer , and raising his voice , as if happy to have found a channel into which he might divert his indignation without fear or control -- `` what , in the name of ten devils , keeps Gurth so long a-field ? 
Oswald the cupbearer modestly suggested , `` that it was scarce an hour since the tolling of the curfew ; '' an ill-chosen apology , since it turned upon a topic so harsh to Saxon ears . 
`` The foul fiend , '' exclaimed Cedric , `` take the curfew-bell , and the tyrannical bastard by whom it was devised , and the heartless slave who names it with a Saxon tongue to a Saxon ear ! 
he added , pausing , `` ay , the curfew ; which compels true men to extinguish their lights , that thieves and robbers may work their deeds in darkness ! 
he is carried off too , the Saxon fool , to serve the Norman lord . 
-- Haply they think me old ; but they shall find , alone and childless as I am , the blood of Hereward is in the veins of Cedric . 
From his musing , Cedric was suddenly awakened by the blast of a horn , which was replied to by the clamorous yells and barking of all the dogs in the hall , and some twenty or thirty which were quartered in other parts of the building . 
said the Saxon , hastily , as soon as the tumult was so much appeased that the dependants could hear his voice . 
-- muttered Cedric ; `` Normans both ; -- but Norman or Saxon , the hospitality of Rotherwood must not be impeached ; they are welcome , since they have chosen to halt -- more welcome would they have been to have ridden further on their way -- But it were unworthy to murmur for a night 's lodging and a night 's food ; in the quality of guests , at least , even Normans must suppress their insolence . 
-- Go , Hundebert , '' he added , to a sort of major-domo who stood behind him with a white wand ; `` take six of the attendants , and introduce the strangers to the guests ' lodging . 
Say to them , Hundebert , that Cedric would himself bid them welcome , but he is under a vow never to step more than three steps from the dais of his own hall to meet any who shares not the blood of Saxon royalty . 
see them carefully tended ; let them not say in their pride , the Saxon churl has shown at once his poverty and his avarice . '' 
The major-domo departed with several attendants , to execute his master 's commands . 
repeated Cedric , looking to Oswald , `` the brother , if I mistake not , of Giles de Mauleverer , now lord of Middleham ? '' 
said Cedric , still in the musing , half-arguing tone , which the habit of living among dependants had accustomed him to employ , and which resembled a man who talks to himself rather than to those around him -- `` Bois-Guilbert ? 
Cedric darted at the forward damsel a glance of hasty resentment ; but Rowena , and whatever belonged to her , were privileged and secure from his anger . 
He only replied , `` Silence , maiden ; thy tongue outruns thy discretion . 
repeated the Saxon ; `` Palestine ! 
He knit his brows , and fixed his eyes for an instant on the ground ; as he raised them , the folding doors at the bottom of the hall were cast wide , and , preceded by the major-domo with his wand , and four domestics bearing blazing torches , the guests of the evening entered the apartment . 
The Prior Aymer had taken the opportunity afforded him , of changing his riding robe for one of yet more costly materials , over which he wore a cope curiously embroidered . 
Besides the massive golden signet ring , which marked his ecclesiastical dignity , his fingers , though contrary to the canon , were loaded with precious gems ; his sandals were of the finest leather which was imported from Spain ; his beard trimmed to as small dimensions as his order would possibly permit , and his shaven crown concealed by a scarlet cap richly embroidered . 
He followed modestly the last of the train which entered the hall , and , observing that the lower table scarce afforded room sufficient for the domestics of Cedric and the retinue of his guests , he withdrew to a settle placed beside and almost under one of the large chimneys , and seemed to employ himself in drying his garments , until the retreat of some one should make room at the board , or the hospitality of the steward should supply him with refreshments in the place he had chosen apart . 
Cedric rose to receive his guests with an air of dignified hospitality , and , descending from the dais , or elevated part of his hall , made three steps towards them , and then awaited their approach . 
`` I grieve , '' he said , `` reverend Prior , that my vow binds me to advance no farther upon this floor of my fathers , even to receive such guests as you , and this valiant Knight of the Holy Temple . 
Cedric darted at the speaker one of those hasty and impatient glances , which comparisons between the two rival nations seldom failed to call forth ; but , recollecting the duties of hospitality , he suppressed further show of resentment , and , motioning with his hand , caused his guests to assume two seats a little lower than his own , but placed close beside him , and gave a signal that the evening meal should be placed upon the board . 
While the attendants hastened to obey Cedric 's commands , his eye distinguished Gurth the swineherd , who , with his companion Wamba , had just entered the hall . 
`` Send these loitering knaves up hither , '' said the Saxon , impatiently . 
`` But it does not please me , thou knave , '' said Cedric , `` that I should be made to suppose otherwise for two hours , and sit here devising vengeance against my neighbours for wrongs they have not done me . 
Gurth , knowing his master 's irritable temper , attempted no exculpation ; but the Jester , who could presume upon Cedric 's tolerance , by virtue of his privileges as a fool , replied for them both ; `` In troth , uncle Cedric , you are neither wise nor reasonable to-night . '' 
`` said his master ; `` you shall to the porter 's lodge , and taste of the discipline there , if you give your foolery such license . '' 
`` Certainly not , fool , '' answered Cedric . 
`` Then hang up Fangs , '' said Cedric , turning hastily towards the swineherd , `` if the fault is his , and get thee another dog . '' 
said the Saxon , kindling in wrath . 
`` The foul fiend take Malvoisin , '' answered the Saxon , `` and his keeper both ! 
Cedric , though surprised , and perhaps not altogether agreeably so , at his ward appearing in public on this occasion , hastened to meet her , and to conduct her , with respectful ceremony , to the elevated seat at his own right hand , appropriated to the lady of the mansion . 
Unheeding this remonstrance , and accustomed only to act upon the immediate impulse of his own wishes , Brian de Bois-Guilbert kept his eyes riveted on the Saxon beauty , more striking perhaps to his imagination , because differing widely from those of the Eastern sultanas . 
If mildness were the more natural expression of such a combination of features , it was plain , that in the present instance , the exercise of habitual superiority , and the reception of general homage , had given to the Saxon lady a loftier character , which mingled with and qualified that bestowed by nature . 
Cedric saw the motion and its cause . 
`` Sir Templar , '' said he , `` the cheeks of our Saxon maidens have seen too little of the sun to enable them to bear the fixed glance of a crusader . '' 
`` Our going thither , '' said Cedric , `` is uncertain . 
`` Sir Prior , '' answered the Saxon , `` wheresoever I have travelled in this land , I have hitherto found myself , with the assistance of my good sword and faithful followers , in no respect needful of other aid . 
Should you be so rigid in adhering to monastic rule , '' he added , `` as to prefer your acid preparation of milk , I hope you will not strain courtesy to do me reason . '' 
said Cedric , his features prepared to receive favourably the expected jest . 
`` I will warrant you against dying of old age , however , '' said the Templar , who now recognised his friend of the forest ; `` I will assure you from all deaths but a violent one , if you give such directions to wayfarers , as you did this night to the Prior and me . '' 
said Cedric , `` misdirect travellers ? 
`` Admit him , '' said Cedric , `` be he who or what he may ; -- a night like that which roars without , compels even wild animals to herd with tame , and to seek the protection of man , their mortal foe , rather than perish by the elements . 
And the steward left the banqueting hall to see the commands of his patron obeyed . 
`` Peace , my worthy guests , '' said Cedric ; `` my hospitality must not be bounded by your dislikes . 
-- Let him have a board and a morsel apart , -- unless , '' he said smiling , `` these turban 'd strangers will admit his society . '' 
`` He shall sit with thee , Wamba , '' said Cedric ; `` the fool and the knave will be well met . '' 
`` Hush , '' said Cedric , `` for here he comes . '' 
The reception of this person in the hall of Cedric the Saxon , was such as might have satisfied the most prejudiced enemy of the tribes of Israel . 
Cedric himself coldly nodded in answer to the Jew 's repeated salutations , and signed to him to take place at the lower end of the table , where , however , no one offered to make room for him . 
On the contrary , as he passed along the file , casting a timid supplicating glance , and turning towards each of those who occupied the lower end of the board , the Saxon domestics squared their shoulders , and continued to devour their supper with great perseverance , paying not the least attention to the wants of the new guest . 
Probably the same motives which induced Cedric to open his hall to this son of a rejected people , would have made him insist on his attendants receiving Isaac with more courtesy . 
Meanwhile the Abbot and Cedric continued their discourse upon hunting ; the Lady Rowena seemed engaged in conversation with one of her attendant females ; and the haughty Templar , whose eye seemed to wander from the Jew to the Saxon beauty , revolved in his mind thoughts which appeared deeply to interest him . 
`` I marvel , worthy Cedric , '' said the Abbot , as their discourse proceeded , `` that , great as your predilection is for your own manly language , you do not receive the Norman-French into your favour , so far at least as the mystery of wood-craft and hunting is concerned . 
`` Good Father Aymer , '' said the Saxon , `` be it known to you , I care not for those over-sea refinements , without which I can well enough take my pleasure in the woods . 
`` Pledge me in a cup of wine , Sir Templar , '' said Cedric , `` and fill another to the Abbot , while I look back some thirty years to tell you another tale . 
As Cedric the Saxon then was , his plain English tale needed no garnish from French troubadours , when it was told in the ear of beauty ; and the field of Northallerton , upon the day of the Holy Standard , could tell whether the Saxon war-cry was not heard as far within the ranks of the Scottish host as the cri de guerre of the boldest Norman baron . 
He drank deep , and went on with increasing warmth . 
A Saxon bard had called it a feast of the swords -- a gathering of the eagles to the prey -- the clashing of bills upon shield and helmet , the shouting of battle more joyful than the clamour of a bridal . 
But our bards are no more , '' he said ; `` our deeds are lost in those of another race -- our language -- our very name -- is hastening to decay , and none mourns for it save one solitary old man -- Cupbearer ! 
`` I impeach not their fame , '' said the Templar ; `` nevertheless '' -- `` I think , friend Cedric , '' said Wamba , interfering , `` that had Richard of the Lion 's Heart been wise enough to have taken a fool 's advice , he might have staid at home with his merry Englishmen , and left the recovery of Jerusalem to those same Knights who had most to do with the loss of it . '' 
Cedric , whose feelings were all of a right onward and simple kind , and were seldom occupied by more than one object at once , omitted , in the joyous glee with which he heard of the glory of his countrymen , to remark the angry confusion of his guest ; `` I would give thee this golden bracelet , Pilgrim , '' he said , `` couldst thou tell me the names of those knights who upheld so gallantly the renown of merry England . '' 
`` I forgive him , '' said Cedric ; `` I forgive him his descent from the tyrant Duke William . '' 
`` Of Saxon descent , he at least , '' said Cedric , with exultation . 
`` Saxon also , at least by the mother 's side , '' continued Cedric , who listened with the utmost eagerness , and forgot , in part at least , his hatred to the Normans , in the common triumph of the King of England and his islanders . 
`` Genuine Saxon , by the soul of Hengist ! '' 
shouted Cedric -- `` And the sixth ? '' 
he continued with eagerness -- `` how name you the sixth ? '' 
A crowd of conflicting emotions seemed to have occupied Cedric , and kept him silent during this discussion . 
Gratified pride , resentment , embarrassment , chased each other over his broad and open brow , like the shadow of clouds drifting over a harvest-field ; while his attendants , on whom the name of the sixth knight seemed to produce an effect almost electrical , hung in suspense upon their master 's looks . 
`` Lady , '' said Cedric , `` this beseems not ; were further pledge necessary , I myself , offended , and justly offended , as I am , would yet gage my honour for the honour of Ivanhoe . 
Having thus spoken , he crossed himself again and again , and after many genuflections and muttered prayers , he delivered the reliquary to Brother Ambrose , his attendant monk , while he himself swept up with less ceremony , but perhaps with no less internal satisfaction , the golden chain , and bestowed it in a pouch lined with perfumed leather , which opened under his arm . 
`` And now , Sir Cedric , '' he said , `` my ears are chiming vespers with the strength of your good wine -- permit us another pledge to the welfare of the Lady Rowena , and indulge us with liberty to pass to our repose . '' 
`` By the rood of Bromholme , '' said the Saxon , `` you do but small credit to your fame , Sir Prior ! 
But , by my faith , a Saxon boy of twelve , in my time , would not so soon have relinquished his goblet . '' 
The Prior had his own reasons , however , for persevering in the course of temperance which he had adopted . 
He was not only a professional peacemaker , but from practice a hater of all feuds and brawls . 
It was not altogether from a love to his neighbour , or to himself , or from a mixture of both . 
On the present occasion , he had an instinctive apprehension of the fiery temper of the Saxon , and saw the danger that the reckless and presumptuous spirit , of which his companion had already given so many proofs , might at length produce some disagreeable explosion . 
He therefore gently insinuated the incapacity of the native of any other country to engage in the genial conflict of the bowl with the hardy and strong-headed Saxons ; something he mentioned , but slightly , about his own holy character , and ended by pressing his proposal to depart to repose . 
Yet let not modern beauty envy the magnificence of a Saxon princess . 
Yet think not that I care for thy company , or propose myself advantage by it ; remain here if thou wilt -- Cedric the Saxon may protect thee . '' 
said the Jew , `` he will not let me travel in his train -- Saxon or Norman will be equally ashamed of the poor Israelite ; and to travel by myself through the domains of Philip de Malvoisin and Reginald Front-de-Boeuf -- Good youth , I will go with you ! 
Gurth , whose occupation , though now held so mean , gave him as much consequence in Saxon England as that of Eumæus in Ithaca , was offended at the familiar and commanding tone assumed by the Palmer . 
So saying , he stooped over the bed of the recumbent swineherd , and whispered something in his ear in Saxon . 
`` Fetch him his mule , '' said the Pilgrim ; `` and , hearest thou , -- let me have another , that I may bear him company till he is beyond these parts -- I will return it safely to some of Cedric 's train at Ashby . 
`` Go to , '' said the Pilgrim , `` thou art but a Saxon fool . '' 
Upon the slightest and most unreasonable pretences , as well as upon accusations the most absurd and groundless , their persons and property were exposed to every turn of popular fury ; for Norman , Saxon , Dane , and Briton , however adverse these races were to each other , contended which should look with greatest detestation upon a people , whom it was accounted a point of religion to hate , to revile , to despise , to plunder , and to persecute . 
For the opposite reason , Prince John hated and contemned the few Saxon families of consequence which subsisted in England , and omitted no opportunity of mortifying and affronting them ; being conscious that his person and pretensions were disliked by them , as well as by the greater part of the English commons , who feared farther innovation upon their rights and liberties , from a sovereign of John 's licentious and tyrannical disposition . 
`` Saxon churls , lolling at their lazy length ! 
Those who occupied the gallery to whom this injurious and unpolite speech was addressed , were the family of Cedric the Saxon , with that of his ally and kinsman , Athelstane of Coningsburgh , a personage , who , on account of his descent from the last Saxon monarchs of England , was held in the highest respect by all the Saxon natives of the north of England . 
His friends , and he had many , who , as well as Cedric , were passionately attached to him , contended that this sluggish temper arose not from want of courage , but from mere want of decision ; others alleged that his hereditary vice of drunkenness had obscured his faculties , never of a very acute order , and that the passive courage and meek good-nature which remained behind , were merely the dregs of a character that might have been deserving of praise , but of which all the valuable parts had flown off in the progress of a long course of brutal debauchery . 
`` The Saxon porker , '' he said , `` is either asleep or minds me not -- Prick him with your lance , De Bracy , '' speaking to a knight who rode near him , the leader of a band of Free Companions , or Condottieri ; that is , of mercenaries belonging to no particular nation , but attached for the time to any prince by whom they were paid . 
There was a murmur even among the attendants of Prince John ; but De Bracy , whose profession freed him from all scruples , extended his long lance over the space which separated the gallery from the lists , and would have executed the commands of the Prince before Athelstane the Unready had recovered presence of mind sufficient even to draw back his person from the weapon , had not Cedric , as prompt as his companion was tardy , unsheathed , with the speed of lightning , the short sword which he wore , and at a single blow severed the point of the lance from the handle . 
He swore one of his deepest oaths , and was about to utter some threat corresponding in violence , when he was diverted from his purpose , partly by his own attendants , who gathered around him conjuring him to be patient , partly by a general exclamation of the crowd , uttered in loud applause of the spirited conduct of Cedric . 
`` Meanwhile , stand up , ye Saxon churls , '' said the fiery Prince ; `` for , by the light of Heaven , since I have said it , the Jew shall have his seat amongst ye ! '' 
fixing his eye on Cedric , whose attitude intimated his intention to hurl the Jew down head-long . 
Besides , I swear by my patron saint , that she is far inferior to the lovely Saxon , Rowena . '' 
`` Saxon or Jew , '' answered the Prince , `` Saxon or Jew , dog or hog , what matters it ! 
I say , name Rebecca , were it only to mortify the Saxon churls . '' 
All were splendidly armed , and my Saxon authority -LRB- in the Wardour Manuscript -RRB- records at great length their devices , their colours , and the embroidery of their horse trappings . 
But none shared the general feeling of dissatisfaction so keenly as Cedric the Saxon , who saw , in each advantage gained by the Norman challengers , a repeated triumph over the honour of England . 
His own education had taught him no skill in the games of chivalry , although , with the arms of his Saxon ancestors , he had manifested himself , on many occasions , a brave and determined soldier . 
But , though both stout of heart and strong of person , Athelstane had a disposition too inert and unambitious to make the exertions which Cedric seemed to expect from him . 
`` The day is against England , my lord , '' said Cedric , in a marked tone ; `` are you not tempted to take the lance ? '' 
Two things displeased Cedric in the speech . 
Athelstane took the observation as a serious compliment ; but Cedric , who better understood the Jester 's meaning , darted at him a severe and menacing look ; and lucky it was for Wamba , perhaps , that the time and place prevented his receiving , notwithstanding his place and service , more sensible marks of his master 's resentment . 
Cedric the Saxon , overjoyed at the discomfiture of the Templar , and still more so at the miscarriage of his two malevolent neighbours , Front-de-Boeuf and Malvoisin , had , with his body half stretched over the balcony , accompanied the victor in each course , not with his eyes only , but with his whole heart and soul . 
Even the unmoved Athelstane had shown symptoms of shaking off his apathy , when , calling for a huge goblet of muscadine , he quaffed it to the health of the Disinherited Knight . 
They then repeated their cry of Largesse , to which Cedric , in the height of his joy , replied by an ample donative , and to which Athelstane , though less promptly , added one equally large . 
There was some murmuring among the damsels of Norman descent , who were as much unused to see the preference given to a Saxon beauty , as the Norman nobles were to sustain defeat in the games of chivalry which they themselves had introduced . 
To which many in the lower area added , `` Long live the Saxon Princess ! 
Rowena remained silent , and Cedric answered for her in his native Saxon . 
`` The Lady Rowena , '' he said , `` possesses not the language in which to reply to your courtesy , or to sustain her part in your festival . 
So saying , he lifted the coronet , and placed it upon Rowena 's head , in token of her acceptance of the temporary authority assigned to her . 
said Prince John , affecting not to understand the Saxon language , in which , however , he was well skilled . 
The purport of Cedric 's speech was repeated to him in French . 
`` It is well , '' he said ; `` to-morrow we will ourself conduct this mute sovereign to her seat of dignity . 
-- You , at least , Sir Knight , '' he added , turning to the victor , who had remained near the gallery , `` will this day share our banquet ? '' 
`` And I , '' said Gurth , `` for a Saxon swineherd , have not ill played the personage of a Norman squire-at-arms . '' 
said Gurth , in Saxon . 
continued the Saxon , when he had finished this uncivil ejaculation , `` even but a small sum ; something in hand the whilst . 
Rough and impetuous as a wild boar , where only earthly force was to be apprehended , he had all the characteristic terrors of a Saxon respecting fauns , forest-fiends , white women , and the whole of the superstitions which his ancestors had brought with them from the wilds of Germany . 
`` A forfeit -- a forfeit , '' shouted the robbers ; `` a Saxon hath thirty zecchins , and returns sober from a village ! 
`` Thou art an ass , '' replied one of the thieves ; `` three quarts of double ale had rendered thee as free as thy master , ay , and freer too , if he be a Saxon like thyself . '' 
`` I paid to Isaac , '' said the Saxon , `` eighty zecchins , and he restored me a hundred in lieu thereof . '' 
The Saxon hath saved both his purse and his hide , and the Miller has met his match . '' 
About the same time arrived Cedric the Saxon , with the Lady Rowena , unattended , however , by Athelstane . 
This Saxon lord had arrayed his tall and strong person in armour , in order to take his place among the combatants ; and , considerably to the surprise of Cedric , had chosen to enlist himself on the part of the Knight Templar . 
The Saxon , indeed , had remonstrated strongly with his friend upon the injudicious choice he had made of his party ; but he had only received that sort of answer usually given by those who are more obstinate in following their own course , than strong in justifying it . 
His best , if not his only reason , for adhering to the party of Brian de Bois-Guilbert , Athelstane had the prudence to keep to himself . 
Though his apathy of disposition prevented his taking any means to recommend himself to the Lady Rowena , he was , nevertheless , by no means insensible to her charms , and considered his union with her as a matter already fixed beyond doubt , by the assent of Cedric and her other friends . 
Turning their horses , therefore , at the same moment , the Norman spurred against the Disinherited Knight on the one side , and the Saxon on the other . 
It was utterly impossible that the object of this unequal and unexpected assault could have sustained it , had he not been warned by a general cry from the spectators , who could not but take interest in one exposed to such disadvantage . 
Le Noir Faineant then turned his horse upon Athelstane of Coningsburgh ; and his own sword having been broken in his encounter with Front-de-Boeuf , he wrenched from the hand of the bulky Saxon the battle-axe which he wielded , and , like one familiar with the use of the weapon , bestowed him such a blow upon the crest , that Athelstane also lay senseless on the field . 
Having achieved this double feat , for which he was the more highly applauded that it was totally unexpected from him , the knight seemed to resume the sluggishness of his character , returning calmly to the northern extremity of the lists , leaving his leader to cope as he best could with Brian de Bois-Guilbert . 
Cedric , who had been struck mute by the sudden appearance of his banished son , now rushed forward , as if to separate him from Rowena . 
`` A Saxon heiress of large possessions , '' replied the Prior Aymer ; `` a rose of loveliness , and a jewel of wealth ; the fairest among a thousand , a bundle of myrrh , and a cluster of camphire . '' 
What thinkst thou of gaining fair lands and livings , by wedding a Saxon , after the fashion of the followers of the Conqueror ? '' 
`` We will not forget it , '' said Prince John ; `` and that we may instantly go to work , command our seneschal presently to order the attendance of the Lady Rowena and her company -- that is , the rude churl her guardian , and the Saxon ox whom the Black Knight struck down in the tournament , upon this evening 's banquet . 
This will be an abundant fulfilment of the Prince 's promises , so far as this herd of Saxon serfs is concerned . '' 
Guests also were invited in great numbers ; and in the necessity in which he then found himself of courting popularity , Prince John had extended his invitation to a few distinguished Saxon and Danish families , as well as to the Norman nobility and gentry of the neighbourhood . 
In execution of the resolution which he had formed during his cooler moments , Prince John received Cedric and Athelstane with distinguished courtesy , and expressed his disappointment , without resentment , when the indisposition of Rowena was alleged by the former as a reason for her not attending upon his gracious summons . 
Cedric and Athelstane were both dressed in the ancient Saxon , garb , which , although not unhandsome in itself , and in the present instance composed of costly materials , was so remote in shape and appearance from that of the other guests , that Prince John took great credit to himself with Waldemar Fitzurse for refraining from laughter at a sight which the fashion of the day rendered ridiculous . 
With sly gravity , interrupted only by private signs to each other , the Norman knights and nobles beheld the ruder demeanour of Athelstane and Cedric at a banquet , to the form and fashion of which they were unaccustomed . 
Thus Cedric , who dried his hands with a towel , instead of suffering the moisture to exhale by waving them gracefully in the air , incurred more ridicule than his companion Athelstane , when he swallowed to his own single share the whole of a large pasty composed of the most exquisite foreign delicacies , and termed at that time a Karum-pie . 
`` We drink this beaker , '' said he , `` to the health of Wilfred of Ivanhoe , champion of this Passage of Arms , and grieve that his wound renders him absent from our board -- Let all fill to the pledge , and especially Cedric of Rotherwood , the worthy father of a son so promising . '' 
`` No , my lord , '' replied Cedric , standing up , and placing on the table his untasted cup , `` I yield not the name of son to the disobedient youth , who at once despises my commands , and relinquishes the manners and customs of his fathers . '' 
`` Yet , my lord , '' answered Cedric , `` so it is with this Wilfred . 
`` He did endow him with it , '' answered Cedric ; `` nor is it my least quarrel with my son , that he stooped to hold , as a feudal vassal , the very domains which his fathers possessed in free and independent right . '' 
`` We shall then have your willing sanction , good Cedric , '' said Prince John , `` to confer this fief upon a person whose dignity will not be diminished by holding land of the British crown . 
answered the black-brow 'd giant , `` I will consent that your highness shall hold me a Saxon , if either Cedric or Wilfred , or the best that ever bore English blood , shall wrench from me the gift with which your highness has graced me . '' 
`` Whoever shall call thee Saxon , Sir Baron , '' replied Cedric , offended at a mode of expression by which the Normans frequently expressed their habitual contempt of the English , `` will do thee an honour as great as it is undeserved . '' 
`` Assuredly , '' said he , `` my lords , the noble Cedric speaks truth ; and his race may claim precedence over us as much in the length of their pedigrees as in the longitude of their cloaks . '' 
`` Their singular abstemiousness and temperance , '' said De Bracy , forgetting the plan which promised him a Saxon bride . 
While , with smooth and smiling cheek , the courtiers , each in turn , followed their Prince 's example , and aimed a shaft of ridicule at Cedric , the face of the Saxon became inflamed with passion , and he glanced his eyes fiercely from one to another , as if the quick succession of so many injuries had prevented his replying to them in turn ; or , like a baited bull , who , surrounded by his tormentors , is at a loss to choose from among them the immediate object of his revenge . 
At length he spoke , in a voice half choked with passion ; and , addressing himself to Prince John as the head and front of the offence which he had received , `` Whatever , '' he said , `` have been the follies and vices of our race , a Saxon would have been held nidering , '' There was nothing accounted so ignominious among the Saxons as to merit this disgraceful epithet . 
-LRB- the most emphatic term for abject worthlessness , -RRB- `` who should in his own hall , and while his own wine-cup passed , have treated , or suffered to be treated , an unoffending guest as your highness has this day beheld me used ; and whatever was the misfortune of our fathers on the field of Hastings , those may at least be silent , '' here he looked at Front-de-Boeuf and the Templar , `` who have within these few hours once and again lost saddle and stirrup before the lance of a Saxon . '' 
-- Our Saxon subjects rise in spirit and courage ; become shrewd in wit , and bold in bearing , in these unsettled times -- What say ye , my lords ? 
`` A truce with your raillery , Sir Knights , '' said Fitzurse ; -- `` and it were well , '' he added , addressing the Prince , `` that your highness should assure the worthy Cedric there is no insult intended him by jests , which must sound but harshly in the ear of a stranger . '' 
I fill my cup to Cedric himself , since he refuses to pledge his son 's health . '' 
The cup went round amid the well-dissembled applause of the courtiers , which , however , failed to make the impression on the mind of the Saxon that had been designed . 
He was not naturally acute of perception , but those too much undervalued his understanding who deemed that this flattering compliment would obliterate the sense of the prior insult . 
He was silent , however , when the royal pledge again passed round , `` To Sir Athelstane of Coningsburgh . '' 
`` And now , sirs , '' said Prince John , who began to be warmed with the wine which he had drank , `` having done justice to our Saxon guests , we will pray of them some requital to our courtesy . 
-- Worthy Thane , '' he continued , addressing Cedric , `` may we pray you to name to us some Norman whose mention may least sully your mouth , and to wash down with a goblet of wine all bitterness which the sound may leave behind it ? '' 
Fitzurse arose while Prince John spoke , and gliding behind the seat of the Saxon , whispered to him not to omit the opportunity of putting an end to unkindness betwixt the two races , by naming Prince John . 
The Saxon replied not to this politic insinuation , but , rising up , and filling his cup to the brim , he addressed Prince John in these words : `` Your highness has required that I should name a Norman deserving to be remembered at our banquet . 
Prince John , who had expected that his own name would have closed the Saxon 's speech , started when that of his injured brother was so unexpectedly introduced . 
He raised mechanically the wine-cup to his lips , then instantly set it down , to view the demeanour of the company at this unexpected proposal , which many of them felt it as unsafe to oppose as to comply with . 
Having enjoyed his triumph for about a minute , Cedric said to his companion , `` Up , noble Athelstane ! 
Those who wish to know further of our rude Saxon manners must henceforth seek us in the homes of our fathers , since we have seen enough of royal banquets , and enough of Norman courtesy . '' 
So saying , he arose and left the banqueting room , followed by Athelstane , and by several other guests , who , partaking of the Saxon lineage , held themselves insulted by the sarcasms of Prince John and his courtiers . 
`` By the bones of St Thomas , '' said Prince John , as they retreated , `` the Saxon churls have borne off the best of the day , and have retreated with triumph ! '' 
`` This , then , is the result of your advice , '' said the Prince , turning an angry countenance upon Fitzurse ; `` that I should be bearded at my own board by a drunken Saxon churl , and that , on the mere sound of my brother 's name , men should fall off from me as if I had the leprosy ? '' 
`` I tell thee , '' said De Bracy , `` that I mean to purvey me a wife after the fashion of the tribe of Benjamin ; which is as much as to say , that in this same equipment I will fall upon that herd of Saxon bullocks , who have this night left the castle , and carry off from them the lovely Rowena . '' 
`` Bethink thee that , though the men be Saxons , they are rich and powerful , and regarded with the more respect by their countrymen , that wealth and honour are but the lot of few of Saxon descent . '' 
`` Let him grant it , if he dare , '' said De Bracy ; `` he will soon see the difference betwixt the support of such a lusty lot of spears as mine , and that of a heartless mob of Saxon churls . 
I have sure spies on the Saxons ' motions -- To-night they sleep in the convent of Saint Wittol , or Withold , or whatever they call that churl of a Saxon Saint at Burton-on-Trent . 
Thou mayst , I think , succeed in taking her from her Saxon friends , but how thou wilt rescue her afterwards from the clutches of Bois-Guilbert seems considerably more doubtful -- He is a falcon well accustomed to pounce on a partridge , and to hold his prey fast . '' 
`` He is a Templar , '' said De Bracy , `` and can not therefore rival me in my plan of wedding this heiress ; -- and to attempt aught dishonourable against the intended bride of De Bracy -- By Heaven ! 
The entrance to this ancient place of devotion was under a very low round arch , ornamented by several courses of that zig-zag moulding , resembling shark 's teeth , which appears so often in the more ancient Saxon architecture . 
Having made this goodly provision for washing down the supper , he seemed to think no farther ceremonious scruple necessary on his part ; but filling both cups , and saying , in the Saxon fashion , `` Waes hael , Sir Sluggish Knight ! '' 
he emptied his own at a draught . 
answered the warrior , and did his host reason in a similar brimmer . 
`` I will assay , then , '' said the knight , `` a ballad composed by a Saxon glee-man , whom I knew in Holy Land . '' 
`` And yet , '' said he , `` I think my Saxon countrymen had herded long enough with the Normans , to fall into the tone of their melancholy ditties . 
When Cedric the Saxon saw his son drop down senseless in the lists at Ashby , his first impulse was to order him into the custody and care of his own attendants , but the words choked in his throat . 
It was in vain that Cedric 's cupbearer looked around for his young master -- he saw the bloody spot on which he had lately sunk down , but himself he saw no longer ; it seemed as it the fairies had conveyed him from the spot . 
Oswald , on receiving this intelligence , resolved to return to his master for farther instructions , carrying along with him Gurth , whom he considered in some sort as a deserter from the service of Cedric . 
The Saxon had been under very intense and agonizing apprehensions concerning his son ; for Nature had asserted her rights , in spite of the patriotic stoicism which laboured to disown her . 
But no sooner was he informed that Ivanhoe was in careful , and probably in friendly hands , than the paternal anxiety which had been excited by the dubiety of his fate , gave way anew to the feeling of injured pride and resentment , at what he termed Wilfred 's filial disobedience . 
Thither will I go , were it only to show these proud Normans how little the fate of a son , who could defeat their bravest , can affect a Saxon . '' 
`` Remain at home , then , ungrateful lady , '' answered Cedric ; `` thine is the hard heart , which can sacrifice the weal of an oppressed people to an idle and unauthorized attachment . 
He went accordingly to the banquet , of which we have already mentioned the principal events . 
Immediately upon retiring from the castle , the Saxon thanes , with their attendants , took horse ; and it was during the bustle which attended their doing so , that Cedric , for the first time , cast his eyes upon the deserter Gurth . 
The noble Saxon had returned from the banquet , as we have seen , in no very placid humour , and wanted but a pretext for wreaking his anger upon some one . 
he said , `` the gyves ! 
Without daring to remonstrate , the companions of Gurth bound him with a halter , as the readiest cord which occurred . 
He submitted to the operation without remonstrance , except that , darting a reproachful look at his master , he said , `` This comes of loving your flesh and blood better than mine own . '' 
said Cedric . 
The Abbot , himself of ancient Saxon descent , received the noble Saxons with the profuse and exuberant hospitality of their nation , wherein they indulged to a late , or rather an early hour ; nor did they take leave of their reverend host the next morning until they had shared with him a sumptuous refection . 
`` I like not that music , father Cedric , '' said Athelstane ; for by this title of respect he was accustomed to address him . 
said Cedric , impatiently ; `` the day is already too short for our journey . 
So saying , and rising at the same time in his stirrups , impatient at the interruption of his journey , he launched his javelin at poor Fangs -- for Fangs it was , who , having traced his master thus far upon his stolen expedition , had here lost him , and was now , in his uncouth way , rejoicing at his reappearance . 
The javelin inflicted a wound upon the animal 's shoulder , and narrowly missed pinning him to the earth ; and Fangs fled howling from the presence of the enraged thane . 
Gurth 's heart swelled within him ; for he felt this meditated slaughter of his faithful adherent in a degree much deeper than the harsh treatment he had himself received . 
Having in vain attempted to raise his hand to his eyes , he said to Wamba , who , seeing his master 's ill humour , had prudently retreated to the rear , `` I pray thee , do me the kindness to wipe my eyes with the skirt of thy mantle ; the dust offends me , and these bonds will not let me help myself one way or another . '' 
Wamba did him the service he required , and they rode side by side for some time , during which Gurth maintained a moody silence . 
At length he could repress his feelings no longer . 
`` Friend Wamba , '' said he , `` of all those who are fools enough to serve Cedric , thou alone hast dexterity enough to make thy folly acceptable to him . 
Go to him , therefore , and tell him that neither for love nor fear will Gurth serve him longer . 
He may strike the head from me -- he may scourge me -- he may load me with irons -- but henceforth he shall never compel me either to love or to obey him . 
Go to him , then , and tell him that Gurth the son of Beowulph renounces his service . '' 
Cedric hath another javelin stuck into his girdle , and thou knowest he does not always miss his mark . '' 
`` I care not , '' replied Gurth , `` how soon he makes a mark of me . 
Yesterday he left Wilfred , my young master , in his blood . 
To-day he has striven to kill before my face the only other living creature that ever showed me kindness . 
By St Edmund , St Dunstan , St Withold , St Edward the Confessor , and every other Saxon saint in the calendar , '' -LRB- for Cedric never swore by any that was not of Saxon lineage , and all his household had the same limited devotion , -RRB- `` I will never forgive him ! '' 
Meanwhile Cedric and Athelstane , the leaders of the troop , conversed together on the state of the land , on the dissensions of the royal family , on the feuds and quarrels among the Norman nobles , and on the chance which there was that the oppressed Saxons might be able to free themselves from the yoke of the Normans , or at least to elevate themselves into national consequence and independence , during the civil convulsions which were likely to ensue . 
On this subject Cedric was all animation . 
The restoration of the independence of his race was the idol of his heart , to which he had willingly sacrificed domestic happiness and the interests of his own son . 
The necessity of choosing their chief from the Saxon blood-royal was not only evident in itself , but had been made a solemn condition by those whom Cedric had intrusted with his secret plans and hopes . 
Athelstane had this quality at least ; and though he had few mental accomplishments or talents to recommend him as a leader , he had still a goodly person , was no coward , had been accustomed to martial exercises , and seemed willing to defer to the advice of counsellors more wise than himself . 
But whatever pretensions Athelstane had to be considered as head of the Saxon confederacy , many of that nation were disposed to prefer to his the title of the Lady Rowena , who drew her descent from Alfred , and whose father having been a chief renowned for wisdom , courage , and generosity , his memory was highly honoured by his oppressed countrymen . 
It would have been no difficult thing for Cedric , had he been so disposed , to have placed himself at the head of a third party , as formidable at least as any of the others . 
To counterbalance their royal descent , he had courage , activity , energy , and , above all , that devoted attachment to the cause which had procured him the epithet of The Saxon , and his birth was inferior to none , excepting only that of Athelstane and his ward . 
These qualities , however , were unalloyed by the slightest shade of selfishness ; and , instead of dividing yet farther his weakened nation by forming a faction of his own , it was a leading part of Cedric 's plan to extinguish that which already existed , by promoting a marriage betwixt Rowena and Athelstane . 
An obstacle occurred to this his favourite project , in the mutual attachment of his ward and his son ; and hence the original cause of the banishment of Wilfred from the house of his father . 
This stern measure Cedric had adopted , in hopes that , during Wilfred 's absence , Rowena might relinquish her preference , but in this hope he was disappointed ; a disappointment which might be attributed in part to the mode in which his ward had been educated . 
Cedric , to whom the name of Alfred was as that of a deity , had treated the sole remaining scion of that great monarch with a degree of observance , such as , perhaps , was in those days scarce paid to an acknowledged princess . 
Rowena 's will had been in almost all cases a law to his household ; and Cedric himself , as if determined that her sovereignty should be fully acknowledged within that little circle at least , seemed to take a pride in acting as the first of her subjects . 
The opinions which she felt strongly , she avowed boldly ; and Cedric , who could not free himself from his habitual deference to her opinions , felt totally at a loss how to enforce his authority of guardian . 
It was in vain that he attempted to dazzle her with the prospect of a visionary throne . 
Rowena , who possessed strong sense , neither considered his plan as practicable , nor as desirable , so far as she was concerned , could it have been achieved . 
Nevertheless , Cedric , whose opinion of women 's constancy was far from strong , persisted in using every means in his power to bring about the proposed match , in which he conceived he was rendering an important service to the Saxon cause . 
The sudden and romantic appearance of his son in the lists at Ashby , he had justly regarded as almost a death 's blow to his hopes . 
His paternal affection , it is true , had for an instant gained the victory over pride and patriotism ; but both had returned in full force , and under their joint operation , he was now bent upon making a determined effort for the union of Athelstane and Rowena , together with expediting those other measures which seemed necessary to forward the restoration of Saxon independence . 
If he had the courage to encounter danger , he at least hated the trouble of going to seek it ; and while he agreed in the general principles laid down by Cedric concerning the claim of the Saxons to independence , and was still more easily convinced of his own title to reign over them when that independence should be attained , yet when the means of asserting these rights came to be discussed , he was still `` Athelstane the Unready , '' slow , irresolute , procrastinating , and unenterprising . 
The warm and impassioned exhortations of Cedric had as little effect upon his impassive temper , as red-hot balls alighting in the water , which produce a little sound and smoke , and are instantly extinguished . 
If , leaving this task , which might be compared to spurring a tired jade , or to hammering upon cold iron , Cedric fell back to his ward Rowena , he received little more satisfaction from conferring with her . 
For , as his presence interrupted the discourse between the lady and her favourite attendant upon the gallantry and fate of Wilfred , Elgitha failed not to revenge both her mistress and herself , by recurring to the overthrow of Athelstane in the lists , the most disagreeable subject which could greet the ears of Cedric . 
To this sturdy Saxon , therefore , the day 's journey was fraught with all manner of displeasure and discomfort ; so that he more than once internally cursed the tournament , and him who had proclaimed it , together with his own folly in ever thinking of going thither . 
From these rovers , however , notwithstanding the lateness of the hour , Cedric and Athelstane accounted themselves secure , as they had in attendance ten servants , besides Wamba and Gurth , whose aid could not be counted upon , the one being a jester and the other a captive . 
It may be added , that in travelling thus late through the forest , Cedric and Athelstane relied on their descent and character , as well as their courage . 
The outlaws , whom the severity of the forest laws had reduced to this roving and desperate mode of life , were chiefly peasants and yeomen of Saxon descent , and were generally supposed to respect the persons and property of their countrymen . 
To the enquiries of Athelstane and Cedric , the old Jew could for some time only answer by invoking the protection of all the patriarchs of the Old Testament successively against the sons of Ishmael , who were coming to smite them , hip and thigh , with the edge of the sword . 
Cedric did not assent to the severe proposal of his companion . 
`` We shall do better , '' said he , `` to leave them two of our attendants and two horses to convey them back to the next village . 
But Rebecca , suddenly quitting her dejected posture , and making her way through the attendants to the palfrey of the Saxon lady , knelt down , and , after the Oriental fashion in addressing superiors , kissed the hem of Rowena 's garment . 
The noble and solemn air with which Rebecca made this appeal , gave it double weight with the fair Saxon . 
Cedric readily assented to what she proposed , and Athelstane only added the condition , `` that they should travel in the rear of the whole party , where Wamba , '' he said , `` might attend them with his shield of boar 's brawn . '' 
Cedric and Athelstane , who were at the head of their retinue , saw the risk of being attacked at this pass ; but neither of them having had much practice in war , no better mode of preventing the danger occurred to them than that they should hasten through the defile as fast as possible . 
war-cries adopted by the assailants , as belonging to their assumed character of Saxon outlaws , was heard on every side , and on every side enemies appeared with a rapidity of advance and attack which seemed to multiply their numbers . 
Both the Saxon chiefs were made prisoners at the same moment , and each under circumstances expressive of his character . 
Cedric , the instant that an enemy appeared , launched at him his remaining javelin , which , taking better effect than that which he had hurled at Fangs , nailed the man against an oak-tree that happened to be close behind him . 
Thus far successful , Cedric spurred his horse against a second , drawing his sword at the same time , and striking with such inconsiderate fury , that his weapon encountered a thick branch which hung over him , and he was disarmed by the violence of his own blow . 
He was instantly made prisoner , and pulled from his horse by two or three of the banditti who crowded around him . 
Athelstane shared his captivity , his bridle having been seized , and he himself forcibly dismounted , long before he could draw his weapon , or assume any posture of effectual defence . 
`` To rescue Cedric . '' 
`` But you have renounced his service but now , '' said Wamba . 
`` That , '' said Gurth , `` was but while he was fortunate -- follow me ! '' 
But I trust soon to gather such a force , as may act in defiance of all their precautions ; you are both servants , and , as I think , faithful servants , of Cedric the Saxon , the friend of the rights of Englishmen . 
He shall not want English hands to help him in this extremity . 
It was after three hours ' good walking that the servants of Cedric , with their mysterious guide , arrived at a small opening in the forest , in the centre of which grew an oak-tree of enormous magnitude , throwing its twisted branches in every direction . 
A band of villains , in the disguise of better men than themselves , have made themselves master of the person of a noble Englishman , called Cedric the Saxon , together with his ward , and his friend Athelstane of Coningsburgh , and have transported them to a castle in this forest , called Torquilstone . 
`` Hold thy peace , Wamba , '' said Gurth ; `` it may all be as thou dost guess ; but were the horned devil to rise and proffer me his assistance to set at liberty Cedric and the Lady Rowena , I fear I should hardly have religion enough to refuse the foul fiend 's offer , and bid him get behind me . '' 
While these measures were taking in behalf of Cedric and his companions , the armed men by whom the latter had been seized , hurried their captives along towards the place of security , where they intended to imprison them . 
While this dialogue was proceeding , Cedric was endeavouring to wring out of those who guarded him an avowal of their character and purpose . 
It was in vain that Cedric expostulated with his guards , who had too many good reasons for their silence to be induced to break it either by his wrath or his expostulations . 
They continued to hurry him along , travelling at a very rapid rate , until , at the end of an avenue of huge trees , arose Torquilstone , now the hoary and ancient castle of Reginald Front-de-Boeuf . 
Cedric no sooner saw the turrets of Front-de-Boeuf 's castle raise their grey and moss-grown battlements , glimmering in the morning sun above the wood by which they were surrounded , than he instantly augured more truly concerning the cause of his misfortune . 
`` I did injustice , '' he said , `` to the thieves and outlaws of these woods , when I supposed such banditti to belong to their bands ; I might as justly have confounded the foxes of these brakes with the ravening wolves of France . 
If the Saxon Cedric can not rescue England , he is willing to die for her . 
Neither had the descendant of the Confessor much time to do justice to the good cheer placed before them , for their guards gave him and Cedric to understand that they were to be imprisoned in a chamber apart from Rowena . 
Resistance was vain ; and they were compelled to follow to a large room , which , rising on clumsy Saxon pillars , resembled those refectories and chapter-houses which may be still seen in the most ancient parts of our most ancient monasteries . 
The apartment in which the Saxon chiefs were confined , for to them we turn our first attention , although at present used as a sort of guard-room , had formerly been the great hall of the castle . 
Cedric paced the apartment , filled with indignant reflections on the past and on the present , while the apathy of his companion served , instead of patience and philosophy , to defend him against every thing save the inconvenience of the present moment ; and so little did he feel even this last , that he was only from time to time roused to a reply by Cedric 's animated and impassioned appeal to him . 
`` Yes , '' said Cedric , half speaking to himself , and half addressing himself to Athelstane , `` it was in this very hall that my father feasted with Torquil Wolfganger , when he entertained the valiant and unfortunate Harold , then advancing against the Norwegians , who had united themselves to the rebel Tosti . 
The envoy of Tosti was admitted , when this ample room could scarce contain the crowd of noble Saxon leaders , who were quaffing the blood-red wine around their monarch . '' 
`` I hope , '' said Athelstane , somewhat moved by this part of his friend 's discourse , `` they will not forget to send us some wine and refections at noon -- we had scarce a breathing-space allowed to break our fast , and I never have the benefit of my food when I eat immediately after dismounting from horseback , though the leeches recommend that practice . '' 
Cedric went on with his story without noticing this interjectional observation of his friend . 
`` The envoy of Tosti , '' he said , `` moved up the hall , undismayed by the frowning countenances of all around him , until he made his obeisance before the throne of King Harold . 
`` The baffled envoy , '' continued Cedric , pursuing with animation his tale , though it interested not the listener , `` retreated , to carry to Tosti and his ally the ominous answer of his injured brother . 
Who would have thought that upon the proud day when this battle was won , the very gale which waved the Saxon banners in triumph , was filling the Norman sails , and impelling them to the fatal shores of Sussex ? 
-- Who would have thought that you , noble Athelstane -- that you , descended of Harold 's blood , and that I , whose father was not the worst defender of the Saxon crown , should be prisoners to a vile Norman , in the very hall in which our ancestors held such high festival ? '' 
Look up at the window , noble Cedric , and judge by the sunbeams if it is not on the verge of noon . '' 
`` It may be so , '' answered Cedric ; `` but I can not look on that stained lattice without its awakening other reflections than those which concern the passing moment , or its privations . 
He returned pampered and proud , to tell his rapacious countrymen of the wealth and the simplicity of the Saxon nobles -- a folly , oh , Athelstane , foreboded of old , as well as foreseen , by those descendants of Hengist and his hardy tribes , who retained the simplicity of their manners . 
`` I should , '' replied Athelstane , `` hold very humble diet a luxury at present ; and it astonishes me , noble Cedric , that you can bear so truly in mind the memory of past deeds , when it appeareth you forget the very hour of dinner . '' 
`` It is time lost , '' muttered Cedric apart and impatiently , `` to speak to him of aught else but that which concerns his appetite ! 
The soul of Hardicanute hath taken possession of him , and he hath no pleasure save to fill , to swill , and to call for more . 
said he , looking at Athelstane with compassion , `` that so dull a spirit should be lodged in so goodly a form ! 
Wedded to Rowena , indeed , her nobler and more generous soul may yet awake the better nature which is torpid within him . 
Yet how should this be , while Rowena , Athelstane , and I myself , remain the prisoners of this brutal marauder , and have been made so perhaps from a sense of the dangers which our liberty might bring to the usurped power of his nation ? '' 
While the Saxon was plunged in these painful reflections , the door of their prison opened , and gave entrance to a sewer , holding his white rod of office . 
This important person advanced into the chamber with a grave pace , followed by four attendants , bearing in a table covered with dishes , the sight and smell of which seemed to be an instant compensation to Athelstane for all the inconvenience he had undergone . 
said Cedric ; `` think you that we are ignorant whose prisoners we are , when we are in the castle of your master ? 
Tell him , '' he continued , willing to use this opportunity to open a negotiation for his freedom , -- `` Tell your master , Reginald Front-de-Boeuf , that we know no reason he can have for withholding our liberty , excepting his unlawful desire to enrich himself at our expense . 
The sewer made no answer , but bowed his head . 
Still , however , his speech was hailed by Cedric as an incontestible token of reviving spirit in his companion , whose previous indifference had begun , notwithstanding his respect for Athelstane 's descent , to wear out his patience . 
But he now cordially shook hands with him in token of his approbation , and was somewhat grieved when Athelstane observed , `` that he would fight a dozen such men as Front-de-Boeuf , if , by so doing , he could hasten his departure from a dungeon where they put so much garlic into their pottage . '' 
Notwithstanding this intimation of a relapse into the apathy of sensuality , Cedric placed himself opposite to Athelstane , and soon showed , that if the distresses of his country could banish the recollection of food while the table was uncovered , yet no sooner were the victuals put there , than he proved that the appetite of his Saxon ancestors had descended to him along with their other qualities . 
Leaving the Saxon chiefs to return to their banquet as soon as their ungratified curiosity should permit them to attend to the calls of their half-satiated appetite , we have to look in upon the yet more severe imprisonment of Isaac of York . 
`` If thou meanest yonder Saxon churls , '' said Front-de-Boeuf , `` their ransom will depend upon other terms than thine . 
Desolate , however , as it was , this was the apartment of the castle which had been judged most fitting for the accommodation of the Saxon heiress ; and here she was left to meditate upon her fate , until the actors in this nefarious drama had arranged the several parts which each of them was to perform . 
I am not wont to be baffled in my enterprises , nor needs a Norman noble scrupulously to vindicate his conduct to the Saxon maiden whom he distinguishes by the offer of his hand . 
Cedric also '' -- `` And Cedric also , '' said Rowena , repeating his words ; `` my noble -- my generous guardian ! 
I deserved the evil I have encountered , for forgetting his fate even in that of his son ! '' 
`` Cedric 's fate also depends upon thy determination , '' said De Bracy ; `` and I leave thee to form it . '' 
Accustomed to see the will of all , even of Cedric himself , -LRB- sufficiently arbitrary with others , -RRB- give way before her wishes , she had acquired that sort of courage and self-confidence which arises from the habitual and constant deference of the circle in which we move . 
The description given by the author of the Saxon Chronicle of the cruelties exercised in the reign of King Stephen by the great barons and lords of castles , who were all Normans , affords a strong proof of the excesses of which they were capable when their passions were inflamed . 
Hither she had been led by two of her disguised ravishers , and on being thrust into the little cell , she found herself in the presence of an old sibyl , who kept murmuring to herself a Saxon rhyme , as if to beat time to the revolving dance which her spindle was performing upon the floor . 
Such usage shalt thou have as was once thought good enough for a noble Saxon maiden . 
Rebecca was now to expect a fate even more dreadful than that of Rowena ; for what probability was there that either softness or ceremony would be used towards one of her oppressed race , whatever shadow of these might be preserved towards a Saxon heiress ? 
`` It is well spoken , '' replied the outlaw in French , finding it difficult probably to sustain , in Saxon , a conversation which Rebecca had opened in that language ; `` but know , bright lily of the vale of Baca ! 
`` Has your suit , then , been unsuccessfully paid to the Saxon heiress ? '' 
A water-fiend hath possessed the fair Saxon . '' 
`` Let us see the cause of this cursed clamour , '' said Front-de-Boeuf -- `` here is a letter , and , if I mistake not , it is in Saxon . '' 
The Templar accordingly read it as follows : -- `` I , Wamba , the son of Witless , Jester to a noble and free-born man , Cedric of Rotherwood , called the Saxon , -- And I , Gurth , the son of Beowulph , the swineherd '' -- `` Thou art mad , '' said Front-de-Boeuf , interrupting the reader . 
Then resuming his task , he went on , -- `` I , Gurth , the son of Beowulph , swineherd unto the said Cedric , with the assistance of our allies and confederates , who make common cause with us in this our feud , namely , the good knight , called for the present Le Noir Faineant , and the stout yeoman , Robert Locksley , called Cleave-the-wand , Do you , Reginald Front-de-Boeuf , and your allies and accomplices whomsoever , to wit , that whereas you have , without cause given or feud declared , wrongfully and by mastery seized upon the person of our lord and master the said Cedric ; also upon the person of a noble and freeborn damsel , the Lady Rowena of Hargottstandstede ; also upon the person of a noble and freeborn man , Athelstane of Coningsburgh ; also upon the persons of certain freeborn men , their cnichts ; also upon certain serfs , their born bondsmen ; also upon a certain Jew , named Isaac of York , together with his daughter , a Jewess , and certain horses and mules : Which noble persons , with their cnichts and slaves , and also with the horses and mules , Jew and Jewess beforesaid , were all in peace with his majesty , and travelling as liege subjects upon the king 's highway ; therefore we require and demand that the said noble persons , namely , Cedric of Rotherwood , Rowena of Hargottstandstede , Athelstane of Coningsburgh , with their servants , cnichts , and followers , also the horses and mules , Jew and Jewess aforesaid , together with all goods and chattels to them pertaining , be , within an hour after the delivery hereof , delivered to us , or to those whom we shall appoint to receive the same , and that untouched and unharmed in body and goods . 
Besides these bands , a less orderly and a worse armed force , consisting of the Saxon inhabitants of the neighbouring township , as well as many bondsmen and servants from Cedric 's extensive estate , had already arrived , for the purpose of assisting in his rescue . 
`` I must be clerk , then , '' said the Black Knight ; and taking the letter from Locksley , he first read it over to himself , and then explained the meaning in Saxon to his confederates . 
`` Execute the noble Cedric ! '' 
I trust , with the assistance of the good hermit 's frock , together with the priesthood , sanctity , and learning which are stitched into the cowl of it , I shall be found qualified to administer both worldly and ghostly comfort to our worthy master Cedric , and his companions in adversity . '' 
`` Hath he sense enough , thinkst thou ? '' 
`` I know not , '' said Gurth ; `` but if he hath not , it will be the first time he hath wanted wit to turn his folly to account . '' 
In the meantime , and that the shaveling may suspect nothing , permit him to go freely about his task of preparing these Saxon hogs for the slaughter-house . '' 
And he forthwith appointed a domestic to conduct Wamba to the apartment where Cedric and Athelstane were confined . 
The impatience of Cedric had been rather enhanced than diminished by his confinement . 
He walked from one end of the hall to the other , with the attitude of one who advances to charge an enemy , or to storm the breach of a beleaguered place , sometimes ejaculating to himself , sometimes addressing Athelstane , who stoutly and stoically awaited the issue of the adventure , digesting , in the meantime , with great composure , the liberal meal which he had made at noon , and not greatly interesting himself about the duration of his captivity , which he concluded , would , like all earthly evils , find an end in Heaven 's good time . 
`` Enter freely , '' answered Cedric to the supposed friar ; `` with what intent art thou come hither ? '' 
replied Cedric , starting . 
Bethink thee , therefore , noble Cedric , and you also , gallant Athelstane , what crimes you have committed in the flesh ; for this very day will ye be called to answer at a higher tribunal . '' 
said Cedric ; `` we must rouse up our hearts to this last action , since better it is we should die like men , than live like slaves . '' 
`` Let us then unto our holy gear , father , '' said Cedric . 
`` By my faith , '' said Cedric , `` I should know that voice ! '' 
`` It is that of your trusty slave and jester , '' answered Wamba , throwing back his cowl . 
answered the Saxon . 
said Cedric , astonished at the proposal ; `` why , they would hang thee , my poor knave . '' 
`` Well , Wamba , '' answered Cedric , `` for one thing will I grant thy request . 
`` Villain , '' said Cedric , `` the fathers of Athelstane were monarchs of England ! '' 
`` Let the old tree wither , '' continued Cedric , `` so the stately hope of the forest be preserved . 
it is the duty of each who has Saxon blood in his veins . 
Thou and I will abide together the utmost rage of our injurious oppressors , while he , free and safe , shall arouse the awakened spirits of our countrymen to avenge us . '' 
`` Not so , father Cedric , '' said Athelstane , grasping his hand , -- for , when roused to think or act , his deeds and sentiments were not unbecoming his high race -- `` Not so , '' he continued ; `` I would rather remain in this hall a week without food save the prisoner 's stinted loaf , or drink save the prisoner 's measure of water , than embrace the opportunity to escape which the slave 's untaught kindness has purveyed for his master . '' 
`` You are called wise men , sirs , '' said the Jester , `` and I a crazed fool ; but , uncle Cedric , and cousin Athelstane , the fool shall decide this controversy for ye , and save ye the trouble of straining courtesies any farther . 
`` Go , then , noble Cedric , '' said Athelstane , `` neglect not this opportunity . 
said Cedric , looking to the Jester . 
The tears stood in Cedric 's eyes . 
`` Thy memory shall be preserved , '' he said , `` while fidelity and affection have honour upon earth ! 
The exchange of dress was now accomplished , when a sudden doubt struck Cedric . 
`` I know no language , '' he said , `` but my own , and a few words of their mincing Norman . 
The royal blood of our Saxon kings shall not be spilt while mine beats in my veins ; nor shall one hair fall from the head of the kind knave who risked himself for his master , if Cedric 's peril can prevent it . 
`` Farewell , noble Cedric , '' said Athelstane ; `` remember it is the true part of a friar to accept refreshment , if you are offered any . '' 
Thus exhorted , Cedric sallied forth upon his expedition ; and it was not long ere he had occasion to try the force of that spell which his Jester had recommended as omnipotent . 
In a low-arched and dusky passage , by which he endeavoured to work his way to the hall of the castle , he was interrupted by a female form . 
`` I am somewhat deaf , '' replied Cedric , in good Saxon , and at the same time muttered to himself , `` A curse on the fool and his Pax vobiscum ! 
It was , however , no unusual thing for a priest of those days to be deaf of his Latin ear , and this the person who now addressed Cedric knew full well . 
`` I pray you of dear love , reverend father , '' she replied in his own language , `` that you will deign to visit with your ghostly comfort a wounded prisoner of this castle , and have such compassion upon him and us as thy holy office teaches -- Never shall good deed so highly advantage thy convent . '' 
`` Daughter , '' answered Cedric , much embarrassed , `` my time in this castle will not permit me to exercise the duties of mine office -- I must presently forth -- there is life and death upon my speed . '' 
answered Cedric impatiently , and would probably have proceeded in the same tone of total departure from his spiritual character , when the colloquy was interrupted by the harsh voice of Urfried , the old crone of the turret . 
said Cedric , availing himself of the information to get clear of their interruption , -- `` Let me pass , woman ! 
When Urfried had with clamours and menaces driven Rebecca back to the apartment from which she had sallied , she proceeded to conduct the unwilling Cedric into a small apartment , the door of which she heedfully secured . 
Then fetching from a cupboard a stoup of wine and two flagons , she placed them on the table , and said in a tone rather asserting a fact than asking a question , `` Thou art Saxon , father -- Deny it not , '' she continued , observing that Cedric hastened not to reply ; `` the sounds of my native language are sweet to mine ears , though seldom heard save from the tongues of the wretched and degraded serfs on whom the proud Normans impose the meanest drudgery of this dwelling . 
Thou art a Saxon , father -- a Saxon , and , save as thou art a servant of God , a freeman . 
`` Do not Saxon priests visit this castle , then ? '' 
replied Cedric ; `` it were , methinks , their duty to comfort the outcast and oppressed children of the soil . '' 
-- But thou art a Saxon -- a Saxon priest , and I have one question to ask of thee . '' 
`` I am a Saxon , '' answered Cedric , `` but unworthy , surely , of the name of priest . 
Cedric would have avoided pledging her in this ominous conviviality , but the sign which she made to him expressed impatience and despair . 
He complied with her request , and answered her challenge in a large wine-cup ; she then proceeded with her story , as if appeased by his complaisance . 
said Cedric , receding as he spoke ; `` thou -- thou -- the daughter of that noble Saxon , my father 's friend and companion in arms ! '' 
echoed Urfried ; `` then Cedric called the Saxon stands before me , for the noble Hereward of Rotherwood had but one son , whose name is well known among his countrymen . 
But if thou art Cedric of Rotherwood , why this religious dress ? 
`` It matters not who I am , '' said Cedric ; `` proceed , unhappy woman , with thy tale of horror and guilt ! 
exclaimed Cedric . 
`` And while the friends of thy father -- while each true Saxon heart , as it breathed a requiem for his soul , and those of his valiant sons , forgot not in their prayers the murdered Ulrica -- while all mourned and honoured the dead , thou hast lived to merit our hate and execration -- lived to unite thyself with the vile tyrant who murdered thy nearest and dearest -- who shed the blood of infancy , rather than a male of the noble house of Torquil Wolfganger should survive -- with him hast thou lived to unite thyself , and in the bands of lawless love ! '' 
`` You hated him , and yet you lived , '' replied Cedric ; `` wretch ! 
For had I but dreamed of the daughter of Torquil living in foul communion with the murderer of her father , the sword of a true Saxon had found thee out even in the arms of thy paramour ! '' 
said Ulrica , for we may now lay aside her assumed name of Urfried ; `` thou art then the true Saxon report speaks thee ! 
for even within these accursed walls , where , as thou well sayest , guilt shrouds itself in inscrutable mystery , even there has the name of Cedric been sounded -- and I , wretched and degraded , have rejoiced to think that there yet breathed an avenger of our unhappy nation . 
-- Look on me , Cedric -- are there not still left on this foul and faded face some traces of the features of Torquil ? '' 
`` Ask me not of them , Ulrica , '' replied Cedric , in a tone of grief mixed with abhorrence ; `` these traces form such a resemblance as arises from the grave of the dead , when a fiend has animated the lifeless corpse . '' 
`` And thou , creature of guilt and misery , '' said Cedric , `` what became thy lot on the death of thy ravisher ? '' 
`` Ulrica , '' said Cedric , `` with a heart which still , I fear , regrets the lost reward of thy crimes , as much as the deeds by which thou didst acquire that meed , how didst thou dare to address thee to one who wears this robe ? 
`` I am no priest , '' said Cedric , turning with disgust from this miserable picture of guilt , wretchedness , and despair ; `` I am no priest , though I wear a priest 's garment . '' 
`` I bid thee repent , '' said Cedric . 
said Ulrica ; `` leave me not now , son of my father 's friend , lest the demon who has governed my life should tempt me to avenge myself of thy hard-hearted scorn -- Thinkest thou , if Front-de-Boeuf found Cedric the Saxon in his castle , in such a disguise , that thy life would be a long one ? 
-- Already his eye has been upon thee like a falcon on his prey . '' 
`` And be it so , '' said Cedric ; `` and let him tear me with beak and talons , ere my tongue say one word which my heart doth not warrant . 
I will die a Saxon -- true in word , open in deed -- I bid thee avaunt ! 
`` Be it so , '' said Ulrica , no longer interrupting him ; `` go thy way , and forget , in the insolence of thy superiority , that the wretch before thee is the daughter of thy father 's friend . 
`` Ulrica , '' said Cedric , softened by this appeal , `` hast thou borne up and endured to live through so much guilt and so much misery , and wilt thou now yield to despair when thine eyes are opened to thy crimes , and when repentance were thy fitter occupation ? '' 
`` Cedric , '' answered Ulrica , `` thou little knowest the human heart . 
Cedric would have enquired farther into the purpose which she thus darkly announced , but the stern voice of Front-de-Boeuf was heard , exclaiming , `` Where tarries this loitering priest ? 
But heed him not -- out and to thy people -- Cry your Saxon onslaught , and let them sing their war-song of Rollo , if they will ; vengeance shall bear a burden to it . '' 
Cedric , with some difficulty , compelled himself to make obeisance to the haughty Baron , who returned his courtesy with a slight inclination of the head . 
`` I found them , '' said Cedric , in such French as he could command , `` expecting the worst , from the moment they knew into whose power they had fallen . '' 
`` How now , Sir Friar , '' replied Front-de-Boeuf , `` thy speech , methinks , smacks of a Saxon tongue ? '' 
`` I was bred in the convent of St Withold of Burton , '' answered Cedric . 
The day will soon come that the frock shall protect the Saxon as little as the mail-coat . '' 
`` God 's will be done , '' said Cedric , in a voice tremulous with passion , which Front-de-Boeuf imputed to fear . 
`` I see , '' said he , `` thou dreamest already that our men-at-arms are in thy refectory and thy alevaults . 
`` Speak your commands , '' said Cedric , with suppressed emotion . 
And as he strode on his way before the supposed friar , Front-de-Boeuf thus schooled him in the part which he desired he should act . 
`` Thou seest , Sir Friar , yon herd of Saxon swine , who have dared to environ this castle of Torquilstone -- Tell them whatever thou hast a mind of the weakness of this fortalice , or aught else that can detain them before it for twenty-four hours . 
`` Not a jot I , '' answered Cedric , `` save on my breviary ; and then I know the characters , because I have the holy service by heart , praised be Our Lady and St Withold ! '' 
`` By my patron saint , '' said Cedric , with deeper energy than became his character , `` and by every saint who has lived and died in England , your commands shall be obeyed ! 
Not a Saxon shall stir from before these walls , if I have art and influence to detain them there . '' 
said Front-de-Boeuf , `` thou changest thy tone , Sir Priest , and speakest brief and bold , as if thy heart were in the slaughter of the Saxon herd ; and yet thou art thyself of kindred to the swine ? '' 
Cedric was no ready practiser of the art of dissimulation , and would at this moment have been much the better of a hint from Wamba 's more fertile brain . 
But necessity , according to the ancient proverb , sharpens invention , and he muttered something under his cowl concerning the men in question being excommunicated outlaws both to church and to kingdom . 
`` They were godless men , '' answered Cedric . 
`` I am indeed bound to vengeance , '' murmured Cedric ; `` Saint Withold knows my heart . '' 
`` Begone , then ; and if thou wilt do mine errand , and if thou return hither when it is done , thou shalt see Saxon flesh cheap as ever was hog 's in the shambles of Sheffield . 
`` Assuredly we shall meet again , '' answered Cedric . 
`` Something in hand the whilst , '' continued the Norman ; and , as they parted at the postern door , he thrust into Cedric 's reluctant hand a gold byzant , adding , `` Remember , I will flay off both cowl and skin , if thou failest in thy purpose . '' 
`` And full leave will I give thee to do both , '' answered Cedric , leaving the postern , and striding forth over the free field with a joyful step , `` if , when we meet next , I deserve not better at thine hand . '' 
-- Turning then back towards the castle , he threw the piece of gold towards the donor , exclaiming at the same time , `` False Norman , thy money perish with thee ! '' 
I think he dares not betray me -- at the worst I can but treat with these Saxon dogs whom I have safe in kennel . 
Giles jailor , let them bring Cedric of Rotherwood before me , and the other churl , his companion -- him I mean of Coningsburgh -- Athelstane there , or what call they him ? 
His commands were obeyed ; and , upon entering that Gothic apartment , hung with many spoils won by his own valour and that of his father , he found a flagon of wine on the massive oaken table , and the two Saxon captives under the guard of four of his dependants . 
Front-de-Boeuf took a long draught of wine , and then addressed his prisoners ; -- for the manner in which Wamba drew the cap over his face , the change of dress , the gloomy and broken light , and the Baron 's imperfect acquaintance with the features of Cedric , -LRB- who avoided his Norman neighbours , and seldom stirred beyond his own domains , -RRB- prevented him from discovering that the most important of his captives had made his escape . 
-- Speak out , ye Saxon dogs -- what bid ye for your worthless lives ? 
And with the back of his hand he struck Cedric 's cap from the head of the Jester , and throwing open his collar , discovered the fatal badge of servitude , the silver collar round his neck . 
`` This is Cedric 's clown , who fought so manful a skirmish with Isaac of York about a question of precedence . '' 
-- Go , '' said he to two of his attendants , `` fetch me the right Cedric hither , and I pardon your error for once ; the rather that you but mistook a fool for a Saxon franklin . '' 
said Front-de-Boeuf , looking towards his followers , who , lingering and loath , faltered forth their belief , that if this were not Cedric who was there in presence , they knew not what was become of him . 
`` Oh , a Norman saw will soon cut a Saxon collar , '' said De Bracy . 
Call the Templar yonder , and let him fight but half so well for his life as he has done for his Order -- Make thou to the walls thyself with thy huge body -- Let me do my poor endeavour in my own way , and I tell thee the Saxon outlaws may as well attempt to scale the clouds , as the castle of Torquilstone ; or , if you will treat with the banditti , why not employ the mediation of this worthy franklin , who seems in such deep contemplation of the wine-flagon ? 
-- Here , Saxon , '' he continued , addressing Athelstane , and handing the cup to him , `` rinse thy throat with that noble liquor , and rouse up thy soul to say what thou wilt do for thy liberty . '' 
`` In so far as I can , '' answered Athelstane , `` I will withdraw them ; and I fear not but that my father Cedric will do his best to assist me . '' 
It is a trifling ransom , Saxon , and thou wilt owe gratitude to the moderation which accepts of it in exchange of your persons . 
`` Neither , '' said Front-de-Boeuf , `` belong to this Saxon 's company . '' 
The slave Wamba has this day saved the life of my father Cedric -- I will lose mine ere a hair of his head be injured . '' 
said De Bracy ; `` Saxon , thou dreamest that the days of thy seven kingdoms are returned again . 
`` Thou hast it , De Bracy , '' said Front-de-Boeuf , well pleased with the rebuff which his companion had received ; `` the Saxon hath hit thee fairly . '' 
Remove these prisoners ; and , Saxon , think on what thou hast heard . '' 
Moreover , I hold him that deems himself the best of you , bound to answer to me with his body for this aggression on my freedom . 
The Saxon prisoners were accordingly removed , just as they introduced the monk Ambrose , who appeared to be in great perturbation . 
`` Was there not , '' he said , `` in Ashby , or near it , some Saxon franklin , or even some wealthy peasant , who would endure the burden of a wounded countryman 's residence with him until he should be again able to bear his armour ? 
-- Was there no convent of Saxon endowment , where he could be received ? 
What of the noble Saxon Cedric and his household ? 
`` True , maiden , '' said Ivanhoe , `` as quiet as these disquieted times will permit -- And of Cedric and his household ? '' 
`` His steward came but brief while since , '' said the Jewess , `` panting with haste , to ask my father for certain monies , the price of wool the growth of Cedric 's flocks , and from him I learned that Cedric and Athelstane of Coningsburgh had left Prince John 's lodging in high displeasure , and were about to set forth on their return homeward . '' 
`` The Lady Rowena , '' said Rebecca , answering the question with more precision than it had been asked -- `` The Lady Rowena went not to the Prince 's feast , and , as the steward reported to us , she is now on her journey back to Rotherwood , with her guardian Cedric . 
exclaimed the knight , `` knowest thou his name ? 
-- But thou dost , '' he immediately added , `` and well thou mayst , for it was from thy hand , and , as I am now convinced , from thine own generosity of spirit , that he received but yesterday a hundred zecchins . '' 
`` I grieve to tell thee , Sir Knight , '' answered the Jewess , `` that he is in custody by the order of Cedric . '' 
-- And then observing the distress which her communication gave to Wilfred , she instantly added , `` But the steward Oswald said , that if nothing occurred to renew his master 's displeasure against him , he was sure that Cedric would pardon Gurth , a faithful serf , and one who stood high in favour , and who had but committed this error out of the love which he bore to Cedric 's son . 
And he said , moreover , that he and his comrades , and especially Wamba the Jester , were resolved to warn Gurth to make his escape by the way , in case Cedric 's ire against him could not be mitigated . '' 
My king , by whom I was honoured and distinguished , thou seest that the brother most indebted to him is raising his arms to grasp his crown ; -- my regard hath brought restraint and trouble on the fairest of her sex ; -- and now my father in his mood may slay this poor bondsman , but for his love and loyal service to me ! 
Isaac , like the enriched traveller of Juvenal 's tenth satire , had ever the fear of robbery before his eyes , conscious that he would be alike accounted fair game by the marauding Norman noble , and by the Saxon outlaw . 
He therefore journeyed at a great rate , and made short halts , and shorter repasts , so that he passed by Cedric and Athelstane who had several hours the start of him , but who had been delayed by their protracted feasting at the convent of Saint Withold 's . 
In this deplorable condition the Jew , with his daughter and her wounded patient , were found by Cedric , as has already been noticed , and soon afterwards fell into the power of De Bracy and his confederates . 
But De Bracy 's astonishment was considerable , when he discovered that the litter contained a wounded man , who , conceiving himself to have fallen into the power of Saxon outlaws , with whom his name might be a protection for himself and his friends , frankly avowed himself to be Wilfred of Ivanhoe . 
-- Here , Urfried -- hag -- fiend of a Saxon witch -- hearest me not ? 
-- to the barbican with you , and see you drive each bolt through a Saxon brain . '' 
Rebecca , in compliance with the wishes of Ivanhoe , made that attempt to bring Cedric into the wounded Knight 's chamber , which was defeated as we have already seen by the interference of Urfried , who had been also on the watch to intercept the supposed monk . 
It was an exterior fortification of no great height or strength , intended to protect the postern-gate , through which Cedric had been recently dismissed by Front-de-Boeuf . 
-- The Saxon porkers , whom I have slain , they were the foes of my country , and of my lineage , and of my liege lord . 
and seek the Saxon witch Ulrica , who alone could tell thee what she and I alone witnessed . 
seize this damned witch , and hurl her from the battlements headlong -- she has betrayed us to the Saxon ! 
-- The Saxon , Reginald ! 
-- the scorned Saxon assails thy walls ! 
-- Why liest thou here , like a worn-out hind , when the Saxon storms thy place of strength ? '' 
Cedric , although not greatly confident in Ulrica 's message , omitted not to communicate her promise to the Black Knight and Locksley . 
They were well pleased to find they had a friend within the place , who might , in the moment of need , be able to facilitate their entrance , and readily agreed with the Saxon that a storm , under whatever disadvantages , ought to be attempted , as the only means of liberating the prisoners now in the hands of the cruel Front-de-Boeuf . 
`` The royal blood of Alfred is endangered , '' said Cedric . 
-- And now , good Locksley , were it not well that noble Cedric should assume the direction of this assault ? '' 
`` Not a jot I , '' returned Cedric ; `` I have never been wont to study either how to take or how to hold out those abodes of tyrannic power , which the Normans have erected in this groaning land . 
`` Since it stands thus with noble Cedric , '' said Locksley , `` I am most willng to take on me the direction of the archery ; and ye shall hang me up on my own trysting-tree , an the defenders be permitted to show themselves over the walls without being stuck with as many shafts as there are cloves in a gammon of bacon at Christmas . '' 
As many of you as like not this service , or are but ill armed to meet it , do you man the top of the outwork , draw your bowstrings to your ears , and mind you quell with your shot whatever shall appear to man the rampart -- Noble Cedric , wilt thou take the direction of those which remain ? '' 
said the Saxon ; `` lead I can not ; but may posterity curse me in my grave , if I follow not with the foremost wherever thou shalt point the way -- The quarrel is mine , and well it becomes me to be in the van of the battle . '' 
`` Yet , bethink thee , noble Saxon , '' said the knight , `` thou hast neither hauberk , nor corslet , nor aught but that light helmet , target , and sword . '' 
answered Cedric ; `` I shall be the lighter to climb these walls . 
And , -- forgive the boast , Sir Knight , -- thou shalt this day see the naked breast of a Saxon as boldly presented to the battle as ever ye beheld the steel corslet of a Norman . '' 
Well aware of the importance of taking the foe by surprise , the Black Knight , closely followed by Cedric , threw himself upon the bridge , and reached the opposite side . 
The situation of Cedric and of the Black Knight was now truly dangerous , and would have been still more so , but for the constancy of the archers in the barbican , who ceased not to shower their arrows upon the battlements , distracting the attention of those by whom they were manned , and thus affording a respite to their two chiefs from the storm of missiles which must otherwise have overwhelmed them . 
At this moment the besiegers caught sight of the red flag upon the angle of the tower which Ulrica had described to Cedric . 
-- why leave ye the good knight and noble Cedric to storm the pass alone ? 
With that he bent his good bow , and sent a shaft right through the breast of one of the men-at-arms , who , under De Bracy 's direction , was loosening a fragment from one of the battlements to precipitate on the heads of Cedric and the Black Knight . 
noble Cedric ! 
The faithful Gurth indeed sprung forward on the planked bridge , to warn Cedric of his impending fate , or to share it with him . 
But his warning would have come too late ; the massive pinnacle already tottered , and De Bracy , who still heaved at his task , would have accomplished it , had not the voice of the Templar sounded close in his ears : -- `` All is lost , De Bracy , the castle burns . '' 
During this combat and the brief conversation which ensued , Cedric , at the head of a body of men , among whom the Friar was conspicuous , had pushed across the bridge as soon as they saw the postern open , and drove back the dispirited and despairing followers of De Bracy , of whom some asked quarter , some offered vain resistance , and the greater part fled towards the court-yard . 
`` If thou be ` st true knight , '' said Wilfred , `` think not of me -- pursue yon ravisher -- save the Lady Rowena -- look to the noble Cedric ! '' 
Through this scene of confusion , Cedric rushed in quest of Rowena , while the faithful Gurth , following him closely through the mêlée , neglected his own safety while he strove to avert the blows that were aimed at his master . 
The noble Saxon was so fortunate as to reach his ward 's apartment just as she had abandoned all hope of safety , and , with a crucifix clasped in agony to her bosom , sat in expectation of instant death . 
He committed her to the charge of Gurth , to be conducted in safety to the barbican , the road to which was now cleared of the enemy , and not yet interrupted by the flames . 
This accomplished , the loyal Cedric hastened in quest of his friend Athelstane , determined , at every risk to himself , to save that last scion of Saxon royalty . 
But ere Cedric penetrated as far as the old hall in which he had himself been a prisoner , the inventive genius of Wamba had procured liberation for himself and his companion in adversity . 
-- he concluded , loosening the hold which he had hitherto kept upon the Saxon 's tunic . 
said the Templar , grinding his teeth , `` I will teach thee to blaspheme the holy Order of the Temple of Zion ; '' and with these words , half-wheeling his steed , he made a demi-courbette towards the Saxon , and rising in the stirrups , so as to take full advantage of the descent of the horse , he discharged a fearful blow upon the head of Athelstane . 
So trenchant was the Templar 's weapon , that it shore asunder , as it had been a willow twig , the tough and plaited handle of the mace , which the ill-fated Saxon reared to parry the blow , and , descending on his head , levelled him with the earth . 
The maniac figure of the Saxon Ulrica was for a long time visible on the lofty stand she had chosen , tossing her arms abroad with wild exultation , as if she reigned empress of the conflagration which she had raised . 
He assigned to the Black Knight a seat at his right hand , and to Cedric a place upon his left . 
`` Pardon my freedom , noble sirs , '' he said , `` but in these glades I am monarch -- they are my kingdom ; and these my wild subjects would reck but little of my power , were I , within my own dominions , to yield place to mortal man . 
-- Noble Cedric , '' he said , turning to the Saxon , `` that spoil is divided into two portions ; do thou make choice of that which best suits thee , to recompense thy people who were partakers with us in this adventure . '' 
`` Good yeoman , '' said Cedric , `` my heart is oppressed with sadness . 
`` I am rich enough to reward them from mine own wealth , '' answered Cedric . 
`` But , thou , my poor knave , '' said Cedric , turning about and embracing his Jester , `` how shall I reward thee , who feared not to give thy body to chains and death instead of mine ! 
A tear stood in the eye of the rough Thane as he spoke -- a mark of feeling which even the death of Athelstane had not extracted ; but there was something in the half-instinctive attachment of his clown , that waked his nature more keenly than even grief itself . 
exclaimed Cedric ; `` I will both pardon and reward him . 
-- The swineherd was in an instant at his master 's feet -- '' Theow and Esne Thrall and bondsman . 
art thou no longer , '' said Cedric , touching him with a wand ; `` Folkfree and Sacless A lawful freeman . 
The former assurance filled her with the most sincere delight ; and if she did not absolutely rejoice at the latter , she might be pardoned for feeling the full advantage of being freed from further persecution on the only subject in which she had ever been contradicted by her guardian Cedric . 
Again bowing from her palfrey , Rowena turned to depart ; but pausing a moment , while Cedric , who was to attend her , was also taking his leave , she found herself unexpectedly close by the prisoner De Bracy . 
`` Unloose your hold on the lady 's rein , '' said Cedric , coming up . 
`` He threatens safely who threatens a prisoner , '' said De Bracy ; `` but when had a Saxon any touch of courtesy ? '' 
Cedric , ere they departed , expressed his peculiar gratitude to the Black Champion , and earnestly entreated him to accompany him to Rotherwood . 
`` I know , '' he said , `` that ye errant knights desire to carry your fortunes on the point of your lance , and reck not of land or goods ; but war is a changeful mistress , and a home is sometimes desirable even to the champion whose trade is wandering . 
Cedric has wealth enough to repair the injuries of fortune , and all he has is his deliverer 's -- Come , therefore , to Rotherwood , not as a guest , but as a son or brother . '' 
`` Cedric has already made me rich , '' said the Knight , -- `` he has taught me the value of Saxon virtue . 
To Rotherwood will I come , brave Saxon , and that speedily ; but , as now , pressing matters of moment detain me from your halls . 
`` It is granted ere spoken out , '' said Cedric , striking his ready hand into the gauntleted palm of the Black Knight , -- `` it is granted already , were it to affect half my fortune . '' 
`` I have but to say , '' added the Saxon , `` that , during the funeral rites of the noble Athelstane , I shall be an inhabitant of the halls of his castle of Coningsburgh -- They will be open to all who choose to partake of the funeral banqueting ; and , I speak in name of the noble Edith , mother of the fallen prince , they will never be shut against him who laboured so bravely , though unsuccessfully , to save Athelstane from Norman chains and Norman steel . '' 
`` Peace , and move on , '' said Cedric , his anger at this untimely jest being checked by the recollection of Wamba 's recent services . 
Rowena waved a graceful adieu to him of the Fetterlock -- the Saxon bade God speed him , and on they moved through a wide glade of the forest . 
The priests of a neighbouring convent , in expectation of the ample donation , or soul-scat , which Cedric had propined , attended upon the car in which the body of Athelstane was laid , and sang hymns as it was sadly and slowly borne on the shoulders of his vassals to his castle of Coningsburgh , to be there deposited in the grave of Hengist , from whom the deceased derived his long descent . 
Many of his vassals had assembled at the news of his death , and followed the bier with all the external marks , at least , of dejection and sorrow . 
Waldemar brought the rumour to Prince John , announcing , that he feared its truth the more that they had set out with a small attendance , for the purpose of committing an assault on the Saxon Cedric and his attendants . 
We shall be finely helped , if the churl Saxons should have realized your Grace 's vision , of converting feudal drawbridges into gibbets ; and yonder bold-spirited Cedric seemeth one to whom such an imagination might occur . 
`` He goes to make my brother prisoner , '' said Prince John to De Bracy , `` with as little touch of compunction , as if it but concerned the liberty of a Saxon franklin . 
The poor peasant , a Saxon by birth , was dragged forward to the bar , terrified at the penal consequences which he might have incurred by the guilt of having been cured of the palsy by a Jewish damsel . 
When this medical research was ended , the Saxon peasant desired humbly to have back the medicine which he had found so salutary ; but the Grand Master frowned severely at the request . 
One Nazarene warrior might indeed bear arms in my behalf , even Wilfred , son of Cedric , whom the Gentiles call Ivanhoe . 
But he may not yet endure the weight of his armour . 
Nevertheless , send the tidings unto him , my father ; for he hath favour among the strong men of his people , and as he was our companion in the house of bondage , he may find some one to do battle for my sake . 
And say unto him , even unto him , even unto Wilfred , the son of Cedric , that if Rebecca live , or if Rebecca die , she liveth or dieth wholly free of the guilt she is charged withal . 
Gird up thy loins , and seek out this Wilfred , the son of Cedric . 
It may be he will help thee with counsel or with strength ; for the youth hath favour in the eyes of Richard , called of the Nazarenes Coeur-de-Lion , and the tidings that he hath returned are constant in the land . 
`` We will meet , '' he said to Ivanhoe , `` at Coningsburgh , the castle of the deceased Athelstane , since there thy father Cedric holds the funeral feast for his noble relation . 
I would see your Saxon kindred together , Sir Wilfred , and become better acquainted with them than heretofore . 
Always , Sir Knight , I will trust your valour with making my excuse to my master Cedric , in case mine own wit should fail . '' 
`` Now , the saints forbid , '' said the Prior , `` that the son of the Saxon Cedric should leave our convent ere his wounds were healed ! 
Thou hadst best empty thy pitcher ere thou pass it to a Saxon , and leave thy money at home ere thou walk in the greenwood . '' 
`` Say as thou list , Wamba , '' replied the Knight , `` these yeomen did thy master Cedric yeomanly service at Torquilstone . '' 
`` They make up a balanced account with Heaven , as our old cellarer used to call his ciphering , as fair as Isaac the Jew keeps with his debtors , and , like him , give out a very little , and take large credit for doing so ; reckoning , doubtless , on their own behalf the sevenfold usury which the blessed text hath promised to charitable loans . '' 
The merry-men of the forest set off the building of a cottage with the burning of a castle , -- the thatching of a choir against the robbing of a church , -- the setting free a poor prisoner against the murder of a proud sheriff ; or , to come nearer to our point , the deliverance of a Saxon franklin against the burning alive of a Norman baron . 
There are few more beautiful or striking scenes in England , than are presented by the vicinity of this ancient Saxon fortress . 
The soft and gentle river Don sweeps through an amphitheatre , in which cultivation is richly blended with woodland , and on a mount , ascending from the river , well defended by walls and ditches , rises this ancient edifice , which , as its Saxon name implies , was , previous to the Conquest , a royal residence of the kings of England . 
When I last saw this interesting ruin of ancient days , one of the very few remaining examples of Saxon fortification , I was strongly impressed with the desire of tracing out a sort of theory on the subject , which , from some recent acquaintance with the architecture of the ancient Scandinavians , seemed to me peculiarly interesting . 
Following some such principle , I am inclined to regard the singular Castle of Coningsburgh -- I mean the Saxon part of it -- as a step in advance from the rude architecture , if it deserves the name , which must have been common to the Saxons as to other Northmen . 
The name of Coningsburgh , by which this castle goes in the old editions of the Britannia , would lead one to suppose it the residence of the Saxon kings . 
Mr King imagines this a Saxon castle of the first ages of the Heptarchy . 
Two yards from the door , at the head of this stair , is an opening nearly east , accessible by treading on the ledge of the wall , which diminishes eight inches each story ; and this last opening leads into a room or chapel ten feet by twelve , and fifteen or sixteen high , arched with freestone , and supported by small circular columns of the same , the capitals and arches Saxon . 
When I last saw this interesting ruin of ancient days , one of the very few remaining examples of Saxon fortification , I was strongly impressed with the desire of tracing out a sort of theory on the subject , which , from some recent acquaintance with the architecture of the ancient Scandinavians , seemed to me peculiarly interesting . 
Following some such principle , I am inclined to regard the singular Castle of Coningsburgh -- I mean the Saxon part of it -- as a step in advance from the rude architecture , if it deserves the name , which must have been common to the Saxons as to other Northmen . 
The name of Coningsburgh , by which this castle goes in the old editions of the Britannia , would lead one to suppose it the residence of the Saxon kings . 
Mr King imagines this a Saxon castle of the first ages of the Heptarchy . 
Two yards from the door , at the head of this stair , is an opening nearly east , accessible by treading on the ledge of the wall , which diminishes eight inches each story ; and this last opening leads into a room or chapel ten feet by twelve , and fifteen or sixteen high , arched with freestone , and supported by small circular columns of the same , the capitals and arches Saxon . 
The Saxon architect had exhausted his art in rendering the main keep defensible , and there was no other circumvallation than a rude barrier of palisades . 
But above the gate was another banner , on which the figure of a white horse , rudely painted , indicated the nation and rank of the deceased , by the well-known symbol of Hengist and his Saxon warriors . 
The naked Saxon serf was drowning the sense of his half-year 's hunger and thirst , in one day of gluttony and drunkenness -- the more pampered burgess and guild-brother was eating his morsel with gust , or curiously criticising the quantity of the malt and the skill of the brewer . 
Mendicants were of course assembled by the score , together with strolling soldiers returned from Palestine , -LRB- according to their own account at least , -RRB- pedlars were displaying their wares , travelling mechanics were enquiring after employment , and wandering palmers , hedge-priests , Saxon minstrels , and Welsh bards , were muttering prayers , and extracting mistuned dirges from their harps , crowds , and rotes.The crowth , or crowd , was a species of violin . 
One sent forth the praises of Athelstane in a doleful panegyric ; another , in a Saxon genealogical poem , rehearsed the uncouth and harsh names of his noble ancestry . 
Besides , the approach of two knights , for such their dress bespoke them , was a rare event at a Saxon solemnity , and could not but be regarded as a sort of honour to the deceased and his family . 
There were assembled in this apartment , around a large oaken table , about a dozen of the most distinguished representatives of the Saxon families in the adjacent counties . 
Cedric , seated in equal rank among his countrymen , seemed yet , by common consent , to act as chief of the assembly . 
When this introductory ceremony was performed , Cedric arose , and , extending his hand to Richard , conducted him into a small and very rude chapel , which was excavated , as it were , out of one of the external buttresses . 
In maintaining this pious watch and ward , the good monks were particularly careful not to interrupt their hymns for an instant , lest Zernebock , the ancient Saxon Apollyon , should lay his clutches on the departed Athelstane . 
Richard and Wilfred followed the Saxon Cedric into the apartment of death , where , as their guide pointed with solemn air to the untimely bier of Athelstane , they followed his example in devoutly crossing themselves , and muttering a brief prayer for the weal of the departed soul . 
This act of pious charity performed , Cedric again motioned them to follow him , gliding over the stone floor with a noiseless tread ; and , after ascending a few steps , opened with great caution the door of a small oratory , which adjoined to the chapel . 
`` Noble Edith , '' said Cedric , after having stood a moment silent , as if to give Richard and Wilfred time to look upon the lady of the mansion , `` these are worthy strangers , come to take a part in thy sorrows . 
When they entered , they found themselves in the presence of about twenty matrons and maidens of distinguished Saxon lineage . 
To Cedric , however , who , as we have observed , was not remarkably clear-sighted on such occasions , the sorrow of his ward seemd so much deeper than any of the other maidens , that he deemed it proper to whisper the explanation -- `` She was the affianced bride of the noble Athelstane . '' 
Having thus formally introduced the guests to the different chambers in which the obsequies of Athelstane were celebrated under different forms , Cedric conducted them into a small room , destined , as he informed them , for the exclusive accommodation of honourable guests , whose more slight connexion with the deceased might render them unwilling to join those who were immediately affected by the unhappy event . 
He assured them of every accommodation , and was about to withdraw when the Black Knight took his hand . 
`` It is granted ere named , noble Knight , '' said Cedric ; `` yet , at this sad moment '' -- `` Of that also , '' said the King , `` I have bethought me -- but my time is brief -- neither does it seem to me unfit , that , when closing the grave on the noble Athelstane , we should deposit therein certain prejudices and hasty opinions . '' 
`` Sir Knight of the Fetterlock , '' said Cedric , colouring , and interrupting the King in his turn , `` I trust your boon regards yourself and no other ; for in that which concerns the honour of my house , it is scarce fitting that a stranger should mingle . '' 
exclaimed Cedric , stepping backward with the utmost astonishment . 
`` No , noble Cedric -- Richard of England ! 
`` To Norman blood , '' said Cedric , `` it hath never bended . '' 
`` Prince , '' answered Cedric , `` I have ever done justice to thy bravery and thy worth -- Nor am I ignorant of thy claim to the crown through thy descent from Matilda , niece to Edgar Atheling , and daughter to Malcolm of Scotland . 
But Matilda , though of the royal Saxon blood , was not the heir to the monarchy . '' 
said Cedric -- `` To upbraid me with the ruin of my race , ere the grave has closed o'er the last scion of Saxon royalty ? '' 
-- His countenance darkened as he spoke . 
said Cedric , pointing to his son . 
said Ivanhoe , prostrating himself at Cedric 's feet , `` grant me thy forgiveness ! '' 
`` Thou hast it , my son , '' said Cedric , raising him up . 
He that would be the son of Cedric , must show himself of English ancestry . 
-- Thou art about to speak , '' he added , sternly , `` and I guess the topic . 
The Lady Rowena must complete two years ' mourning , as for a betrothed husband -- all our Saxon ancestors would disown us were we to treat of a new union for her ere the grave of him she should have wedded -- him , so much the most worthy of her hand by birth and ancestry -- is yet closed . 
It seemed as if Cedric 's words had raised a spectre ; for , scarce had he uttered them ere the door flew open , and Athelstane , arrayed in the garments of the grave , stood before them , pale , haggard , and like something arisen from the dead!The resuscitation of Athelstane has been much criticised , as too violent a breach of probability , even for a work of such fantastic character . 
It was a tour-de-force , to which the author was compelled to have recourse , by the vehement entreaties of his friend and printer , who was inconsolable on the Saxon being conveyed to the tomb . 
Cedric started back as far as the wall of the apartment would permit , and , leaning against it as one unable to support himself , gazed on the figure of his friend with eyes that seemed fixed , and a mouth which he appeared incapable of shutting . 
Ivanhoe crossed himself , repeating prayers in Saxon , Latin , or Norman-French , as they occurred to his memory , while Richard alternately said , Benedicite , and swore , Moxt de ma vie ! 
said Cedric , addressing what seemed the spectre of his departed friend , `` if thou art mortal , speak ! 
-- Living or dead , noble Athelstane , speak to Cedric ! '' 
`` But , in the name of Our Lady , noble Athelstane , '' said Cedric , grasping the hand of his friend , `` how didst thou escape this imminent danger ? 
`` And you have found me , '' said Cedric , `` ready to resume our brave projects of honour and liberty . 
I tell thee , never will dawn a morrow so auspicious as the next , for the deliverance of the noble Saxon race . '' 
`` But the Pope , my noble friend , '' -- said Cedric -- `` But the devil , my noble friend , '' -- answered Athelstane ; `` they die , and no more of them . 
`` For shame , noble Athelstane , '' said Cedric ; `` forget such wretches in the career of glory which lies open before thee . 
`` It is Richard Plantagenet himself , '' said Cedric ; `` yet I need not remind thee that , coming hither a guest of free-will , he may neither be injured nor detained prisoner -- thou well knowest thy duty to him as his host . '' 
said Cedric . 
`` And my ward Rowena , '' said Cedric -- `` I trust you intend not to desert her ? '' 
Come , my friends -- such of you as are left , follow me to the banquet-hall , lest any more of us disappear -- it is , I trust , as yet tolerably furnished , as becomes the obsequies of an ancient Saxon noble ; and should we tarry any longer , who knows but the devil may fly off with the supper ? '' 
`` Have you not heard , Father Dennet , '' quoth one boor to another advanced in years , `` that the devil has carried away bodily the great Saxon Thane , Athelstane of Coningsburgh ? '' 
`` Dead , however , he was , or else translated , '' said the younger peasant ; `` for I heard the Monks of Saint Edmund 's singing the death 's hymn for him ; and , moreover , there was a rich death-meal and dole at the Castle of Coningsburgh , as right was ; and thither had I gone , but for Mabel Parkins , who '' -- `` Ay , dead was Athelstane , '' said the old man , shaking his head , `` and the more pity it was , for the old Saxon blood '' -- `` But , your story , my masters -- your story , '' said the Minstrel , somewhat impatiently . 
Bois-Guilbert turned his countenance irresolutely towards Rebecca , and then exclaimed , looking fiercely at Ivanhoe , `` Dog of a Saxon ! 
Briefly after the judicial combat , Cedric the Saxon was summoned to the court of Richard , which , for the purpose of quieting the counties that had been disturbed by the ambition of his brother , was then held at York . 
Cedric tushed and pshawed more than once at the message -- but he refused not obedience . 
In fact , the return of Richard had quenched every hope that he had entertained of restoring a Saxon dynasty in England ; for , whatever head the Saxons might have made in the event of a civil war , it was plain that nothing could be done under the undisputed dominion of Richard , popular as he was by his personal good qualities and military fame , although his administration was wilfully careless , now too indulgent , and now allied to despotism . 
But , moreover , it could not escape even Cedric 's reluctant observation , that his project for an absolute union among the Saxons , by the marriage of Rowena and Athelstane , was now completely at an end , by the mutual dissent of both parties concerned . 
This was , indeed , an event which , in his ardour for the Saxon cause , he could not have anticipated , and even when the disinclination of both was broadly and plainly manifested , he could scarce bring himself to believe that two Saxons of royal descent should scruple , on personal grounds , at an alliance so necessary for the public weal of the nation . 
But it was not the less certain : Rowena had always expressed her repugnance to Athelstane , and now Athelstane was no less plain and positive in proclaiming his resolution never to pursue his addresses to the Lady Rowena . 
Even the natural obstinacy of Cedric sunk beneath these obstacles , where he , remaining on the point of junction , had the task of dragging a reluctant pair up to it , one with each hand . 
He made , however , a last vigorous attack on Athelstane , and he found that resuscitated sprout of Saxon royalty engaged , like country squires of our own day , in a furious war with the clergy . 
It seems that , after all his deadly menaces against the Abbot of Saint Edmund 's , Athelstane 's spirit of revenge , what between the natural indolent kindness of his own disposition , what through the prayers of his mother Edith , attached , like most ladies , -LRB- of the period , -RRB- to the clerical order , had terminated in his keeping the Abbot and his monks in the dungeons of Coningsburgh for three days on a meagre diet . 
With this controversy , and with the means he had adopted to counteract this clerical persecution , Cedric found the mind of his friend Athelstane so fully occupied , that it had no room for another idea . 
And when Rowena 's name was mentioned , the noble Athelstane prayed leave to quaff a full goblet to her health , and that she might soon be the bride of his kinsman Wilfred . 
There was obviously no more to be made of Athelstane ; or , as Wamba expressed it , in a phrase which has descended from Saxon times to ours , he was a cock that would not fight . 
There remained betwixt Cedric and the determination which the lovers desired to come to , only two obstacles -- his own obstinacy , and his dislike of the Norman dynasty . 
The former feeling gradually gave way before the endearments of his ward , and the pride which he could not help nourishing in the fame of his son . 
Besides , he was not insensible to the honour of allying his own line to that of Alfred , when the superior claims of the descendant of Edward the Confessor were abandoned for ever . 
Cedric 's aversion to the Norman race of kings was also much undermined , -- first , by consideration of the impossibility of ridding England of the new dynasty , a feeling which goes far to create loyalty in the subject to the king de facto ; and , secondly , by the personal attention of King Richard , who delighted in the blunt humour of Cedric , and , to use the language of the Wardour Manuscript , so dealt with the noble Saxon , that , ere he had been a guest at court for seven days , he had given his consent to the marriage of his ward Rowena and his son Wilfred of Ivanhoe . 
The nuptials of our hero , thus formally approved by his father , wee celebrated in the most august of temples , the noble Minster of York . 
Cedric lived to see this union approximate towards its completion ; for as the two nations mixed in society and formed intermarriages with each other , the Normans abated their scorn , and the Saxons were refined from their rusticity . 
But it was not until the reign of Edward the Third that the mixed language , now termed English , was spoken at the court of London , and that the hostile distinction of Norman and Saxon seems entirely to have disappeared . 
She who nursed the sick-bed of Ivanhoe , '' she continued , rising with enthusiasm -- `` she can have nothing to fear in England , where Saxon and Norman will contend who shall most do her honour . '' 
The fair Saxon related the singular conference to her husband , on whose mind it made a deep impression . 
He lived long and happily with Rowena , for they were attached to each other by the bonds of early affection , and they loved each other the more , from the recollection of the obstacles which had impeded their union . 
Yet it would be enquiring too curiously to ask , whether the recollection of Rebecca 's beauty and magnanimity did not recur to his mind more frequently than the fair descendant of Alfred might altogether have approved . 
