his passage suggested the idea of `` Melmoth the Wanderer . '' 
In the autumn of 1816 , John Melmoth , a student in Trinity College , Dublin , quitted it to attend a dying uncle on whom his hopes for independence chiefly rested . 
John was the orphan son of a younger brother , whose small property scarce could pay John 's college expences ; but the uncle was rich , unmarried , and old ; and John , from his infancy , had been brought up to look on him with that mingled sensation of awe , and of the wish , without the means to conciliate , -LRB- that sensation at once attractive and repulsive -RRB- , with which we regard a being who -LRB- as nurse , domestic , and parent have tutored us to believe -RRB- holds the very threads of our existence in his hands , and may prolong or snap them when he pleases . 
On receiving this summons , John set immediately out to attend his uncle . 
The beauty of the country through which he travelled -LRB- it was the county Wicklow -RRB- could not prevent his mind from dwelling on many painful thoughts , some borrowed from the past , and more from the future . 
His uncle 's caprice and moroseness , -- the strange reports concerning the cause of the secluded life he had led for many years , -- his own dependent state , -- fell like blows fast and heavy on his mind . 
He roused himself to repel them , -- sat up in the mail , in which he was a solitary passenger , -- looked out on the prospect , -- consulted his watch ; -- then he thought they receded for a moment , -- but there was nothing to fill their place , and he was forced to invite them back for company . 
As the carriage drew near the Lodge , -LRB- the name of old Melmoth 's seat -RRB- , John 's heart grew heavier every moment . 
`` John , I must leave you , my poor boy ; it has pleased God to take your father from you before he could do for you what would have made this hour less painful to him . 
You must look up , John , to your uncle for every thing . 
As this scene rose to John 's memory , his eyes filled fast with tears , which he hastened to wipe away as the carriage stopt to let him out at his uncle 's gate . 
He alighted , and with a change of linen in a handkerchief , -LRB- his only travelling equipment -RRB- , he approached his uncle 's gate . 
The stubborn post of the gate , yielding at last to the united strength of John and his barefooted assistant , grated heavily through the mud and gravel stones , in which it left a deep and sloughy furrow , and the entrance lay open . 
John , after searching his pocket in vain for a trifle to reward his assistant , pursued his way , while the lad , on his return , cleared the road at a hop step and jump , plunging through the mud with all the dabbling and amphibious delight of a duck , and scarce less proud of his agility than of his `` sarving a gentleman . '' 
As John slowly trod the miry road which had once been the approach , he could discover , by the dim light of an autumnal evening , signs of increasing desolation since he had last visited the spot , -- signs that penury had been aggravated and sharpened into downright misery . 
John , after a melancholy gaze at the grass-grown steps and boarded windows , `` addressed himself '' to knock at the door ; but knocker there was none : loose stones , however , there were in plenty ; and John was making vigorous application to the door with one of them , till the furious barking of a mastiff , who threatened at every bound to break his chain , and whose yell and growl , accompanied by `` eyes that glow and fangs that grin , '' savoured as much of hunger as of rage , made the assailant raise the siege on the door , and betake himself to a well-known passage that led to the kitchen . 
Round a turf-fire , whose well-replenished fuel gave testimony to the `` master 's '' indisposition , who would probably as soon have been placed on the fire himself as seen the whole kish emptied on it once , were seated the old housekeeper , two or three followers , -LRB- i.e. people who ate , drank , and lounged about in any kitchen that was open in the neighbourhood , on an occasion of grief or joy , all for his honor 's sake , and for the great rispict they bore the family -RRB- , and an old woman , whom John immediately recognized as the doctress of the neighbourhood , -- a withered Sybil , who prolonged her squalid existence by practising on the fears , the ignorance , and the sufferings of beings as miserable as herself . 
Such was the being to whom old Melmoth had committed his life , half from credulity , and -LRB- Hibernicè speaking -RRB- more than half from avarice . 
Among this groupe John advanced , -- recognising some , -- disliking more , -- distrusting all . 
The old housekeeper received him with cordiality ; -- he was always her `` whiteheaded boy , '' she said , -- -LRB- imprimis , his hair was as black as jet -RRB- , and she tried to lift her withered hand to his head with an action between a benediction and a caress , till the difficulty of the attempt forced on her the conviction that that head was fourteen inches higher than her reach since she had last patted it . 
The men , with the national deference of the Irish to a person of superior rank , all rose at his approach , -LRB- their stools chattering on the broken flags -RRB- , and wished his honor `` a thousand years , and long life to the back of that ; and would not his honor take something to keep the grief out of his heart ; '' and so saying , five or six red and bony hands tendered him glasses of whiskey all at once . 
John gently declined the offer of spirits , received the attentions of the old housekeeper cordially , looked askance at the withered crone who occupied the chimney corner , and then glanced at the table , which displayed other cheer than he had been accustomed to see in his `` honor 's time . '' 
There was a wooden dish of potatoes , which old Melmoth would have considered enough for a week 's subsistence . 
John , as he looked round the circle , and thought of his dying uncle , was forcibly reminded of the scene at Don Quixote 's departure , where , in spite of the grief caused by the dissolution of the worthy knight , we are informed that `` nevertheless the niece eat her victuals , the housekeeper drank to the repose of his soul , and even Sancho cherished his little carcase . '' 
After returning , `` as he might , '' the courtesies of the party , John asked how his uncle was . 
`` As bad as he can be ; '' -- `` Much better , and many thanks to your honor , '' was uttered in such rapid and discordant unison by the party , that John turned from one to the other , not knowing which or what to believe . 
`` They say his honor has had a fright , '' said a fellow , upwards of six feet high , approaching by way of whispering , and then bellowing the sound six inches above John 's head . 
`` But then his honor has had a cool since , '' said a man who was quietly swallowing the spirits that John had refused . 
At this moment of involuntary awe on the part of John , and of terrified silence on that of the rest , an unusual sound was heard in the house , and the whole company started as if a musket had been discharged among them : -- it was the unwonted sound of old Melmoth 's bell . 
His domestics were so few , and so constantly near him , that the sound of his bell startled them as much as if he had been ringing the knell for his own interment . 
Old Melmoth withdrew his feet from the grasp of the hag , -- counted with his keen eye -LRB- keen amid the approaching dimness of death -RRB- the number assembled round his bed , -- raised himself on his sharp elbow , and pushing away the housekeeper , -LRB- who attempted to settle his nightcap , that had been shoved on one side in the struggle , and gave his haggard , dying face , a kind of grotesque fierceness -RRB- , bellowed out in tones that made the company start , -- `` What the devil brought ye all here ? '' 
Lord keep your honor 's head , '' said the housekeeper in a more soothing tone , when her fright was over ; `` and sure your honor knows them all , is 'n' t her name , -- and her name , -- and her name , '' -- and she pointed respectively to each of them , adding their names , which we shall spare the English reader the torture of reciting , -LRB- as a proof of our lenity , adding the last only , Cotchleen O'Mulligan -RRB- , `` Ye lie , ye b -- h , '' growled old Melmoth ; `` their name is Legion , for they are many , -- turn them all out of the room , -- turn them all out of doors , -- if they howl at my death , they shall howl in earnest , -- not for my death , for they would see me dead and damned too with dry eyes , but for want of the whiskey that they would have stolen if they could have got at it , '' -LRB- and here old Melmoth grasped a key which lay under his pillow , and shook it in vain triumph at the old housekeeper , who had long possessed the means of getting at the spirits unknown to his `` honor '' -RRB- , `` and for want of the victuals you have pampered them with . '' 
The women , discomfited and defeated , after sundry winks and whispers , were huddling out of the room , till recalled by the sharp eager tones of old Melmoth . 
She read with great solemnity , -- it was a pity that two interruptions occurred during the performance , one from old Melmoth , who , shortly after the commencement of the prayers , turned towards the old housekeeper , and said , in a tone scandalously audible , `` Go down and draw the niggers of the kitchen fire closer , and lock the door , and let me hear it locked . 
The other was from John Melmoth gliding into the room , hearing the inappropriate words uttered by the ignorant woman , taking quietly as he knelt beside her the prayer-book from her hands , and reading in a suppressed voice part of that solemn service which , by the forms of the Church of England , is intended for the consolation of the departing . 
`` That is John 's voice , '' said the dying man ; and the little kindness he had ever shewed this unfortunate lad rushed on his hard heart at this moment , and touched it . 
`` John , my good boy , you are there . 
-- John , read on . '' 
John , affected deeply by the situation in which he beheld this poor man , amid all his wealth , as well as by the solemn request to impart consolation to his dying moments , read on ; -- but in a short time his voice became indistinct , from the horror with which he listened to the increasing hiccup of the patient , which , however , he struggled with from time to time , to ask the housekeeper if the niggers were closed . 
John , who was a lad of feeling , rose from his knees in some degree of agitation . 
said old Melmoth , trying to raise himself in the bed . 
`` No , Sir , '' said John ; `` but , '' observing the altered looks of the dying man , `` I think you want some refreshment , some support , Sir . '' 
They , -LRB- and his haggard eye wandered round the groupe -RRB- , they would poison me . '' 
`` Trust me , Sir , '' said John ; `` I will go to the apothecary 's , or whoever you may employ . '' 
The old man grasped his hand , drew him close to his bed , cast a threatening yet fearful eye round the party , and then whispered in a voice of agonized constraint , `` I want a glass of wine , it would keep me alive for some hours , but there is not one I can trust to get it for me , -- they 'd steal a bottle , and ruin me . '' 
John was greatly shocked . 
said the old man , with an expression in his face John could not understand . 
`` Take this key , '' said old Melmoth , after a violent spasm ; `` take this key , there is wine in that closet , -- Madeira . 
John took the key from his uncle 's hand ; the dying man pressed it as he did so , and John , interpreting this as a mark of kindness , returned the pressure . 
He was undeceived by the whisper that followed , -- `` John , my lad , do n't drink any of that wine while you are there . '' 
said John , indignantly throwing the key on the bed ; then , recollecting that the miserable being before him was no object of resentment , he gave the promise required , and entered the closet , which no foot but that of old Melmoth had entered for nearly sixty years . 
He had some difficulty in finding out the wine , and indeed staid long enough to justify his uncle 's suspicions , -- but his mind was agitated , and his hand unsteady . 
He could not but remark his uncle 's extraordinary look , that had the ghastliness of fear superadded to that of death , as he gave him permission to enter his closet . 
He could not but see the looks of horror which the women exchanged as he approached it . 
And , finally , when he was in it , his memory was malicious enough to suggest some faint traces of a story , too horrible for imagination , connected with it . 
He remembered in one moment most distinctly , that no one but his uncle had ever been known to enter it for many years . 
Before he quitted it , he held up the dim light , and looked around him with a mixture of terror and curiosity . 
There was a great deal of decayed and useless lumber , such as might be supposed to be heaped up to rot in a miser 's closet ; but John 's eyes were in a moment , and as if by magic , rivetted on a portrait that hung on the wall , and appeared , even to his untaught eye , far superior to the tribe of family pictures that are left to moulder on the walls of a family mansion . 
There was nothing remarkable in the costume , or in the countenance , but the eyes , John felt , were such as one feels they wish they had never seen , and feels they can never forget . 
Had he been acquainted with the poetry of Southey , he might have often exclaimed in his after-life , From an impulse equally resistless and painful , he approached the portrait , held the candle towards it , and could distinguish the words on the border of the painting , -- Jno . 
Melmoth , anno 1646 . 
John was neither timid by nature , or nervous by constitution , or superstitious from habit , yet he continued to gaze in stupid horror on this singular picture , till , aroused by his uncle 's cough , he hurried into his room . 
`` John , what did you see in that room ? '' 
John , though under the impression of his recent feelings , could not but look incredulous . 
`` John , '' whispered his uncle ; -- `` John , they say I am dying of this and that ; and one says it is for want of nourishment , and one says it is for want of medicine , -- but , John , '' and his face looked hideously ghastly , `` I am dying of a fright . 
That man , '' and he extended his meagre arm toward the closet , as if he was pointing to a living being ; `` that man , I have good reason to know , is alive still . '' 
said John involuntarily , `` the date on the picture is 1646 . '' 
`` You have seen it , -- you have noticed it , '' said his uncle . 
`` Well , '' -- he rocked and nodded on his bolster for a moment , then , grasping John 's hand with an unutterable look , he exclaimed , `` You will see him again , he is alive . '' 
Then , sinking back on his bolster , he fell into a kind of sleep or stupor , his eyes still open , and fixed on John . 
The house was now perfectly silent , and John had time and space for reflection . 
More thoughts came crowding on him than he wished to welcome , but they would not be repulsed . 
He thought of his uncle 's habits and character , turned the matter over and over again in his mind , and he said to himself , `` The last man on earth to be superstitious . 
John paused , for facts will confute the most stubborn logician . 
Yet he is dying , '' said John , glancing his fearful eye on the contracted nostril , the glazed eye , the dropping jaw , the whole horrible apparatus of the facies Hippocratica displayed , and soon to cease its display . 
Old Melmoth at this moment seemed to be in a deep stupor ; his eyes lost that little expression they had before , and his hands , that had convulsively been catching at the blankets , let go their short and quivering grasp , and lay extended on the bed like the claws of some bird that had died of hunger , -- so meagre , so yellow , so spread . 
John , unaccustomed to the sight of death , believed this to be only a sign that he was going to sleep ; and , urged by an impulse for which he did not attempt to account to himself , caught up the miserable light , and once more ventured into the forbidden room , -- the blue chamber of the dwelling . 
This John could not see , for he was now in the closet ; but he heard the groan , or rather the choaked and guggling rattle of the throat , that announces the horrible conflict between muscular and mental convulsion . 
He started , turned away ; but , as he turned away , he thought he saw the eyes of the portrait , on which his own was fixed , move , and hurried back to his uncle 's bedside . 
Old Melmoth died in the course of that night , and died as he had lived , in a kind of avaricious delirium . 
John could not have imagined a scene so horrible as his last hours presented . 
He cursed and blasphemed about three half-pence , missing , as he said , some weeks before , in an account of change with his groom , about hay to a starved horse that he kept . 
Then he grasped John 's hand , and asked him to give him the sacrament . 
And , raving , he added , `` Indeed , Doctor , I am a very poor man . 
John , greatly shocked , retired from the bed-side , and sat down in a distant corner of the room . 
Melmoth was silent from exhaustion , and there was a death-like pause for some time . 
At this moment John saw the door open , and a figure appear at it , who looked round the room , and then quietly and deliberately retired , but not before John had discovered in his face the living original of the portrait . 
His first impulse was to utter an exclamation of terror , but his breath felt stopped . 
He was then rising to pursue the figure , but a moment 's reflection checked him . 
The likeness was doubtless strong enough to strike him even in that darkened room , but it was doubtless only a likeness ; and though it might be imposing enough to terrify an old man of gloomy and retired habits , and with a broken constitution , John resolved it should not produce the same effect on him . 
But while he was applauding himself for this resolution , the door opened , and the figure appeared at it , beckoning and nodding to him , with a familiarity somewhat terrifying . 
John now started up , determined to pursue it ; but the pursuit was stopped by the weak but shrill cries of his uncle , who was struggling at once with the agonies of death and his housekeeper . 
The poor woman , anxious for her master 's reputation and her own , was trying to put on him a clean shirt and nightcap , and Melmoth , who had just sensation enough to perceive they were taking something from him , continued exclaiming feebly , `` They are robbing me , -- robbing me in my last moments , -- robbing a dying man . 
John , wo n't you assist me , -- I shall die a beggar ; they are taking my last shirt , -- I shall die a beggar . '' 
A few days after the funeral , the will was opened before proper witnesses , and John was found to be left sole heir to his uncle 's property , which , though originally moderate , had , by his grasping habits , and parsimonious life , become very considerable . 
As he spoke he shewed the lines to Melmoth , who immediately recognized his uncle 's hand , -LRB- that perpendicular and penurious hand , that seems determined to make the most of the very paper , thriftily abridging every word , and leaving scarce an atom of margin -RRB- , and read , not without some emotion , the following words : `` I enjoin my nephew and heir , John Melmoth , to remove , destroy , or cause to be destroyed , the portrait inscribed J. Melmoth , 1646 , hanging in my closet . 
After reading this singular memorandum , the business of the meeting was again resumed ; and as old Melmoth 's will was very clear and legally worded , all was soon settled , the party dispersed , and John Melmoth was left alone . 
We should have mentioned , that his guardians appointed by the will -LRB- for he was not yet of age -RRB- advised him to return to College , and complete his education as soon as proper ; but John urged the expediency of paying the respect due to his uncle 's memory , by remaining a decent time in the house after his decease . 
This was not his real motive . 
Curiosity , or something that perhaps deserves a better name , the wild and awful pursuit of an indefinite object , had taken strong hold of his mind . 
His guardians -LRB- who were men of respectability and property in the neighbourhood , and in whose eyes John 's consequence had risen rapidly since the reading of the will -RRB- , pressed him to accept of a temporary residence in their respective houses , till his return to Dublin . 
They called for their horses , shook hands with the heir , and rode off -- Melmoth was left alone . 
The remainder of the day was passed in gloomy and anxious deliberation , -- in traversing his late uncle 's room , -- approaching the door of the closet , and then retreating from it , -- in watching the clouds , and listening to the wind , as if the gloom of the one , or the murmurs of the other , relieved instead of increasing the weight that pressed on his mind . 
Finally , towards evening , he summoned the old woman , from whom he expected something like an explanation of the extraordinary circumstances he had witnessed since his arrival at his uncle 's . 
The old woman , proud of the summons , readily attended , but she had very little to tell , -- her communication was nearly in the following words : -LRB- We spare the reader her endless circumlocutions , her Irishcisms , and the frequent interruptions arising from her applications to her snuff-box , and to the glass of whiskey punch with which Melmoth took care to have her supplied -RRB- . 
His honor -LRB- young Melmoth -RRB- knew as much as she , -- he had witnessed his last illness , had heard his last words , he saw him die , -- how could she know more than his honor . '' 
`` True , '' said Melmoth , `` I certainly saw him die ; but -- you say there was an odd story in the family , do you know any thing about it ? '' 
-- and Melmoth was compelled to use many synonymous expressions , before he could make himself understood . 
When he did , the answer was plain and decisive , `` No , never , never . 
Melmoth 's thoughts began to take somewhat of a darker hue at this account . 
If his uncle was not superstitious , might he not have been guilty , and might not his strange and sudden death , and even the terrible visitation that preceded it , have been owing to some wrong that his rapacity had done the widow and the fatherless . 
He questioned the old woman indirectly and cautiously on the subject , -- her answer completely justified the deceased . 
Melmoth 's last resource was to send for Biddy Brannigan , who was still in the house , and from whom he at least hoped to hear the odd story that the old woman confessed was in the family . 
She came , and , on her introduction to Melmoth , it was curious to observe the mingled look of servility and command , the result of the habits of her life , which was alternately one of abject mendicity , and of arrogant but clever imposture . 
When she had finished it , Melmoth remained in astonishment at the state of mind to which the late singular circumstances had reduced him , -- at finding himself listening with varying and increasing emotions of interest , curiosity , and terror , to a tale so wild , so improbable , nay , so actually incredible , that he at least blushed for the folly he could not conquer . 
This resolution he found it impossible to execute immediately , for , on inquiring for lights , the gouvernante confessed the very last had been burnt at his honor 's wake ; and a bare-footed boy was charged to run for life and death to the neighbouring village for candles ; and if you could borry a couple of candlesticks , added the housekeeper . 
said Melmoth . 
`` And how did you make shift yourself , '' said Melmoth . 
So the gossoon ran for life and death , and Melmoth , towards the close of the evening , was left alone to meditate . 
It was an evening apt for meditation , and Melmoth had his fill of it before the messenger returned . 
As Melmoth leaned against the window , whose dismantled frame , and pieced and shattered panes , shook with every gust of wind , his eye encountered nothing but that most cheerless of all prospects , a miser 's garden , -- walls broken down , grass-grown walks whose grass was not even green , dwarfish , doddered , leafless trees , and a luxuriant crop of nettles and weeds rearing their unlovely heads where there had once been flowers , all waving and bending in capricious and unsightly forms , as the wind sighed over them . 
He turned for relief to the room , but no relief was there , -- the wainscotting dark with dirt , and in many places cracked and starting from the walls , -- the rusty grate , so long unconscious of a fire , that nothing but a sullen smoke could be coaxed to issue from between its dingy bars , -- the crazy chairs , their torn bottoms of rush drooping inwards , and the great leathern seat displaying the stuffing round the worn edges , while the nails , though they kept their places , had failed to keep the covering they once fastened , -- the chimney-piece , which , tarnished more by time than by smoke , displayed for its garniture half a pair of snuffers , a tattered almanack of 1750 , a time-keeper dumb for want of repair , and a rusty fowling-piece without a lock . 
-- No wonder the spectacle of desolation drove Melmoth back to his own thoughts , restless and uncomfortable as they were . 
He recapitulated the Sybil 's story word by word , with the air of a man who is cross-examining an evidence , and trying to make him contradict himself . 
It was said , that during the life-time of Melmoth , the traveller paid him a visit ; and though he must have then been considerably advanced in life , to the astonishment of his family , he did not betray the slightest trace of being a year older than when they last beheld him . 
On his departure he left them his picture , -LRB- the same which Melmoth saw in the closet , bearing date 1646 -RRB- , and they saw him no more . 
Some years after , a person arrived from England , directed to Melmoth 's house , in pursuit of the traveller , and exhibiting the most marvellous and unappeasable solicitude to obtain some intelligence of him . 
The family could give him none , and after some days of restless inquiry and agitation , he departed , leaving behind him , either through negligence or intention , a manuscript , containing an extraordinary account of the circumstances under which he had met John Melmoth the Traveller -LRB- as he was called -RRB- . 
It was therefore judged no favourable augury for the spiritual destination of the last Melmoth , that this extraordinary person had visited , or been imagined to visit , the house previous to his decease . '' 
Such was the account given by Biddy Brannigan , to which she added her own solemnly-attested belief , that John Melmoth the Traveller was still without a hair on his head changed , or a muscle in his frame contracted ; -- that she had seen those that had seen him , and would confirm their evidence by oath if necessary ; -- that he was never heard to speak , seen to partake of food , or known to enter any dwelling but that of his family ; -- and , finally , that she herself believed that his late appearance boded no good either to the living or the dead . 
John was still musing on these things when the lights were procured , and , disregarding the pallid countenances and monitory whispers of the attendants , he resolutely entered the closet , shut the door , and proceeded to search for the manuscript . 
It was soon found , for the directions of old Melmoth were forcibly written , and strongly remembered . 
Melmoth 's hands felt as cold as those of his dead uncle , when he drew the blotted pages from their nook . 
He sat down to read , -- there was a dead silence through the house . 
Melmoth looked wistfully at the candles , snuffed them , and still thought they looked dim , -LRB- perchance he thought they burned blue , but such thought he kept to himself . -RRB- 
Certain it is , he often changed his posture , and would have changed his chair , had there been more than one in the apartment . 
He sunk for a few moments into a fit of gloomy abstraction , till the sound of the clock striking twelve made him start , -- it was the only sound he had heard for some hours , and the sounds produced by inanimate things , while all living beings around are as dead , have at such an hour an effect indescribably awful . 
John looked at his manuscript with some reluctance , opened it , paused over the first lines , and as the wind sighed round the desolate apartment , and the rain pattered with a mournful sound against the dismantled window , wished -- what did he wish for ? 
-- he wished the sound of the wind less dismal , and the dash of the rain less monotonous . 
-- He may be forgiven , it was past midnight , and there was not a human being awake but himself within ten miles when he began to read . 
-- Melmoth could make out only a sentence here and there . 
Don Pedro de Cardoza had assembled a large party in honour of his daughter 's nuptials ; among them was an Englishman of the name of Melmoth , a traveller ; no one knew who had brought him there . 
He sat silent like the rest , while the iced waters and the sugared wafers were presented to the company . 
As the manuscript , after a few blotted and illegible pages , became more distinct , Melmoth read on , perplexed and unsatisfied , not knowing what connexion this Spanish story could have with his ancestor , whom , however , he recognised under the title of the Englishman ; and wondering how Stanton could have thought it worth his while to follow him to Ireland , write a long manuscript about an event that occurred in Spain , and leave it in the hands of his family , to `` verify untrue things , '' in the language of Dogberry , -- his wonder was diminished , though his curiosity was still more inflamed , by the perusal of the next lines , which he made out with some difficulty . 
Some , indeed , from time to time called out for the `` burning of the Pope ; '' but though it was not always possible to indulge them in this laudable amusement , as the scene of the popular plays was generally laid in Africa or Spain ; Sir Robert Howard , Elkanah Settle , and John Dryden , all agreeing in their choice of Spanish and Moorish subjects for their principal plays . 
The narrative , when Melmoth was again able to trace its continuation , described Stanton , some years after , plunged in a state the most deplorable . 
He had been always reckoned of a singular turn of mind , and the belief of this , aggravated by his constant talk of Melmoth , his wild pursuit of him , his strange behaviour at the theatre , and his dwelling on the various particulars of their extraordinary meetings , with all the intensity of the deepest conviction , -LRB- while he never could impress them on any one 's conviction but his own -RRB- , suggested to some prudent people the idea that he was deranged . 
Between him and the light stood the figure of Melmoth , just as he had seen him from the first ; the figure was the same ; the expression of the face was the same , -- cold , stony , and rigid ; the eyes , with their infernal and dazzling lustre , were still the same . 
Melmoth approached him with that frightful calmness that mocks the terror it excites . 
Melmoth spoke very slowly and very softly , and the melodious smoothness of his voice made a frightful contrast to the stony rigour of his features , and the fiend-like brilliancy of his eyes . 
-LRB- There were other details , both of the menaces and temptations employed by Melmoth , which are too horrible for insertion . 
He grapples with the iron posts of his bed , and says he is rooting out the cross from the very foundations of , Calvary ; and it is remarkable , that in proportion as his morning exercises are intense , vivid , and eloquent , his nightly blasphemies are outrageous and horrible . 
Now he believes himself a demon ; listen to his diabolical eloquence of horror ! '' 
The explanation occupied several pages , which , to the torture of young Melmoth , were wholly illegible . 
It seemed , however , to have been rejected by Stanton with the utmost rage and horror , for Melmoth at last made out , -- `` Begone , monster , demon ! 
The conclusion of this extraordinary manuscript was in such a state , that , in fifteen mouldy and crumbling pages , Melmoth could hardly make out that number of lines . 
The manuscript told no more of Melmoth , but mentioned that Stanton was finally liberated from his confinement , -- that his pursuit of Melmoth was incessant and indefatigable , -- that he himself allowed it to be a species of insanity , -- that while he acknowledged it to be the master-passion , he also felt it the master-torment of his life . 
He again visited the Continent , returned to England , -- pursued , inquired , traced , bribed , but in vain . 
The being whom he had met thrice , under circumstances so extraordinary , he was fated never to encounter again in his life-time . 
At length , discovering that he had been born in Ireland , he resolved to go there , -- went , and found his pursuit again fruitless , and his inquiries unanswered . 
The family knew nothing of him , or at least what they knew or imagined , they prudently refused to disclose to a stranger , and Stanton departed unsatisfied . 
-- Perhaps our final meeting will be in Such was the conclusion of the manuscript which Melmoth found in his uncle 's closet . 
When he had finished it , he sunk down on the table near which he had been reading it , his face hid in his folded arms , his senses reeling , his mind in a mingled state of stupor and excitement . 
After a few moments , he raised himself with an involuntary start , and saw the picture gazing at him from its canvas . 
He was within ten inches of it as he sat , and the proximity appeared increased by the strong light that was accidentally thrown on it , and its being the only representation of a human figure in the room . 
Melmoth felt for a moment as if he were about to receive an explanation from its lips . 
He gazed on it in return , -- all was silent in the house , -- they were alone together . 
The illusion subsided at length ; and as the mind rapidly passes to opposite extremes , he remembered the injunction of his uncle to destroy the portrait . 
He seized it ; -- his hand shook at first , but the mouldering canvas appeared to assist him in the effort . 
He tore it from the frame with a cry half terrific , half triumphant ; -- it fell at his feet , and he shuddered as it fell . 
He expected to hear some fearful sounds , some unimaginable breathings of prophetic horror , follow this act of sacrilege , for such he felt it , to tear the portrait of his ancestor from his native walls . 
He paused and listened : -- `` There was no voice , nor any that answered ; '' -- but as the wrinkled and torn canvas fell to the floor , its undulations gave the portrait the appearance of smiling . 
Melmoth felt horror indescribable at this transient and imaginary resuscitation of the figure . 
He caught it up , rushed into the next room , tore , cut , and hacked it in every direction , and eagerly watched the fragments that burned like tinder in the turf-fire which had been lit in his room . 
As Melmoth saw the last blaze , he threw himself into bed , in hope of a deep and intense sleep . 
He had done what was required of him , and felt exhausted both in mind and body ; but his slumber was not so sound as he had hoped for . 
The sullen light of the turf-fire , burning but never blazing , disturbed him every moment . 
He turned and turned , but still there was the same red light glaring on , but not illuminating , the dusky furniture of the apartment . 
But -LRB- for Melmoth never could decide -RRB- was it in a dream or not , that he saw the figure of his ancestor appear at the door ? 
-- hesitatingly as he saw him at first on the night of his uncle 's death , -- saw him enter the room , approach his bed , and heard him whisper , `` You have burned me , then ; but those are flames I can survive . 
Melmoth started , sprung from his bed , -- it was broad day-light . 
He looked round , -- there was no human being in the room but himself . 
He felt a slight pain in the wrist of his right arm . 
He looked at it , it was black and blue , as from the recent gripe of a strong hand . 
The following evening Melmoth retired early . 
The restlessness of the preceding night inclined him to repose , and the gloom of the day left him nothing to wish for but its speedy conclusion . 
Towards night the storm came on in all its strength ; Melmoth 's bed was shaken so as to render it impossible to sleep . 
He `` liked the rocking of the battlements , '' but by no means liked the expected fall of the chimneys , the crashing in of the roof , and the splinters of the broken windows that were already scattered about his room . 
He rose and went down to the kitchen , where he knew a fire was burning , and there the terrified servants were all assembled , all agreeing , as the blast came roaring down the chimney , they never had witnessed such a storm , and between the gusts , breathing shuddering prayers for those who were `` out at sea that night . '' 
The vicinity of Melmoth 's house to what seamen call an iron-bound coast , gave a dreadful sincerity to their prayers and their fears . 
In a short time , however , Melmoth perceived that their minds were occupied with terrors beside those of the storm . 
The recent death of his uncle , and the supposed visit of that extraordinary being in whose existence they all firmly believed , were connected in their minds inseparably with the causes or consequences of this tempest , and they whispered their fearful suggestions to each other , till the sound reached Melmoth 's ears at every step that he measured across the broken floor of the kitchen . 
Just such a party -LRB- mutatis mutandis -RRB- were collected round the bickering fire and rocking chimney in Melmoth 's kitchen . 
`` He is going in that blast , '' said one of the hags , taking the pipe from her mouth , and trying vainly to rekindle it among the embers that the storm scattered about like dust ; `` he is going in that blast . '' 
-- `` He 'll come again , '' cried another Sybil , `` he 'll come again , -- he 's not at rest ! 
-- He roams and wails about till something is told that he never could tell in his life-time . 
`` If it 's this you want -- and this -- and this , '' cried a young female whom Melmoth had not noticed before , `` take them ; '' and she eagerly tore the papers out of her hair , and flung them into the fire . 
Then Melmoth recollected a ridiculous story told him the day before of this girl , who had had the `` bad luck , '' as she called it , to curl her hair with some of the old and useless law-papers of the family , and who now imagined that they `` who kept this dreadful pudder o'er her head , '' were particularly provoked by her still retaining about her whatever belonged to the deceased ; and as she flung the fragments of paper into the fire , she cried aloud , `` There stop for the holy J -- s ' sake , and let us have no more about it ! 
The laugh that Melmoth could hardly resist , was checked by a sound which he heard distinctly amid the storm . 
We have already mentioned the closeness of Melmoth 's abode to the sea-shore . 
The party in the kitchen all watched Melmoth 's countenance intently , as if its expression could have told them `` the secrets of the hoary deep . '' 
`` It is a gun , '' cried Melmoth ; `` there is a vessel in distress ! '' 
and he hurried out of the kitchen , calling on the men to follow him . 
While the men were in search of a hundred coats , boots , and hats of their old master , to be sought for in every part of the house , -- while one was dragging a great coat from the window , before which it had long hung as a blind , in total default of glass or shutters , -- another was snatching a wig from the jack , where it had been suspended for a duster , -- and a third was battling with a cat and her brood of kittens for a pair of old boots which she had been pleased to make the seat of her accouchement , -- Melmoth had gone up to the highest room in the house . 
He leaned far out of it , and listened with fearful and breathless anxiety . 
The night was dark , but far off , his sight , sharpened by intense solicitude , descried a light at sea . 
The gust drove him from the window for a moment ; at returning the next , he saw a faint flash , and then the report of a gun followed . 
There needed no more ; and in a few moments after , Melmoth was on the shore . 
cried Melmoth , who was among the first , `` what a night ! 
-- Stay , '' he added , `` let me scramble up that crag -- they will hear my voice from that . '' 
He dashed desperately through the water , while the foam of the breakers from a distant rock almost choaked him , gained the point , and , elated by his success , shouted aloud with his utmost strength . 
But his voice , baffled and drowned by the tempest , was lost even to his own hearing . 
Melmoth caught a full view of the vessel , and of her danger . 
She lay beating against a rock , over which the breakers dashed their foam to the height of thirty feet . 
She was half in the water , a mere hulk , her rigging torn to shreds , her main mast cut away , and every sea she shipped , Melmoth could hear distinctly the dying cries of those who were swept away , or perhaps of those whose mind and body , alike exhausted , relaxed their benumbed hold of hope and life together , -- knew that the next shriek that was uttered must be their own and their last . 
There is something so very horrible in the sight of human beings perishing so near us , that we feel one firm step rightly planted , one arm steadily held out , might save at least one , -- yet feel we know not where to fix that step , and can not stretch that arm , that Melmoth 's senses reeled under the shock , and for a moment he echoed the storm with yells of actual insanity . 
It was at this moment that Melmoth , starting from his trance of terror , and looking round him , saw all , to the number of hundreds , anxious , restless , and occupied ; and , though obviously in vain , the sight cheered his heart . 
`` How much good there is in man , '' he cried , `` when it is called forth by the sufferings of his fellows ! '' 
He had no leisure or inclination , then , to analyse the compound he called good , and resolve it into its component parts of curiosity , strong excitement , the pride of physical strength , or the comparative consciousness of safety . 
He had , indeed , no leisure , for just then he descried , standing a few yards above him on the rock , a figure that shewed neither sympathy or terror , -- uttered no sound , -- offered no help . 
Melmoth could hardly keep his footing on the slippery and rocking crag on which he stood ; the figure , who stood still higher , appeared alike unmoved by the storm , as by the spectacle . 
Melmoth 's surtout , in spite of his efforts to wrap it round him , was fluttering in rags , -- not a thread of the stranger 's garments seemed ruffled by the blast . 
A pause ensued , or the blast carried away the sound ; but a few moments after , Melmoth distinctly heard the words , `` Let them perish . '' 
He looked up , the figure still stood unmoved , the arms folded across the breast , the foot advanced , and fixed as in defiance of the white and climbing spray of the wave , and the stern profile caught in the glimpses of the stormy and doubtful moon-light , seeming to watch the scene with an expression formidable , revolting , and unnatural . 
When the cry had ceased , Melmoth heard a laugh that chilled his blood . 
It was from the figure that stood above him . 
Like lightning then glanced on his memory the recollection of that night in Spain , when Stanton first encountered that extraordinary being , whose charmed life , `` defying space and time , '' held such fatal influence over his , and when he first recognised his supposed demoniac character by the laugh with which he hailed the spectacle of the blasted lovers . 
The echo of that laugh rung in Melmoth 's ears ; he believed it was indeed that mysterious being who was standing so near him . 
His mind , by its late intense and bewildering pursuits , at once heated and darkened , like the atmosphere under an incumbent thunder-cloud , had now no power of inquiry , of conjecture , or of calculation . 
He instantly began to climb the rock , -- the figure was but a few feet above him , -- the object of his daily and nightly dreams was at last within the reach of his mind and his arm , -- was almost tangible . 
themselves , in all the enthusiasm of professional zeal , never uttered , `` If I but once get him within my vice , '' with more eagerness than did Melmoth , as he scrambled up his steep and perilous path , to the ledge of the rock where the figure stood so calm and dark . 
Panting from the fury of the storm , the vehemence of his own exertions , and the difficulty of the task , he was now almost foot to foot , and face to face , with the object of his pursuit , when , grasping at the loosened fragment of a stone whose fall could not have hurt a child , though on its tottering insecurity hung the life-grasp of a man , his hold failed -- he fell backwards , -- the roaring deep was beneath , seeming to toss its ten thousand arms to receive and devour him . 
For some hours after this exclamation , Melmoth lay silent , his memory returning , -- his senses gradually defecated , -- the intellectual lord slowly returning to his abdicated throne . 
-- `` I remember all now , '' he cried , starting up in his bed with a sudden vehemence , that terrified his old nurse with the apprehension of returning insanity ; but when she approached the bed , candle in hand , cautiously veiling her eyes with the other , while she threw the full glare of the light on the face of the patient , she saw in a moment the light of sanity in his eyes , and the strength of health in his movements . 
She began her narrative , the effect of which was , to lull Melmoth into a profound repose before half of it was concluded ; he felt the full benefit of the invalids mentioned in Spenser , who used to hire Irish story-tellers , and found those indefatigable persons still pursuing the tale when they awoke . 
At first Melmoth listened with eager attention ; soon he was in the situation of him described by Miss Baillie , Soon after his lengthened respiration gave token that she was only `` vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man ; '' while , as she closed the curtain , and shaded the light , the images of her story were faintly painted on his dream , that still seemed half a waking one . 
In the morning Melmoth sat up , gazed round , remembered every thing in a moment , though nothing distinctly , but felt the most intense anxiety to see the stranger saved from the shipwreck , who , he remembered the gouvernante had told him , -LRB- while her words seemed to falter on the threshold of his closing senses -RRB- , was still alive , and an inmate in his house , but weak and ill from the bruises he had received , and the exhaustion and terror he had undergone . 
All these strange rumours , and ten thousand more , were poured into Melmoth 's ears , fast and faster than he could receive them . 
`` Is Father Fay in the house , '' said he at last , understanding that the priest visited the stranger every day ; `` if he be , let me see him . '' 
He was a grave and decent priest , well `` spoken of by those that were without '' the pale of his own communion ; and as he entered the room , Melmoth smiled at the idle tattle of his domestics . 
This plain , direct answer , had the proper effect on Melmoth , of convincing him of its veracity , and of there being no mystery in the business , but what the folly of his servants had made . 
It was singular , too , that this man had saved the life of Melmoth . 
While swimming for his own , he had seen him fall from the rock he was climbing , and , though his strength was almost exhausted , had collected its last remains to preserve the life of a being who , as he conceived , had been betrayed into danger by his humanity . 
His efforts were successful , though Melmoth was unconscious of them ; and in the morning they were found on the strand , locked in each other 's hold , but stiff and senseless . 
They shewed some signs of life when an attempt was made to remove them , and the stranger was conveyed to Melmoth 's house . 
`` I shall go and thank him for it this moment , '' said Melmoth ; but as he was assisted to rise , the old woman whispered to him with visible terror , `` Jasus ' sake , dear , do n't tell him ye 're a Melmoth , for the dear life ! 
A sickening recollection of some parts of the manuscript came over Melmoth at these words , but he struggled with himself , and proceeded to the apartment of the stranger . 
He spoke English fluently ; and when questioned on it by Melmoth , he remarked with a sigh , that he had learnt it in a painful school . 
Melmoth then changed the subject , to thank him with earnest gratitude for the preservation of his life . 
`` Yet you made the most strenuous exertions to save it , '' said Melmoth . 
`` But you also struggled to save mine , '' said Melmoth . 
`` That was instinct too at the moment , '' said the Spaniard ; then resuming his stately politeness , `` or I should say , the influence of my better genius . 
Melmoth observed that he spoke with evident pain , and he confessed a few moments afterwards , that though he had escaped without any serious injury , he had been so bruised and lacerated , that he still breathed with difficulty , and hardly possessed the use of his limbs . 
As he concluded the account of his sufferings during the storm , the wreck , and the subsequent struggle for life , he exclaimed in Spanish , `` God ! 
Melmoth , imagining he was engaged in some devotional ejaculation , was going to retire , when the Spaniard detained him . 
`` Senhor , I understand your name is -- '' He paused , shuddered , and with an effort that seemed like convulsion , disgorged the name of Melmoth . 
`` My name is Melmoth . '' 
Melmoth listened in mingled excitement and terror . 
`` It is impossible to leave you now , '' said Melmoth , catching him in his arms before he sunk on the floor . 
He was not senseless , for his eyes were rolling with terrible expression , and he attempted to articulate . 
Melmoth , unable to quit him , called aloud for water ; and while attempting to open his vest , and give him air , his hand encountered a miniature portrait close to the heart of the stranger . 
As he touched it , his touch operated on the patient with all the force of the most powerful restorative . 
He grasped it with his own cold hand with a force like that of death , and muttered in a hollow but thrilling voice , `` What have you done ? '' 
He felt eagerly the ribbon by which it was suspended , and , satisfied that his terrible treasure was safe , turned his eyes with a fearful calmness of expression on Melmoth , `` You know all , then ? '' 
-- `` I know nothing , '' said Melmoth faultering . 
The Spaniard rose from the ground , to which he had almost fallen , disengaged himself from the arms that supported him , and eagerly , but staggeringly , hurrying towards the candles , -LRB- it was night -RRB- , held up the portrait full before Melmoth 's eye . 
-- Are you the depository of that terrible secret which -- '' He again fell to the ground convulsed , and Melmoth , for whose debilitated state this scene was too much , was removed to his own apartment . 
It was several days before he again saw his visitor ; his manner was then calm and collected , till he appeared to recollect the necessity of making an apology for his agitation at their last meeting . 
He began -- hesitated -- stopped ; tried in vain to arrange his ideas , or rather his language ; but the effort so obviously renewed his agitation , that Melmoth felt an exertion on his part necessary to avert its consequences , and began most inauspiciously to inquire into the motive of his voyage to Ireland . 
This exordium , delivered with a composed but thrilling gravity , had an effect on Melmoth . 
He sat down and prepared to listen , and the Spaniard began to speak ; but after some hesitation , he snatched the picture from his neck , and trampling on it with true continental action , exclaimed , `` Devil ! 
The room in which they sat was a low , mean , wretchedly furnished apartment ; the evening was tempestuous , and as the windows and doors rattled in the blast , Melmoth felt as if he listened to some herald of `` fate and fear . '' 
A deep and sickening agitation shook his frame ; and in the long pause that preceded the narrative of the Spaniard , the beating of his heart was audible to him . 
He rose , and attempted to arrest the narration by a motion of his hand ; but the Spaniard mistook this for the anxiety of his impatience , and commenced his narrative , which , in mercy to the reader , we shall give without the endless interruptions , and queries , and anticipations of curiosity , and starts of terror , with which it was broken by Melmoth . 
It was the vigil of Saint John the Lesser , and I had been commanded what is called in convents an hour of recollection , which was to be passed in the church . 
At this part of the narrative , the Spaniard became so much agitated , though apparently more from emotion than fatigue , that Melmoth intreated him to suspend it for some days , and the exhausted narrator willingly complied . 
When , after some days interval , the Spaniard attempted to describe his feelings on the receipt of his brother 's letter , the sudden resuscitation of heart , and hope , and existence , that followed its perusal , he trembled , -- uttered some inarticulate sounds , -- wept ; -- and his agitation appeared to Melmoth , with his uncontinental feelings , so violent , that he entreated him to spare the description of his feelings , and proceed with his narrative . 
Here Melmoth could not forbear remembering the incommunicable condition proposed to Stanton in the mad-house , -- he shuddered , and was silent . 
Melmoth , who , from the narrative of Stanton , had been prepared to suspect something of this , did not think prudent to press him for a farther disclosure , and waited in silence till his emotion had subsided , without remark or question . 
said Melmoth ; `` what name have you mentioned ? '' 
and was answered , `` He is said to be a native of Ireland -- -LRB- a country that no one knows , and which the natives are particularly reluctant to dwell in from various causes -RRB- -- and his name is Melmoth . '' 
said Melmoth , in a tone of involuntary softness . 
And Melmoth , as he spoke , flung himself on a bed of hyacinths and tulips that displayed their glowing flowers , and sent up their odorous breath right under Isidora 's casement . 
said Melmoth , as he basked on the crushed flowers , and darted his withering sneer and scowling glance at Isidora . 
-- '' I can not weep , '' said Melmoth , fixing on her his dry and burning eyes , strikingly visible in the moonlight ; `` the fountain of tears has been long dried up within me , like that of every other human blessing . '' 
`` Reserve them for our nuptial hour , my lovely bride , '' said Melmoth to himself ; `` you will have occasion for them then . '' 
asks her lover , almost at their first interview , if his intentions are honourable , and requires , as the proof of their being so , that he shall espouse her immediately , does she not utter a language more unsophisticated , more intelligible , more heartedly pure , than all the romantic and incredible reliance that other females are supposed to place in the volatility of impulse , -- in that wild and extemporaneous feeling , -- that `` house on the sands , '' -- which never has its foundation in the immoveable depths of the heart . 
retorted Melmoth ; `` You have learned the European ` perhaps ! ' 
echoed Melmoth ; `` It must have been reluctantly indeed . 
I am a convert to you ; '' and he stifled a Satanic laugh as he spoke ; `` to your new religion , and your beauty , and your Spanish birth and nomenclature , and every thing that you would wish . 
repeated Melmoth ; `` Oh , you know not how much you may have to do with it and me yet ! 
asked Melmoth , while a wild feeling of triumph in the devotedness of this unfortunate female , and of horror at the destination which she was unconsciously imprecating on herself , mingled in the question . 
interrupted Melmoth ; `` the voices of ten thousand -- ten millions of spirits -- beings whose tones are immortal , without cessation , without pause , without interval ! '' 
-- `` But think , '' rejoined Melmoth , `` if your taste for music be indeed so exquisite , how it will be indulged , how it will be enlarged , in hearing those voices accompanied and re-echoed by the thunders of ten thousand billows of fire , lashing against rocks which eternal despair has turned into adamant ! 
''' -- `` I do not understand you , '' said Isidora , listening to him with that sinking of the heart which is produced by a combined and painful feeling of ignorance and terror . 
repeated Melmoth , with that sarcastic frigidity of countenance which frightfully contrasted the burning intelligence of his eyes , that seemed like the fires of a volcano bursting out amid masses of snow heaped up to its very edge ; `` not understand me ! 
-- `` That , indeed , is a sweet and subtle reason , '' answered Melmoth , `` and one that , of course , has but one failure , -- that of not being sufficiently flattering to the hearer . 
`` As Melmoth beheld this blessed and beautiful being , once so refined amid nature , and now so natural amid refinement , still possessing all the soft luxuriance of her first angelic nature , amid the artificial atmosphere where her sweets were uninhaled , and her brilliant tints doomed to wither unappreciated , -- where her pure and sublime devotedness of heart was doomed to beat like a wave against a rock , -- exhaust its murmurs , -- and expire ; -- As he felt this , and gazed on her , he cursed himself ; and then , with the selfishness of hopeless misery , he felt that the curse might , by dividing it , be diminished . 
he whispered in the softest tones he could assume , approaching the casement , at which his pale and beautiful victim stood ; `` Isidora ! 
-- `` But I feel another pride , '' answered Melmoth , and in a proud tone he spoke it , -- `` a pride , which , like that of the storm that visited the ancient cities , whose destruction you may have read of , while it blasts , withers , and encrusts paintings , gems , music , and festivity , grasping them in its talons of annihilation , exclaims , Perish to all the world , perhaps beyond the period of its existence , but live to me in darkness and in corruption ! 
repeated Melmoth ; `` well-spoken , my bride . 
`` At these words , Melmoth approached as close as possible to the casement , and uttered a certain word which Isidora did not at first appear to hear , or understand -- trembling she repeated her request . 
`` That figure appeared to her every night without disturbance or interruption ; and though her knowledge of the severe restraint and regularity of the household caused her some surprise at the facility with which Melmoth apparently defied both , and visited the garden every night , yet such was the influence of her former dream-like and romantic existence , that his continued presence , under circumstances so extraordinary , never drew from her a question with regard to the means by which he was enabled to surmount difficulties insurmountable to all others . 
Wonders were her natural element ; and she felt , perhaps , less surprised at seeing Melmoth in Spain , than when she first beheld him treading the sands of her lonely island . 
With Melmoth the cause was different , though the effect was the same . 
His destiny forbid alike curiosity or surprise . 
The world could show him no greater marvel than his own existence ; and the facility with which he himself passed from region to region , mingling with , yet distinct from all his species , like a wearied and uninterested spectator rambling through the various seats of some vast theatre , where he knows none of the audience , would have prevented his feeling astonishment , had he encountered Isidora on the summit of the Andes . 
`` During a month , through the course of which she had tacitly permitted these nightly visits beneath her casement -- -LRB- at a distance which indeed might have defied Spanish jealousy itself to devise matter of suspicion out of , -- the balcony of her window being nearly fourteen feet above the level of the garden , where Melmoth stood -RRB- -- during this month , Isidora rapidly , but imperceptibly , graduated through those stages of feeling which all who love have alike experienced , whether the stream of passion be smooth or obstructed . 
She had all the wonders of her new existence to relate ; and perhaps that indefinite and unselfish hope of magnifying herself in the eyes of him she loved , which induces us in our first encounter to display all the eloquence , all the powers , all the attractions we possess , not with the pride of a competitor , but with the humiliation of a victim . 
To Melmoth `` nothing was new under the sun . '' 
`` With such feelings , and others that can not be told , Melmoth experienced an indescribable relief from the eternal fire that was already kindled within him , in the perfect and unsullied freshness of what may be called the untrodden verdure of Immalee 's heart , -- for she was Immalee still to him . 
She was the Oasis of his desert -- the fountain at which he drank , and forgot his passage over the burning sands -- and the burning sands to which his passage must conduct him . 
He sat under the shade of the gourd , and forgot the worm was working at its root ; -- perhaps the undying worm that gnawed , and coiled , and festered in his own heart , might have made him forget the corrosions of that he himself had sown in hers . 
said Melmoth ; `` is that the question ? '' 
-- `` You have imposed on me a task , '' said Melmoth smiling , but not in mirth , `` so congenial to my feelings and habits of thought , that the execution will doubtless be inimitable . 
`` To love , '' pursued Melmoth , `` is to live in an existence of perpetual contradictions -- to feel that absence is insupportable , and yet be doomed to experience the presence of the object as almost equally so -- to be full of ten thousand thoughts while he is absent , the confession of which we dream will render our next meeting delicious , yet when the hour of meeting arrives , to feel ourselves , by a timidity alike oppressive and unaccountable , robbed of the power of expressing one -- to be eloquent in his absence , and dumb in his presence -- to watch for the hour of his return as for the dawn of a new existence , yet when it arrives , to feel all those powers suspended which we imagined it would restore to energy -- to be the statue that meets the sun , but without the music his presence should draw from it -- to watch for the light of his looks , as a traveller in the deserts looks for the rising of the sun ; and when it bursts on our awakened world , to sink fainting under its overwhelming and intolerable glory , and almost wish it were night again -- this is love ! '' 
`` To feel , '' added Melmoth with increasing energy , `` that our existence is so absorbed in his , that we have lost all consciousness but of his presence -- all sympathy but of his enjoyments -- all sense of suffering but when he suffers -- to be only because he is -- and to have no other use of being but to devote it to him , while our humiliation increases in proportion to our devotedness ; and the lower you bow before your idol , the prostrations seem less and less worthy of being the expression of your devotion , -- till you are only his , when you are not yourself -- To feel that to the sacrifice of yourself , all other sacrifices are inferior ; and in it , therefore , all other sacrifices must be included . 
`` By the wax-lights that burned in her apartment , Melmoth could see her prostrate before the sacred image . 
He could see that devotion of the heart which made it throb almost visibly in the white and palpitating bosom -- the clasped hands that seemed imploring aid against that rebellious heart , whose beatings they vainly struggled to repress ; and then , locked and upraised , asked forgiveness from heaven for their fruitless opposition . 
He could see the wild but profound devotion with which she clung to the crucifix , -- and he shuddered to behold it . 
He never gazed on that symbol , -- his eyes were immediately averted ; -- yet now he looked long and intently at her as she knelt before it . 
He seemed to suspend the diabolical instinct that governed his existence , and to view her for the pure pleasure of sight . 
-- All this Melmoth beheld ; and feeling that in this he could never participate , he turned away his head in stern and bitter agony , -- and the moon-beam that met his burning eye saw no tear there . 
`` Had he looked a moment longer , he might have beheld a change in the expression of Isidora too flattering to his pride , if not to his heart . 
He might have marked all that profound and perilous absorption of the soul , when it is determined to penetrate the mysteries of love or of religion , and chuse `` whom it will serve '' -- that pause on the brink of an abyss , in which all its energies , its passions , and its powers , are to be immersed -- that pause , while the balance is trembling -LRB- and we tremble with it -RRB- between God and man . 
There was also that air of decision which an unreserved appeal to the Searcher of hearts never fails to communicate even to the weakest of those he has made . 
`` Melmoth , returning to his station beneath the casement , looked on her for some time with a mixture of compassion and wonder -- feelings that he hasted to repel , as he eagerly demanded , `` What proof are you ready to give of that love I have described -- of that which alone deserves the name ? '' 
`` As she spoke , there was a light in her eye , -- a glow on her brow , -- an expansive and irradiated sublimity around her figure , -- that made it appear like the rare and glorious vision of the personified union of passion and purity , -- as if those eternal rivals had agreed to reconcile their claims , to meet on the confines of their respective dominions , and had selected the form of Isidora as the temple in which their league might be hallowed , and their union consummated -- and never were the opposite divinities so deliciously lodged . 
`` Melmoth gazed on her as she stood . 
One generous , one human feeling , throbbed in his veins , and thrilled in his heart . 
He saw her in her beauty , -- her devotedness , -- her pure and perfect innocence , -- her sole feeling for one who could not , by the fearful power of his unnatural existence , feel for mortal being . 
He turned aside , and did not weep ; or if he did , wiped away his tears , as a fiend might do , with his burning talons , when he sees a new victim arrive for torture ; and , repenting of his repentance , rends away the blot of compunction , and arms himself for his task of renewed infliction . 
`` Such was the impression that these words made on Melmoth , whose heart , however , plunged in unutterable crimes , had never been polluted by sensuality , that he started from the spot where he stood , -- gazed on her for a moment , -- and then exclaimed , `` Well ! 
-- `` Then , '' answered Melmoth , `` on this spot receive the proof of my eternal gratitude . 
And as he spoke , he disappeared . 
The disappearance , therefore , of Melmoth , gave her less surprise than a summons from her mother a few hours after , which was delivered in these words : `` Madonna Isidora , your lady-mother desires your presence in the tapestried chamber -- having received intelligence by a certain express , which she deems fitting you should be acquainted withal . '' 
The absence of Melmoth increased her anxiety . 
`` It is said that a certain power is always at hand to facilitate the wishes that the individual forms for his own injury ; and so it should seem in the present instance , -- for she had scarce uttered these words , when the shadow of Melmoth was seen darkening the garden walk , -- and the next moment he was beneath the casement . 
As she saw him approach , she uttered a cry of mingled joy and fear , which he hushed by making a signal of silence with his hand , and then whispered , `` I know it all ! '' 
She had nothing but her recent distress to communicate , -- and of that , it appeared , he was already apprized . 
continued Melmoth ; `` your father has landed in Spain -- he brings with him your destined husband . 
`` At these words , Melmoth advanced and gazed on her more closely . 
Any thing of intense and terrible resolution , -- of feeling or action in extremity , -- made harmony with the powerful but disordered chords of his soul . 
He required her to repeat the words -- she did so , with quivering lip , but unfaultering voice . 
He advanced still nearer to gaze on her as she spoke . 
Melmoth himself felt confounded -- appalled he could not feel . 
He retreated , and then returning , demanded , `` Is this your resolution , Isidora ? 
answered Isidora , with the same unaltered accent , -- the same calm expression , -- and seeming , as she spake , capable of all she expressed ; and this union , in the same slight and tender from , of those eternal competitors , energy and fragility , beauty and death , made every human pulse in Melmoth 's frame beat with a throbbing unknown before . 
`` Can you , then , '' he said , with averted head , and in a tone that seemed ashamed of its own softness -- `` Can you , then , die for him you will not live for ? '' 
said Melmoth , toying with the heart he held in his hand , like a mischievous boy with a bird , around whose leg he has fastened a string . 
said Melmoth , pausing long , and moving his frame like one agitated by deep and uneasy thoughts . 
Melmoth looked up once more as she spoke -- `` If such is your resolution , -- if such be your feelings indeed , '' -- `` And they are ! 
exclaimed Isidora , her tears bursting through the slender fingers , which , after extending towards him , she clasped over her burning eyes . 
said Melmoth slowly , bringing out the words with difficulty , and , as it appeared , with some feeling for his victim ; `` a union with the man you can not love , -- or the perpetual hostility , the wearying , wasting , almost annihilating persecution of your family ! 
-- `` Now , in good troth , '' answered Melmoth , knitting his brows with a most cogitative wrinkle , while it was impossible to discover whether his predominant expression was that of irony or profound and sincere feeling -- `` I know not what resource you have unless you wed me . '' 
-- `` All things are possible to those who love , '' said Melmoth , with his sardonic smile , which was hid by the shades of the night . 
-- `` If I am to wait here only as a witness to your devotions , '' said Melmoth with sullen asperity , `` my stay will not be long . '' 
shall I be here at this hour to-morrow night , to conduct you to liberty and '' -- Safety he would have added , but his voice faultered . 
She closed the casement as she spoke , and Melmoth slowly departed . 
`` That night was the one fixed on for the union of Isidora and Melmoth . 
She had retired early to her chamber , and sat at the casement watching for his approach for hours before she could probably expect it . 
So she sat at her casement , pale but resolute , and trusting in the extraordinary promise of Melmoth , that by whatever means he was enabled to visit her , by those she would be enabled to effect her escape , in spite of her well-guarded mansion , and vigilant household . 
`` It was near one -LRB- the hour at which Fra Jose , who was sitting in consultation with her mother over that melancholy letter , heard the noise alluded to in the preceding chapter -RRB- when Melmoth appeared in the garden , and , without uttering a word , threw up a ladder of ropes , which , in short and sullen whispers , he instructed her to fasten , and assisted her to descend . 
More than once she paused , trembled , and turned on Melmoth a glance of doubt and terror , -- which the darkness of the night , of course , prevented him from observing . 
-- `` To your nuptials , '' answered Melmoth , in low and almost inarticulate tones ; -- but whether rendered so by emotion , or by the speed with which they seemed to fly along , Isidora could not discover . 
Melmoth returned no answer . 
He paused , however , and supported her with an appearance of anxiety , if not of tenderness . 
Melmoth was silent -- and her spirits subdued by fatigue and emotion , she wept . 
said he , laying a strange emphasis on the word -- already . 
she exclaimed , as Melmoth , apparently disturbed at these words , attempted to hurry her on -- `` Is this like a bridal ? 
`` As she spoke , Melmoth , drawing her arm under his , attempted to lead her gently forward . 
`` There is , '' said he , `` a ruined monastery near -- you may have observed it from your window . '' 
It was said the Superior , or Prior , or -- I know not what -- had looked into certain books , the perusal of which was not altogether sanctioned by the rules of his order -- books of magic they called them . 
`` At these words , Melmoth felt the slender arm that hung on his withdrawn , -- and he perceived that his victim , between shuddering and struggling , had shrunk from his hold . 
`` But there , '' he added , `` even amid those ruins , there dwells a holy hermit , -- one who has taken up his residence near the spot , -- he will unite us in his oratory , according to the rites of your church . 
He will speak the blessing over us , -- and one of us , at least , shall be blessed . '' 
said Isidora , repelling , and standing at what distance from him she could , -- her slight figure expanding to that queen-like dignity with which nature had once invested her as the fair and sole sovereign of her own island-paradise . 
I have borne much of doubt and terror , -- of suspicion and persecution , -- but '' -- `` Hear me , Isidora , '' said Melmoth , terrified at this sudden burst of resolution . 
cried Melmoth , humbling himself even to kneel before her as she stood , -- `` my intentions are as pure as your own soul ! 
Had you not been what you are , and what no other but you could be , you had never been the bride of Melmoth . 
Isidora , '' he added , in tones more potent and emphatic , perceiving she still hesitated , and clung to the tree -- `` Isidora , how weak , how unworthy of you is this ! 
-- `` I venerate all faiths -- alike , I hold all religious rites -- pretty much in the same respect , '' said Melmoth , while his former wild and scoffing levity seemed to struggle vainly with a feeling of involuntary horror . 
`` I believe in a God , '' answered Melmoth , in a voice that froze her blood ; `` you have heard of those who believe and tremble , -- such is he who speaks to you ! '' 
`` I believe it all -- I know it all , '' answered Melmoth , in a voice of stern and reluctant confession . 
`` Melmoth uttered these words in ears that heard no longer . 
Melmoth , at this sight , shewed more feeling than he could have been suspected of . 
He disentangled her from the folds of her mantle , sprinkled water from the stream on her cold cheek , and supported her frame in every direction where a breath of air was to be caught . 
But Isidora had no time to analyse her feelings , -- a new apprehension struck her , -- and , as she could well guess from the increasing speed of Melmoth , and head thrown backward impatiently , and often , it had probably reached him too . 
Melmoth suddenly paused , and Isidora hung trembling on his arm . 
Neither of them uttered a word ; but Isidora 's eyes , instinctively following the slight but fearful waving of his arm , saw it directed towards a figure so obscure , that it at first appeared like a spray moving in the misty night , -- then was lost in darkness as it descended the hill , -- and then appeared in a human form , as far as the darkness of the night would permit its shape to be distinguishable . 
-- Then Melmoth suddenly quitted Isidora , who , shivering with terror , but unable to utter a word that might implore him to stay , stood alone , her whole frame trembling almost to dissolution , and her feet feeling as if she were nailed to the spot where she stood . 
Isidora clasped her cold and convulsed fingers over her eyes , till a whispering voice , the voice of Melmoth , uttered , `` Let us hasten on , my love . '' 
`` In silent horror she proceeded , till Melmoth , pointing to a dusky and indefinite mass of what , in the gloom of night , bore , according to the eye or the fancy , the shape of a rock , a tuft of trees , or a massive and unlighted building , whispered , `` There is the ruin , and near it stands the hermitage , -- one moment more of effort , -- of renewed strength and courage , and we are there . '' 
Urged by these words , and still more by an undefinable wish to put an end to this shadowy journey , -- these mysterious fears , -- even at the risk of finding them worse than verified at its termination , Isidora exerted all her remaining strength , and , supported by Melmoth , began to ascend the sloping ground on which the monastery had once stood . 
A narrow path , that seemed to wind round the edifice , conducted them to a front which overlooked an extensive cemetery , at the extremity of which Melmoth pointed out to her an indistinct object , which he said was the hermitage , and to which he would hasten to intreat the hermit , who was also a priest , to unite them . 
-- `` It is against his vow , '' said Melmoth , `` to admit a female into his presence , except when obliged by the course of his duties . '' 
So saying he hasted away , and Isidora , sinking on a grave for rest , wrapt her veil around her , as if its folds could exclude even thought . 
Though it did not seem approaching her , -LRB- but rather moving in a slow circuit on the verge of her view -RRB- , conceiving it must be Melmoth , she rose in expectation of his advancing to her , and , at this moment , the figure , turning and half-pausing , seemed to extend its arm toward her , and wave it once or twice , but whether with a motion or purpose of warning or repelling her , it was impossible to discover , -- it then renewed its dim and silent progress , and the next moment the ruins hid it from her view . 
She had no time to muse on this singular appearance , for Melmoth was now at her side urging her to proceed . 
There was a chapel , he told her , attached to the ruins , but not like them in decay , where sacred ceremonies were still performed , and where the priest had promised to join them in a few moments . 
`` He is there before us , '' said Isidora , adverting to the figure she had seen ; `` I think I saw him . '' 
said Melmoth , starting , and standing immoveable till his question was answered . 
-- `` You are mistaken , '' said Melmoth ; but a moment after he added , `` We ought to have been there before him . '' 
And he hurried on with Isidora . 
Suddenly slackening his speed , he demanded , in a choaked and indistinct voice , if she had ever heard any music precede his visits to her , -- any sounds in the air . 
`` He has not yet arrived , '' said Melmoth , in a disturbed voice ; `` Wait there a moment . '' 
And Isidora , enfeebled by terror beyond the power of resistance , or even intreaty , saw him depart without an effort to detain him . 
`` At that moment the moon , that had so faintly lit the chapel , sunk behind a cloud , and every thing was enveloped in darkness so profound , that Isidora did not recognize the figure of Melmoth till her hand was clasped in his , and his voice whispered , `` He is here -- ready to unite us . '' 
All was mist and darkness with her , -- she knew not what was muttered , -- she felt not that the hand of Melmoth grasped hers , -- but she felt that the hand that united them , and clasped their palms within his own , was as cold as that of death . 
`` We have now to retrace a short period of our narrative to the night on which Don Francisco di Aliaga , the father of Isidora , `` fortuned , '' as he termed it , to be among the company whose conversation had produced so extraordinary an effect on him . 
He felt like a man `` at ease in his possessions , '' -- and he felt also a grave and placid satisfaction at the thought of meeting a family who looked up to him with profound respect as the author of their fortunes , -- of walking in his own house , amid bowing domestics and obsequious relatives , with the same slow authoritative step with which he paced the mart among wealthy merchants , and saw the wealthiest bow as he approached , -- and when he had passed , point out the man of whose grave salute they were proud , and whisper , That is Aliaga the rich . 
`` At last , at Don Francisco 's repeated instances , he said , `` Your worship must needs be a stranger in this part of Spain not to have heard of Melmoth the wanderer . '' 
said Walberg , turning on her eyes almost as fierce and lustrous as those of Melmoth , and whose light , indeed , seemed borrowed from his ; `` Hear me ! 
He was indeed , for the wretched wife had sunk at his feet senseless . 
he again emphatically exclaimed , as he beheld her lie to all appearance lifeless before him . 
he exclaimed , while horrid thoughts chased each other over his reeling and unseated mind , and he imagined he heard the roar of a sea in its full strength thundering in his ears , and saw ten thousand waves dashing at his feet , and every wave of blood . 
-- and he felt about as if for some implement of destruction . 
In doing so , his left hand crossed his right , and grasping it , he exclaimed as if he felt a sword in his hand , -- `` This will do -- they will struggle -- they will supplicate , -- but I will tell them their mother lies dead at my feet , and then what can they say ? 
he cried , staggering towards the door of his childrens ' apartment -- `` Dead without a blow ! 
-- And the wretch tottered towards the beds of his children . 
John Sandal 's consequence now rose in the eyes of the family , of whom he was at first an inmate on toleration only ; and even Mrs Ann Mortimer began to express some anxiety to hear tidings of her valiant cousin John . 
Margaret welcomed him rather as the hero than the relative ; and John , after the ceremonies of introduction , turned to repose himself on the smile of Elinor . 
The last doubt passed from her mind , as she beheld the intense but silent devotion with which John mingled in the family rite . 
She could not be blind to the increasing attachment of John and Elinor , -- and her only thought was how to prevent the possibility of their union , by which the interest of the former and her own importance would be materially affected . 
She saw the intense and disruptable feeling that seemed to mark John and Elinor for each other ; and , with a feeling half-borrowed from magnanimity , half from romance , -LRB- for Mrs Ann had been fond of the high-toned romances of her day -RRB- , she looked forward to the felicity of their union as being little disturbed by the loss of land and lordship , -- of the immense revenues , -- and the far-descended titles of the Mortimer family . 
`` The wedding-day of John and Elinor was fixed , -- the bridal clothes were made , -- the noble and numerous friends summoned , -- the Castle hall decorated , the bells of the parish church ringing out a loud and merry peal , and the blue-coated serving men adorned with favours , and employed in garnishing the wassail bowl , which was doomed by many a thristy eye to be often drained and often replenished . 
It is true no pains were spared -- when Elinor wished to read , she was furnished amply with the Westminster Confession , or Prynne 's Histriomastrix ; or if she wished for lighter pages , for the Belles Lettres of Puritanism , there were John Bunyan 's Holy War , or the life of Mr Badman . 
`` An old non-conformist minister , a very Saint John for sanctity of life , and simplicity of manners , had been seized by a magistrate while giving the word of consolation to a few of his flock who had met at the cottage of her aunt . 
In the event of the marriage of John and Margaret proving issueless , the estates and title went to the distant relative named in the will ; and her son , deprived of reason by the calamities in which her arts had involved him , was by them also deprived of the wealth and rank to which they were meant to raise him , and reduced to the small pension obtained by his former services , -- the poverty of the King , then himself a pensioner of Lewis XIV. , forbidding the possibility of added remuneration . 
`` The clergyman confessed to Elinor that he had been acquainted with an Irishman of the name of Melmoth , whose various erudition , profound intellect , and intense appetency for information , had interested him so deeply as to lead to a perfect intimacy between them . 
There again he met Melmoth , who proposed to him a journey to Poland -- the offer was accepted , and to Poland they went . 
The clergyman here told many extraordinary tales of Dr Dee , and of Albert Alasco , the Polish adventurer , who were their companions both in England and Poland -- and he added , that he felt his companion Melmoth was irrevocably attached to the study of that art which is held in just abomination by all `` who name the name of Christ . '' 
The power of the intellectual vessel was too great for the narrow seas where it was coasting -- it longed to set out on a voyage of discovery -- in other words , Melmoth attached himself to those impostors , or worse , who promised him the knowledge and the power of the future world -- on conditions that are unutterable . '' 
A strange expression crossed his face as he spoke . 
He recovered himself , and added , `` From that hour our intercourse ceased . 
I had not seen Melmoth for some years . 
As I entered his room , conducted by a servant , who immediately closed the door and retired , I was astonished to see the room filled with an astrological apparatus , books and implements of a science I did not understand ; in a corner there was a bed , near which there was neither priest or physician , relative or friend -- on it lay extended the form of Melmoth . 
`` Come near , '' said Melmoth , speaking very faintly -- `` nearer . 
He answered , `` Have you patience and courage to abide by the proof that what I say is true ? '' 
I replied , that I doubtless had patience , and for the courage , I looked to that Being for whose name I had too much reverence to utter in his hearing . 
He acknowledged my forbearance by a ghastly smile which I understood too well , and pointed to a clock that stood at the foot of his bed . 
`` Observe , '' said he , `` the hourhand is on eleven , and I am now sane , clear of speech , and apparently healthful -- tarry but an hour , and you yourself will behold me dead ! '' 
I was in various parts of the Continent , and every where I was haunted with the report of Melmoth being still alive . 
To these reports I gave no credit , and returned to England in the full conviction of his being dead . 
Yet it was Melmoth who walked and spoke with you the last night of our meeting . 
It was Melmoth himself , such as I beheld him many years ago , when my hairs were dark and my steps were firm . 
I am changed , but he is the same -- time seems to have forborne to touch him from terror . 
By what means or power he is thus enabled to continue his posthumous and preternatural existence , it is impossible to conceive , unless the fearful report that every where followed his steps on the Continent , be indeed true . '' 
He has traversed the earth in search of victims , `` Seeking whom he might devour , '' -- and has found no prey , even where he might seek for it with all the cupidity of infernal expectation . 
Let it be your glory and crown of rejoicing , that even the feeblest of his adversaries has repulsed him with a power that will always annihilate his . '' 
-- It is still Elinor tending John . 
`` Suddenly he gives a sign that he wishes to be seated -- it is complied with , and she sits beside him on the felled trunk of a tree . 
He declines his head on her bosom , and she feels with delighted amazement , a few tears streaming on it for the first time for years -- a soft but conscious pressure of her hand , seems to her like the signal of reviving intelligence -- with breathless hope she watches him as he slowly raises his head , and fixes his eyes -- God of all consolation , there is intelligence in his glance ! 
He thanks her with an unutterable look for all her care , her long and painful labour of love ! 
His lips are open , but long unaccustomed to utter human sounds , the effort is made with difficulty -- again that effort is repeated and fails -- his strength is exhausted -- his eyes close -- his last gentle sigh is breathed on the bosom of faith and love -- and Elinor soon after said to those who surrounded her bed , that she died happy , since he knew her once more ! 
`` It is inconceivable to me , '' said Don Aliaga to himself , as he pursued his journey the next day -- `` it is inconceivable to me how this person forces himself on my company , harasses me with tales that have no more application to me than the legend of the Cid , and may be as apocryphal as the ballad of Roncesvalles -- and now he has ridden by my side all day , and , as if to make amends for his former uninvited and unwelcome communicativeness , he has never once opened his lips . '' 
On one of those nights that she expected Melmoth , he found her employed in her usual hymn to the Virgin , which she accompanied on her lute . 
said Melmoth with a ghastly smile . 
-- `` If it is , then , love , '' said Melmoth , vaulting as usual through the casement , `` add a stanza to your hymn in favour of me . '' 
-- `` It is a shrewd question , '' said Melmoth , `` but why am I in your imagination excluded from the love of God ? '' 
-- Melmoth did not utter a word . 
Melmoth , pity me , -- deliver me from this life of constraint , falsehood , and dissimulation . 
Her arms clung round him , her cold but heart-wrung tears fell fast on his cheek , and the imploring arms of woman supplicating for deliverance in her hour of shame and terror , seldom are twined round us in vain . 
Melmoth felt the appeal -- it was but for a moment . 
He caught the white arms extended towards him -- he fixed an eager and fearful look of inquiry on his victim-consort , as he asked -- `` And is it so ? '' 
The pale and shuddering wife shrunk from his arms at the question -- her silence answered him . 
The agonies of nature throbbed audibly in his heart . 
He said to himself -- it is mine -- the fruit of affection -- the first-born of the heart and of nature -- mine -- mine , -- and whatever becomes of me , there shall yet be a human being on earth who traces me in its external form , and who will be taught to pray for its father , even when its prayer falls parched and hissing on the fires that burn for ever , like a wandering drop of dew on the burning sands of the desert ! 
`` From the period of this communication , Melmoth 's tenderness for his wife visibly increased . 
`` Heaven only knows the source of that wild fondness with which he contemplated her , and in which was still mingled something of ferocity . 
His warm look seemed like the glow of a sultry summer day , whose heat announces a storm , and compels us by its burning oppression , to look to the storm almost for relief . 
`` It is not impossible that he looked to some future object of his fearful experiment -- and a being so perfectly in his power as his own child , might have appeared to him fatally fitted for his purpose -- the quantum of misery , too , necessary to qualify the probationer , it was always in his own power to inflict . 
Whatever was his motive , he assumed as much tenderness as it was possible for him to assume , and spoke of the approaching event with the anxious interest of a human father . 
`` At his next nightly visit , Melmoth found her in tears . 
I feel , '' she added , `` that this event will be fatal to me -- I know I shall not live to see my child -- I demand from you the only promise that can support me even under this conviction '' -- Melmoth interrupted her by the assurance , that these apprehensions were the inseparable concomitants of her situation , and that many mothers , surrounded by a numerous offspring , smiled as they recollected their fears that the birth of each would be fatal to them . 
Melmoth , do not give that fearful smile when I speak of heaven -- soon I may be your only intercessor there . '' 
`` My dear saint , '' said Melmoth , laughing and kneeling to her in mockery , `` let me make early interest for your mediation -- how many ducats will it cost me to get you canonized ? 
`` Let your conversion be the first miracle on the list , '' said Isidora , with an energy that made Melmoth tremble -- it was dark -- but she felt that he trembled -- she pursued her imagined triumph -- `` Melmoth , '' she exclaimed , `` I have a right to demand one promise from you -- for you I have sacrificed every thing -- never was woman more devoted -- never did woman give proofs of devotion like mine . 
Oh Melmoth ! 
`` Melmoth listened to her with feelings that it is better to suppress than explain or expatiate on . 
-- `` I shall not be here to tell you , '' said Isidora , replying with profound conviction to this withering levity , like a cold winter day to the glow of a capricious summer one , that blends the sunshine and the lightning ; -- `` Melmoth , I shall not be here then ! '' 
said Melmoth . 
As this crisis approached , one may easily imagine the secret and trembling preparation -- the important nurse , proud of the trust reposed in her -- the confidential maid -- the faithful and discreet medical attendant -- to obtain all these Melmoth supplied her amply with money -- a circumstance that would have surprised Isidora , as his appearance was always remarkably plain and private , if , at this moment of anxiety , any thought but that of the hour could have found room in her mind . 
`` On the evening supposed to be that preceding the dreaded event , Melmoth had thrown an unusual degree of tenderness into his manner -- he gazed on her frequently with anxious and silent fondness -- he seemed to have something to communicate which he had not courage to disclose . 
Isidora , well versed in the language of the countenance , which is often , more than that of words , the language of the heart , intreated him to tell her what he looked . 
`` Your father is returning , '' said Melmoth reluctantly . 
Isidora heard him in silent horror . 
Melmoth paused some time , -- his features assumed a more contracted and gloomy character than they had done laterally -- he answered with slow and stern reluctance -- `` Never again ask me that question -- the intelligence that I can give you must be of more importance to you than the means by which I obtain it -- enough for you that it is true . '' 
`` Melmoth seemed too intently occupied with his own thoughts to answer even her tears . 
`` At this moment the trampling of many horsemen was heard as they approached the villa -- the tumult of the domestics hurrying to admit and receive them , resounded through the apartments -- and Melmoth , with a gesture that seemed to Isidora rather like a menace than a farewell , instantly disappeared ; and within an hour , Isidora knelt to the father she had never till then beheld -- suffered herself to be saluted by Montilla -- and accepted the embrace of her brother , who , in the petulance of his spirit , half rejected the chill and altered form that advanced to greet him . 
All these passed over her mind like a dream -- the reality of her existence seemed internal , and she said to herself , -- `` Were I at the altar , were my hand locked in that of Montilla , Melmoth would rend me from him . '' 
A wild but deeply-fixed conviction -- a wandering image of preternatural power , overshadowed her mind while she thought of Melmoth ; -- and this image , which had caused her so much terror and inquietude in her early hours of love , now formed her only resource against the hour of inconceivable suffering ; as those unfortunate females in the Eastern Tales , whose beauty has attracted the fearful passion of some evil genie , are supposed to depend , at their nuptial hour , on the presence of the seducing spirit , to tear from the arms of the agonised parent , and the distracted bridegroom , the victim whom he has reserved for himself , and whose wild devotion to him gives a dignity to the union so unhallowed and unnaturalVide the beautiful tale of Auheta the Princess of Egypt , and Maugraby the Sorcerer , in the Arabian Tales . 
Isidora remembered Melmoth 's prediction of a fatal festival ; and his words , `` I will be there , '' gave her for a time a kind of trembling confidence . 
`` The entertainment was to be a masked ball ; and Isidora , who imagined that this might suggest to Melmoth some auspicious expedient for her escape , watched in vain for some hint of hope , -- some allusion to the probability of this event facilitating her extrication from those snares of death that seemed compassing her about . 
He never uttered a word , and her dependence on him was at one moment confirmed , at another shaken to its foundation , by this terrible silence . 
In one of these latter moments , the anguish of which was increased beyond expression by a conviction that her hour of danger was not far distant , she exclaimed to Melmoth -- `` Take me -- take me from this place ! 
-- Oh , Melmoth , if you no longer love me , at least commiserate me ! 
`` Melmoth , as she spoke , was profoundly silent , and deeply attentive . 
Melmoth shook through his whole frame as he heard these words . 
He raised and soothed her , however , with promises of safety , though in a voice that seemed to announce despair -- and then turning from her , burst into a passionate soliloquy . 
As he spoke , hastily traversing the room , his foot struck against a chair on which a gorgeous dress was spread . 
he exclaimed -- `` What ideot trumpery , what May-queen foolery is this ? '' 
`` Fear not , '' said Melmoth , solemnly -- `` You have demanded my aid , and it shall be accorded . 
Twelve was the hour at which Melmoth had promised to meet her , and by the clock , which was placed over the door of the hall , she saw it wanted but a quarter to twelve . 
and he added the sign which Melmoth and she had agreed on as the signal of their meeting . 
`` Make haste , '' he added -- `` All is arranged for your flight -- there is not a moment to be lost -- I will leave you now , but meet me in a few moments in the western portico -- the lamps are extinguished there , and the servants have neglected to relight them -- be silent and be swift ! '' 
He disappeared as he spoke , and Isidora , after a few moments , followed him . 
Though the portico was dark , a faint gleam from the splendidly illuminated rooms disclosed to her the figure of Melmoth . 
He drew her arm under his in silence , and proceeded to hurry her from the spot . 
Melmoth attempted to pass him , supporting Isidora with one arm , while the other was extended to repel his approach ; but Fernan , drawing his sword , placed himself directly in their way , at the same time calling on Montilla to raise the household , and tear Isidora from his arms . 
exclaimed Melmoth -- `` Rush not on destruction ! 
said Fernan , making a desperate thrust at him , which Melmoth coolly put by with his hand . 
Melmoth slowly drew his sword . 
said he in an awful voice -- `` If I turn this point against you , your life is not worth a moment 's purchase -- be wise and let us pass . '' 
The combat was short as it was unequal , -- in two moments Melmoth passed his sword twice through the body of Fernan , who sunk beside Isidora , and expired ! 
burst from every lip , and the crowd began to close around Melmoth . 
`` The light of the torches , which the trembling servants held up to gaze on him , fell full on his countenance , and the voices of a few shuddering speakers exclaimed , `` Melmoth the wanderer ! '' 
Isidora , who recognized the voice but not the speaker , raised herself for a moment -- looked on Melmoth -- cast a glance on the bleeding bosom of Fernan , and fell on it dyed in that blood . 
Melmoth started up -- there was a slight movement of hostility among some of the guests -- he turned one brief and withering glance on them -- they stood every man his hand on his sword , without the power to draw them , and the very domestics held up the torches in their trembling hands , as if with involuntary awe they were lighting him out . 
So he passed on unmolested amid the groupe , till he reached the spot where Aliaga , stupified with horror , stood beside the bodies of his son and daughter . 
he exclaimed , looking on him as the unhappy father strained his glazing and dilated eyes to see who spoke to him , and at length with difficulty recognized the form of the stranger -- the companion of his fearful journey some months past -- `` Wretched old man -- you were warned -- but you neglected the warning -- I adjured you to save your daughter -- I best knew her danger -- you saved your gold -- now estimate the value of the dross you grasped , and the precious ore you dropt ! 
-- `` I go conquering and to conquer , '' answered Melmoth with wild and fierce triumph -- `` wretches ! 
Every sword was in its sheath as Melmoth quitted the garden . 
Donna Clara was almost distracted between compassion for her wretched daughter , and being grandmother to an infant demon , for such she deemed the child of `` Melmoth the Wanderer '' must be -- and Fra Jose , while he baptized the infant with trembling hands , almost expected a fearful sponsor to appear and blast the rite with his horrible negative to the appeal made in the name of all that is holy among Christians . 
They were desirous that she should recover perfect sanity of intellect previous to her examination , and they also wished to give her time to form that profound attachment to the innocent companion of her solitude , that might be a powerful engine in their hands in discovering those circumstances relative to Melmoth that had hitherto baffled all the power and penetration of the Inquisition itself . 
I saw no form , but I thought I heard words uttered -- I know I felt a hand place mine in Melmoth 's -- its touch was as cold as that of the dead . '' 
He then put to her several singular questions relative to Melmoth , which she was wholly unable to answer . 
They seemed chiefly the result of those impressions of supernatural power and terror , which were every where associated with his image . 
`` My father , '' said Isidora , when he had ceased , in a faultering voice , `` My father , may I inquire about my unhappy parents ? '' 
The second and the third were alike strict , penetrating and inoperative , and the holy office began to feel its highest functionaries were no match for the extraordinary prisoner who stood before them , who , combining the extremes of simplicity and magnanimity , uttered every thing that might criminate herself , but evaded with skill that baffled all the arts of inquisitorial examination , every question that referred to Melmoth . 
An official whispered one of the inquisitors , as he observed the peculiar expression of her countenance , and the torture was mentioned no more . 
-- `` Melmoth , '' said Isidora , with a strong effort , `` Melmoth was here last night -- within the walls of the Inquisition -- within this very cell ! '' 
Monçada here concluded the tale of the Indian , -- the victim of Melmoth 's passion , no less than of his destiny , both alike unhallowed and unutterable . 
And he announced his intention of disclosing to him the fates of the other victims , whose skeletons were preserved in the vault of the Jew Adonijah in Madrid . 
The narrative of the Spaniard had occupied many days ; at their termination , young Melmoth signified to his guest that he was prepared to hear the sequel . 
Monçada and Melmoth drew their chairs closer to the fire , looking at each other with the aspect of men who wish to inspire each other with courage to listen , and to tell , and are the more eager to inspire it , because neither feels it himself . 
`` I thought , '' said Melmoth , answering his silence , `` I thought I heard a noise -- as of a person walking in the passage . '' 
`` We are watched , '' said Melmoth , half-rising from his chair , but at that moment the door opened , and a figure appeared at it , which Monçada recognized for the subject of his narrative , and his mysterious visitor in the prison of the Inquisition , and Melmoth for the original of the picture , and the being whose unaccountable appearance had filled him with consternation , as he sat beside his dying uncle 's bed . 
Melmoth , nailed to his chair , fixed his sightless eyes on the form that stood before him -- it was indeed Melmoth the Wanderer -- the same as he was in the past century -- the same as he may be in centuries to come , should the fearful terms of his existence be renewed . 
His `` natural force was not abated , '' but `` his eye was dim , '' -- that appalling and supernatural lustre of the visual organ , that beacon lit by an infernal fire , to tempt or to warn the adventurers of despair from that coast on which many struck , and some sunk -- that portentous light was no longer visible -- the form and figure were those of a living man , of the age indicated in the portrait which the young Melmoth had destroyed , but the eyes were as the eyes of the dead . 
As the Wanderer advanced still nearer till his figure touched the table , Monçada and Melmoth started up in irrepressible horror , and stood in attitudes of defence , though conscious at the moment that all defence was hopoless against a being that withered and mocked at human power . 
-- Who can tell so well of Melmoth the Wanderer as himself , now that he is about to resign that existence which has been the object of terror and wonder to the world ? 
-- Melmoth , you behold your ancestor -- the being on whose portrait is inscribed the date of a century and a half , is before you . 
he continued , while a flash of derisive malignity once more lit up the sockets of his dead eyes -- `` You , Senhor , are armed with your beads -- and you , Melmoth ; are fortified by that vain and desperate inquisitiveness , which might , at a former period , have made you my victim , '' -- -LRB- and his features underwent a short but horrible convulsion -RRB- -- `` but now makes you only my mockery . 
The Wanderer raised it to his lips , and tasted a few drops , then replacing it on the table , said with a laugh , wild indeed , but no longer ferocious -- `` Have you seen , '' said he to Monçada and Melmoth , who gazed with dim and troubled sight on this vision , and wist not what to think -- `` Have you seen the fate of Don Juan , not as he is pantomimed on your paltry stage , but as he is represented in the real horrors of his destiny by the Spanish writerVide the original play , of which there is a curious and very obsolete translation . 
He slowly finished the draught of water . 
Neither of his companions had the power to speak . 
He sat down in a posture of heavy musing , and neither ventured to interrupt him . 
Then the Wanderer raised his heavy eyes , and fixed them on Melmoth . 
`` No one has ever exchanged destinies with Melmoth the Wanderer . 
Melmoth and Monçada quitted the apartment ; and the Wanderer , sinking back in his chair , slept profoundly . 
Melmoth and Monçada did not dare to approach the door till about noon . 
The sounds that soon after midnight began to issue from the apartment of the Wanderer , were at first of a description not to alarm , but they were soon exchanged for others of such indescribable horror , that Melmoth , though he had taken the precaution of dismissing the servants to sleep in the adjacent offices , began to fear that those sounds might reach them , and , restless himself from insupportable inquietude , rose and walked up and down the passage that led to that room of horror . 
As he was thus occupied , he thought he saw a figure at the lower end of the passage . 
So disturbed was his vision , that he did not at first recognize Monçada . 
Neither asked the other the reason of his being there -- they walked up and down together silently . 
Early as it was , the cottagers , who were poor fishermen residing on the shore , were all up , and assuring Melmoth and his companion that they had been disturbed and terrified the preceding night by sounds which they could not describe . 
Melmoth waved back all who offered to accompany him to the precipice which over-hung the sea . 
Melmoth and Monçada gained at last the summit of the rock . 
Melmoth clambered down and caught it . 
Melmoth and Monçada exchanged looks of silent and unutterable horror , and returned slowly home . 
