Hereended the narrative of Mervyn . 
His courage was the growth of benevolence and reason , and not the child of insensibility and the nursling of habit . 
He had been qualified for the encounter of gigantic dangers by no laborious education . 
He stept forth upon the stage , unfurnished , by anticipation or experience , with the means of security against fraud ; and yet , by the aid of pure intentions , had frustrated the wiles of an accomplished and veteran deceiver . 
When I reflected on that tissue of nice contingences which led him to my door , and enabled me to save from death a being of such rare endowments , my heart overflowed with joy , not unmingled with regrets and trepidation . 
It threw detestable light upon the character of Welbeck , and showed him to be more inhuman than the tale of Mervyn had evinced him to be . 
It was to the frequent demands made upon his purse , by this woman , that part of the embarrassments in which Mervyn found him involved , are to be ascribed . 
To this circumstance must likewise be imputed his anxiety to transfer to some other the possession of the unhappy stranger . 
Why he concealed from Mervyn his connection with Lucy Villars , may be easily imagined . 
His silence , with regard to Clemenza 's asylum , will not create surprise , when it it is told that she was placed with Mrs. Villars . 
Welbeck was not named , but was described in terms , which , combined with the narrative of Mervyn , enabled me to recognize the paramour of Lucy Villars in the man whose crimes had been the principal theme of our discourse . 
Mervyn 's curiosity was greatly roused when I intimated my acquaintance with the fate of Clemenza . 
In answer to his eager interrogations , I related what I knew . 
The tale plunged him into reverie . 
Recovering , at length , from his thoughtfulness , he spoke . 
The poverty of Welbeck will drive him far from her abode . 
In the morning , I mentioned it to Mervyn . 
As I spoke , his eyes sparkled with joy . 
Yes , said he with vehemence , I willingly embrace your offer . 
In a few minutes Mervyn bade us adieu , and set out upon his journey , promising to acquaint us with the state of affairs , as soon as possible after his arrival . 
We parted from him with reluctance , and found no consolation but in the prospect of his speedy return . 
During his absence , conversation naturally turned upon those topics which were suggested by the narrative and deportment of this youth . 
Different conclusions were formed by his two auditors . 
They had both contracted a deep interest in his welfare , and an ardent curiosity as to those particulars which his unfinished story had left in obscurity . 
Whether he were dead or alive , near or distant from his ancient abode , was a point on which neither Mervyn , nor any of those with whom I had means of intercourse , afforded any information . 
Whether he had shared the common fate , and had been carried by the collectors of the dead from the highway or the hovel to the pits opened alike for the rich and the poor , the known and the unknown ; whether he had escaped to a foreign shore , or were destined to re-appear upon this stage , were questions involved in uncertainty . 
Shortly after Mervyn 's departure to Malverton , I was visited by Wortley . 
He repeated his invectives against the villainy of Welbeck , his suspicions of Mervyn , and his wishes for another interview with the youth . 
Mervyn had authorized me to communicate so much of his story to Wortley , as would serve to vindicate him from the charge of being Welbeck 's copartner in fraud ; but this end would only be counteracted by an imperfect tale , and the full recital , though it might exculpate Mervyn , might produce inconveniences by which this advantage would be outweighed . 
He suspected that Mervyn was a wily imposter ; that he had been trained in the arts of fraud , under an accomplished teacher ; that the tale which he had told to me , was a tissue of ingenious and plausible lies ; that the mere assertions , however plausible and solemn , of one like him , whose conduct had incurred such strong suspicions , were unworthy of the least credit . 
The latter was the uncle of him whose fate had been related by Mervyn , and was one of those who employed money , not as the medium of traffic , but as in itself a commodity . 
He had neither wines nor cloths , to transmute into silver . 
He thought it a tedious process to exchange to day , one hundred dollars for a cask or bale , and to-morrow exchange the bale or cask for an hundred and tendollars . 
It was better to give the hundred for a piece of paper , which , carried forthwith to the money changers , he could procure an hundred twenty-three and threefourths . 
Whilemusing upon these facts , I could not but reflect with astonishment on the narrow escapes which Mervyn 's virtue had experienced . 
I was by no means certain that his fame or his life was exempt from all danger , or that the suspicions which had already been formed respecting him , could possibly be wiped away . 
Nothing but his own narrative , repeated with that simple but nervous eloquence , which we had witnessed , could rescue him from the most heinous charges . 
Was there any tribunal that would not acquit him on merely hearing his defence ? 
His tale could not be the fruit of invention ; and yet , what are the bounds of fraud ? 
Had I heard Mervyn 's story from another , or read it in a book , I might , perhaps , have found it possible to suspect the truth ; but , as long as the impression , made by his tones , gestures and looks , remained in my memory , this suspicion was impossible . 
Wickedness may sometimes be ambiguous , its mask may puzzle the observer ; our judgment may be made to faulter and fluctuate , but the face of Mervyn is the index of an honest mind . 
He that listens to his words may question their truth , but he that looks upon his countenance when speaking , can not withhold his faith . 
It was possible , however , to find evidence , supporting or confuting his story . 
I chanced to be acquainted with a family , by name Althorpe , who were natives of that part of the country where his father resided . 
I paid them a visit , and , after a few preliminaries , mentioned , as if by accident , the name of Mervyn . 
Arthur took leave one night to possess himself of all his father 's cash , mount the best horse in his meadow , and elope . 
For a time , no one knew whither he had gone . 
At last , one was said to have met with him in the streets of this city , metamorphosed from a rustic lad into a fine gentleman . 
If Arthur were still in the city , there is no doubt that the mother and son might renew the ancient terms of their acquaintance . 
I have no proof but the unanimous report of Mervyn 's neighbors . 
He had seen Arthur often enough not to be mistaken , and described his appearance with great exactness . 
It was intensely cold ; and my father , who rode with me , having business with Sawney Mervyn , we stopped a minute at his gave ; and , while the two old men were engaged in conversation , I begged leave to warm myself by the kitchen fire . 
Here , in the chimney-corner , seated on a block , I found Arthur busily engaged in knitting stockings ! 
I had some hopes of meeting with Mervyn , some days having now elapsed since his parting from us , and not being conscious of any extraordinary motives for delay . 
It was Wortley , however , and not Mervyn , to whom I was called . 
My friend came to share with me his suspicions and inquietudes respecting Welbeck and Mervyn . 
He desired a patient audience while he explained them to me . 
These were his words . 
I come to you , because I thought it possible that Mervyn , agreeably to your expectations , had returned , and I wanted to see the lad once more . 
Mervyn I know to be blameless ; but Welbeck is indeed , a villain . 
Facts have come to light of which you are wholly unaware , and which , when known to you , will conquer even your incredulity as to the guilt of Mervyn . 
If Mervyn has deceived me , there is an end to my confidence in human nature . 
Mrs. Wentworth , the proprietor of the house in which Welbeck lived , has furnished some intelligence respecting Mervyn , whose truth can not be doubted , and which furnishes the strongest evidence of a conspiracy between this lad and his employer . 
For this end , Mervyn was to personate a kinsman of Welbeck who had just arrived from Europe , and who had been a witness of her nephew 's death . 
Mervyn , in his interview with this lady , spied the portrait on the mantle-piece . 
Thus , I hope you will admit that the duplicity of Mervyn is demonstrated . 
The facts which you have mentioned , said I , after some pause , partly correspond with Mervyn 's story ; but the last particular is irreconcileably repugnant to it . 
She is mistress of Mervyn 's history ; an observer of his conduct during his abode with us ; and is hindered , by her education and temper , from deviating into rigor and malevolence . 
Mrs. Althorpe 's portrait of the mervyns contained lineaments which the summary detail of Arthur did not enable us fully to comprehend . 
The treatment which the youth is said to have given to his father ; the illicit commerce that subsisted between him and his father 's wife ; the pillage of money and his father 's horse , but ill accorded with the tale which we had heard , and disquieted our minds with doubts , though far from dictating our belief . 
The coincidence between the vague hints , labcriously collected by these enquirers , and the narrative of Mervyn , afforded the most cogent attestation of the truth of that narrative . 
It is to this that Mervyn must submit his conduct . 
The story which he told to me he must tell to the world . 
Suspicions have fixed themselves upon him , which allow him not the privilege of silence and obscurity . 
While he continued unknown and unthought of , the publication of his story would only give unnecessary birth to dangers ; but now dangers are incurred which it may probably contribute to lessen , if not to remove . 
Meanwhile the return of Mervyn to the city was anxiously expected . 
At length I was obliged to comply with the exigence , and left the city , but made such arrangements that I should be apprized by my wife of Mervyn 's return with all practicable expedition . 
These arrangements were superfluous , for my business was dispatched , and my absence at an end , before the youth had given us any tokens of his approach . 
I now remembered the warnings of Wortley , and his assertions that Mervyn had withdrawn himself forever from our view . 
The first person who met my view was -- Arthur Mervyn . 
Mervyn 's countenance betrayed nothing but satisfaction at the interview . 
It readily occurred to me that Mervyn was the writer of the note which I had lately received . 
To meet him within these walls , and at this time , was the most remote and undesirable of all contingences . 
I had scarcely time to return his embrace , when , taking my hand , he led me to a bed that stood in one corner . 
There was stretched upon it one whom a second glance enabled me to call by his name , though I had never before seen him . 
The vivid portrait which Mervyn had drawn was conspicuous in the sunken and baggard visage before me . 
He had stronger motives than other men for abstaining from guilt , the difficulty of concealment or disguise being tenfold greater in him than in others , by reason of the indelible and eye-attracting marks which nature had set upon him . 
He was pallid and emaciated . 
He did not open his eyes on my entrance . 
He seemed to be asleep ; but , before I had time to exchange glances with Mervyn , or to enquire into the nature of the scene , he awoke . 
On seeing me he started , and cast a look of upbraiding on my companion . 
The latter comprehended his emotion and endeavored to appease him . 
This person , said he , is my friend . 
He is likewise a physician ; and , perceiving your state to require medical assistance , I ventured to send for him . 
Mervyn returned , at first , no answer to this address . 
He was immersed in perplexity . 
At length , raising his eyes from the floor , he said , my intentions are indeed honest , and I am grieved that I want the power of persuasion . 
This consciousness , added to the terror of more ample disclosures , which the simplicity and rectitude of Mervyn might prompt him to make , chained up his tongue , and covered him with dismay . 
Mervyn was not long in answering -- I comprehend your fears and your wishes . 
Whatever I have witnessed under your roof , whatever I have heard from your lips , have been faithfully disclosed to him . 
For a time his utterance was stifled by his complicated feelings . 
There he stopped ; while his looks seemed to call upon Mervyn for a contradiction of his first assertion . 
I repeat , that every thing is known to him . 
His air was still incredulous , and he continued to gaze upon Mervyn . 
He spoke in a tone less vehement . 
Mervyn struggled with his tears and replied , all this was foreseen , and all this I was prepared to endure . 
I desired Mervyn to linger a moment while I returned into the house . 
I speedily rejoined Mervyn in the street . 
Though burning with curiosity respecting Mervyn and Welbeck , I readily postponed its gratification till my visit to Miss Carlton was performed . 
I therefore parted with Mervyn , requesting him to await my return , and promising to perform the engagement which compelled me to leave him with the utmost dispatch . 
On my return home , I found Mervyn and my wife in earnest discourse . 
Scarcely had I entered the room , when Mervyn turned to me and said , with an air of anxiety and impatience -- Pray , my friend , have you any knowledge of Francis Carlton ? 
The mention of this name by Mervyn , produced some surprize . 
I was willing to communicate all that I knew , but Mervyn 's own destiny was too remarkable not to absorb all my attention , and I refused to discuss any other theme till that were fully explained . 
He postponed his own gratification to mine , and consented to relate the incidents that had happened from the moment of our separation till the present . 
It was easy by comparison of circumstances , for Ellis to ascertain that Hadwin 's servant Mervyn , was the same against whom such hearty charges were laid . 
Previously to this journey , he had heard of me from Hadwin , who was loud in praise of my diligence , sobriety and modesty . 
For his part , he had always been cautious of giving countenance to vagrants , that came from nobody knew where , and worked their way with a plausible tongue . 
He was not surprised to hear it whispered that Betsey Hadwin had fallen in love with the youth , and now , no doubt , he had persuaded her to run away with him . 
He bent forwards and said , in an hoarse and contemptuous tone , pray , is your name Mervyn ? 
I answered , without hesitation , and as if the question were wholly unimportant , yes : my name is Mervyn . 
Mervyn ` sauditors allowed no pause in their attention to this story . 
In what way , said Mervyn , sedately , do they imagine me a partaker of his crime ? 
You lived with him . 
You fled with him . 
You aided and connived at his escape . 
His sensibility seemed fast ebbing , yet an emotion of joy was visible in his eyes at the appearance of Mervyn . 
said Arthur , seating himself on the bed-side , and taking his hand . 
The sick man was scarcely able to articulate his reply -- I shall soon be well . 
He now cast his languid eyes on me . 
You are his friend , he continued . 
-- There now succeeded a long pause , during which he closed his eyes , and resigned himself as if to an oblivion of all thought . 
His pulse under my hand was scarcely perceptible . 
From this in some minutes he recovered , and fixing his eyes on Mervyn , resumed , in a broken and feeble accent : Clemenza ! 
Save her Mervyn . 
But first -- Here Welbeck stretched out his left hand to Mervyn , and , after some reluctance , shewed a roll of lead . 
Receive this , said he . 
We were unwilling to comply with his injunction , and continued some longer time in his chamber , but our kind intent availed nothing . 
He quickly relapsed into insensibility , from which he recovered not again , but next day expired . 
Such , in the flower of his age , was the fate of Thomas Welbeck . 
I was anxious to clear up the mysteries which Arthur 's conduct had produced , and to shield him , if possible , from the evils which I feared awaited him . 
I was obliged to content myself with occasional information , imparted by Mervyn 's letters , or those of my wife . 
Meanwhile , on leaving the prison , I hasted to inform Mervyn of the true nature of the scene which had just passed . 
How this attempt was suggested or executed , he had not informed us , nor was it desirable to know . 
Having returned home , I unfolded to Mervyn all the particulars respecting Williams and the Maurices , which I had lately learned from Wortley . 
He listened with deep attention , and my story being finished , he said : In this small compass , then , is the patrimony and subsistence of a numerous family . 
This difficulty was obviated by Mervyn , who observed that the advertisement , describing these bills , would afford us ample information on this head . 
Well , sir , said Williams , you think that Arthur Mervyn has no remedy in this case but the law . 
Mervyn should have known his own interest better . 
While his left hand was stretched out to give , his right should have been held forth to receive . 
As it is , he must be contented with the aid of law . 
Indeed , Arthur , you torment me more than I deserve , and more than I could ever find it in my heart to do you . 
If a word of that kind escape thy lips , Arthur will be angry with thee ; and then , indeed , thou mightst weep in earnest . 
More than once already has he almost broken thy heart with his reproaches . 
Such things often happen ; do n't they , Arthur , to people of your trade , and some such thing has happened now ; and that was the reason you did not write . 
If the sick man -- see , Arthur , how my hand trembles . 
Dear Arthur , think better of it . 
Arthur , are not men sometimes too wiseto be happy ? 
What , Arthur , thou are quite the `` penseroso '' to night . 
All this is strange , Arthur . 
It is Arthur , he who has treated you with forgetfulness , neglect and cruelty . 
Lord bless me , Arthur -- said she , lost in a sweet confusion , and her cheeks , always glowing , glowing still more deeply -- indeed , I did not mean -- I meant only -- I will stay here -- I would rather stay -- It grieves me to hear that , said I , with earnestness , I thought I was studying our mutual happiness . 
-- What art so busy about , Arthur ? 
After she had regained some composure , she said , you have not offended , Arthur . 
There must be somethingin which I can be of still more use to you : some way in which I can be wholly yours -- Wholly mine!she repeated , in a smothered voice , and rising -- leave me , Arthur . 
I approached her with a confidence , and for a purpose at which , upon reflection , I am not a little surprized , but the being called Mervyn is not the same in her company and in that of another . 
When I had finished , Mervyn , said he , you seem not to be aware of your present situation . 
Sit down , Arthur , and let us no longer treat this matter lightly . 
I was roused as by a divine voice , that said : -- `` Sleep no more : Mervyn shall sleep no more . '' 
Arthur , is it you ? 
Poor Arthur , how art thou despised ! 
Arthur Mervyn : he that was two days ago your friend . 
Mervyn ! 
Keep me not in this suspense , Arthur ; these looks and this silence shocks and afflicts me too much . 
From yesterday : all then was a joyous calm , and now all is -- but then I knew not my infamy , my guilt -- What words are these , and from you Arthur ? 
I now stood up , and taking her hands in mine , as she sat , looked earnestly in her face -- I come only to beseech your pardon . 
I will trust them , I believe : and yet -- letting go her hands , and turning away . 
Why , said I , turning quickly round , and again taking her hands , that Mervyn , whom you have honored and confided in , and blessed with your sweet regards , has been -- What has he been ? 
Divinely amiable , heroic in his virtue , I am sure . 
What else has he been ? 
This Mervyn has imagined , has dared -- Will you forgive him ? 
He has dared -- But do not think that I am he . 
Now , in confidence of pardon , I will tell you : This Mervyn , not content with all you have hitherto granted him , has dared -- to loveyou ; nay , to think of you , as of his wife ! 
Arthur ! 
Yes : I willabjure thee , so let thisbe thy last office , till Mervyn has been made the happiest of men . 
