I never like to allude to any thing unpleasant before you ; you who were born with a smile , as the Honorable Mr. Winkle used to say , and will die with one on your lips -- '' `` I hope so , Gusset , '' said Mrs. Winkle , still smiling , although tearlets sparkled in the corners of her eyes . 
And Mr. Winkle -- '' `` Call my son Walter , or you will certainly make me feel old . 
`` Walter was charming -- '' `` Who was hecharming ? '' 
Well , he played against Walter , and Walter won . '' 
`` Where was Walter ? '' 
Now do not , dear , good Gusset , be offended at me for having kept you from your business so long -- and when you get home , Gusset dear , let sister Winkle know that I have Walter and Lucy in charge , and that I will be with her to-night , and shall have a rubber at whist . ' 
Submitting in silence to the victory of his rival -LRB- the late Mr. Winkle -RRB- , he had abandoned the city , and lived ever afterwards in seclusion and solitude near the village of Babbleton , contenting himself with dreamy visions of his first and only love . 
He was never known to smile except when in the company of Mrs. Winkle , or some member of the family . 
`` But Wilsome , what have you done with Walter , and Virginia Oakland , and Mr. Roland ? '' 
`` Oh , I made Walter stay to take care of my house . 
The maids get too ungovernable if left to themselves -- '' `` I hope you do n't suppose Walter can keep them in order ? '' 
`` He can tell me if they misbehave . '' 
`` He can if he will . '' 
But the principal reason why I left him in charge of my establishment , is that I want him to keep my coach in motion every day until the horses are thoroughly tamed . 
Walter seemed delighted with the proposition ; and the Oakland rosebud is to stay several days in the city with her aunt . 
`` I hope , Wilsome , Walter will be wise enough to take care of himself , '' remarked Mrs. Winkle , gravely . 
`` I gave him particular instructions , and of course he will regulate his habits accordingly . 
But no matter ; he never could play . 
Yet , he is as silent as a sarcophagus . 
He did n't speak a dozen words on the boat -- but just laughed with his eyes at Lucy . 
I have seen him at Madame R. 's , but do n't know him . 
He had been rejected for Mr. Winkle ; but it produced no other sensation in his breast than that of melancholy regret . 
He had never ceased to gaze with pleasure on Mrs. Winkle , and , as we have said , never smiled except when in the presence of some member of her family . 
You never reproached me for the preference I gave Mr. Winkle . '' 
`` He was a preferable man . 
Different from the rest of his family . 
He was my friend , and I his . '' 
I forgot that when I made Walter stay in town . 
`` There is a gentleman living in the white cottage opposite , who sometimes visits Walter , and who remarked last evening that the game was a sensible one . '' 
`` He 's a sensible man . 
Who is he , Gusset ? '' 
He has been here only a few months ; no one yet visits him but Mr. Walter , and he goes nowhere , except occasionally , to return Walter 's visits . 
But he is handsome , and only about twenty-five . 
He is tall , pale , and sometimes very sad . '' 
`` What is he doing here ? 
Has he no profession , no business ? '' 
He has taken the cottage , and brought some furniture and a great many books from New York . '' 
`` Does he live alone ? '' 
`` He has an old housekeeper , he brought with him -- and she is English , for she says ouse instead of house , and hair instead of air . '' 
`` How does he dress ? 
`` His clothes are very genteel -- but not foppish . 
His feet and hands are small and handsome , the latter very white '' `` So ! 
He is either a gentleman , or a black-leg , or forger , or fugitive , or something of the sort . 
`` And I 've often heard Mr. Winkle say no widow could ever carry his heart . '' 
Then Walter promenaded the magnificent saloon , with a proud step and a sounding heel . 
His hands were thrust into his pockets behind , and his eyes , disregarding the statuary and fine paintings surrounding him , were fixed upon the ceiling . 
said he , `` what a time we would have ! 
Nevertheless Walter Winkle was not excessively vain , and he was noe engaged in his first fit of extravagant folly , an indulgence mainly attributable to the reaction which sometimes follows a long imposed restraint , or is one of the incidents of healthful youth , and accompanying the exuberance of spirits so often inseparable from it . 
Snapper had now an opportunity of taking off the wiry edge of his high-mettled and almost ungovernable horses . 
His whip sounded startlingly over their astonished ears . 
Walter , alone in the carriage , reclining on the rear seat , had already traversed most of the fashionable thoroughfares , and had doubtless been stared at by thousands of dark flashing eyes , for the gay season at the watering-places had not yet commenced . 
cried Walter , as they were returning slowly through Chestnut street , and when opposite the custom house -- `` follow that man with the straw hat -- the one with a blue coat and metal buttons . 
Snapper succeeded in extricating the horses from the throng , by dint of hard whipping , a commanding voice , and his silver lace and buttons , just in time to come up with the pedestrian when opposite the door of the American hotel . 
cried Walter . 
`` How are you , old fellow , '' he continued , leaping down and seizing the hand of his friend , who was really younger than himself , although `` old fellow '' was repeatedly uttered by them both . 
cried Walter . 
The apartments had been hastily prepared for the accommodation of Walter , but nevertheless , there were many evidences remaining of the idiosyncrasy of the proprietor . 
`` We came to propose -- '' said Walter , stammering and hesitating , after the ceremony of introducing his friend , and laboring under some degree of embarrassment , notwithstanding his predetermined impudence , or boldness ; and as all eyes were now turned upon him , and a silence prevailed , he found it impossible to proceed . 
`` Do n't attempt to be witty , doctor , '' replied his wife ; `` no one is amused at you ; all can see that you merely affect to be serious . '' 
`` We came to propose , '' continued Walter , blushing in unison with the girls , `` to the ladies -- '' and again he paused . 
`` To Mrs. Nitre , and -- '' pursued Walter , forgetting his previous resolution of omitting her name , but aware there would not be room for five in the carriage . 
`` I mean that we came to propose a drive in my aunt 's carriage , which is waiting at the door , '' said Walter , now quite recovered . 
`` No doubt the vacation is a carnival , '' said Miss Oakland , who had engaged in a free conversation with young Parke , and was exerting her powers of fascination , for she was piqued at Walter for having , it might be unconsciously , surrendered a beautiful rose to Julia . 
`` But the sun is sinking , '' said Walter , `` and the carriage waits . '' 
asked Walter . 
`` I sup -- '' began Walter . 
I 'm very sorry ; but we can not break the engagement , '' replied Walter , wondering what sort of a story George would invent . 
asked Walter , as the carriage proceeded slowly towards the theatre , the horses being now quite jaded , and altogether tame enough . 
`` No , '' said Walter ; `` we 're on a lark . '' 
asked Parke , after introducing Winkle as his friend , without naming him . 
asked Walter . 
Tell me that , Mr. Walter Winkle . '' 
`` I see no reason why he should not . 
demanded Walter . 
said Walter . 
asked Walter . 
`` But not a Dives , petitioning father Abraham , '' said Walter . 
asked Walter . 
asked Walter , gravely . 
said Walter , in a low tone . 
cried Walter . 
cried Walter . 
The young gentlemen joined him immediately , notwithstanding the attempts of the Jew to the contrary , and the three sallied forth together . 
`` You seem to be minus the usual quantum of linen about the neck , '' said Walter , scrutinizing his guest . 
Walter immediately conducted his guest to the chamber above , where he was speedily arrayed in a snowy nether garment , and accommodated with a seasonable vest . 
`` I did not say I was a vagabond , '' continued Pollen , on resuming his seat at the round table in the dining-room , `` because of the deficiency in my wardrobe , and for the pitiful purpose of obtaining the loan of a shirt ; but because I write tales and verses , and am poor -- because I forfeited an estate by refusing to flatter a woman I disliked -- because I wo n't cheat and steal -- '' `` That 's a strange reason , '' interrupted Parke . 
`` I have heard that before , '' said Walter ; `` but I can not believe it . '' 
said Walter . 
I mount into an empyreal atmosphere -- become dephlogisticated -- '' `` And metaphysical , '' said Walter . 
`` It sounded very much like my aunt 's voice , '' said Walter . 
said Walter , leaping up . 
exclaimed Walter , resuming his seat . 
demanded Walter . 
said Walter . 
said Parker , turning pale , and kicking the assailing object violently with his heel . 
asked Walter , turning towards the door leading into the kitchen . 
`` I understand her , '' said Walter , seeing the astonishment of his companions . 
cried Walter ; `` or , what is infinitely better , a case of suicide -- despair on being abandoned by his beloved mistress . 
`` And if you do , '' said Walter , `` you will not see straight again during the remainder of your life , for I believe there is an obliquity in our course . '' 
asked Walter . 
said Walter . 
Pollen turned aside with his companions , leaving the guardian of the night engaged in amicable converse with the harpies . 
And Walter and Parke , not relishing the idea of an adventure with the police , to which they were conscious of being liable , from the excited condition of their intellects , agreed to return to the mansion , and finish the night under a friendly shelter , and where they could not be subjected to any unpleasant interruptions . 
By means of a night-key , which Walter had taken the precaution to furnish himself with , the door was opened and they entered in triumph . 
cried Walter , groping his way through the hall . 
`` Softly , gentlemen , '' said he ; `` let us get back into the dining-room . 
`` Not I , '' said Walter , `` nor do I know where to find them . 
he continued , as they ascended the stairs , feeling their way . 
`` I doubt if Biddy is here , '' said Walter , in a whisper . 
`` But the door opens , '' said Walter . 
said Walter . 
`` Hold fast to my coat-tail , George , '' whispered Walter , leading the way out into the passage . 
asked Walter , pausing in his retreat , and finding his hand resting upon a round , smooth surface . 
Walter recognized the voice of a distinguished professor , the occupant of the house ; and without replying he passed on , followed by his companions , clinging to each other . 
said Walter , with his hand on the latch of a door at the extreme end of the long back building . 
said Walter . 
`` We have escaped , I think , '' whispered Walter . 
`` Walter , old fellow , you 've got me into a d -- l of a scrape . '' 
`` If they catch us , Walter , '' said Parke , `` we must not let them know who we are . 
`` True , '' said Walter . 
`` It was only a mistake , '' said Walter . 
asked Walter , roused from an apparent lethargy he had fallen into . 
In the morning , a confidential note written by Walter to Professor Point , caused a speedy liberation of the three jovial companions . 
I believe Virginia Oakdale is in love with Walter , and Lucy with this mysterious Lowe -- a fellow low enough , I doubt not , polished as he is in manners . 
These were some of Mr. Winkle 's tenantry , who had been drilled that morning by Sergeant Blore . 
Mr. Winkle was seated in his great chair in his library , looking over sundry charts spread out on a table . 
He was dressed in the old style , wearing tight breeches , silk stockings , and shoes and buckles . 
We have said he was fat . 
He was also nearly bald . 
When the company was announced , he arose and advanced with dignity . 
But the one whom he first accosted with friendly greeting was Gusset . 
`` Certainly I do , sister , '' he replied , shaking her hand very heartily -- `` I did not look at her face , and supposed it was my niece . '' 
`` I am happy to see you , Mr. Lowe , '' said Mr. Winkle , with great politeness ; and then , a moment after , added : `` Lowe -- Lowe -- I have heard that name before -- '' `` Oh , very likely , sir , as I have been residing in Babbleton a number of weeks , '' remarked the young man . 
But what transpired there , between herself and Mr. Winkle , must remain among the undeveloped secrets of diplomacy , for there were no witnesses present to divulge it . 
And at intervals messengers on horseback were sent by Sergeant Blore , from different parts of the Winkle empire , with despatches for his chief . 
`` Readthat despatch for me , partner , '' said Mr. Winkle , passing a small square piece of paper across the table to Gusset . 
said Mr. Winkle . 
The orchard fence ran parallel with the narrow sheet of water which separated France from England , as laid down on Mr. Winkle 's map . 
The latter country , a marsh meadow , was usually inhabited by the bull , but he was occasionally in the habit of making incursions upon the neighboring tracts . 
The enormous animal was now throwing up the earth with his feet , and bellowing fearfully , while the herd of cows and heifers within the inclosure , so far from being alarmed at his presence , had drawn nearer to the fence which separated them . 
said he , `` let me not have cause to be offended at your conduct this day . 
Comrades , '' he continued , `` advance and fire . 
But when the smoke cleared away , instead of seeing the bull in full retreat , they beheld him rushing directly towards them , his head down , and his tail rampant over his back . 
Winkle continued to spur forward , but his followers took to their heels and fled away . 
It must be owned that Winkle was not insensible to some symptoms of trepidation when he beheld the great eyes of his foe glaring upon him . 
But the eyes in the pavilion were upon him also , and it would not do to fly ; and although several instances occurred to his mind wherein his great prototype had embraced the means in his power to escape a sudden peril , still he resolved to face the infuriated animal . 
Yet it should not perhaps be denied , that he had some hope of a reconciliation at the last moment , forgetting that the fatal affront had already been given by himself , in offending the nostrils of his enemy with the fumes of sulphur . 
Therefore , that nothing on his part might be omitted , as soon as his followers had receded out of hearing , he commenced his overtures as follows : `` Come Johnny , my fine fellow , you have taken salt from my hand many a time . 
Winkle , supposing the victory gained , deliberately dismounted from his horse , and approached Johnny on foot , as he had often done before , for the purpose of caressing him . 
But it did not occur to him that he had never attempted to approach the animal with a broad scarlet sash enveloping his chest . 
Hence , when he was within a few paces of his huge minion , he was astonished to see him leap forward to meet him more like the spring of a tiger upon a lamb than the motion of friendly greeting . 
Winkle turned , and fled with all his might , without pausing to reflect upon the consequences of such an example . 
But he was too fat to escape by means of his own locomotion ; and his steed , taking the alarm , had fled away in advance ! 
On ran Winkle , and after him the bull , while cries of alarm proceeded from the pavilion , and curses were uttered by Sergeant Blore , who strove in vain to rally the men . 
At last Winkle gave up in despair , and fell down upon his face , just at the moment when the bull had slightly turned aside one of his huge horns for the purpose of transfixing him . 
Escaping immediate death by his opportune relinquishment of the field , Winkle nevertheless felt the point of the horn glance harmlessly over the posterior portion of his body . 
Pawing up the earth , and bellowing furiously , the enormous monster came down at full speed , with Winkle still dangling from his right hand horn . 
He sailed over the prickly bushes on the margin of the ditch , and fell head foremost among the spatter-docks , which grew half in mud and half in water . 
The place where he fell was as soft as a bed of down . 
But he came very near alighting upon the head of Bill Dizzle , who was so intently engaged in the pursuit of a large frog , that he had not heeded the uproar in the vicinity . 
cried Bill , when Winkle dropped into the ditch , bespattering him all over , and filling his eyes with filthy water , so that for several moments he was incapable of seeing any thing . 
said he , when he had succeeded in wiping the muddy water from his eyes , and beheld the crown of Winkle 's head emerging from the broad leaves of the spatter docks . 
Mr. Winkle cast a meaning glance at Gusset , who kept her eyes fixed upon the cards and remained silent . 
`` As for my part , '' said Mr. Lowe , `` I must crave Mr. Winkle 's pardon . '' 
asked Mr. Winkle . 
`` Here are the city papers , '' said Mr. Winkle , taking them from the hand of one of his servants just returned from the village . 
And Walter meant nothing . 
He is a noble boy -- and may this right hand forget its cunning when I forget him -- '' `` Walter has always been my pet , '' said Gusset . 
`` That 's right -- love him for my sake . '' 
`` What does Mr. Winkle think of them ? '' 
He thinks pretty much as I do -- but he hopes there 's one good one in the world , and that he may have her for his share . '' 
`` His old cook and housekeeper , '' said Dizzle , `` are snappers . '' 
Lucy and I will go to the church , and I hope you will send home Walter in time to accompany us -- that is , if you are determined to leave us . '' 
`` They 've been here all the time , mam , a keeping Mr. Walter company . '' 
`` You do n't say these men have been feasting here all the time with Walter , do you ? '' 
What have you to say against Walter and his associates ? '' 
`` Yes , mam , Mr. Walter soon had 'em as gentle as sheep . 
`` Why he was the tricksy one ! 
I am only sorry he did n't break his neck a month ago . 
`` Iss , mam -- but Mr. Walter was to give me my orders -- and he ordered me to bring a box of cigars . 
I told him you did n't allow smoking , only out in the portico . '' 
`` And what did he say to that ? '' 
`` He said you were the mistress of the house when present , and should be obeyed . 
But as he was then master , he must be obeyed . '' 
Good for Walter . '' 
`` He had been drinking champagne , mam , '' said the cook , `` which he ordered me to bring up . '' 
`` Where is Walter , now ? '' 
has Walter 's guests been sleeping here , too ? '' 
Here , take this letter to Walter . 
If he goes to his mother and uncle , I shall be done with him ! '' 
`` Walter killed Jocko . '' 
`` Tell Walter to come here . '' 
Rose returned to the parlor , and Walter soon appeared before his aunt . 
`` I hope you have enjoyed yourself , Walter , '' said his aunt , fixing her great eyes upon him . 
Tell me truly -- did he hang himself ? '' 
Neither was he wantonly killed . '' 
Walter then related the manner of his death , and he was surprised to see his aunt bear the recital with so much resignation . 
Of course he was not aware that his friend Lowe had casually expressed his detestation of monkeys in his aunt 's hearing , and that his aunt had conceived a partiality for his friend . 
Walter described the incident at the pawnbroker 's . 
said Walter , seeing the old lady take up a pen , `` surely you would not venture to make any alterations -- '' `` Nonsense , child ! 
But when they take their leave , you may take yours , and for ever , Walter , unless you agree to cut your uncle 's acquaintance . '' 
Walter rejoined his friends in the parlor , and conducted them to the breakfast table , where his aunt presided with gayety and good humor , to their great delight . 
It was not until they were traversing one of the streets where fire-works were kept for sale , that Walter looked at the paper his aunt had charged him to deliver to Pollen . 
He would have spent half of it immediately , under the supposition that more could at any time be as easily acquired , had he not been prevented by Walter , who insisted upon his privilege of defraying all the expenses of the meditated celebration . 
`` Yes -- let him go , '' said Walter , looking after him . 
At that moment Snobson came up and was introduced to Walter , who was amused at the scarcely perceptible mustaches which were industriously stroked by Snobson , his ponderous chain , his enormous ring , and his polished tight-fitting shoes . 
asked Walter . 
She was evidently Walter 's own sister Lucy ! 
But he manifested no surprise , promising himself some amusement at their meeting . 
George Parke 's curiosity became excited to behold the paragon of Babbleton , whose charms Snobson delighted so much to portray ; and Walter , assuming a dubious gravity , as if not quite sure he had ever seen the unparalleled creature , and knowing perfectly well that Parke had never met with Lucy , meditated only the means of realizing the greatest possible amount of sport from the discovery . 
Arrived at the village inn , Walter contrived under some pretence or other to separate himself for a short time from his companions , and hastened to his mother 's house to learn the exact condition of affairs . 
From the manner in which his aunt had spoken in condemnation of the alliance , it might be a matter of doubt whether his mother and sister , or either of them , had accompanied the bride to his uncle 's mansion after the celebration of the nuptials at the altar . 
Lucy 's letter had informed him of her intention to witness the ceremony ; but nothing further in regard to her subsequent purposes . 
Walter 's mother , however , related every thing that had transpired . 
That was the substance of the information Walter obtained from his mother . 
But he learned a very large party would be assembled at the chateau that evening , and thither he lost no time in conducting his companions . 
`` Now , boys , '' said Walter , `` from what I could learn in the village , the beauty we are in quest of must be among my uncle 's -- no , my aunt 's -- guests . 
`` Or , '' continued Walter , `` some milliner 's apprentice ; and , as my ` new-made aunt , ' was once a milliner herself -- '' `` That is the reason she was invited , '' said Parke . 
`` Of course , '' responded Walter . 
They entered the hall just when the last word was uttered ; and Walter , under the pretext of seeking information where his uncle and aunt were to be found , left his companions for a few moments to themselves , promising to return immediately and conduct them into the presence of the lord and lady of the palace . 
When Walter passed out of the great hall , the first person he met was Lucy , who , in high spirits threw her arms round his neck before he had recognized her . 
`` O ho , '' cried he , `` suppose it had been Snobson or Parke . '' 
Walter told her , and she instantly promised to co-operate with him in his innocent project for their mutual diversion . 
She might , in the meantime , however , for the especial gratification of her own curiosity , and for the purpose of knowing the gentleman , once flit across their vision as they stood in the hall , and while Walter sought his uncle and aunt in the next room , and obtained permission to present his friends . 
This was speedily accomplished ; and when Walter re-entered the hall to conduct the young gentlemen into the presence of the married couple , he found them transported with the lingering effects of the bright vision which had been vouchsafed them . 
asked Walter . 
Walter led them into the presence of the host and hostess , where they were very cordially received . 
I hope you will be happy in your captivity , '' said Walter . 
`` I forget , Mr. Winkle , '' said his imperious spouse -- for she seemed to become more haughty at every new development of her newly acquired power and importance -- `` whether or not the secret stipulations were to be divulged by either of us . '' 
cried she , in his ear , `` you were never to mention that name again . '' 
He conducted his spouse in advance of the company , and a chair was reserved near them at the table for Lucy , who , in pursuance of the plan agreed upon , remained in concealment until all the guests were seated . 
But that his companions might not be idle , Walter introduced them to a great many of his acquaintances , and among the rest , to the sisters Bell and Blanche Arum , rich and fashionable daughters of a retired patent pill manufacturer , which was quite a different personage from the manufacturer of shoes ; to the sisters Susan and Sally Crudle , whose father was still more wealthy than the haughty Arum ; but then he made his fortune by the manufacture of beer . 
After the last course had disappeared , Roland arose with a foaming goblet and proposed the health of the bride , which was loudly cheered and heartily responded to by all but Lucy , who was glancing slyly at Walter 's excited friends , whose heads were dodging under the artillery of Blanche and Bell , and Susan and Sally . 
`` She is now my spouse , and your aunt , Lucy , '' said Mr. Winkle . 
This incident was followed by uncontrollable laughter , on the part of Walter , who understood the cause of it , and which was signalled by him to Lucy , whose ill suppressed convulsions gave her aunt serious vexation , and subjected herself to several terse lectures upon the subject of propriety . 
Walter lingered in the hall to intercept his companions , where , upon meeting him , they contrived to escape from their belles . 
responded Walter . 
Walter , none of your humbug ! 
They looked at each other , at Walter , at Miss Winkle , blushed and trembled . 
They might have felt and acted differently , if it had occurred to them that Walter had deliberately meditated so embarrassing a surprise for them . 
Snobson was under the necessity of confessing that he was on the boat the day alluded to , for had he not told Walter that he followed the charming creature through several streets ? 
Perhaps Mr. Parke may have detected Walter in some insidious praise of his poor sister ? '' 
said Walter . 
`` True , '' said Parke , recovering his accustomed composure , `` but I wonder he did not . 
`` That would have been a different matter altogether , '' said Walter . 
`` I will , good sister , '' said Walter ; `` for I see Sergeant Blore beckoning me through the window . 
Saying this , Walter withdrew . 
He was followed by Snobson , and overtaken on the terrace . 
`` Mr. Winkle , '' said Snobson , `` I want to make you an humble apology ; and I hope you wo n't be offended afterwards . 
Snobson returned to the gay company within , while Walter joined the sergeant , with whom he found Bill Dizzle , and both were anxiously awaiting him . 
At all events he was quite as impatient as Walter could be , to ascertain by some well-conceived experiments the extent of her influence over her lord . 
`` I am sorry for the widow , and it 's a pity for Walter and Lucy , '' said Mrs. Arum , as she admired a heavy jewel , resembling a fantastic breastplate , on the bosom of her daughter Bell . 
Lucy and Walter were looked upon as her heirs . '' 
cried Walter , abruptly appearing before the daughter , who was listening in silence . 
But , then , Walter is n't to blame . 
The first movement was made by Walter , who stepped forward , and encircling the neck of his sister , bestowed a kiss upon her snowy forehead . 
exclaimed the bridegroom , rising spasmodically from the sofa where his spouse had hitherto confined him . 
But before he could execute his purpose , he was overtaken by his wife , who whispered a few magical words in his ear which induced him to resume his seat . 
`` You know , Mr. Winkle , '' said his spouse , perceiving his humiliation , `` it was stipulated that I should direct the little domestic matters which occur about the house . 
`` Oh , Mr. Winkle ! '' 
`` I did , indeed , my dear -- and I am one who keeps his word . 
`` It was a mistake , '' said Mr. Winkle . 
`` Walter , '' said Mrs. Winkle , `` wo n't you oblige me by requesting the sergeant to commit no more such mistakes to-night ? '' 
And in truth the discharge of the guns had been in pursuance of his instructions . 
The females were sent to the most distant chambers , while Walter 's apartment on the second floor was only separated from her own by the corridor that ran between . 
Sergeant Blore occupied a small room at the head of the stairs , communicating with Walter 's by a door in the thin partition . 
He had long occupied this room , as it was convenient to his chief , and Mr. Winkle had intimated a desire that he should continue to sleep there . 
Finally the key was turned in the door opposite to Walter 's , and all was still . 
Walter , after lying awake some fifteen minutes , arose softly , opened his door , and descended the stairway in his stocking feet . 
He proceeded to the rear door of the hall , which he opened noiselessly . 
He then beckoned his confederates under the spreading chestnut tree . 
Something resembling a superstitious awe was felt by Walter as he paused and looked down upon the silent party . 
He was not , however , to be deterred by any such consideration ; and continued to ascend until he reached the narrow door leading out upon the roof . 
Walter posted his men in a line directly over the chamber occupied by his uncle and aunt , and made them all sit down . 
He then suspended a cord from the roof over the window of his own room , the upper end being attached to Dizzle 's wrist . 
Walter then hastened back to his room and secured the lower end of the cord . 
After the completion of these preparations , he opened the door in the partition , and reported every thing to the old sergeant , who had impatiently awaited him , with his great eye blinking in the moonlight . 
It had been with difficulty that Walter prevented the old mutilated warrior from leading the party in person . 
It was obvious that his wooden leg not only rendered him incapable of scaling walls , but made it impossible for him to advance or retire without producing sounds incompatible with any plan of secrecy . 
Walter pulled the string . 
asked Mr. Winkle , starting up . 
cried Mr. Winkle , fully aroused by the smell of gunpowder , whch he knew could not be the effects of a dream , or the creation of a lively imagination . 
continued Winkle , running across the chamber in his gown , `` I 'll courtmartial you ! 
Then profound silence again ensued , which was , however , soon interrupted by the snoring of Napoleon , a sound for which Walter was impatiently listening . 
Walter leaped into his bed . 
Seizing a brace of pistols , Mr. Winkle rushed to the window , and discharged them through the clouds of smoke at whatever objects might be standing below , for the earth itself was invisible . 
said he . 
he continued , rushing to the corner where the weapon invariably hung . 
He ran out of the chamber , and once more entered the sergeant 's room . 
Meantime a suspicion crossed the mind of Griselda , that Walter might be the contriver of the mischief , and she made no scruple of satisfying herself on that point in a very direct manner . 
She ran into his chamber , and never paused until she stood beside his bed . 
`` Are you here , Walter ? '' 
she asked , although , at the time , she held him firmly by the wrist . 
What shall I do , dear Walter ! '' 
`` Do n't call me Gusset , Walter . '' 
`` Do , Walter , '' said Griselda , retiring , `` and rouse all the people about the house . 
Walter manifested great zeal in his endeavors to discover the guilty party . 
Every one was roused ; and by the time his uncle and the sergeant returned from their fruitless search without , every apartment within had been explored , but to no purpose . 
Quiet being again restored under such favorable auspices , and one or two blunderbusses having been ordered into Napoleon 's room from the armory , the bride again retired to her canopied couch -- and was just falling into an oblivious slumber , when Walter gave the signal , and another volley was fired ! 
And Griselda ran into Walter 's room a second time , and implored him , if he were concerned in the annoyance , to cease for her sake , and for his own sake in the future . 
said he . 
What string is this , Walter ? '' 
Poor Griselda fell fainting in the arms of Walter , who bore her into her own room , and laid her on her bed , where he left her . 
As he returned to the corridor he perceived his uncle , followed by the sergeant , re-descending the stairway with all the expedition in their power , evidently impressed with the belief that the intruders would now stand revealed before them . 
Walter was listening in the corridor ; but now Griselda , who had risen , was on the alert , and nerved to brave any thing that phantoms or flesh and blood might do . 
`` I 've caught you , Walter ! 
Her aunt stood upon one side , and Walter on the other . 
This was after Walter had intimated that if he were in Lowe 's place he would be Lucy 's companion inside ; but the intimation had not been approved by Griselda . 
Lucy listened with attention ; and shivered with terror at the thought of involving Walter , or any one dear to her , in a quarrel with the bold bad man . 
But you need not return -- Walter is away . 
Pray come in and occupy his chamber . '' 
If Walter knew what has occurred , who could restrain him ? 
Lowe continued his solitary promenade until startled at a late hour by the report of musketry , which came booming on the still air from the country mansion of Mr. Winkle . 
He had likewise observed the pause of the carriage which conveyed Lucy from the mansion , and beheld Roland get into it . 
`` Walter Winkle -- the college bred son of Edith . '' 
`` He ! '' 
But thee knows he is a wild rattling youth , without experience . '' 
`` He is over twenty-one years of age . 
Of course he will vote for Plastic , my competitor . 
Well , I 'll see if he can not be humbled . 
`` I learned from Walter last night that they abducted his two friends , almost forcibly . 
I hope that is Walter ringing . '' 
But he had the tact to suppress the part Walter enacted . 
`` By Walter . 
But Walter accompanies you ? '' 
Having obtained admittance into the hall , he learned from Biddy Boggle that her `` missus '' was engaged with a Mr. Parke , a friend of Walter 's . 
And in confirmation of the statement , he heard Lucy 's voice , repeating the song which had produced such a sensation at her uncle 's party . 
It is for Walter . 
Tell him to be sure and see him . '' 
`` Walter has forgotten the friends who accompanied him from the city . '' 
Walter , after the amusements of the night , slept rather later than usual ; and upon making his appearance in the breakfast room , he learned that his uncle and aunt had taken their repast an hour before . 
But the thoughtful Griselda had kept his coffee hot . 
It was just when his breakfast was finished , that Walter espied outside of a window about half of the weather-beaten and war-worn face of Sergeant Blore . 
When Walter joined the sergeant , the latter led him into a sentry box in the vicinity , and cautioned him not to speak loudly , or make any noise that might attract attention . 
asked Walter , in a whisper . 
After many lamentations , the sergeant informed Walter that his uncle had been attacked early in the morning , by the housekeeper and cook , and had fallen back discomfited on his wife , who undertook to afford him security and protection on certain conditions , which had been agreed to , written down , and signed . 
They were substantially as follows : Mrs. Winkle was to have the purse -- Mr. Winkle the sword . 
In all civil affairs , she was to be supreme -- in all military matters he to be the head . 
said Walter . 
`` I would have given something to have been present at the meeting , '' said Walter . 
When Walter joined his uncle , the latter was finishing the perusal of Alison 's account of the camp at Boulogne . 
He closed the book with a sigh , and said : `` I fear the days of glory are over . 
`` His was undoubtedly the greatest genius the world ever produced , '' said Walter . 
`` True , Walter ; and I have often sat upon my horse and fancied I saw how his victories were won , and enjoyed his triumphs . 
She is a sensible woman , Walter ; be kind to her . 
he continued , addressing Blore 's messenger , who came bowing into the room . 
Come , Walter , we 'll have you along , to witness the performance of the mortar . 
Walter followed his uncle into the orchard , and in the direction of the camp of Boulogne . 
When they entered the garrison , they were hailed by enthusiastic huzzas , and Walter saw the red flannel -LRB- it was a shirt -RRB- which had exasperated the bull , thrust quickly under a gun . 
Then the old commander and Walter , followed by the allotted crew , entered the gunboat , in which the mortar had been placed , and began to cruise in the Channel . 
Walter and the sergeant had likewise prepared some bags of sand , with powder and fuses , to explode in the air . 
When the discomfited party sprang out upon land , Walter was met by the faithful messenger , Bill Dizzle , and received the note sent by his mother . 
`` Mrs. Acrid , we will confer more particularly about that presently , '' said Griselda , proceeding next to the chamber Walter had occupied . 
That 's what I was talking to Mr. Winkle about this morning . '' 
`` And what did he say ? '' 
`` He said he 'd speak to you . '' 
`` He did . '' 
The last time I threatened to leave , Mr. Winkle put it up from eight to ten dollars a month . 
He soon found he could n't do without me ! '' 
Mr. Buck says you have been sending him chickens and butter for several years -- and he thought Mr. Winkle had the money . 
When Griselda descended to the hall , she was met by her husband and Walter . 
Will you not take Walter with you ? 
He has been sent for by his mother , and must go , I suppose , although I shall miss him . '' 
The chief then bowed with dignity , and strode into his cabinet , while Walter conducted his aunt to the carriage , which he was surprised to find had been furbished up exceedingly . 
The horses , four blacks , were in glittering harness , and the coachman wore a hatband of gold lace , and large silver buttons on his coat . 
`` This is comfortable , Gus -- '' began Walter . 
`` Gusset no more , Walter , '' replied she quickly , placing her magnificent fan against his lips . 
Yet , Walter , let me warn you not to join my enemies in their enterprises against me . 
replied Walter , angrily . 
Before we part , Walter , I have one thing further to say . 
Walter then sprang out and hastened to his mother 's mansion , while the proud dame descended in all her glory at the door of the Arums , which was thrown open to receive her . 
`` But do you think she is to be married to Walter Winkle , now ? '' 
Of course it ca n't take place now , since he has no prospect of a fortune . '' 
On the contrary , when Walter came in from the post-office with a letter in his hand , the bride ceased to share the attention of the company . 
`` Why do you smile , Walter ? '' 
`` But it does , though , '' said Walter , `` and must not be read in public , at least a portion of it . '' 
Griselda , supposing that her wedding would be referred to in no flattering terms by the old maid , cast an imploring look at Walter , who understood its meaning . 
After the laughter which followed the serious expressions of the colonel , while delivering his speech , had subsided , Walter remarked that he was very sorry the colonel had not announced his intention a few days sooner . 
`` Walter ! '' 
After this announcement Griselda departed , and was conducted to the carriage by the gallant colonel , who , however , returned to speak with Walter . 
he asked , on re-entering , and seeing the widow and Lucy eagerly perusing the letter . 
`` By no means , Walter , '' said the widow . 
`` I am sorry for it upon my life , '' said the colonel , `` for I hoped her fortune without obstruction or encumbrance would descend to Walter and his sister . 
When do you visit the city , Walter ? '' 
You know him , Walter -- Mr. Pollen , the poet . 
If he is poor -- if he has been sometimes , as you informed me , without a shirt -- that is no disgrace . 
In the parlor , George Parke was entertaining Walter with an account of Snobson 's dereliction , which was in part owing to the deteriorating insinuations of the Arums and Crudles . 
She saw to the bottom of his shallow pate at a glance , '' said Walter . 
`` I hope not , '' said Walter , seriously . 
Walter 's mother and sister interrupted the conversation at this point . 
And in reply to an inquiry from the former , Walter announced his determination to visit the city that evening -- not so much , as he confessed , to oblige his aunt , as to comply with the order of Colonel Oakdale . 
Uponreaching the city Walter and his young friend proceeded first to the residence of Dr. Nitre , as the most attractive point , and not doubting that Miss Wilsome would remain in tact until the former should find it convenient to wait upon her . 
The latter had determined to depart in the evening train for the college , where he learned there were letters awaiting him , and he desired to pay his respects to the young ladies before setting out . 
And Walter wished his attendance so that Julia might be entertained while he conferred with Virginia , whose failure to write him as usual , and as had been agreed upon between them , rendered him apprehensive that something injurious to his interests had occurred during his absence . 
When they were ushered into the parlor , they found only the doctor and his good lady , who had just been engaged in one of those little episodes in married life , called family quarrels , which will still happen occasionally in the best regulated establishments . 
whispered Walter , `` she 's abusing her husband again before her guests ! '' 
Do n't you think it a great shame , Walter ? '' 
The doctor had slipped away , winking at Walter . 
asked Walter . 
But as had been agreed upon between the young men , Julia 's attention was at this time engrossed by the southern student , and Walter succeeded in detaching Virginia from her cousin . 
`` I have not received a letter since we parted , '' said Walter , in a low voice . 
And she placed them in his hand . 
Virginia -- '' `` Call me Miss Oakdale , Mr. Winkle . '' 
Walter gazed in utter astonishment at the familiar superscription . 
`` I would forswear my own eyes , '' said he , `` if they alone beheld it . 
But , Virginia -- '' `` Miss Oakdale , Mr. Winkle , '' she interposed . 
`` Miss Oakdale , Mr. Winkle ; I am , and if you do not obey me , I will never speak to you again . '' 
`` Walter , '' said Parke , rising , and looking at his watch , `` I must go , or the cars will leave me . 
Walter was admitted just as his aunt and her affianced , Mr. Pollen , were siting down to tea . 
His aunt , dressed in her usual fantastical style , applauded his promptitude of obedience , and said she had not expected his arrival before the next morning . 
Pollen greeted his young friend very cordially , and thanked him for the loan of his shirt , adding that he was now provided with an abundance of his own . 
He then repeated to Miss Wilsome , the particulars of their nocturnal adventure at the Jew 's den , at which she laughed very heartily . 
Pollen bowed in grateful acknowledgment , and really considered the words she had spoken , when he thought of the position and the wealth of the person uttering them , as one of the most felicitous speeches which had ever been addressed to him , and if such a thing had been possible , he would doubtless have fallen in love with her . 
`` Employ me , aunt , '' said Walter . 
Nevertheless , if you should be competent , and would undertake the task -- '' `` I will answer for my ability to do him justice , '' said Walter -- `` and my lively and discriminating aunt shall figure advantageously in the work . 
said Pollen , his fine pale face beaming with animation . 
Recollect what was said of Homer : -- Walter watched his aunt closely . 
There was a twinkle of the eye which portended a tear , and he had often heard it said that she was incapable of shedding one . 
But the spasmodic quiver satisfied him that she was not devoid of noble emotions . 
`` That speech , '' said Walter , `` shall be interpolated in the book . '' 
`` I see you are laughing at me , Walter ! '' 
said his aunt . 
`` Why , aunt , I understand they are to be his posthumous memoirs ; and you can have no reasonable expectation of surviving him . '' 
`` How dare you start such a dismal topic , Walter ? 
`` It might be postponed , '' said Walter , `` if I were not compelled to return to Babbleton before another night . '' 
asked his aunt . 
said Walter , `` I will remain , if -- '' `` Go about your business ! 
Pollen and Walter departed immediately , the latter wondering what adventure and mystery his aunt had referred to , and if it had any connection with the origin of Virginia 's displeasure . 
`` Do not be cast down , '' said Pollen , supposing Walter 's abstraction to proceed from the change in his prospects since the marriage of his uncle . 
exclaimed Walter , in amazement . 
said Walter , placing his hand on the poet 's shoulder . 
said Walter -- `` do not yet undeceive her . 
`` Men and women were made to marry , '' said Walter . 
If such a thing should happen , I will reimburse your aunt -- '' `` No -- you will do no such thing , '' said Walter . 
`` Walter ! 
`` We come to have our fortunes told , '' said Walter , occupying , unbidden , a chair . 
`` Do you take the money , '' said Walter . 
said Walter , involuntarily thrusting his hand in it . 
He is quite welcome to all he can find there . '' 
asked Walter . 
Walter , who was impatient for the solution of the mystery in which he was so unconsciously involved , prevailed on the poet to return to the Winkle mansion . 
said Walter . 
exclaimed Walter , recollecting the adventure of the night when he entered the Professor 's house by mistake . 
`` Pray do n't send for her , aunt , '' said Walter . 
And sure enough the lively and handsome Clara glided into the room , and Walter was introduced to her . 
said Walter . 
`` I begged your father not to divulge it , '' he continued , addressing Clara , who had taken possession of a seat at his elbow . 
`` It was George Parke , since both Walter and Harold have denied it , '' said Wilsome . 
`` You ought not to expose George , my good aunt , '' said Walter . 
`` There is something else , aunt , you were to elucidate , '' said Walter , reverting to the displeasure of Virginia . 
exclaimed Walter . 
`` That was wrong , '' said Walter ; `` it should have been returned to me , the owner . '' 
Blame me , Walter , '' said his aunt . 
`` My dear aunt , '' said Walter , rising , `` do permit me to run down to Dr. Nitre 's -- '' `` Are you unwell ? '' 
`` Pooh , child , she wo n't die before morning , '' replied his aunt , shuffling the cards . 
`` You must be deeply in love , Walter , '' said his aunt . 
`` Let him defend himself , '' said she . 
I yield , '' said Walter . 
`` Then take the captive with you , '' said his aunt , to Clara , who was departing . 
The next morning Walter hastened to the mansion of Doctor Nitre , and met the doctor himself on the marble steps . 
I have learned the cause of Virginia 's umbrage -- indeed I knew it yesterday , for it was confided to me by Professor Point -- and I should have informed you of it , but I knew there was no danger of a serious estrangement , and -- '' `` I knew all about it , doctor , '' said Walter , impatient to enter . 
Walter rang and was admitted . 
But before the servant had an opportunity to announce his name to Mrs. Nitre , he espied Virginia gliding into the parlor , and immediately joined her . 
`` Only diverted at a little confession I have been making , '' said Walter . 
Before she returned , Walter had made his peace with Virginia , and departed . 
When he appeared again before his aunt , she could not avoid observing the change in his spirits and appearance ; and she listened with satisfaction to his narration of the proceedings at his uncle 's mansion after the dispersion of the wedding guests . 
Being greatly diverted at the annoyance of Gusset , on whom , when her name was mentioned , she never failed to bestow a broadside of opprobrious epithets , she approved the conduct of Walter , and desired him to say to Sergeant Blore , that whenever he visited the city , her house would be open for his reception , and might be freely considered as his headquarters . 
But she condemned Walter for riding in the coach with the `` impudent hussy , '' and intimated that if he had quarrelled with her outright she might have become reconciled to him , and indeed might have deferred her own wedding to some distant period . 
he asked . 
`` That is most extraordinary , '' said Walter . 
I first saw this Enamel , '' she continued to Walter , as they returned home , `` several years ago , in church , when all the wealth he possessed was a fine suit of clothes , and a handsome face . 
`` Aunt , '' said Walter , `` do you suppose there was any agreement between the minister and the dentist ? '' 
`` And that might be construed as taking the name of the Lord in vain -- '' `` True , Walter . 
In the evening a splendid equipage drove up to the door , and Dr. Enamel descended , and was conducted to the chamber which had been prepared for him , and where he was soon after joined by Miss Wilsome and Walter . 
Here Walter learned , for the first time , that his aunt 's beautiful teeth he had been accustomed to admire , were all false , and that the roots of the one to be extracted , were the last remains of nature 's handiwork . 
True , Walter is here , and would revenge me . 
And in the struggle , he placed one of his hands on the head of his patient , and by an unlucky movement , the whole mass of dark glistening hair , which had often elicited the admiration of Walter , slipped aside and fell to the floor , leaving his aunt 's head as bald , and almost as smooth and white as an egg . 
demanded Walter , rising , and assuming a menacing attitude , for at first he supposed the dentist had by some process or other deprived his aunt of her natural adornment . 
`` He was in a revery , aunt , '' said Walter , `` and incapable of observing external objects . '' 
Enamel bowed and withdrew , and the next minute his coach was heard rolling away . 
As Walter and his aunt proceeded towards the parlor , where the young ladies were engaged in some boisterous entertainment , many solemn injunctions of inviolable secrecy were imposed . 
The old lady declared , in the event of his betraying her , the estrangement which she had already decreed , would be changed to bitter enmity , without the benefit of truce , or an interlude of special friendly meeting , during the remainder of their lives . 
But Walter and Virginia realized a happy unconsciousness of the vexations to which mortality is liable . 
She was personally acquainted with the Great Unknown -- Sir Walter -- and is familiar with the plots and stratagems of villains . 
It fell just when Mr. Winkle was proposing -- '' `` I thought so at the time . 
Walter is to make a speech against his party , and Lucy has rejected his addresses with scorn . 
His thirst for vengeance will be uncontrollable , and he will endeavor to distress you by foreclosing the mortgage . '' 
`` I am not sure that Walter would sanction the arrangement . 
He is a little fastidious on such delicate points . 
He was , as ever , promptly admitted , and said he bore a letter from Sergeant Blore for Walter . 
Walter 's visit to his aunt was capriciously prolonged , under the belief that his presence was the means of procuring her a larger share of the poet 's company , and additional rubbers at whist . 
Walter , not observing him , urged forward the horses , and never paused until he reached the hospitable mansion of the colonel , where he remained all night for the purpose of shooting woodcock early the next morning . 
At the Winkle mansion in the city , a succession of novel events followed the departure of Walter . 
Walter shall cut his ears off ! '' 
`` No ; Lucy forbade any one molesting him . 
I met him , and branded him with the name of coward . 
Lucy learned this shortly afterwards , and exacted a promise that I would have no deadly conflict with him . 
He had it from Walter . 
Walter was in high spirits . 
His mother had made known to him his sister 's desire to have the place of her temporary abode kept a profound secret , and he had promised not to divulge it . 
But he was ignorant of the cause of her flight , and could only conjecture that it grew out of a desire to defer coming to a decision on the various matrimonial proposals which he doubted not had been made her . 
Lowe had even ventured to inform him , that the mysterious disappearance of his sister had given rise to a rumor of an elopement ; at which Walter laughed very heartily , and begged his friend not to contradict it . 
And Lowe , and Walter , and even the merry widow , were now delighted spectators . 
And she was attended by Lowe and Walter . 
Nor did Mrs. Winkle 's and Walter 's placid countenances indicate that Lucy had taken any step calculated to plunge them in misery . 
But in the afternoon Col. Oakdale 's carriage drove up to the church-yard gate , and Walter had the satisfaction of seeing Virginia descend from it . 
He had stepped forward to assist her in alighting , but was anticipated by Roland , who had accompanied her and her father from the country . 
Walter shook hands as usual with Roland , being still profoundly ignorant of his wicked machinations . 
The colonel , after his daughter and Roland had entered the door , plucked Walter aside , and encouraged him to persevere in his design of aiming a fatal blow at the fanatical reformers , at the great meeting to be held at the court-house in Babbleton on the following night . 
Walter promised to do his utmost ; and the fact that Roland had monopolized the attention of Virginia , was not calculated to produce an abandonment of his purpose . 
Itwas on Monday , in the afternoon , and at night Walter was to make his maiden speech before a thousand auditors . 
He sat beside his mother near the parlor window , gazing thoughtfully into the street . 
`` I am glad , Walter , '' said his parent , referring to the subject upon which they had been conversing , `` that your brave heart is not appalled at the picture I have drawn . '' 
`` I have high hopes of you , Walter . 
His hunger was satisfied , and he was furnished with the same shirt of Walter 's he had worn on a former occasion , and which its owner had declared should never be used by any one else . 
demanded Walter . 
`` Go on , Pollen , '' said Walter ; `` let your ideas flow freely under the inspiration of the hour . 
`` Read them , '' said Walter . 
asked Walter . 
`` You say nothing of the ladies , '' remarked Walter . 
exclaimed Walter , seeing the young man approaching alone . 
cried Walter . 
said Walter . 
asked Walter . 
asked Walter . 
asked Walter . 
The poor had been brought thither by the friends of Roland , and the rich had come for the purpose of hearing the son of their late friend , Mr. Winkle , who had been their respected representative in Congress . 
Walter rose up with a composed countenance , and thanked his more experienced friend for his handsome introduction of the son of his father ; and the first sentence , uttered with a peculiar sort of gravity , produced a burst of laughter , which was not at all relished by Roland . 
`` Fellow-citizens , '' continued Walter , `` I have listened , as you did , in silence and astonishment to the intimation of the speaker , that the son of my father was inimical to wholesome reforms . 
Great applause followed his denial . 
`` Neither does the son of my father , '' said Walter , amidst much laughter from the rich side of his audience . 
continued Walter -- `` No ! 
`` Such a law would , at least , '' said Walter , `` be constitutional . '' 
`` This parent of evils , '' continued Walter , `` may be removed as well as the rest , and on the same principle . 
`` Second , '' continued Walter -- `` At the end of the second year , no individual shall possess over one hundred thousand dollars -- the surplus to be applied as aforesaid . '' 
A vast majority sanctioned this , and Walter was hailed as the greatest of all reformers . 
`` After that , '' continued Walter , `` no man shall possess over five hundred dollars -- '' Here his voice was lost in the storm of hisses and groans that issued from all parts of the house ; the opponents of any further reform being evidently in the majority . 
`` No , my friends , '' said Walter with sudden impetuosity , `` let us not stop short of a thorough reform . 
`` Be patient , fellow-citizens , '' cried Walter , with earnest enthusiasm , `` until you have heard me through . 
said Walter . 
Colonel Oakdale , at the conclusion of Walter 's speech , ran to him , and folded him in his arms . 
Walter , Pollen , and even Snobson , who turned pale and begged in vain to be excused , were carried amid shouts of applause on the shoulders of the people to the widow Winkle 's mansion . 
`` Walter , my son , '' said she , after the echoes of the last round of cheers had died away , `` I fear you have damaged the prospects of the reformers , and made Mr. Roland your enemy for life . '' 
`` Because he has been endeavoring to supplant me at the Colonel 's , '' said Walter , in a low tone . 
Walter , who had discerned a singular thumping on the hard ground , and along the fence , during the speech of Mrs. Edwards , began to suspect who it was the pertinacious woman was pursuing . 
The window was low , and by dint of much struggling , and with the assistance of Walter , the old war-worn veteran succeeded in making a lodgment in the parlor . 
`` I received your letter , sergeant , '' said Walter , `` and must apologize for not answering it . 
asked Walter . 
`` If your first husband be living , '' continued Walter , `` I would advise you not to confess it . 
`` Thank you , Walter ! '' 
And when herwill was made known , there was nothing for it but to embrace it in hiswill , although he said , and every one knew it before , that he loved Walter as his own son and heir . 
So I got Bawson , the Scotch lawyer , to join the conference , and propose a compromise , or modification of the articles , so that Walter should not be left out entirely . '' 
`` That , in the event of the commander 's death , all the personal estate , of whatever kind , should go to Walter , and the real estate to his spouse . '' 
`` For I suppose he knew , that in the event of my brother 's decease , without children of his own , the real estate , by virtue of Mr. Winkle 's father 's will , must descend to my children . '' 
`` I will not be a party to any such deception , '' said Walter . 
`` You are the soul of honor , Walter ! '' 
`` No wonder , then , '' said Walter , `` my poor uncle is obedient ! 
But the sergeant was commanded by the widow to remain , deeming it out of the question for him to attempt to return on so dark a night . 
He consented to remain till the first dawn of light in the morning , hoping to escape the vigilant eyes of his watchful enemy . 
Walter and Pollen , the latter expressing a desire to visit Napoleon Winkle 's country mansion , proposed to return with him in the morning as an escort . 
It was , therefore , with feelings of most exquisite delight , that Griselda beheld Walter and his two friends approaching the mansion . 
She had learned from Walter , that Pollen was read and approved in England ; and that if he had but the means to defray his expenses thither , he would be immediately caressed by the Sutherlands , the Stanhopes , the Spences , the Beauforts , etc. . 
Walter , himself , when he chose to be smiled upon by her , had always been a sort of privileged pet of the retired milliner . 
`` It was kind in you , Walter , '' said Griselda , when they were seated , `` to think of your languishing friend , in her deep seclusion . 
asked Walter . 
Walter , leaving Lowe with his aunt , sought his uncle in the library . 
He was in the midst of charts and papers , with pen in hand , making a diagram of the field of Waterloo . 
he cried , embracing his nephew , and evincing the real delight his presence afforded . 
Wait a moment , '' said the old gentleman , tripping lightly across to the door , which he locked . 
`` I am free , now , '' he continued , in a low voice . 
Bawson has been paid and dismissed and your aunt has the document safely locked up in the iron chest with the plate -- your plate , Walter . 
said his uncle , placing his lips to the ear of his nephew , and whispering . 
`` Rely upon it , '' he continued , `` and be at ease . 
The repeated reference to his regained liberty , amused Walter , particularly when he observed so much caution and secrecy in his communications . 
`` If you have been really enfranchised , uncle , '' said Walter , `` why do you remain in your cabinet ? '' 
I thank you for it , Walter . 
But between us , Walter , '' he added , in a whisper , `` this concession on her part is attributable to the provision made for her in the event of my death ; and I should not be surprised if she allowed me the utmost opportunity of being killed . 
Walter told him , and was pleased to learn that his friends would prove acceptable guests to the lord as well as the lady of the mansion , and his uncle immediately proposed repairing with him to the parlor , which was done ; and Lowe had the satisfaction of enjoying a cordial reception . 
He was listened to in good humor by his spouse ; and both to manifest her approbation of his courtesy , and to convince her guests that he was in the possession of perfect freedom , she requested him and Walter to go in search of the poet , that the honors of a cordial welcome might be repeated by the master -LRB- as she said -RRB- of the house . 
`` Not he , '' said Walter . 
His propped head had the motion of one improvising to imaginary shepherdesses , and his eye dilated in abstraction , failed to distinguish any substantial objects . 
As Walter and his uncle approached , they observed that a large ram , who had been watching the poet for some time , now became convinced that the oscillations of his head could be meant for nothing less than a banter to single combat ; and disdaining to require odds against an invader of his territory , the leader of the flock , after stepping backward a few paces to acquire sufficient impetus in the assault , aimed a furious blow , which , if it had not been for the capacious hat of the poet , ascending high above his head , might have put an end to all his musings . 
asked Walter , running forward and lifting up his friend . 
`` I think so , '' said Walter ; `` and I believe the boar inhabiting the woods over yonder to the north , is in the habit of making incursions on his territories . 
`` I perceive what you are leading to , Walter , '' said his uncle , in good humor , `` but I care not who hears it . 
But such was the fashionable custom , and Walter looked in vain to discover any signs of embarrassment in his newly elevated aunt ; and he was by no means piqued to find her not deficient in the etiquette of the table . 
It was at his suggestion that Griselda purchased the book , and placed it on her centre-table ; and he had the satisfaction to learn that the Arums and Crudles had followed her example . 
Walter , alone , seemed isolated , and could only fire a random shot occasionally . 
But he had contrived a stratagem in concert with Sergeant Blore , which he did not doubt would afford some amusement ; and not knowing precisely when the expected announcement would be made , and having a voracious appetite , he discussed the viands heartily while the rest enjoyed their conversation . 
asked Walter . 
But no matter , '' added Walter , with a kind smile , `` a man 's a man for a ' that . '' 
`` I do not remember the name in the lists , '' said Mr. Winkle , `` but , perhaps , he was not a commissioned officer . '' 
At this juncture , and when Walter had completely dined , the company were startled by the precipitate entrance of Bill Dizzle , with open mouth and protruding eyes . 
said Mr. Winkle , dropping his knife and fork , and leaning back in his chair . 
This had been Walter 's work . 
said Mr. Winkle . 
`` The bull must be separated from the rest , '' said Mr. Winkle . 
Walter 's anticipation of a boisterous episode was not realized . 
Griselda had the power of controlling his uncle , and calming his military frenzy . 
The one which was to reply to it , was to be aimed by Walter ; but he was not to be permitted to throw back the balls , as his uncle , not so acute of vision as himself , might not be able to elude them . 
He could reply only with wrapped paper balls , with just a sufficient weight of sand to project them across the field . 
But just when the old ram and his party had reached within a few paces of the crest , Lowe , who was with Walter , cried out , `` Up , and at them ! '' 
The mortar was worked with surprising energy , and the balls were now thrown in the right direction , and gave employment to Walter and Lowe , and their party , in watching and eluding them . 
Walter and Lowe aimed to blow up the old gentleman 's ammunition wagon , standing in the vicinity of his mortar . 
During all this time the bull was tossing the sheep about , and trampling on the pigs and geese , while several dogs , belonging to the neighboring farms , were barking at his heels . 
Then Walter and Lowe , with all their men , rose up and poured a volley in their faces . 
cried Napoleon , riding up to his second in command , regardless of the balls of burning paper that whizzed by his head ; Walter and Lowe having renewed the fire from their batteries . 
`` It 's some new invention , sir , that Walter never told me about . 
`` Walter has something else in reserve . 
He may cure his uncle of his military distemper . '' 
`` His uncle will be killed in some of these mad enterprises . 
Griselda observed that the mortar directed by Walter and Lowe had ceased to throw paper balls , and they were doing execution with another sort of missile , of a more consistent substance . 
But he does not seem to be at all injured by it . '' 
Observing this , Lowe and Walter ordered a charge , and in turn assaulted their opponents at the point of the bayonet . 
They could have no idea that Walter and Lowe had ever heard of their detracting remarks ; and they were not averse to the re-establishment of friendly relations with them , as the common guests of the now rich and fashionable Griselda . 
Besides , the apparent friendly terms which still subsisted between Walter and his uncle , might be an indication that the young man 's prospects for the future were not entirely destroyed . 
Walter might prove worth catching some day , and their bearing towards him was to be governed in view of such a contingency . 
Mr. Plastic the opposing candidate was returned by a large majority , and he had the candor to acknowledge his obligations to Walter , whom he sought at his uncle 's mansion . 
He had reason to believe that Walter had been long enamored of Virginia , Colonel Oakdale 's daughter , and he could not avoid a supposition that the partiality was reciprocal . 
It was while Walter still remained at the Winkle mansion , that Roland made one of his formal visits to the colonel 's residence . 
The colonel , by a natural conjuncture of ideas , while striding over his grounds , and meditating on the importance of securing an ample provision for his daughter , bethought him of his young protege , Walter Winkle , and of the many instances of his manifestations of approval of the intimacy that subsisted between him and Virginia . 
Now , if Roland had any serious idea of a matrimonial alliance with his family -- a political one was out of the question , and the colonel would have perished at the stake before violating a principle -- it was plain that no such purpose ought to be entertained by Walter . 
He despised Roland 's politics ; he approved Walter 's principles . 
But the one was rich and the other poor ; and Walter , as a rational creature , and as the friend of Virginia , would see at once the benefit the young lady would derive by a rejection of his hand and an acceptance of Roland 's . 
But he determined to confer frankly with Walter ; and for that purpose he directed his steps toward the Winkle mansion . 
Walter was lounging in the portico when he saw the colonel approach with his dog and gun . 
He started up with symptoms of delight , for he was growing weary of his aunt 's hospitalities . 
Pollen had gone to the city to issue the first number of his magazine ; Lowe was spending most of the pleasant hours of the day creeping alone , or with Bill Dizzle , through the bushes on the margin of the brook , in pursuit of the trout ; Napoleon was planning new campaigns ; and the Arums and Crudles were detailing the enjoyments they anticipated the next winter in the fashionable circles of New York , whither their parents had agreed , for the first time , to permit them to sojourn for a brief season , in imitation of certain belles whose fortunes had been inherited . 
`` Get a gun and come along with me , Walter , '' said the colonel . 
`` Willingly , '' replied Walter . 
`` I 'm ready , colonel , '' said Walter , coming in with a gun slung on his back . 
`` I do , very distinctly , '' said Walter . 
certainly none that I know of , '' said his aunt . 
`` Come , Walter ; we will leave the ladies to smell it out . '' 
Walter ! '' 
I will do it , Walter ! 
But I tremble almost ; for I love you , Walter . 
I am without fortune ; your estate is , I know , encumbered with debt ; and your motive would be to avert the evils of an incompetency -- to -- '' `` You are a noble boy , Walter ! '' 
replied Walter , sadly . 
No matter , Walter ; since we have agreed not to disagree . 
Doubtless , Roland had been urging his suit ; but from the manner in which Virginia greeted Walter , that young gentleman felt assured his rival was not likely to succeed immediately . 
She did so , and was assisted by Walter . 
Walter , '' said the colonel . 
`` Walter , '' said Virginia , when the colonel had departed , `` my father will never again refer to your adventure in the city , for fear you will retaliate with the tale of the rat . '' 
`` I will retaliate with that tale if he does . 
I will detail it and retail it , as often as he refers to my adventure . '' 
`` Oh , yes , '' said Virginia ; `` he ca n't retaliate on me . 
she continued , addressing Walter , archly . 
He was met by the colonel on the lawn , and a long conversation ensued between them , and in view of the parlor window , in the recess of which stood Virginia and Walter . 
`` What was it he whispered , if I may be so bold ? '' 
said Walter . 
To suppose that a desire to possess his wealth could induce , or the fear of his vengeance constrain meto lend a favorable ear to his audacious -- '' `` I 'll -- '' began Walter , starting forward . 
`` I promise , '' said Walter , resuming his position at her side . 
Walter was loved almost as much by the colonel as by his daughter ; and hence , although Roland had just intimated a wish that his youthful rival , destitute as he was , might not be so freely entertained as formerly , yet was Walter , in accordance with the colonel 's custom , pressed to remain at the mansion the remainder of the day . 
Congress having assembled , Walter resolved to try his fortune at Washington , whither Mr. Plastic had written in his behalf to the President ; and there seemed some prospect of success ; at least such was the purport of one of the replies signed by the President 's private secretary . 
Lowe accompanied Walter as far as Philadelphia , hoping to learn something definite in relation to the abode of Lucy , whose absence had become insupportable . 
Walter , however , was pledged to secrecy , so long as Lowe 's secret remained unexplained . 
she asked , pointing to Walter , who sat at the other end of the sofa . 
`` It is Walter , your nephew , '' said Lowe , wondering why Walter did not answer the question himself . 
`` Walter ? 
I do n't know him . 
`` I called merely to pay my duty , aunt , and take my leave , '' said Walter , rising . 
`` Aunt , '' said Walter , `` I have nothing to lose . '' 
`` Aunt , '' said Walter , rising , `` I must go too . 
Oh , Walter , you see what it is to have to do with vulgar people ! 
He was a fool for not doing so . 
I might have made his fortune . 
Printers , papermakers , and others , came to me to know if he was responsible , and all that . 
Walter thrust the check in his pocket without reading it , and hastened away . 
At Babbleton , there was an occurrence , a few days after the departure of Walter , which must be noted in this true and faithful history . 
She was the niece of an old lady of decayed fortune , who was under the necessity of letting lodgings in a house she held on a long lease in Duke street , and with whom had sojourned occasionally , Sir Walter Scott , James Hogg , Jno . 
I have been accustomed to paying my mother 's bills , when Walter was absent . '' 
If she had not dissuaded me from having Walter along with you , he might have attended to such things -- but , really , she convinced me there was no chamber fit to lodge him , without additional furniture were purchased ; and there was no money to spare . '' 
Pollen , too , had more than once called upon Lucy and her aunt , at the request of Walter , with whom he corresponded . 
The poet again possessed a shirt of his own , and otherwise exhibited a genteel exterior . 
He was in the employ of a brother poet , more favored by fortune , and earned a subsistence in the capacity of a regular contributor to the columns of a literary periodical . 
Walter had informed her of his conduct towards her aunt in Philadelphia , as well as of his rupture with Griselda ; and as there was no reason to suppose her Aunt Flora 's happiness might be sacrificed by any caprice of the poet , the growing intimacy did not give rise to any very serious apprehensions . 
Walter is still at Washington , and has not yet received his appointment . 
I believe he has ceased writing to Virginia . 
The letter received by Flora was from Miss Wilsome Winkle , and ran as follows : `` My impudent nephew Walter , who will persistin writing me , notwithstanding I have cast him off for sanctioning his uncle 's marriage with that vulgar bonnet-maker -LRB- I forget her name -RRB- , informs me that Mr. Pollen , the silly poet who abandoned my hospitality to borrow a few dirty dollars of the milliner , is now working himself to death in New York to earn a scanty living , which he might have had for nothing by remaining here and behaving himself . 
I have seen him twice without any -- and I believe he has one of Walter 's yet . 
Speaking of checks and of Walter , I gave my cast-off nephew one when he was on his way to that Babylonian rendezvous of demagogues , which , for some reason -- or rather for the want of reason -- he did not use . 
I suppose he gave it to some fool or other poorer than himself . 
There needed Walter 's name on it , he said , written with his own hand , as it was drawn to his order , or something of the sort , which I did not understand , and did not choose to inquire about . 
Walter says Lucy is with you . 
No doubt the money with which the widow 's house had been purchased , was furnished by his lordship ! 
Without any other qualifications than an exceedingly numerous and influential connection , and a vast amount of wealth , Mr. Plastic had been lifted from obscurity by Walter 's father , and by his means was nominated and elected to the legislature ; and after Mr. Winkle 's death he had succeeded him in Congress . 
`` Well , Mr. Plastic , '' said Walter , when they were seated in the car , `` I suppose my case will soon be decided . 
At the mention of his triumph over Roland , a tall , grayhaired gentleman sitting in front , turned round and bowed to Plastic . 
Walter was surprised at the sensation exhibited in front and on either side of him . 
He then turned his head to see what had been the effect in the rear . 
Immediately behind him sat a jovial Irishman , who gave him a wink , and an intelligent smile , which , however , Walter was unable at first to comprehend . 
But after some reflection , and a few more exchanges of glances , he recollected having seen the man before , and bowed to him . 
`` I think we have met somewhere , '' said Walter . 
`` You may say that , Mr. Winkle , and tell the truth . '' 
`` Oh , I recollect , now , '' said Walter , in a whisper . 
Patrick was one of the prisoners at the station on the night of Walter 's capture at Professor Point 's . 
Walter only recollected his name , but could easily recognize his voice , for he had often heard him , at his bar , cry out , `` Boy , stew ! '' 
`` And this young gentleman , '' said Mr. Bell , addressing himself indirectly to Walter , `` you say is the son of my old friend Winkle ? 
Sir , '' he continued , shaking Walter 's hand , `` your father was one of the most independent men in Congress . 
`` I hope , sir , '' said Walter , `` the step will not be so disagreeable . 
exclaimed Walter , `` I have heard my father say that no man enjoyed a better reputation -- '' `` It may have been so during his life , and when I was not an applicant for office . 
`` Might I not succeed , '' asked Walter , `` by securing the services of Mrs. Fimble ? '' 
Mr. Bell said this with a quivering lip , and then turned away his face . 
When they reached Washington , Walter put up at one of the principal hotels , where his friend Plastic had previously engaged a suite of rooms , in conjunction with several of the members from his State . 
Walter and Mr. Bell obtained lodgings in the same room . 
But Walter , not doubting his appointment would soon be procured through the influence of Plastic , had no apprehensions that his finances would be exhausted before he could replenish them from the public treasury . 
`` Be not too sure of that , '' said his aged friend . 
This conversation took place just before the hour of retiring on the evening of their arrival ; and Walter involuntarily drew out his purse and reckoned his gold on the small table before the fire . 
`` Here are one hundred and ten dollars , '' said he , in gold . 
he continued , starting up , and searching the pockets of his overcoat . 
`` It must be for me , '' said Walter . 
Not finding the check , he opened the letter and read as follows : `` Misther Walther Wankle , Sir -- I have sane Misthress Famble and mi busnes is faxd . 
`` From the looks of his handwriting , '' said Walter , `` he would hardly be able to make a fortune by forging other people 's names . 
He then read aloud the following : `` P s misthress famble ses thae bell hung up in the senat wo n't wring onles she puls the klaper `` P. McC . '' 
asked Walter . 
asked Walter , with much interest . 
Walter admitted that he would prefer to be appointed on the ground of his own merit . 
Nevertheless , he would not banish from his memory the image of the beautiful creature he had seen at the supper-table . 
And he retired to his couch without either writing to his aunt or answering Paddy 's letter . 
The next day Mr. Plastic accompanied Walter to the White House . 
He scarcely deigned to bestow a passing glance on the doorkeeper , that great personage whose favorable attention so many others strove in vain to win . 
`` Yes , sir , '' said Plastic , while Walter was amused at the President 's seeming sincerity of manner . 
Walter bowed , thinking such a gesture could never be more appropriate than just at that time . 
`` I am sure , sir , '' said Walter , `` I am deeply indebted to you for your kind expression . '' 
He then wrote the following familiar note to the Secretary of State -- `` Mr. Walter Winkle , the son of an old friend from -- , is an applicant for the office of Secretary of Legation in London . 
Walter ran his eye over the note while the President and Plastic were discussing some point of policy in reference to the business before the House of Representatives . 
The interview with the President being ended , Walter and his friend proceeded next to the Department of State . 
After a silence of several minutes , the secretary remarked that the President 's request should be complied with ; and Walter uttered a profusion of acknowledgments . 
`` I hoped , '' said Walter , `` there were but few if any applications , as yet , for either of the positions . 
Mr. Boozle , '' said the minister , addressing his private secretary in the next room , `` let me see the number of applications for the two vacant places in London . '' 
said the minister , smiling at the dismay of Walter . 
`` But , '' said Plastic with an air of importance , and recollecting that he had been requested by the President to oppose a motion in the House for the production of a certain diplomatic correspondence , which it was understood the secretary was averse to having made public , `` I presume the claims of myfriend can not be inferior to any . '' 
I shall be happy to see you again to-morrow , Mr. Winkle . '' 
Plastic and Walter withdrew ; but before they left the building , the former was called aside by Mr. Boozle , who desired a few moments ' conversation in private . 
`` It is some state secret , I suppose , '' said Walter , `` which none but officials should know . '' 
`` I will tell you in the strictest confidence , '' he continued , as they walked along . 
`` I have read somewhere , '' said Walter , `` that great public functionaries possess the faculty of forgetfulness . 
`` You have read to some purpose , Walter , and I think you will have the address to carry your point . 
And Walter turned away from the astonished member , boiling with indignation and anger , and resolved at the instant to make a public exposure of the corrupt practices of the trading politicians . 
But before he reached his lodgings he had time to reflect that the revelation had been confidentially made , and that it would be out of his power to avail himself of it in the manner he at first intended . 
In the afternoon , as Walter was sitting in his room pondering over the events of the morning , he was startled by the abrupt entrance of Mr. Bell , who held in his hand a large envelope , bearing the broad seal of the government . 
`` I hope you have your commission , sir , '' said Walter . 
Walter then related the substance of his interview with the President and the secretary . 
He then took leave of Walter , as it was near the time when the next train left the city . 
He promised to see Miss Wilsome Winkle , and learn something further in relation to the lost check , not doubting McClusky knew all about it . 
If it had been presented under a forged indorsement , the exposure of the rascal would at least dispose of his pretensions for office , and it might be the means of putting some money in Walter 's purse . 
A short time after the departure of Mr. Bell , Walter was waited on by Mr. Boozle , who bore him the comfortable assurance that from what he could learn at the White House , and at the Department , it was settled that he should be appointed consul to London . 
For that reason Walter had been selected for the consulate . 
Walter spent the remainder of the day at the capitol , and was not at all annoyed to find the dark lustrous eyes of Mrs. Fimble , who sat near him in the gallery of the House , frequently turned in his direction . 
At the hotel , on the avenue , in short wherever they met , Walter had the satisfaction to observe that he arrested the belle 's attention ; and it was not remarkable that he should anxiously desire an opportunity of being formally introduced . 
But there was no one present who could render that service , except Plastic ; and as he had fallen out with the member -LRB- for which he now condemned himself -RRB- , he exercised his wits to devise some other means of becoming acquainted with the lady , and fortune favored him ; for Honoria herself , upon a decision taking place on some interesting question , finding her company of honorables suddenly dispersed , rose up and moved in the direction of the winding stairway . 
As she was passing near Walter , she smiled , and calling him familiarly by his name , said they ought to be acquainted , as it had been three days since they were dwelling under the same roof . 
Walter was no novice in gallantry ; and so , by the time they were at the foot of the stairs , no one could have supposed they had not been long upon terms of intimacy . 
`` But I understood from my friend , Mr. Bell , '' said Walter , `` that it was on your account he left his seat . '' 
`` Old politicians , '' said Walter , `` as I learn by my reading , as well as experienced generals , have been , in all countries and in all ages , subject to the caprices -- or rather the influences -- of the divine sex . 
asked Walter . 
Walter averted his head just in time to escape the range of her dark eyes . 
It was evidently her design to scrutinize his features closely after the announcement she had just made , but she was prevented . 
But , '' she continued , with her magical orbs bearing full upon him , `` I can not avoid manifesting a sympathy for the members of our church , foreign and native , whose privileges and welfare are menaced by a secret organization , whose ramifications extend into every locality , and whose members and operations are known to none but themselves . '' 
`` I do not fear them , '' said Walter , returning the searching glance of the beautiful lady . 
That night the dark , lustrous eyes of Honoria illumined the dreams of Walter . 
In the shifting scenes of the phantasmagoria that filled his slumbers , she was ever present , and always in the attitude of striving unceasingly to entice him from the path he had been intent upon pursuing . 
And while he sighed upon his solitary pillow , the doors leading to the apartments of Honoria were stealthily opened by the servants of the Society of Jesus , who had been distributed in all the hotels , and the modern Father Xavier was noiselessly admitted into the presence of the watchful woman . 
`` And , father , '' said Honoria , `` it was true , then , as the papers said , that the singular speech of Walter Winkle defeated the election of our candidate . '' 
Daysflew past , and yet Walter did not obtain his commission . 
Walter had written to his mother but once since his sojourn in Washington , and to Virginia not at all , except in a postscript to his mother 's letter . 
And now , when the second or third letter from his parent was placed in his hands , it must be owned he did not hasten to break the seal with the same intensity of affection he had experienced upon the reception of the first . 
Walter snatched up a pen to write a scolding letter to Virginia , but threw it aside as he heard the clock strike the hour when the doors of the Presidential Palace were to be thrown open for the reception of the promiscuous company that usually resorted thither . 
As he surveyed himself in the glass , the thought occurred to him that it was exceedingly absurd to witness the decrepit senator of seven decades , bearing off the angelic Honoria , while he was under the necessity of proceeding alone , on foot , or riding in an omnibus . 
Walter seizing his lamp rushed out , and found the old gentleman venting curses upon the children of the guests who had been playing with the chairs during the day . 
Walter assisted the senator to rise , and conducted him into his chamber . 
he continued , turning to Walter 's glass . 
said Walter . 
Walter did not linger . 
In perfect beauty and spirits , and flashing with diamonds , she accepted the arm of Walter and was conducted to the carriage , when one of the senator 's men , who had been sent thither for the purpose , held open the door . 
After requesting the coachman to drive slowly , Walter followed his precious charge into the carriage , and occupied the seat at her side , where she welcomed him with a smile . 
`` You were the cause of it , '' said Walter . 
said Walter , `` it seems that my appointment is never to be sent in . '' 
He borrowed this ring of me , '' she continued , taking one from her finger and placing it on Walter 's hand , `` and pledged it for ten dollars , at the farthest table from the door , at the extreme end of the room . 
`` I will wear the ring , '' said Walter . 
Then turning to Walter , whose hand he shook very heartily , he said : `` My young friend , you have the most potent advocate in the city . 
`` I hope she will have pity , then , on her humble servant , '' said Walter . 
Walter was on the eve of uttering a sarcasm on the priest , when he perceived the Jesuit had followed them , and thought he could discover a tremor in the fair hand that lay upon his arm . 
Honoria sank on a sofa , and Walter was beckoned aside by Mr. Boozle . 
Even Walter , from her supposed partiality for him , was overwhelmed with attentions by the greedy crew of minor office-seekers . 
`` Mr. Winkle , '' said Boozle , leading Walter into an obscure recess , `` every body is asking why the official announcement of your confirmation by the Senate is delayed . '' 
`` If I knew the proper one to interrogate , '' said Walter , I would like to ask the same question ; I presume , however , my name has not yet reached the Senate . '' 
And I think some of them are deserved -- '' `` Mr. Winkle ! '' 
They separated , and Walter approached as near as he could to the great centre of attraction , the brilliantly diademed Honoria . 
Walter perceived immediately that she had some design upon his friend ; and although he might feel some pricks of jealousy , he did not deem it expedient to attempt an interposition . 
It was quite late when the discomfited senator appeared : but his presence sufficed to banish Walter from the side of the reigning belle . 
Walter returned to his lodgings on foot , having declined the faint invitation of the senator to occupy a seat in his carriage . 
Walter counted the few coins remaining in his purse , and ascertained that he did not possess one fifth the amount demanded . 
What was he to do ? 
His eye fell upon the ring which Honoria had placed on his finger . 
He gazed at it long in deep abstraction , and was only awakened from his lethargy by the returning consciousness that he was unable to satisfy his host 's demand . 
Starting up , he determined to go to Aurini 's . 
In all his life he had never won or lost a dollar in any such establishment ; and certainly nothing less than the instigation of such a creature as Honoria could have induced him to try the hazard of the game . 
But why should he pledge the ring , when he still possessed a few coins . 
He looked at it again , and discovered the form of a cross set in small diamonds . 
He descended to the street , and after striding but a few hundred paces , found himself standing before the dark entrance to the noted establishment , which no law could suppress , and no resolution withstand . 
Walter recollected the word which had been given him , and repeated it at the door . 
He was admitted , and conducted through a long and dimly lighted passage . 
Then a door on the right was thrown open , and he stood within a brilliantly illuminated saloon , where the tables were piled with gold , and hundreds were watching with eager interest the turning of the cards which announced their success or disaster . 
He paused for a moment , and calmly surveyed the scene . 
Among the company he recognized faces he had seen in the halls of Congress , a member of the Cabinet , several resident foreign ministers with numerous attachs , and a score of comptrollers , auditors , clerks and messengers . 
Whether it was the unexpected sight of the money , or whether there had really been a misconception of the proprietor 's instructions , the clerk declared the bill had been presented through mistake , and that it might remain unpaid , if Mr. Winkle desired it , until the end of the month . 
Walter did not desire it , and hence it was paid . 
After a troubled sleep , during which Honoria seemed to guide his steps through many perilous paths , but only to encounter new difficulties and dangers , Walter arose with a halfformed resolution to tear asunder the meshes which confined him , and return to his mother and the faithful Virginia . 
Once more only would he apply at the Department ; after that , if his appointment were again postponed indefinitely , he would abandon the pursuit , and seek some less equivocal means of support . 
In the forenoon he obtained an interview with Honoria in her private parlor . 
She was most elegantly dressed , and said she had been expecting him . 
`` I desire merely to return this ring , '' said Walter . 
said Walter , starting up . 
Walter withdrew and strode slowly along the avenue . 
He was soon overtaken and passed by Honoria 's messenger . 
When he arrived at the Department , he sought a chair in the ante-room , then crowded with applicants for the various offices at the disposal of the great man at the head of the Cabinet . 
`` Excuse me , '' said Walter , dryly , determined no longer to be made a laughing-stock of the tricky officials -- `` I have but a moment to stay , and this is my final visit . 
He had forgotten whether it was William or Walter . 
Walter hurried back to the hotel with a smile on his lip , and exultation in his heart . 
But she insisted on Walter 's riding with her , and they drove a mile beyond the capitol before alighting at it . 
The marvel was , that Walter , whose appointment had been unofficially announced , had not yet passed the Senate . 
Walter relinquished his charge when the gallant old gentleman approached , after congratulating him upon the removal of the blots of the preceding evening . 
The same evening Walter was surprised by the delivery into his hand of a formidable envelope , which at first he supposed to be his long-hoped-for commission ; but the Babbleton postmark being upon it he was soon undeceived , and the throbbings of his heart were suddenly repressed . 
He tore open the envelope , and some twenty letters of his own , written to Virginia , fell upon the table ! 
Then his heart almost ceased to beat . 
He had certainly not been a voluminous correspondent since his sojourn in the Federal city ; but he did not deem that neglect a sufficient provocation to have the whole volume of his former epistolatory labors thrust back upon him . 
On the blank page of one of the letters he found the following lines traced in pencil marks : -- `` Henceforth I am to be a stranger to the writer of these letters . 
cried Walter , starting up and traversing the room rapidly backwards and forwards , while his temples burned and his thoughts boiled in inextricable confusion . 
Walter glanced at it hastily , and immediately followed the messenger into Honoria 's private parlor , where he found the lady sitting alone . 
She pointed to an ottoman at her side , and Walter threw himself on it . 
Walter withdrew , returning coldly the salutations of the visitors . 
He thought it strange that people of all parties should be seeking admission to Honoria , utterly forgetting that he belonged to an order avowedly hostile to the political advancement of Roman Catholics . 
The next day , Walter waited on the President , and was admitted by the doorkeeper , who supposed that any one on terms of intimacy with the lady for whose smiles all the magnates were striving , should not be kept waiting at the door of the Executive palace . 
If any thing occurred to frustrate his intention , it would be announced to him , & c. Walter bowed , and retired in silence . 
He had obtained many promises from the men in power -- and if they had the slightest regard for their honor , he could not be much longer kept in suspense . 
For several days he did nothing but attend Honoria , who seemed to demand more of his time than ever , and to exert her blandishments to banish the idea he entertained of leaving the city , in the event of a disappointment . 
The first intimation that Walter had of the arrival of Colonel Oakdale and Virginia , was from the newly-elected senator himself . 
He was promenading along the avenue in company with Honoria , when a carriage drove slowly by , from which he heard his own name uttered , and the next moment the colonel 's head was thrust out of the window . 
`` How are you , Walter , my boy ? '' 
Come and see us , Walter . 
The next moment the horses were flying along the avenue , and Walter did not have an opportunity to utter a word in reply . 
It was Colonel Oakdale , '' said Walter . 
Walter strode away , and walked in solitude an hour on the common . 
Returning , he met one of the carriers of the government newspaper , whom he had seen deliver the paper at the hotel . 
From him he learned that the sheet was left at Mrs. Z 's , on F. strect , for the Honorable Mr. Oakdale , and thither he repaired , supposing Virginia might have been put down there by her father , or that they might have had time to return from the presidential mansion . 
Walter rang , and asked the boy for Colonel Oakdale . 
demanded Walter . 
Walter turned away abruptly in a whirl of contending passions , and never paused until he sat down at the table in his room . 
He wrote a most impassioned letter to Virginia , imploring her to inform him what it was in his conduct which had offended her . 
He declared most solemnly that his object and purpose in cultivating the friendship of Mrs. Fimble -- he did not write Honoria -- was solely to secure her co-operation in obtaining his appointment , and -- he confessed it -- to gratify his vanity in monopolizing as much of her attention as possible in public , because the most distinguished men in the Union were competing for her smiles . 
Nothing more , as heaven was his witness ! 
And he adjured Virginia to re-consider her decision , and grant him an interview , when he pledged himself to explain every thing to her satisfaction . 
He likewise reminded her of his innocence when censured on a former occasion , and declared , if she would only hear him in his defence , he would again be vindicated in her estimation . 
This letter he dispatched immediately , and directed the servant to wait for an answer . 
He then joined Honoria in her private parlor , where there were several senators and their wives and daughters engaged in a lively conversation . 
Presently the messenger made his appearance at the door and sent in a letter to Walter . 
Walter did so , and his own letter -- the seal unbroken -- fell from the envelope . 
He stooped down and lifted it from the floor . 
`` I am calm , '' said Walter . 
And seizing the first opportunity , he locked himself up in his room and bestowed extraordinary pains in the adornment of his person . 
He was determined to appear in hilarious spirits at the secretary 's reception that night , where he would meet with Virginia and Honoria . 
He would confide in his aged friend , the noble old senator , who would not hesitate to co-operate with him in the execution of his capricious scheme . 
Twice he was startled by messages from Honoria , who seemed to comprehend what had taken place , and perhaps thought he might perpetrate some desperate deed . 
He sent her word that so far from being ill , he was merely making his toilet for the purpose of attending the secretary 's party , whither he hoped to be permitted to accompany her in Senator -- ' s coach . 
But room was made every where for Honoria , who was never separated far from Walter . 
`` Walter ! '' 
cried Col. Oakdale , who , with Virginia hanging on his arm , confronted our hero in the midst of the saloon , and that too when all eyes were on them , `` you are the luckiest of my constituents . 
Walter did so . 
she had escaped , and taken refuge with the secretary 's lady , who perceived her embarrassment , and came to her relief . 
`` There is a prediction for you , '' said Honoria to Walter , when the colonel moved away . 
Again , in the counter-currents of promenades Walter confronted Virginia , and endeavored to speak to her , but in vain , for she averted her face and laughed very heartily at some remark of Mr. Ponsonby , the British Secretary of Legation . 
And indeed almost the entire diplomatic corps seemed to follow the new beauty whithersoever she moved ; and a close observer might have detected a slight elongation of the features of Honoria , at the rapid progress of her rival . 
In every direction she heard the praises of Virginia ; and for the first time during the gay season she perceived she was reigning over a divided empire . 
Nevertheless she was not neglected by the seekers of office , or the bestowers of it . 
The President himself detained her several minutes , until he could deliver a paragraph of praises ; and there were ten or fifteen senators engaged in the gallant enterprise of an attempt to supplant her old beau . 
Walter was particularly distinguished by the cordial salutations of the chief executive officer , which he thought might be interpreted as a good augury . 
At length Honoria , whether really unwell as she alleged , or conscious of being abandoned by half the multitude for the superior blandishments of the new belle , was to remain an unfathomable secret : but she quietly withdrew , and relinquished the field to her competitor . 
And she insisted on being accompanied by Walter , who was more active than the aged senator , and might withdraw without incurring the imputation of perpetrating a breach of etiquette . 
And when he had deposited his charge at the hotel , to avoid a violation of propriety , and to enable his senatorial friend to reach his lodgings , it was necessary for him to return in the carriage to the secretary 's mansion . 
Enfranchised from the captivating thraldom of Honoria , Walter promenaded the halls and saloons in quest of Virginia . 
He found her -- but she would not recognize him . 
Yet he , who knew her so well , and could read her countenance so accurately , did not fail to perceive that her mind was troubled , and that her heart was ill at ease , even under the incessant flow of Ponsonby 's flatteries . 
But Winkle retraced his steps , alone , to his hotel , while Ponsonby conducted to her home the senator 's lovely daughter . 
And Walter passed an uneasy night in a boundless sea of conjecture , endeavoring in vain to foresee the end and consummation of the drama in which he felt he was one of the principal actors . 
The next morning , as usual , he was summoned to appear before Honoria in her parlor . 
She stood beside her mirror , pale , and a tear glistening in her eye . 
demanded Walter , gravely , and with some symptoms of impatience . 
said she . 
Walter ran his eye along the editorial column of one of the government journals , and was surprised to find his own name at the head of a paragraph , as follows : -- `` Mr. Walter Winkle . 
`` I entreat you to restrain any violent passion that may -- '' `` I am perfectly calm , '' said Walter smiling . 
Walter withdrew to his chamber , and wrote as follows to the editor : `` Sir : -- The article in your paper in reference to myself , being evidently prepared with no design of future explanation and amicable adjustment , there is no other alternative left me but to demand the satisfaction which every gentleman has a right to require of the one who has injured him . 
Walter intended to escape from the District before consulting any friend , or even procuring weapons , relying upon the chances of obtaining them after passing beyond the limits of the jurisdiction of the authorities of the District . 
But when he was in consultation with the book-keeper of the hotel , in reference to a carriage , the messenger he had sent to the printing office returned , accompanied by two officers of the marshal , who immediately arrested our hero ! 
`` You pronounce me your prisoner , '' said Walter . 
said Walter , `` why did you act thus ? '' 
And Walter was not ignorant of the law , nor in doubt as to his future course of conduct . 
He therefore asked and obtained permission to spend a short time in his own chamber , attended by an officer , while he arranged his trunk , as if for its removal . 
He returned to the office of the hotel , paid his bill , and left instructions for his baggage to be sent after him . 
He then stepped into a hack with the officers , and they were driven to the magistrate 's office . 
So that before Walter had been many minutes in the office of the magistrate , he was surrounded by a large crowd of people , a majority being his friends -- at least they were Native Americans . 
Many persons volunteered to become Walter 's sureties , and among them were Col. Oakdale and the editor of the American journal . 
`` No , gentlemen , '' said Walter , firmly . 
`` I did not suppose the prison would have to come to me , '' replied Walter . 
Walter bowed to the officers who had conducted him from the hotel , and signified his readiness to repair to the place of confinement . 
He was driven to prison , and upon the representations of the officers , was accommodated with a comfortable room . 
`` It would have been better to have had him disposed of in the Senate ! '' 
`` But he would have been confirmed , '' said the Secretary . 
Walter threw down the book , and grasped the hand of his old friend . 
`` You seem comfortable here , Walter , '' said the senator , sitting in front of the cheerful fire and looking round . 
It is good , too , '' he continued , as he drank a glass . 
But , Walter , she has a dreadful headache to-night , and could n't go to the party , and that is the reason I came to spend the evening with you . '' 
`` Then you may be convinced , '' said Walter . 
Walter , although he was just then slightly flushed with the excellent wine that had been sent him , stood perfectly still and gazed in silence at his visitor . 
`` I think I know that voice , '' said Walter , `` but I will not be positive . 
exclaimed Walter . 
`` Thanks , generous , noble Walter ! 
The thought was intolerable anguish to me -- and I resolved to appear before you and make -- '' `` I forgive you , Honoria , '' said Walter ; `` but I should never have deemed it possible for one of your sensibility and delicacy to act so deceptive a part . '' 
Walter , if you have lost the office , I have lost my heart ! 
said Walter , gazing coldly at the beautiful woman who had thrown herself upon his breast . 
Saying this , Walter rang for the keeper ; and when the door was thrown open , forgetful of his loss of liberty , our hero would have accompanied the unresisting woman into the street , had he not been gently thrust back by the keeper . 
He bowed , and returned to his chair , as the disappointed visitor departed . 
Good night , Walter . 
Walter , after quaffing another glass of the delicious wine , which had been sent him by his unknown friends , resumed his book , which , it may as well be owned , was `` Smollet 's Peregrine Pickle , '' which the keeper had loaned him . 
said Walter , with a sneer . 
`` But let him come in . '' 
She said she had intimated as much to the earl ; but he had undertaken to prove that such a consummation of his wishes , would be no infringement of Walter 's rule , inasmuch as he would not seek to exercise the rights of suffrage ; and , instead of becoming a naturalized citizen , he merely -- `` merely '' said she -- intended to relieve the country of the burden of maintaining one of its natives . 
She acknowledged the receipt of Walter 's letter , which had been transmitted by her mother , informing her of his present extraordinary situation ; and she predicted that Virginia would not hold out long against such a siege . 
Walter found a whole column in one of the papers devoted to a description of the company at Mrs. Laurel 's party , and embracing the most minute details of the dress of the Countess , as well as the appearance of the Earl , who was designated as a most unassuming , well-bred young man . 
He urged Walter to return as soon as possible , that he might take his final leave of his uncle , who was sinking by inches into the grave under the tortures of Griselda . 
Oh , Walter -- he grows eloquent on that subject , and says , if he had his will , the Mahometans should be driven out of Europe , and that the holy Iand should be put in cultivation , and manured with the blood of the Moslems , instead of wasting Christian lives fighting under the new moon flag of the barbarians . 
There was likewise a note from Honoria , imploring Walter not to divulge her secret , unless he desired to hear of her death . 
That he threw into the fire , and then he looked over the papers from Philadelphia and Baltimore , and perceived that his imprisonment had been duly chronicled . 
Some of the letter writers said he was confined in prison because he could not give security for his good behavior ; others that he wouldnot , from prudential motives , as the prison walls afforded what he most desired , viz. , protection from assault ; and others again , denying the correctness of the rest , intimated that he voluntarily remained a captive for some purpose which was a profound mystery to the outsiders . 
Thus Walter perceived he was rapidly becoming a famous character , and his resolution not to relinquish the advantages of his position without reaping some decided benefit , and terminating his incarceration with eclat , was more and more confirmed . 
`` I have but a minute to stay , Walter , '' said he , `` I must be in my place in the Senate . 
`` But , sir , you have not told me what she -- '' `` Another time , Walter ; I 'm in great haste now . '' 
Walter 's next visitor was his old college friend , George Parke . 
I am rich now , Walter , and owe you money . 
The keeper opened the door and said there was a queer sort of a noisy fellow without , who demanded admission to Walter 's room . 
asked Walter . 
`` Look up , my friend , '' said Walter . 
He helped himself without ceremony to the remains of the sumptuous breakfast left by Walter . 
`` Now , '' said he , `` I will give you some account of myself . 
`` When I arrived at my hotel this morning , the first name I heard mentioned was yours , Walter . 
cried Walter . 
said Walter . 
said the keeper , admitting Walter 's aunt . 
`` Oh , Walter ! 
She ran to him , and embraced him most affectionately . 
Here , Walter , I 've brought you a check . 
Send the keeper to a clothing store ; -- have every thing brought here , and furnish him with decent clothing . 
Walter took the check . 
And while his aunt sat at the table , saturating her handkerchief with tears , he opened his trunk , and furnished the poet with a suit of his own clothing . 
repeated Wilsome , after she had made Pollen relate the manner of his being sent to prison . 
It was worse than your case , Walter , which I read in the Ledger this morning . '' 
said Walter . 
Walter explained every thing ; and his speech was succeeded by hearty bursts of laughter . 
`` You are an ingenious rogue , Walter ; and I heartily forgive you . 
After binding his auditors to secrecy , Walter related what had transpired with Honoria . 
`` Still it was a pity , '' said his aunt , `` that you did not convert that poor creature from Jesuitism . 
Walter , there are just four of us -- clear away the things from the table , and let us have a sociable game of whist . '' 
cried Walter . 
`` I can assure you , Miss Oakdale , that Walter has acted with the strictest propriety and honor , as it regards this Mrs. Fimble . '' 
The colonel and Pollen then repaired to the magistrate and obtained Walter 's release . 
The poet and George Parke stopped at the hotel , and Walter hastened to appear before his appeased mistress . 
Walter caught her in his arms and seized a kiss before she could utter an objection . 
`` Well , that business is settled , '' said the colonel -- `` it was done on the wing , and Walter is a good shot . 
said Walter , looking up from Virginia 's blushing face , which had been nestling against his side . 
`` They fed him well , and -- '' Walter , by a look checked his aunt . 
I am sure I was not to blame , '' she continued archly , to Walter , `` for giving you up as lost . '' 
said his aunt , contemptously . 
`` Undoubtedly , '' said Walter . 
The poet is resolved to attend her this very night to the President 's soiree -- '' ` I believe I shall go too , and strip his coat off -- '' `` In the presence of all the company , Miss Wilsome ? '' 
And I hope she 'll land him where she placed Walter . 
There he may die ! '' 
said Virginia , aside to Walter , `` I 'm afraid she loves him ! '' 
asked he , significantly . 
continued Miss Wilsome -- `` no doubt he proposed it ! 
A servant came in and announced that a gentleman , whose name was not given , desired to see Walter in the hall . 
`` I ca n't leave Virginia so soon , '' said Walter . 
`` If he has the appearance of a gentleman conduct him hither . '' 
He did have the appearance of a gentleman , and he came in . 
He said his friend Pollen had given him the number of the house where Walter could be found , and he was very happy to meet with him . 
After staring at him a few moments Walter sprung up and shook him heartily by the hand . 
It was Mr. Glass , the actor , whose acquaintance Walter had made at the the police station . 
Mr. Glass informed his young friend that his daughter Delia had escaped the persecutions of Roland by drawing a dagger in her own defence . 
Mr. Glass then said his daughter would soon appear in Washington , and he hoped Walter and his friends would honor her with their presence . 
His casting vote had defeated Roland 's nomination ; and the prominent men in the opposition waited upon him at his boarding-house to felicitate him upon his successful demonstration . 
They desired likewise to make the acquaintance of Walter and Virginia ; for the colonel had , in a confidential way , made known to his friends that the secret of the young man 's persistence in remaining in prison might find a solution in the approaching nuptials of his daughter . 
The colonel 's quarrel with the President was the theme of conversation in all the political circles ; and whenever it was mentioned , it was likewise repeated that his daughter was to be espoused by Walter Winkle , the brave young man who had been imprisoned for an attempt to resent an insult . 
And so many notes of congratulation , written on scented paper , were received by Walter , from unknown friends , that Virginia really became alarmed , and begged her father to permit her to return with Miss Wilsome to Philadelphia the next day . 
Walter sanctioned the proposition ; and exhibiting the letter from Sergeant Blore , declared his intention of setting out for home the next morning . 
Arrived at Philadelphia , Walter conducted Virginia to her aunt Nitre 's . 
Never go there any more , Walter ! '' 
`` I must go when they elect me to Congress , '' said Walter . 
He said his patients would die ; I told him he might save Walter 's life . 
Men have no feeling , Walter . '' 
`` Excuse me , madam , '' said Walter , indignant at hearing Mrs. N. always abusing her husband , and one of the best husbands in the world -- `` but I think the doctor did perfectly right . 
`` It is a long tale , '' said Walter . 
said Walter . 
After lingering a moment in the hall with Virginia , Walter hastened away . 
WhenWalter descended from the cars in front of the inn , he espied Sergeant Blore peeping at him through the bar-room window , and he beckoned him to come out . 
Walter put an end to the company by taking the sergeant 's hand between both of his , and shaking it heartily . 
was Walter 's first question . 
When Blore made the last exclamation he sprang behind Walter , and endeavored to cover his body from the observation of Mrs. Edwards , who was standing in the door of Lowe 's cottage and gazing towards the inn . 
If she sees us , Walter , you must protect me , wo n't you ? '' 
Walter stumbled over the leaping and barking Dew at the door , and the next moment was embraced by his mother and sister . 
said he , after they were seated in the parlor , `` you can not know how much you have improved in appearance ! '' 
continued Walter . 
What you say about Mr. Lowe , Walter -- '' `` Is Walter 's nonsense ! '' 
`` He knows he is opposed to foreigners exercising any rights in this country . '' 
`` No , '' said Walter -- `` Bill must be paid . 
asked Mrs. W. Walter informed his mother and sister of his reconciliation with his Aunt Wilsome , who had given him a check for & dollar ; 500 , and he had drawn the money that morning . 
He told them , moreover , that his aunt would be at hiswedding . 
`` And she has forgiven Uncle Napoleon , '' added Walter . 
said both Walter and Lucy , for they had been informed of his acts of generosity . 
`` Now tell me about the Arums and Crudles , '' said Walter . 
Lucy gave him all the information she could in relation to them , including the most recent conquest of Bell , which was a tufted cornet-a-piston player , belonging to the orchestra of the circus . 
exclaimed Walter . 
said Walter . 
They ran to the window and saw old John Dowly descend from his vehicle . 
He left his gentle horse unfastened , knowing he could not be made to run away , and then knocked very gravely at the door , as he used to do before bells were in general use . 
said Walter . 
said Walter . 
asked Walter . 
said Walter . 
And he rushed into the street and reprimanded the woman in terms of indignation . 
`` Go in , Mrs. Edwards , '' said Walter . 
`` Thank you , Walter ! '' 
Blore hurried away under cover of Walter 's protection , though casting an occasional glance behind until he was out of sight . 
Shortly afterwards , Walter and Lucy drove out towards Mr. Napoleon Winkle 's country mansion in Mr. Dowly 's old gig . 
As the gentle horse moved along at his accustomed easy pace , Lucy , after exacting a promise from her brother not to use any violence , related the manner of Roland 's stratagem to inveigle her into a clandestine marriage , and all his subsequent annoyances . 
Walter , with quivering limbs and a pale brow , said he would not violate his pledge ; but that if he were not so restrained , he should certainly chastise the villain with the utmost severity . 
Walter thanked him for his attention , and knowing that he could bestow no greater pleasure on the frog-hunter than to employ his services , threw him the reins when they descended , and requested him to drive back to the village and leave the vehicle at his mother 's door , and to thank Mr. Dowly in his name for the use of it . 
Walter and Lucy passed through a file of Griselda 's staring servants , and mounted the great stairway leading towards their uncle 's chamber . 
Mr. Winkle lay on his back with his eyes closed . 
asked Walter , in a whisper . 
asked Walter , seeing the patient remove his hand , which Blore had been holding , and silently grasp his own . 
Walter , in obedience to the patient 's wish , as indicated by his motion , bent down his ear . 
`` I am better , '' whispered he . 
Walter could not repress a smile , which Lucy 's quick eyes detected , and her heart beat less violently . 
`` My uncle desires every one to leave the room , '' said Walter , in a voice of command , `` but my sister and myself . '' 
After lingering a moment , Griselda followed the priest out of the room ; and Blore , comprehending Walter 's significant nod , joined the retiring party , and prevented them from listening at the key-hole . 
The old gentleman , with eyes wide open , rose up on his elbow , and listened to the departing footsteps ; and when Walter turned the key , he sat upright in bed , with a broad smile on his face . 
said he . 
`` I do not see why you should be in such dread of them , '' said Walter . 
said his uncle . 
He resumed his former attitude , lying on his back with his eyes nearly closed . 
said the doctor , upon entering the room , and shaking hands with Walter and Lucy . 
Walter is now writing her to come to-morrow . 
said Walter , `` it seems to me you might have accomplished your object by a more direct means -- '' `` You know nothing -- '' `` He is a Know Nothing , uncle , '' said Lucy . 
`` Two thirds of the voters in the county belong to our order , '' said Walter . 
You will like the sport , Walter . 
Blore 's eye brightened upon observing a significant wink from Walter , and he followed him out of the room and down the stairs . 
`` Bawson is not here , '' said Walter , when they were out in the lawn . 
`` I have a still better scheme , sergeant , '' said Walter . 
He then imparted to the astonished and delighted Blore the stratagem of his uncle , and they set about concerting the measures which the circumstances of the case seemed to demand . 
Beforethe hour arrived for the change foretold by the doctor , Miss Wilsome Winkle had reached Babbleton , where she was met by Walter , and informed of every thing that had transpired . 
Every thing being in readiness , Walter conducted his aunt to his uncle 's house , and led her into the chamber of the patient , where Lucy had been left to watch , and where Griselda and the priest were standing on either side of the bed . 
`` Mr. Winkle ! '' 
`` You have made a good beginning , uncle , '' said Walter . 
Walter , give me my breeches -- '' `` Brother ! '' 
Set out the table , Walter . 
Choose your partner , Wilsome -- Lucy or Walter . 
I 'll take Walter . '' 
Take charge of him , Walter . '' 
Walter rose up quickly , and passing between the astonished couple , approached the window . 
cried he , pulling a cord that came in at the window . 
Walter followed them out of the room . 
Walter and the sergeant conducted their prisoner through the orchard towards the barracks , while the drum played the rogue 's march . 
`` Extremis malis , extrema remedia , ''  said Walter . 
`` Your prototype and namesake , '' said Walter , `` was a good man . 
As Walter said this , four of the strongest men seized the blanket at its corners , and commenced tossing up the prisoner . 
said Walter , looking at the papers , `` these bonds belong to my uncle . 
`` Fide , non armis , ''  replied Walter . 
`` The priest says fight with fortitude -- and Walter says fight not our armies , and he gives him good advice . 
Both the priest and Walter smiled at the erudition of the man , whose interpretation was not without signification . 
Miss Wilcome having imparted to her brother the information that both Lucy and Walter were to be married in the spring , and that the countess and the earl would not sail for England before midsummer , he immediately proposed that his niece , and Lowe , and the countess , should occupy his spacious mansion , as the guests of Walter , which was agreed to -- Lucy remaining silent , but looking very grateful . 
In the afternoon the splendid coach was ordered out , and Walter and Wilsome were driven in great state through the streets of Babbleton to Mrs. Winkle 's mansion . 
But Walter rejoined her in the evening , and superintended a grand illumination of the mansion , which was admired by thousands . 
The papers had announced the approaching nuptials of Lucy with the Earl of Hilton , and now a paragraph was going the rounds to the effect that Walter had been released from jail by the fair daughter of a distinguished senator , who was soon to become his wife , and bind him for ever with hymenial fetters . 
It is not to be supposed that Lowe and Walter did not sometimes mingle in their consultations . 
Lowe and Lucy , Walter and Virginia , and Parke -- who still lingered in the north , while his mother was looking for him in the south -- and Julia Nitre were among the congregation of witnesses . 
It has never been asserted in general conversation that Walter was more than a mere spectator : but wesuppose it to be quite probable he was an instigator , if not an actor , of one of the most unexpected and novel scenes that ever occurred in the church at Babbleton . 
But why had Bawson been so often in consultation with Walter ? 
For after Edmund and Lucy , and Walter and Virginia were irrevocably linked together , Mr. William Dizzle and Miss Patty O'Pan were also joined in wedlock . 
And while his single eye beame like a star on the faces of Walter and Lucy , Mrs. Edwards ' optics were fixed upon him . 
When he arrived at the garrison , however , he was met by Walter , who appeased him by the comfortable assurance that Mrs. Edwards was to sail for England the next week . 
But he suggested that Edmund and Walter should accompany him into the meadows with their guns , where there would be excellent sport among the woodcock . 
The widow Winkle could not be induced to abandon her abode in the village ; but every year she spent a portion of her time with Walter at the chateau , in company with Wilsome and Flora , and where John Dowly was ever an honored guest . 
Walter had the triumph of defeating Plastic in an exciting political campaign ; while the colonel retained his place in the Senate . 
Bill Dizzle and Patty occupied a comfortable farm-house on Walter 's estate -- the one catching , the other cooking the frogs and `` turtles . '' 
Honoria disappeared after the publication of Walter 's nuptials . 
