With the last Miles St. Aubyn , however , we shall have little to do henceforth , for the soldier of the Netherlands had departed so far from the traditions of his family -- the eldest son of which had for generations borne the same name of Miles -- as to drop that patrimonial appellation in the person of his son , whom he had caused to be christened Jasper , after a beloved friend , a brother of the lady , afterward his wife , who had fallen by his side on a well-fought field in the Luxembourg . 
Not so , however , the child of his heart , Jasper . 
His features were marked with all the ancestral beauties , which may be traced in unmixed races through so many generations ; and as it was a matter of notorious truth , that from the date of the conquest , no drop of Saxon or of Celtic blood had been infused into the pure Norman stream which flowed through the veins of the proud St. Aubyns , it was no marvel that after the lapse of so many ages the youthful Jasper should display , in both face and form , the characteristic lines and coloring peculiar to the noblest tribe of men that has ever issued from the great northern hive of nations . 
Accordingly , he had the rich dark chestnut hair , not curled , but waving in loose clusters ; the clear gray eye ; the aquiline nose ; the keen and fiery look ; the resolute mouth , and the iron jaw , which in all ages have belonged to the descendant of the Northman . 
Trained in his early boyhood to all those exercises of activity and strength , which were in those days held essential to the gentleman , it needs not to say that Jasper St. Aubyn could ride , swim , fence , shoot , run , leap , pitch the bar , and go through every manœuvre of the salle d' armes , the tilt-yard , and the man ége , with equal grace and power . 
Thence it came that Jasper St. Aubyn , at the age of seventeen years , was in all qualities of body thoroughly trained and disciplined ; and in all mental faculties perfectly educated , but entirely untrained , uncorrected , and unchastened . 
In manner , he was a perfect gentleman ; in body , he was a perfect man ; in mind , he was almost a perfect scholar . 
This , then , was the education in which Jasper St. Aubyn was altogether deficient ; which Sir Miles had never so much as attempted to impart to him ; and which , had he endeavored , he probably would have failed , to bestow . 
Thus it was that , as Jasper advanced gradually toward years of manhood , the fortunes of the house improving in proportion to his growth , seeing no alteration in the routine of the household , he scarcely was aware that any change had taken place in more essential points . 
The eye and ear of the child had been taken by the banners , the trumpets , and the glittering board , and his fancy riveted by the solemnity and grave decorum which characterized the meals partaken in the great hall ; and naturally enough he never knew that the pewter platters and tankards had been exchanged , since those days , for plate of silver , and the strong ale converted into claret or canary . 
The consequence of this was simply that he found himself a youth of seventeen , surrounded by all the means and appliances of luxury , with servants , horses , hounds , and falcons at his command , the leading personage , beyond all comparison , of the neighborhood , highly-born , handsome , well-bred , and accomplished . 
All this , by the way , was entirely uncorrected by any memory of past sufferings or sorrows , either on his own part or on that of his family , or by any knowledge of the privations and exertions on the part of Sir Miles , by which this present affluence had been purchased ; and he became , naturally enough , somewhat over-confident in his own qualities , somewhat overbearing in his manner , and not a little intolerant and inconsiderate as to the opinions and feelings of others . 
It was , perhaps , unfortunate for Jasper , no less than for those who were in after-days connected with him , whether for good or evil , that , at this critical period of his adolescence , when the character of the man is developed from the accidents of boyhood , in proportion as his increasing years and altered habits and pursuits led him to be more abroad , and cast him in some degree into the world , the advancing years and growing infirmities of his father kept him closer to the library and the hall . 
So that at the very time when his expanding mind and nascent passions most needed sage advice and moderate coercion , or at least wary guidance , he was abandoned almost entirely to his own direction . 
Over the whole of this pleasant aud peaceful tract , whether it was still owned by themselves , or had passed into the hands of the free yeomanry , the lords of Widecomb still held manorial rights , and the few feudal privileges which had survived the revolution ; and through the whole of it , Sir Miles St. Aubyn was regarded with unmixed love and veneration , while the boy Jasper was looked upon almost as a son in every family , though some old men would shake their heads doubtfully , and mutter sage but unregarded saws concerning his present disposition and future prospects ; and some old grandames would prognosticate disasters , horrors , and even crimes , as hanging over his career , in consequence , perhaps , of the inauspicious change in the patronymic of his race . 
And now , just as the stable-clock was striking four , the great oaken door of the old hall was thrown open with a vigorous swing that made it rattle on its hinges , and Jasper St. Aubyn came bounding out into the fresh morning air , with a foot as elastic as that of the mountain roe , singing a snatch of some quaint old ballad . 
He was dressed simply in a close-fitting jacket and tight hose of dark-green cloth , without any lace or embroidery , light boots of untanned leather , and a broad-leafed hat , with a single eagle 's feather thrust carelessly through the band . 
He wore neither cloak nor sword , though it was a period at which gentlemen rarely went abroad without both these , their distinctive attributes ; but in the broad black belt which girt his rounded waist he carried a stout wood-knife with a buckhorn hilt ; and over his shoulder there swung , from a leathern thong , a large wicker fishing-basket . 
Nothing , indeed , could be simpler or less indicative of any particular rank or station in society than young St. Aubyn 's garb , yet it would have been a very dull and unobservant eye which should take him for aught less than a high-born and high-bred gentleman . 
The hither side , though rough and steep and broken , was not in the place where Jasper stood precipitous ; indeed , it seemed as if at some distant period a sort of landslip had occurred , by which the fall of the rocky wall had been broken into massive fragments , and hurled down in an inclined plane into the bed of the stream , on which it had encroached with its shattered blocks and rounded boulders . 
After a rapid glance over the well-known scene , Jasper plunged into the coppice , and following a faint track worn by the feet of the wild-deer in the first instance , and widened by his own bolder tread , soon reached the bottom of the chasm , though not until he had flushed from the dense oak covert two noble black cocks with their superb forked tails , and glossy purple-lustred plumage , which soared away , crowing their bold defiance , over the heathery moorlands . 
But Jasper , although young in years , was old in the art , and skilful as the craftiest of the gentle craftsmen . 
Jasper stooped , gathered up in his left hand a heavy pebble , and pitched it into the pool , as nearly as he could guess to the whereabout of his game -- another -- and another ! 
that last has roused him . 
Again he throws himself clear out of water , and again foiled in his attempt to smash the tackle , dashes away down stream impetuous . 
But his strength is departing -- the vigor of his rush is broken . 
The angler gives him the butt abundantly , strains on him with a heavier pull , yet ever yields a little as he exerts his failing powers ; see , his broad silver side has thrice turned up , even turned to the surface , and though each time he was recovered himself , each time it has been with a heavier and more sickly motion . 
Under such circumstances , to whip the stream was little better than mere loss of time , yet , as he hurried with a fleet foot down the gorge , perhaps with some ulterior object , beyond the mere love of sport , Jasper at times cast his fly across the stream , and drew it neatly , and , as he thought , irresistibly right over the recusant fish ; but though once or twice a large lazy salmon would sail up slowly from the depths , and almost touch the fly with his nose , he either sunk down slowly in disgust , without breaking the water , or flapped his broad tail over the shining fraud as if to mark his contempt . 
It had now got to be near noon , for in the ardor of his success the angler had forgotten all about his intended breakfast ; and , his first fish captured , had contented himself with a slender meal furnished from out his fishing-basket and his leathern bottle . 
Jasper had traversed by this time some ten miles in length , following the sinuosities of the stream , and had reached a favorite pool at the head of a long , straight , narrow trench , cut by the waters themselves in the course of time , through the hard schistous rock which walls the torrent on each hand , not leaving the slightest ledge or margin between the rapids and the precipice . 
It is true , that throughout the length of the pass , the current was broken by bare , slippery rocks peering above the waters , at intervals , which might be cleared by an active cragsman ; and it had been in fact reconnoitred by Jasper and others in cool blood , but the result of the examination was that it was deemed impracticable as a fishing ground . 
Thinking , however , little of striking a large fish , and perhaps desiring to waste a little time before scaling the banks and emerging on the high road , Jasper threw a favorite fly of peacock 's harl and gold tinsel lightly across the water ; and , almost before he had time to think , had hooked a monstrous fish , which at the very first leap , he set down as weighing at least thirty pounds . 
Well known that his fish must be lost if he once should succeed in getting his head down the rapid , Jasper exerted every nerve , and exhausted every art to humor , to meet , to restrain , to check him . 
Four times the fish rushed for the pass , and four times , Jasper met him so stoutly with the butt , trying his tackle to the very utmost , that he succeeded in forcing him from the perilous spot . 
Round and round the pool he had piloted him , and had taken post at length , hoping that the worst was already over , close to the opening of the rocky chasm . 
And now , perhaps waxing too confident , he checked his fish too sharply . 
Stung into fury , the monster sprang five times in succession into the air , lashing the water with his angry tail , and then rushed like an arrow down the chasm . 
He was gone -- but Jasper 's blood was up , and thinking of nothing but his sport , he dashed forward and embarked with a fearless foot in the terrible descent . 
Leap after leap he took with beautiful precision , alighting firm and erect on the centre of each slippery block , and bounding thence to the next with unerring instinct , guiding his fish the while with consummate skill through the intricacies of the pass . 
There were now but three more leaps to be taken before he would reach the flat table-rock above the fall , which once attained , he would have firm foot-hold and a fair field . 
Already he rejoiced , triumphant in the success of his bold attainment , and confident in victory , when a shrill female shriek reached his ears , from the pretty flower-garden ; caught by the sound he diverted his eyes , just as he leaped , toward the place whence it came ; his foot slipped , and the next instant he was flat on his back in the swift stream , where it shot the most furiously over the glassy rock . 
He struggled manfully , but in vain . 
The smooth , slippery surface afforded no purchase to his griping fingers , no hold to his laboring feet . 
One fearful , agonizing conflict with the wild waters , and he was swept helplessly over the edge of the fall , his head , as he glanced down foot foremost , striking the rocky brink not without violence . 
He was plunged into the deep pool , and whirled round and round by the dark eddies long before he rose , but still , though stunned and half disabled , he strove terribly to support himself , but it was all in vain . 
Again he sunk and rose once more , and as he rose that wild shriek again reached his ears , and his last glance fell upon a female form wringing her hands in terror on the bank , and a young man rushing down in wild haste from the cottage on the hill-side . 
WhenJasper St. Aubyn opened his eyes , dim with the struggle of returning consciousness and life , they met a pair of eyes fixed with an expression of the most earnest anxiety on his own -- a pair of eyes , the loveliest into which he ever had yet gazed , large , dark , unfathomably deep , and soft withal and tender , as the day-dream of a love-sick poet . 
And you , silly child , '' he continued , turning toward the lovely girl , who had sunk forward on the bed , so that her fair tresses rested on the same pillow which supported Jasper 's head , with the big tears trickling silently between her slender fingers , `` dry up your tears ; for the youth shall live , and not die . '' 
Then recovering himself , as if by a little effort , from his brief fit of musing , he held forth a large glass goblet which was in his right hand , full of some bright ruby-colored liquid , to the lips of Jasper , saying : -- `` Drink , youth , it will give thee strength . 
The flavor was agreeable , and the coolness of the draught was so delicious to the feverish palate and parched tongue of Jasper , that he drained it to the very bottom , and then , as if exhausted by the effort , relaxed his hold , and sunk back on his pillow in a state of conscious languor , exquisitely soft and entracing . 
More and more that voluptuous dream-like trance overcame him , and though his eyes were still open he saw not the things that were around him , but a multitude of radiant and lovely visions , which came and went , and returned again , in mystic evolutions . 
With a last effort of his failing senses , half conscious of the interest which she took in him , yet wholly ignorant who or what was that gentle she , he stretched out his hand and mastered one of hers with gentle violence , and holding it imprisoned in his burning fingers , closed his swimming eyes , and sunk into a deep and dreamless sleep . 
The old man , who had watched every symptom that appeared in succession on his expressive face , saw that the potion had taken the desired effect , and drawing a short sigh , which seemed to indicate a sense of relief from apprehension , looked toward the maiden , and addressed her in a low voice , not so much from fear of wakening the sleeper , as that the voice of affection is ever low and gentle . 
Then , in the fervor of the moment , which led her naturally to clasp her hands together , she made a movement to withdraw her fingers from Jasper 's death-like grasp , unconscious , for the time , of everything around her . 
But , as she did so , a tightened pressure of his hand , and some inarticulate sounds which proceeded from his lips , recalled her with a start to herself . 
She dropped into her seat , as if conscience-stricken , gazed fixedly in his face , then stooped and pressed her lips on his inanimate brow ; started again , looked about the room with a half guilty glance , bowed her head on his pillow , and wept bitterly . 
Theevening had advanced far into night before the effects of the potion he had swallowed passed away , and left the mind of Jasper clear , and his pulse regular and steady . 
When he awoke from his long stupor , and turned his eyes around him , it seemed as if he had dreamed of what he saw before him ; for the inanimate objects of the room , nay , the very faces which met his eye , had something in them that was not altogether unfamiliar , yet for his life he could not have recalled when , or if ever he had seen them before . 
The old dark-wainscoted walls of the irregular , many-recessed apartment , adorned with a few water-color drawings , and specimens of needlework , the huge black and gold Indian cabinet in one corner , the tall clock-stand of some foreign wood in another , the slab above the yawning hearth covered with tropical shells and rare foreign curiosities , the quaint and grotesque chairs and tables , with strangely-contorted legs and arms , and wild satyr-like faces grinning from their bosses , the very bed on which he lay , with its carved headboard , and groined canopy of oak , and dark-green damask curtains , were all things which he felt he must have seen , though where and how he knew not . 
So was the face of the slight fair-haired girl who sat a little way removed from his bed 's head , by a small round work-table , on which stood a waxen taper , bending over some one of those light tasks of embroidery or knitting which women love , and are wont to dignify by the name of work . 
On her he fixed his eyes long and wistfully , gazing at her , as he would have done at a fair picture , without any desire to address her , or to do aught that should induce her to move from the graceful attitude in which she sat , giving no sign of life save in the twinkling of her long , downcast eyelashes , in the calm rise and fall of her gentle bosom , and the quick motion of her busy fingers . 
Jasper St. Aubyn was still weak , but he was unconscious of any pain or ailment , though he now began gradually to remember all that had passed before he lost his consciousness in the deep pool above the fords of Widecomb . 
So weak was he , indeed , that it was almost too great an effort for him to consider where he was , or how he had been saved , much more to move his body , or ask any question of that fair watcher . 
He felt indeed that he should be perfectly contented to lie there all his life , in that painless , tranquil mood , gazing upon that fair picture . 
But while he lay there , with his large eyes wide open and fixed upon her , as if by their influence he would have charmed her soul out of its graceful habitation , a word or two spoken in a louder voice than had yet struck his ear , for persons had been speaking in the room all the time , although he had not observed them , attracted his notice to the other side of his bed . 
It was not so much the words , for he scarce heard , and did not heed their import , as the tone of voice which struck him ; for though well-known and most familiar , he could in no wise connect it with the other things around him . 
With the desire to ascertain what this might mean , there came into his mind , he knew not wherefore , a wish to do so unobserved ; and he proceeded forthwith to turn himself over on his pillow so noiselessly as to excite no attention in the watchers , whoever they might be . 
He had not made two efforts , however , to do this , before he became aware of what , while he lay still , he did not suspect , that several of his limbs had received severe contusions , and could not as yet be moved with impunity . 
He was a singular youth , however , and an almost Spartan endurance of physical pain , with a strange persistency in whatever he undertook , had been from very early boyhood two of his strongest characteristics . 
In spite , therefore , of his weakness , in spite of the pain every motion gave him , he persevered , and turning himself inch by inch , at length gained a position which enabled him clearly to discern the speakers . 
They were two in number , the one facing him , the other having his back turned so completely that all he could see was a head covered with long-curled locks of snow-white hair , a dark-velvet cloak , and the velvet scabbard of a long rapier protruding far beyond the legs of the oak-chair on which he sat . 
The lower limbs of this person were almost lost in darkness as they lay carelessly crossed under the table , so that he divined rather than saw that they were cased in heavy riding-boots , on the heels of which a faint golden glimmer gave token of the wearer 's rank in the knightly spurs he wore . 
The lamp which stood upon the table by which they were conversing was set between the two , so that it was quite invisible to Jasper , and its light , which to his eyes barely touched the edges of the figure he had first observed , fell full upon the pale high brow and serene lineaments of the other person , who was in fact no other than the old man who had spoken to the youth in the intervals of his trance , and administered the potion from the effects of which he was but now recovering . 
Of this , however , Jasper had no recollection , although he wondered , as he had done concerning the girl , where he had before seen that fine countenance and benevolent expression , and how once seen he ever should have forgotten it . 
There was yet a third person in the group , though he took no part in the conversation , and appeared to be , like Jasper , rather an interested and observant witness of what was going on , than an actor in the scene . 
He was a tall , dark-haired and dark-eyed man , in the first years of manhood , not perhaps above five or six years Jasper 's senior ; but his bronzed and sunburnt cheeks curiously contrasted with the fairness of his forehead , where it had not been exposed to the sun , and an indescribable blending of boldness -- it might have almost been called audacity -- with calm self-confidence and cold composure , which made up the expression of his face , seemed to indicate that he had seen much of the world , and learned many of its secrets , perhaps by the stern lessoning of the great teachers , suffering and sorrow . 
The fignre of this young man was but imperfectly visible , as he stood behind the high-backed chair , on which the old man , from whom the similarity in their features , if not in their expression , Jasper took to be his father , was seated . 
But his face , his muscular neck , his well-developed chest and broad shoulders , displayed by a close-fitting jerkin of some dark stuff , were all in strong light ; and as the features and expression of the countenance gave token of a powerful character and energetic will , so did the frame give promise of ability to carry out the workings of the mind . 
The dialogue , which had been interrupted by a silence of some seconds following on the words that had attracted Jasper 's notice , was now continued by the old man who sat facing him . 
exclaimed a voice , which Jasper instantly recognised for his father 's , though for years he had not heard him speak in tones of the like animation . 
And the two old men clasped their withered hands across the table , and Jasper might see the big drops tricking slowly down the face of him who was called William Allan , while from the agitation of his father 's frame he judged that he was not free from the like agitation . 
A moment or two afterward , Sir Miles raised his head , which he had bowed a little , perhaps to conceal the feelings which might have agitated it , and again clasping the hand of the other , said eagerly , -- `` It is you , William , who have saved my boy , my Jasper ; and this is not the first time that a scion of your house has preserved one of mine from death , or yet worse , ruin ! '' 
exclaimed Jasper , in a faint voice , as the door closed upon them . 
`` My boy , my own boy , Jasper . 
Jasper , Jasper , ' t was a fearful risk , and it had well nigh been fatal . '' 
`` Never do so -- never do so again , Jasper . 
`` A good feeling , Jasper ; and one that leads to many good things , and without which nothing great can be attained ; but to do good , like all other feelings , it must be moderated and controlled by reason . 
But you must learn to think ever before acting , Jasper . '' 
`` An old friend of mine , Jasper -- an old friend whom I have not seen for years , and who is now doubly a friend , since he has saved your life . '' 
young sir , '' he continued , seeing that Jasper was awake , and taking him kindly by the hand , `` I am glad to see that you have recovered . '' 
`` About as gallantly as you did , when you came so near losing it , '' he answered . 
`` I need no watcher , sir , '' replied Jasper , boldly . 
Theearliest cock had barely crowed his first salutations to the awakening day , and the first warblers had not yet begun to make their morning music in the thick shrubberies around the cottage , when aroused betimes , by his anxiety for Jasper , Sir Miles made his appearance , already full dressed , at the door of the room in which his son was sleeping . 
`` Hismother , '' replied Sir Miles St. Aubyn , calmly , but sadly , pointing to the bed on which Jasper lay sleeping tranquilly , and all unconsciously of the strange revelations which were going on around him . 
and Jasper St. Aubyn opened his eyes , languid yet from the heavy slumber into which the opiate had cast him , and raised himself up a little on his pillow , though with a slow and painful motion . 
Jasper , alone perhaps of all the persons so singularly thrown together , was himself . 
His age , his character , his temperament , all combined to render him the last to be affected seriously by anything which did not touch himself very nearly . 
And yet he was not altogether what is called selfish ; though recklessness , and natural audacity , and undue indulgence , and , above all , the evil habits which had grown out of his being too soon his own master , and the master of others , had rendered him thoughtless , if not regardless , of the feelings of those around him . 
All the consequences of his accident , except the stiffness and pain remaining from his contusions , had passed away ; and though he was confined to his bed , and unable to move a limb without a pang , his mind was as clear , and his spirit as untamed as ever . 
His father , who had been aroused from the state of indolence and sedentary torpor , which was habitual rather than natural to him , by the accident which had startled him into excitement and activity , had not yet subsided into his careless self-indulgence ; for the subsequent events of the past evening , and his conversation with Denzil on that morning , had moved and interested him deeply -- had set him to thinking much about the past , and thence to ruminating on the future , if perchance he could read it . 
He by no means lacked clear-sightedness , or that sort of wordly wisdom , which arises from much intercourse with the world in all its various phases . 
He was far from deficient in energy when aught occurred to stimulate him into action , whether bodily or mental . 
And now he was interested enough to induce him so far to exert himself , as to think about what was passing , and to endeavor to discover its causes . 
It was not , therefore , long before he satisfied himself , and that without asking a question , or giving utterance to a surmise , that an explanation had taken place between the young seaman and Theresa , and that the explanation had terminated in the disappointment of Denzil 's hopes . 
Until Jasper should be sufficiently recovered either to set foot in stirrup , or to walk the distance between the fords of Widecomb and the House in the Woods , there was therefore no alternative but to make the best of it , and to remain where they were , relying on the hospitality of their entertainers . 
But at this moment Jasper , whose natural recklessness had rendered him unobservant of the feelings which had been displayed during that short conversation , raised himself on his elbow , and looking eagerly at Denzil exclaimed : -- `` Oh , the Virginia voyage ! 
answered Denzil , with a ready smile , for there was something that whispered at his heart , though indeed he knew not wherefore , that it were not so ill done to remove Jasper from that neighborhood for a while . 
asked his uncle in a caustic tone . 
and he carolled the words in a fine deep bass voice , to a stirring air , and then added -- `` That , sir , is the cause we fight for , on the line and beyond it -- and that we will fight for , here and everywhere , when it shall be needful to fight for it . 
`` Indeed , will I not , Jasper , '' said Sir Miles , with an accent of resolve so steady , that the boy saw at once it was useless to waste another word on it . 
`` Besides , he is only laughing at you . 
what in Heaven 's name should he make with such a cockerel as thou , crowing or ere thy spurs have sprouted ! '' 
`` Laughing at me , is he ! '' 
`` If I thought he were , he 'd scarce sail so quickly as he counts on doing . '' 
Here Denzil would have spoken , but the old cavalier cut in before him , saying with a sneer : -- `` It is like thou couldst hinder him , my boy , at any time ; most of all when thou art lying there bedridden . '' 
`` The very reason wherefore I could hinder him the easier , '' replied Jasper , who saw by Denzil 's grave and calm expression that the meaning his father had attached to his speech , was not his meaning . 
Before Jasper had time to reply to these words , his father said to him with a look of approbation : -- `` You have answered very well , my son ; and I am glad that you have reflected , and seen so well what becomes a gentleman to ask , and to grant in such cases . 
`` I was not aware , Jasper , '' answered his father more seriously than he had ever before heard him speak , `` that this latter was one of your amusements . 
`` I did not say that I ever had amused myself so , '' replied Jasper , somewhat crest-fallen by the rebuke of his father -- `` though if I am kept moping here much longer , Heaven only knows what I may do . '' 
`` And you will pass one day I trust , if you may not give us more , with Jasper at the manor . 
Thuspassed the afternoon , until the evening meal was announced , and Jasper was left alone , with nothing but his own wild and whirling thoughts to entertain him . 
He was ill at ease in his own mind , ill at ease with himself and with all around him . 
Vexed with Denzil Bras-de-fer , for offering in the first instance to take him as a partner in his adventure , and then for failing at the pinch to back his offer by his stout opinion ; vexed with his father for thwarting his will , and yet more for rebuking him publicly , and in the presence of Theresa , too , before whom , boylike , he would fain have figured as a hero ; and lastly , vexed with Theresa herself , because , though kind and gentle , she had not sat by his bedside all day , as she did yesterday , or devoted all her attention to himself alone , he was in the very mood to torment himself , and every one else , to the extent of his powers . 
Then , as his thoughts wandered from one to another of those whom he thought fit to look upon as having wronged him , they settled on the most innocent of all , Theresa ; and , at the same moment , the wild words , which he had uttered without any ulterior meaning at the time , and with no other intent than that of annoying his father , recurred to his mind , concerning village-maidens . 
He started , as the idea occurred to him , and at first he wondered what train of thought could have brought back those words in connection with Theresa 's image . 
But , as he grew accustomed to his own thought , it became , as it were , the father to the wish ; and he began to consider how pretty and gentle she was , and how delicate her slight , rounded figure , and how soft and low her voice . 
In the purity of her heart , in the half-pitiful , half-protecting spirit which she felt toward Jasper , first as an invalid , and then as a mere boy -- for although he was , perhaps , a year her senior , who does not know that boys in their eighteenth year are a full lustre younger than girls of the same age -- she had thought nothing , dreamed nothing of impropriety in yielding her hand to the boy 's affectionate grasp , until the step of the man , whose proffered love she had that very day declined , led her to think intuitively what would be hisfeelings , and thence what must be Jasper 's , concerning that permitted license . 
Acquitting her , therefore , of all blame or coquetry , and looking upon Jasper as a mere boy , and worthy to be treated as such only , reflecting , moreover , that he was , for the time being , shielded by his infirmity , he controlled himself , though not without an effort , and with a lip now curling scornfully , and an eye rather contemptuous than angry , advanced to the fireside , and took his seat beside his uncle and Sir Miles , without taking the slightest notice of the others . 
In the meantime , Theresa , after she had disengaged her hand from Jasper , and cast upon him that one look of serene indignation , turned her back on him quietly , in spite of some attempt at apology or explanation which he began to utter . 
Walking slowly and composedly to the table , she laid down on it the volume of Shakspere which she had been reading to him , and selecting some implements of feminine industry , moved over to the group assembled round the hearth , and sat down on a low footstool , between Denzil and her father . 
No one but the two young men and herself were aware what had passed ; and she , though annoyed by Jasper 's forwardness , having , as she thought , effectually repelled it , had already dismissed it from her mind as a thing worth no further consideration . 
Denzil , on the other hand , though attaching far more importance to his action , saw plainly that this was not the time or the place for making any comment on it , even if he had been capable of adding to Theresa 's embarrassment ; while Jasper , mortified and frustrated by the lady 's scornful self-possession , and the free-trader 's manifest self-contempt , had no better mode of concealing his disappointment , than by sinking back upon his pillow , as if fatigued or in pain , and feigning to fall gradually asleep -- a feint which , as is oftentimes the case , terminated at last in reality . 
`` I will be there soon after the sun is up , Denzil , and that I may be so , good night , all , '' and with the word , kissing her father 's brow , and giving her hand affectionately to Denzil , she courtesied to the old cavalier , and left the room without so much as looking toward Jasper , who was , however , already fast asleep , and unconscious of all sublunary matters . 
Her rising , though she had not joined in the conversation for the last hour or more , broke up the company , and in a few minutes they had all withdrawn , each to his own apartment ; and Jasper was left alone , with the brands dying out one by one on the hearth-stone , and an old tabby cat dozing near the andirons ; this night he had no other watchers , and none were there to hear or see what befell him during the hours of darkness . 
Then the white lips were parted with a slow , circular distortion , showing the pearly teeth within , and -- if a voice came forth from those ghastly lips , Jasper St. Aubyn knew it not , for he had sunk back on his pillow -- if , indeed , he had ever , as he believed to the day of his death , raised himself up from it -- in a deep trance , from which he passed into a dead , heavy , dreamless stupor , which continued undisturbed until the sun was high in the heavens , and the whole household were afoot , and busied about their usual avocations . 
In the meantime , she whose image , whether in truth it was an eidolon , or merely the idea of a diseased mind and preoccupied spirit had been so busy during the hours of darkness , had awakened all refreshed by light and innocent slumbers , with the first peep of day , and arising from her couch had descended into the garden , still half enveloped in the dewy vapors of the summer night , half-glimmering in the slant radiance of the newrisen sun . 
She was the first at her appointment , for Denzil had not yet made his appearance , and she walked to and fro awaiting him , among the flowery thickets and sweet-scented shrubberies , all bathed in the copious night-dews , half-wondering , half-guessing , what it could be that he should so earnestly desire to communicate . 
And as she walked , she considered with herself all that had occurred during the last three days , and the more she considered , the less was she able to comprehend the workings of her own mind , or to explain to herself wherefore it was that she could not divest herself of the idea that the crisis of her life , the fate of her heart was at hand . 
That she had rejected Denzil 's proffered love , his honest , manly love , she knew that she ought not to regret , for she felt surely that she could not love him in return as he ought , as he deserved to be loved ; and yet she did almost regret it . 
Then she began to ask herself why she did not , why she couldnot love him , endowed eminently as he was with many high and noble qualities ; and she was soon answered , when she considered how far he fell short of her standard , in mental and intellectual culture , in all that pertained to the secret sympathies of the heart , to the kindred tastes and sentiments , to that community of hopes and wishes , which , under the head of eadem velle atque nolle , the Roman philosophical historian had declared to be the sole base of true friendship -- might he not better have said of true love ? 
She almost loved Jasper St. Aubyn . 
Again , to the recollection of his boldness on the previous evening , of his half-forcible seizure of her hand , of the kiss he had so daringly imprinted on her soft fingers , of the too-meaning words which he had addressed to her , and of the tone , which conveyed even more of consciousness and confidence than the words themselves , all rushed at once upon her mind ; and , though she was alone , she started , and her face crimsoned at the mere memory of what she half felt as an indignity . 
`` Farewell ; and God grant that when I do return , I find you the wife , and not the mistress , of Jasper St. Aubyn . '' 
Where was Jasper St. Aubyn ? 
Twoyears had passed away since Denzil Bras-de-fer set sail on the Virginia voyage , and from that day no tidings had been heard of him in England . 
He held her only in his selfishness of soul , even before his passion had `` Spent as yet its novel force , Something better than his dog , a little dearer than his horse . '' 
He had seen enough of courts and courtiers to learn their hollowness , and all the empty falsehood of their gorgeous show -- he had mingled enough in the great world to be convinced that real happiness was not to be sought in the hurlyburly of its perilous excitement , and incessant strife ; and that which would have rendered him the happiest , would have been to see Jasper established , tranquilly , and at his ease , with domestic bonds to insure the permanency of his happiness , before his own time should come , as the lord of Widecomb . 
And such were his views when he prevailed on Theresa to let the House in the Woods be her home , until at least such time as news could be received of her cousin ; who , certainly , whatever might be the relative state of their affections , would never suffer her to want a home or a protector . 
He had observed that Jasper was struck deeply by the charms of the sweet girl ; he knew , although he had affected not to know it , that , under the pretence of fishing or shooting excursions , he had been in the almost daily habit of visiting her , since the accident which had led to their acquaintance ; and he was , above all , well assured that the girl loved him with all the deep , unfathomable devotion of which such hearts as hers alone are capable . 
Thus , with a heart overflowing with affection for that wild , wilful , passionate boy , released from the only tie of obedience or restraint that could have bound her , poor Theresa was delivered over , fettered as it were , hand and foot , to the perilous influence of Jasper 's artifices , and the scarce less dangerous suggestions of her own affections . 
But idolizing Jasper as she did , and believing him all that was high and generous and noble , seeing that all his external errors tended to the side of rash , hasty impulse , never to calculation or deceit , she saw everything , as it were , through his eyes , and was easily induced by him to believe that all his fatherlike kindness and fatherlike attention to her slightest wish , arose only from his love for her lost parent , and compassion for her sad abandonment ; nay , further , he insisted that the least suspicion of their mutual passion would lead to their instant and eternal separation . 
She loved Jasper with a devotedness , a singleness , and at the same time a consuming heat of passion , which scarcely could be believed to exist in one so calm , so self-possessed , and so innocently-minded -- and , above all , she had none else in the wide world on whom to fix her affections . 
The declining health of Sir Miles St. Aubyn was no secret in the neighborhood -- the near approach of his death was already a matter of speculation ; and already men almost looked upon Jasper as the lord , in esse , of the estates of Widecomb manor . 
The old man had known Jasper from his boyhood , had loved Theresa , whom he had , indeed , baptized , from her cradle . 
Between his affection for the parties , and his interest in his son 's welfare , it was easy to frame a plausible tale , which should work him to Jasper 's will ; and with even less difficulty than the boy looked for , he was prevailed upon to unite them secretly , and at the dead of night , in the parish-church at the small village by the fords . 
Jasper St. Aubyn didlove Theresa Allan , as I have said before , with all the love which he could bestow on anything divine or human . 
His passion for the possession of her charms , both personal and mental , was , as his passions ever were , inordinate . 
His belief in her excellence , her purity , in the stability of her principles , the impregnable strength of her virtue , could not be proved more surely than by the fact , that he had never dared an attempt to shake them . 
His faith in her adoration for himself was as firm-fixed as the sun in heaven . 
And , lastly , his conviction of the constancy of his own love toward her , of the impossibility of that love 's altering or perishing , was strong as his conviction of his own being . 
But he was one of those singularly-constituted beings , who will never take an easy path when he has the option of one more difficult ; never follow the straight road when he can see a tortuous byway leading to the same end . 
Had his father as he pretended , desired to thwart his will , or prevent his marriage with Theresa , for that very cause he would have toiled indefatigably , till he had made her his own in the face of day . 
Partly swayed by a romantic and half-chivalrous feeling , which loved to build up difficulties for the mere pleasure of surmounting them , partly urged on by pure wilfulness and recklessness of temper , he chose evil for his good , he rushed into deceit where truth would , in fact , have served his purpose better . 
A boyish love of mystery and mischief might probably have had its share likewise in his strange conduct , and a sort of self-pride in the skill with which he managed his plot , and worked the minds of older men into submission to his own will . 
Lastly , to compel Theresa to this sacrifice of her sense of duty and propriety , to this abandonment of principle to passion , appeared to his perverted intellect a mighty victory , an overwhelming proof of her devotedness to his selfish will . 
If there were any darker and deeper motive in his mind , it was unconfessed to himself ; and in truth , I believe , none such then existed . 
If such did in after-times grow up within him , it arose probably from a perception of the fatal facility which that first fraud , with its elaborate deceits , had given him for working further evil . 
The clock was striking midnight -- ill-omened hour for such a rite as that -- in the tower of the parish-church , as Jasper St. Aubyn sprung to the ground before the old Saxon porch , and lifting his sweet bride from the saddle , fastened the bridles of their horses to the hooks in the churchyard-wall , and entered the low-browed door which gave access to the nave . 
So eagerly did Jasper proffer his services , and with an alacrity so contrary to his usual sluggishness , when his own interests were not at stake , did he order his horse and gallop down to the village to visit his old friend , that his father smiled , well pleased , and half-laughingly thanked Theresa , when the boy had gone ; saying that he really believed her gentle influence was charming some of Jasper 's wilfulness away , and that he trusted ere long to see him , through her precept and example , converted into a milder and more humanized mood and temper . 
She did it not ; and she repented not then -- for when she told Jasper how nearly she had confessed all , his brow grew as dark as night , and he put her from him , exclaiming with an oath , that had she done so , he had never loved her more -- but did she not repent thereafter ? 
It was late when Jasper returned , and he was , to all outward observers , sad and thoughtful ; but Theresa could read something in his countenance , which told herthat he had derived some secret satisfaction from his visit . 
In a word , the danger , apprehension of which had so prompted Jasper 's charity , and quickened his zeal in well-doing -- the danger , that the old clergyman should divulge in extremisthe duty which had led him to the church at an hour so untimely , was at an end for ever . 
It so fell out that the record of Theresa Allan 's union with Jasper St. Aubyn , was the first entry on a fresh leaf of the register . 
But to do Jasper justice , he knew not of this villany ; nor , had he known , would he thenhave sanctioned it . 
He only wished to secure himself against momentary discovery . 
And delighting , as he really did , in the closest intercourse with his sweet , young bride , he chafed and fumed at finding that the necessity of keeping up the concealment , which he had so needlessly insisted on , precluded him from the possibility of enjoying his new possession , as he would , entirely , and at all hours . 
He would have given almost his right hand now to be able to declare openly that she was his own . 
But for once in his life , he dared not ! 
He could not bring himself to confess to his kind father the cruel breach of confidence , the foul and causeless deceit of which he had been guilty ; and he began almost to look forward to the death of that excellent and idolizing parent , as the only event that could allow him to call his wife his own . 
It was not long before his wish -- if that can be called a wish , which he dared not confess to his own guilty heart , was accomplished . 
The first snows had not fallen yet , when the old cavalier fell ill , and declined so rapidly that before the old year was dead he was gathered to his fathers . 
As he had lived , so he died , a just , upright , kindly , honorable man -- at peace with all men , and in faith with his God . 
His last words were entreaty to his son to take Theresa Allan to his wife , and to live with her unambitiously , unostentatiously , as he had lived himself , and was about to die , at Widecomb . 
And even then , though he promised to obey his father 's bidding , the boy 's heart was not softened , nor was his conscience touched by any sense of the wrong he had done . 
He promised , and as the good man 's dying eye kindled with pleasure , he smiled on him with an honest seeming smile , received his parting kiss , and closed his eyes , and stood beside the dead , unrelenting , unrepentant . 
He may , indeed , say to himself `` Thus far will I go , and no farther , '' but when he shall have once attained the proposed limit , and shall set himself to work to recover that straight path from which he has once deviated , fortunate will he be , indeed , if he find not a thousand obstacles , which it shall tax his utmost energy , his utmost ingenuity , to surmount , if he have not to cry out in despair : -- Jasper St. Aubyn did honestly intend to do , the next day , what he that night promised ; nor did he doubt that he coulddo it , and so do it , as to save her scatheless , of whom he had not yet grown weary . 
All cautiously as Jasper had contrived his visits to the chamber of his wife , all guarded as had been his intercourse with her , although he had never dreamed that a suspicion had been awakened in a single mind of the existence of such an intercourse , he had not stolen thither once , nor returned once to his own solitary couch , but keen , curious , prying eyes had followed him . 
There was not a maid-servant in the house but knew Miss Theresa 's shame , as all believed it to be ; but tittered and triumphed over it in her sleeves , as an excuse , or at least a palliation of her own peccadilloes ; but told it , in confidence , to her own lover , Tom , the groom , or Dick , the falconer , until it was the common gossip of the kitchen and the butlery , how the fair and innocent Theresa was Master Jasper 's mistress . 
The mournful ceremonial ended , Jasper was musing alone in the old library , considering with himself how he might best arrange the revelation , which he proposed to make that very evening to his household of his hitherto concealed marriage with Theresa , when suddenly a servant entered and informed him that Peter Verity , the sexton , would be glad to speak six words with his honor , if it would not be too much trouble . 
`` By no means , '' replied Jasper , eagerly , for he foresaw , as he thought , through this man a ready mode of extricating himself from the embarrassment of the disclosure , `` admit him instantly . '' 
The fellow entered ; a low , miserable , sneaking scoundrel , even from his appearance ; and Jasper felt as if he almost loathed himself that he had ever had to do with so degraded a specimen of mortality . 
He had need of him , however , and was compelled , therefore , much against his will , to greet him , and speak him fairly . 
`` Ha , Verity , '' he said , `` I am glad you have come , I should have sent for you in the morning , if you had not come up to-night . 
Jasper interrupted him , starting to his feet , `` I never asked you -- never asked any man -- to do aught that should affect his life . '' 
exclaimed Jasper , utterly bewildered . 
Jasper cast his eyes up to heaven in despair , and wrung his hands bitterly . 
he said , `` I would give five thousand if you could undo this that you have done . 
Jasper had listened to him in silence , with his eyes buried in his hands , while he was speaking , and as he ceased he made no reply ; but remained motionless for several minutes . 
Then he raised his head , and answered in an altered and broken voice . 
He opened a drawer , as he spoke , in the escritoir which stood before him , and took out of it a small box bound with brass and secured by a massive lock , the key of which was attached to a chain about his neck . 
It was filled with rouleux of gold , from which he counted out the sum specified , and pushed the gold across the table to the man , saying , `` Count it , and see that it is right , and give me the paper . '' 
So you shall do well , '' replied Jasper . 
It is not desirable that you should be there when I address them ; '' and lighting a hand-lamp as he ceased speaking , for it had grown dark already during the conversation , he turned his back on the discomfited sexton , and went up by a private staircase to what was called the ladies ' withdrawing-room , an apartment which , having been shut up since the death of his own mother , had been reopened on Theresa 's joining the family . 
`` The sexton of the church has been with you , Jasper , '' she said , eagerly , as her husband entered the room ; `` what should have brought him hither ? '' 
`` He was here , you know , dearest , at the sad ceremonial ; and I had desired him to bring up a copy of the record of our marriage . 
He wished to deliver it to me in person . '' 
`` How good of you , dear Jasper , and how thoughtful , '' she replied , casting her fair , white arms about his neck , and kissing his forehead tenderly , `` that you may show it to the people , and prove to them that I am indeed your wife . '' 
`` They would not dream of doing so , Jasper , '' she replied gently . 
so immeasurably happy , Jasper , even when I should be mournful at your good father 's death , who was so kind to me ; but I can not -- I can not -- this joy completely overwhelms me . 
And she raised her beautiful blue eyes to his , running over with tears of tenderness and joy ; and her sweet lips half apart , so perfumed and so rosy , and radiant with so bright a smile , as might have tempted the sternest anchorite to bend over her as Jasper did , and press them with a long kiss of pure affection . 
`` Now I will leave you , dearest , '' he said , kindly , `` for a little space , while I see that things are arranged for this great ceremonial . 
The old steward , to whom Jasper had communicated his purpose , had already informed them of the object of their convocation , and great was their wonder , though as yet they had little time to comment on it , or communicate their thoughts and suspicions of the news . 
Finding no eye in the circle that met his own with an inquisitive , much less an insolent glance , Jasper St. Aubyn paused , and addressed his people with a subdued and almost melancholy smile , although his voice was clear and sonorous . 
`` This a sad occasion , '' he said , `` on which it first falls to my lot , my people , to address you here , as the master of a few , the landlord of many , and , as I hope to prove myself , the friend of all . 
Here he paused , and pressing the little white hand which reposed on his arm so gently , smiled in the face of his young wife , as he moved her a little forward into the centre of the circle . 
He ceased , and three full rounds of cheering responded to his manly speech . 
The old steward , indeed , who had grown up a contemporary of Jasper 's father , and the scarcely less aged housekeeper , did , indeed , show some feeling , and were probably sincere as they offered their greetings , and promised their humble services . 
Then having ordered supper to be prepared for all present , and liquor to be served out , both ale and wine , of a better quality than usual , that the company might drink the health of their young mistress , well pleased that the embarrassing scene was at an end , Jasper led Theresa up to her own room , palpitating with the excitement of the scene , and agitated even by the excess of her own happiness . 
said the fellow , gaping in stupid wonderment , `` thou didst hear what Master Jasper said . '' 
`` Why , she be his sweetheart . 
Just what we be , Jem , '' said the unblushing girl , `` what the quality folks calls his ` miss . ' 
Why , Jem , he 's slept in her room every night since she came here . 
He 's only said this here , about her being his wife , to save her character . '' 
`` No blame to him for that Bess , if it be so . 
Such were not the only comments of the kind which passed that evening ; and although , fortunately for Jasper 's and Theresa 's peace of mind , they never dreamed of what was going on below , it was in fact generally understood among the younger men and women , both of those within and without the house , that Jasper 's declaration was a mere stratagem , resorted to in order to procure more respect and consideration for his concubine . 
And , although she was everywhere treated and addressed as St. Aubyn 's wife , every succeeding day and hour she was more generally regarded as his victim , and his mistress . 
Added to this , the fierce impetuosity of Jasper , when crossed by anything , or opposed in his will , and the certainty that he would stop at nothing to avenge any affront aimed at Theresa , so long as he chose to style her his wife , deterred not only the household and village gossips , but even that more odious class , the hypocritical , puritanic , self-constituted judges of society , and punishers of what they choose to deem immorality , from following out the bent of their mischievous or malicious tempers . 
A full year had run its magic round since Theresa gave herself up to Jasper , for better for worse , till death should them part . 
But passion is proverbially short-lived ; and the most so with those who , like Jasper , have no solidity of character , no stability of feeling , no fixed principles , whereon to fall back for support . 
One of the great defects of Jasper 's nature was a total lack of reverence for anything divine or human -- he had loved many things , he never had respected one . 
Accustomed from his earliest boyhood to see everything yield to his will , to measure the value of everything by the present pleasure it afforded him , he expected to receive all things , yet to give nothing . 
He was in fact a very pattern of pure selfishness , though no one would have been so much amazed as he had he heard himself so named . 
Time passed , and he grew weary , even of the very excess of his happiness -- even of the amiability , the sweetness , the ever-yielding gentleness of his Theresa . 
That she should so long have charmed one so rash and reckless was the real wonder , not that she should now have lost the power of charming him . 
Nevertheless so it was ; the mind of Jasper was not so constituted as to rest very long content with anything , least of all with tranquillity -- `` For quiet to hot bosoms is a hell ! '' 
He neglected her , he left her alone -- alone , without a companion , a friend , in the wide world . 
And when he did come home from his fierce , frantic gallops across the country with the worst and wildest of the young yeomanry , or from his disgraceful orgies with the half-gentry of the nearest market-town , she received him ever with kindness , gentleness , and love . 
She never let him know that she wept in silence ; never allowed him to see that she noticed his altered manner ; but smiled on him , and sung to him , and fondled him , as if he had been to her -- and was he not so ? 
And he , such is the spirit of the selfish and the reckless of our sex , almost began to hate her , for the very meekness and affection with which she submitted to his unkindness . 
He felt that her unchanged , unreproaching love was the keenest reproach to his altered manner , to his neglectful coldness . 
He felt that he could better have endured the bitterest blame , the most agonized remonstrance , the tears of the veriest Niobe , than meet the ever-welcoming smile of those rosy lips , the ever-loving glance of those soft blue eyes . 
Perhaps had she possessed more of what such men as he call spirit , had the vein of her genius led to outbursts of vehement , unfeminine , Italian passion , the flashing eye , the curling lip , the face pallid with rage , the tongue fluent with the torrent eloquence of indignation , he might have found in them something to rouse his dormant passions from the lethargy which had overcome them , something to stimulate and excite him into renewed desire . 
Secluded as Widecomb manor was , and far divided from the seats of the other gentry of Devonshire by tracts of moor and forest , and little intercourse as Jasper had held hitherto with his equals in rank and birth -- limited as that intercourse had been to a few visits of form , and a few annual banquets -- the stir of the political world reached even the remote House in the Woods . 
The mad whirl of politics was precisely the thing to captivate a mind such as Jasper 's ; and the instant the subject was broached to him , by some of the more leading youths of the county , he plunged headlong into its deepest vortices , and was soon steeped to the lips in conspiracy . 
Events rendered it necessary that he should visit the metropolis , and twice during the autumn he had already visited it -- alone . 
And twice he had returned to his beautiful young wife , who hailed his coming as a heathen priestess would have greeted the advent of her god , more alienated , colder , and more careless than before . 
Since he had last returned , the coldness was converted into cruelty , active , malicious , fiendish cruelty . 
Yet still , faithful to the end and fond , she still loved him . 
Still would have laid down the dregs of the life which had been so happy till she knew him , and which he had made so wretched , to win one of his old fond smiles , one of his once caressing tones , one of his heart-felt kisses . 
He had learned , for the first time , in London , the value of his rank , his wealth , his position . 
He had been flattered by men of lordly birth , fêtedand fondled by the fairest and noblest ladies of the land . 
He had learned to be ambitious -- he had begun to thirst for social eminence , for political ascendency , for place , power , dominion . 
His talents had created a favorable impression in high quarters -- his enthusiasm and daring rashness had made an effect -- he was already a marked man among the conspirators , who were aiming to pull down the sovereignty of the Stuarts . 
Hints had been even thrown out to him , of the possibility of allying himself to interests the most important , through the beautiful and gorgeous daughter of one of the oldest of the peers of England . 
And Jasper had thought of it . 
The thought had never been for one moment , absent from his mind , sleeping or waking , since it first found admission to the busy chambers of his brain . 
From that unfortunate day , his life had been but one series of plots and schemes , all base , atrocious , horrible -- some even murderous . 
Since that day his cruelty had not been casual ; it had a meaning , and a method , both worthy of the arch fiend 's devising . 
He sought first deliberately to break her heart , to kill her without violence , by the action of her own outraged affections -- and then , when that failed , or rather when he saw that the process must needs be too slow to meet his accursed views , he aimed at driving her to commit suicide -- thus slaying , should he succeed in his hellish scheme , body and soul together of the woman whom he had sworn before God 's holy altar , with the most solemn adjuration , to love , comfort , honor , and keep in sickness and in health -- the woman whose whole heart and soul were his absolute possession ; who had never formed a wish , or entertained a thought , but to love him and to make him happy . 
Jasper , that dear name , in your own voice , has made me but too happy . '' 
can you doubt it , Jasper ? '' 
`` Do you know that -- do you feel that , Jasper ? '' 
But you should have told me of it , dearest Jasper , and I would have consoled you . 
Will that satisfy you , Jasper ? '' 
`` But I do n't believe you could love me ten times better than you once did , Jasper . 
`` I will -- I will , indeed , dearest Jasper . 
Anhour had quite passed , when , as she sat alone in her little gayly-decorated study , with its walls hung with water-color drawing of her own execution , its tables strewn with poetry and music of her own composition , and her favorite books , and her own lute -- her little study in which the happiest hours of her life had been spent , the first hours of her married life , while Jasper was all that her fancy painted him -- his step came along the corridor , but with a slow and hesitating sound , most unlike to the quick , firm , decided tread , for which he was remarkable . 
It was he ! 
and he was coming once again to seek her in her own apartment ; he had a boon to ask of her -- he had promised to love her -- he had called her `` his dear Theresa . '' 
And now she sprang up , with her soul beaming from her eyes , and ran to meet him . 
The door was opened ere he reached it , and as he entered , she fell upon his neck , and wound her snowy arms about his waist , and kissed him fifty times , and wept silent tears in the fullness of her joy . 
And did not his heart respond in the least to her innocent and girlish rapture ; did he not bend at all from his bad purpose ; was there no melting , no relenting in that callous , selfish nature ; was , indeed , all within him hard as the nether millstone ? 
He clasped her , he caressed her , he spoke to her fondly , lovingly , he kissed like Judas to betray . 
`` No , Jasper , I have not thought about it ; but if you wish me to make it , I will make it , and it will be no sacrifice . '' 
`` No , I think not -- go on , I want to hear it ; go on , Jasper . '' 
and -- what more , Jasper ? '' 
`` Go on , go on , Jasper , '' cried the young wife , excited almost beyond the power of restraining her emotions by the dreadful interest of his tale , `` and , for once , he granted it . '' 
`` And , for once , as you say , he granted it . 
Of course , she died to save him ; that was nosacrifice , none , Jasper -- I say none ! 
`` It was not to die for him -- it was to sacrifice herself -- herself -- for she was lovely , as I told you -- to the butcher . '' 
No , dearest Jasper , I would no more make thatsacrifice , than you would suffer me to do so . 
And for the first time that night Jasper St. Aubyn spoke in earnest . 
`` I know you would , Jasper . 
and so her brother lived with the world 's scorn and curses on his head -- and she -- did she die , Jasper ? '' 
We 'll none of such sacrifices , Jasper . 
`` As you said but now , may the good God guard us from such a fate , Theresa ; and yet , '' he added , looking at her fixedly , and with a strange expression , `` we may be nearer to it than we think for , even now . '' 
`` Nearer to what , Jasper ? 
speak , '' she cried eagerly , as if she had missed the meaning of the words he last uttered . 
`` Then speak at once , for God 's sake , dearest Jasper ! 
speak at once , and fully , that we may know the worst ; '' and she showed more composure now , in what she naturally deemed the extremity of peril , than he had looked for , judging from the excitement she had manifested at the mere listening to the story of another 's perils . 
`` Say on , '' she added , seeing that he hesitated , `` let me know the worst . '' 
she exclaimed , gazing at him with a face from which dismay had banished every hue of color , `` the failure ! '' 
`` And how long , Jasper , have you known this dreadful termination ? '' 
she asked , with a degree of coolness that amazed him , while he felt that it augured ill for the success of his iniquitous scheme ; but he had , in some sort , foreseen her questions , and his answers were prepared already . 
He answered , therefore , as unhesitatingly as if there had been one word of truth in all that he was uttering . 
he replied , with the affectation of a melancholy smile . 
she exclaimed , casting herself into his arms , `` and that is not so difficult , now that I know you love me , Jasper . '' 
But , even as she uttered the words , his previous conversation recurred to her mind , and she started from his arms , crying out , `` But you spoke of a sacrifice ! 
He watched her with calm , expectant , unmoved eyes , and muttered to himself , `` I have gained . 
Tell me , Jasper , what must I do to save you ? '' 
No , Jasper , no . 
`` To part from you , Jasper ! '' 
`` Why , Jasper , '' she cried , starting , and gazing at him wildly , `` thatwere impossible ; all the world knows that we have met -- that we have lived together here -- that I amyour wife . 
Do not frown on me , Jasper ; but keep me not in this suspense -- only tell me , Jasper . '' 
But I am -- I am -- yes , before God and man , I amyour wife , Jasper St. Aubyn ! 
`` And when did you learn all this , Jasper ? '' 
his voice was stern , and harsh , and threatening -- his brow as black as midnight . 
`` Pardon me , Jasper ; but you should make allowance for some feeling in a woman . 
I am , then , looked upon as a lost , fallen wretch , as a disgrace to my name and my sex , a concubine , a harlot -- is it not so , Jasper ? '' 
And he stood gazing on her , with the cold , cutting eye , the calm , sarcastic , sneer , of a very Mephistopheles , believing that she was about to yield , and inwardly mocking the very weakness on which he had played , to his own base and cruel purposes . 
But in a moment she arose and confronted him , pale , calm , majestical , most lovely in her extremity of sorrow , but firm as a hero or a martyr . 
All this I might endure , perhaps I would -- but you have asked moreof me , Jasper . 
Than be that thing , Jasper , I would rather die a hundred-fold ; than call myself that thing , being innocent of deed or thought of shame , I had rather be it!Now , sir , are you answered ? 
tempt me no further , Jasper ; try me no further . 
Why so sorely , so cruelly try this poor heart , Jasper ? '' 
`` Are you in earnest , Jasper ? '' 
Jasper 's eyes flashed , and his whole face glared with a fearful and half-frenzied illumination . 
`` It is , '' he cried , `` it isthunder ! 
And with the words , he rushed from the room ; and within ten minutes , was folded in the rapturous embrace of the snowy arms of her , whose doom of death he had decreed already in the secrets of his guilty soul . 
Yet through that awful turmoil of the elements , which kept men waking , and bold hearts trembling from the Land 's End to Cape Wrath , Jasper St. Aubyn slept as calmly as an infant , with his head pillowed on the soft bosom of his innocent and lovely wife . 
`` How pale you look , Jasper , '' she said earnestly ; `` are you ill at ease , dearest , or anxious about me ? 
For the rest , '' she added , with a bright smile , intended to reassure him , `` I have long wished to see La Belle France , as they call it ; and to me the change of scene , so long as you are with me , dearest Jasper , will be but a change of pleasure . 
`` Never heed , dearest Jasper , '' she said , pressing his arm , on which she hung , `` if we do love old Widecomb , there are as fair places elsewhere , on the world 's green face , and if there were not , happy minds will aye find , or make happy places . 
And we , why spite of time and tide , wind and weather , we willbe happy , Jasper . 
And see , Jasper , '' she added , `` here are my jewels , '' handing him a small ebony casket , `` I thought they might be of use to us , in case of our wanting money ; and yet I should grieve to part with them , for they are the diamonds yougave me that night we were wedded . '' 
`` Surely not , Jasper , they believe I am going but for a morning 's ride . 
he said , gloomily , `` because -- '' `` A reproach , Jasper , '' she interrupted him quickly , `` how little you understand poor me ! 
`` Do n't be too sure of that , Jasper , '' she replied , with an arch smile , thinking to aid him in his project . 
At something more than three miles ' distance from Widecomb house , to the westward , there is a pass in the hills , where a bridle-road crosses the channel of the large brook , which I have named so often , and which , at a point far lower down , was the scene of Jasper 's ill-omened introduction to Theresa Allan . 
Yet it was by this road that Jasper had persuaded his young wife that they could alone hope to escape with any chance of safety , and to this point he was leading her . 
And she , though she knew the pass , and all its perils , resolute to accompany him through life , and if need should be , to death itself , rode onward with him , cheerful and apparently fearless . 
But you will lead Rosabella , wo n't you , Jasper ? '' 
But when they reached the very deepest and most turbulent part of the pool , under pretence of aiding it , Jasper lifted the jennet 's fore-legs , by dint of the strong , sharp curb , clear off the bottom . 
save me , Jasper ! '' 
do not you -- do not you -- kill me , Jasper . '' 
-- forgive -- Jasper ! 
Jasper ! '' 
The fog closed in thicker again than before , the torrent came roaring down in fiercer , madder flood , and wheeling his horse round , and spurring him furiously , it was all that Jasper St. Aubyn could do , by dint of hand and foot , and as iron a heart as ever man possessed , to avoid following his victim to her watery grave . 
Itwas not yet high noon , when , wet from spur to shoulder with mud and spray , bloody with spurring , spotted from head to heel with gory foam-flakes from his jaded horse 's wide-distended jaws , and quivering nostrils , bareheaded , pale as death , and hoarse with shouting , Jasper St. Aubyn galloped frantically up to the terrace-steps of Widecomb house ; and springing to the ground , reeled , and would have fallen headlong had he not been caught in the arms of one of the serving-men , who came running down the stone stairs to assist him . 
As soon as he could collect breath to speak , `` Call all ! '' 
he cried , `` call all ! 
and he fell , as it seemed , senseless to the earth . 
They raised him , and carried him up stairs , and laid him on the bed -- on herbed -- the bed whereon he had kissed her lips last night , and clasped her lovely form which was now haply entwined in the loathsome coils of the slimy mud-eels . 
He shuddered . 
He could not endure it . 
He opened his eyes again , and feigning to recover his senses , chid the men from his presence , and again commanded , so peremptorily , that none dare disobey him , that every servant -- man , woman , maid or boy -- should begone to the place he had named , nor return till they brought back his lost angel 's body . 
Into this Jasper cast himself , with his back to the door , which he had left open , in the absence of his mind . 
For nearly an hour he sat there without moving hand or foot , gazing gloomily at the fire . 
But , at the end of that time , he started , and seemed to recollect himself , opened the drawer of the writing-table , and took out of it the record of his wretched victim 's marriage . 
He read it carefully , over and over again , and then crushed it in his hand , saying , `` Well , all is safe now , thank God ! '' 
Yes , he thanked Godfor the success of the murder he had done ! 
And with the word he was about to cast the paper which he held into the ashes , when the hand of a man , who had entered the room and walked up to him with no very silent or stealthy step , while he was engrossed too deeply by his own guilty thoughts to mark very certainly anything that might occur without , was laid with a grip like that of an iron vice upon his shoulder . 
Instantly the man cast Jasper off with a violent jerk which sent him to a distance of some three or four yards , stooped , gathered up the paper , thrust it into his bosom , and then folding his arms across his stalwart breast , stood quietly confronting the murderer , but with the quietude of the expectant gladiator . 
Jasper stared at the swarthy , sun-burnt face , the coal-black hair clipped short upon the brow , the flashing eyes , that pierced him like a sword . 
He knew the face -- he almost shuddered at the knowledge -- yet , for his life , he could not call to mind where or when he met him . 
But he stared only for an instant ; insulted -- outraged -- he , in his own house ! 
His ready sword was in his hand forthwith -- the stranger was armed likewise with a long broadsword and a two-edged dagger , and heavy pistols at his girdle ; yet he moved not , nor made the slightest movement to put himself on the defensive . 
cried Jasper , furiously . 
cried Jasper , furious but undaunted . 
And as he spoke , he turned away , and walked slowly and deliberately with measured strides toward the door by which he had entered . 
Before he had taken six steps , however , a bullet whistled past his ear , cutting a lock of his hair in its passage , and rebounded from the wall , flattened at his feet . 
Jasper had turned at once , and fired at him with deliberate aim . 
and the sailor leveled his pistol in turn , and pulled the trigger ; had it gone off , Jasper St. Aubyn 's days were ended then and there ; but no flash followed the sparks from the flint -- and he cast the useless weapon from him . 
At once they both raised their second pistol , and again Jasper 's was discharged with a quick , sharp report ; and almost simultaneously with a crack , a dull sound , as of a blow , followed it ; and he knew that his ball had taken effect on his enemy . 
Again Denzil 's pistol failed him ; and then , for the first time Jasper observed that the seaman 's clothes were soaked with water . 
He had swam that rapid stream , and followed his beloved Theresa 's murderer , almost with the speed of the stout horse that bore himhome . 
Not a muscle of Denzil 's face moved , not a sinew of his frame quivered , yet he was shot through the body , mortally -- and he knew it . 
he cried , `` swords ! '' 
And bounding forward , he met the youth midway , and at the first collision , sparks flew from the well-tempered blades . 
It was no even conflict , no trial of skill -- three deadly passes of the sailor , as straight and almost as swift as lightning , with a blade so strong , and a wrist so adamantine , that no slight of Jasper 's could divert them , were sent home in tierce -- one in his throat , `` That for your lie ! '' 
a third , which clove his heart to the very cavity , `` that for your life ! '' 
Ten seconds did not pass , from the first crossing of their blades until Jasper lay dead upon the floor , flooding his own hearth-stone with his life-blood . 
Denzil leaned on his avenging blade , and looked down upon the dead . 
And he dropped down into the arm-chair in which Jasper was sitting as he entered ; and though he could hardly hold his head up for the deadly faintness , and the reeling of his eyes and brain , by a great effort he drew out the marriage-record from his breast -- Jasper 's ball had pierced it , and it was dappled with his own life-blood -- and smoothed it out fairly , and spread it on the board before him . 
Then he fell back , and closed his eyes , and lay for a long time motionless ; but the slow , sick throbbing of his heart showed that he was yet alive , though passing rapidly away . 
Once he raised his dim eyes , and murmured , `` They tarry -- they tarry very long . 
But within ten minutes after he had spoken , the sound of a multitude might be heard approaching , and a quick , strong , decided step of one man coming on before all the rest . 
and he pointed with a triumphant wafture of his gory sword , toward Jasper 's carcass , and then , with the blood spouting from his mouth and nostrils , he fell headlong . 
His officer raised him instantly , and as the flow of blood ceased , he recovered his speech for a moment . 
He pointed to the gaping crowd . 
`` You see that wound in her forehead -- you saw it all , from the first , '' he said , to the crowd , who were gazing in mute horror at the scene . 
