In the year 1816 , the Rev. George Mason arrived towards sunset at a settlement , eight miles south of the Iron Banks , in what is commonly called the Jackson Purchase , on the lower Mississippi . 
George , the hero of this story , was a fair , white-headed , blue-eyed boy of fourteen ; Eliza , a sweet little girl of twelve , with a keen black eye , a face of Italian contour , and slightly olive . 
The parents and George and Eliza took a hasty supper , provided for them by the black woman , and soon forgot their cares and slept as deeply as if they had been reposing on down , in the most magnificent dwelling . 
Immediately after breakfast , and the departure of the black woman , the father was seen in company with George , making mortar from the clay , and exerting himself to fill up the intervals between the logs , in the language of the country , `` daubing '' the house , and in all the common expedients of the country , to render the habitation a warm and secure shelter from the frosts and rains of the approaching winter . 
Though his neighbours were rough , some of them were kind in their way , and they came in and aided him . 
He saw in their mode of managing the business , that there is a dexterity in every business , to be acquired only by practice , and that they knew infinitely better than he did how to `` daub and chink '' a log cabin . 
The neighbours assisted him to raise another smaller cabin , in the language of the country , a `` logpen , '' covered and daubed in the same manner , but without a chimney , and here was another mattrass , in which George and Henry slept . 
The sixth day after their arrival , a deer strayed so near the cabin , that George shot it from the door . 
He retreated slowly , and growling from their path , and made his retreat upon a prodigions sycamore . 
George exulted in the spirit of a little Nimrod , as he related the circumstances of bringing down the bear to his younger brothers , who had not been permitted to be in at the death . 
None , but a canine Lavater , would have comprehended all the visible satisfaction of the dog , who was evidently listening with all his ears , and probably regretting the want of speech , that he could not disclose his thoughts among the rest . 
`` Eliza , '' said he , with an air of quiet triumph in his eye , `` are you sorry now , that we have brought our dear ones here ? '' 
Young George sat forward , as driver . 
Amidst suppressed weeping , and almost inaudible farewells , with his hat drawn over his eyes , George started his team . 
The family dog saw that matters went wrong , and whined piteously , as he followed the lingering steps of his master , who walked behind the wagon , to indulge in the sad luxury of the last look at his church-spire glittering in the sun-beams of a bright morning in autumn . 
George proved himself , for a boy of his years , a firm and an admirable driver . 
While he was whistling on the front of the wagon , and cheering his horses , and the children were asleep among the baggage , the husband and wife walked many a pleasant mile , seating themselves occasionally for rest on the breezy side of a hill or a mountain , and tracing back as on a map , the dusty road , the river , the villages , spires , mansions and groves , by which they had passed . 
Young George became at once a hunter of considerable expertness . 
It is true , neither he nor his father , in the phrase of the country , were `` quite up '' to the mystery of hunting bears and deer . 
On every fine sunshine day Mr. Mason was seen along with young George before the sun-beams had dispersed the frost , girdling the trees . 
The latter had his little axe and grubbing-hoe , cutting down the smaller trees , and grubbing up the shrubs by their roots , delighted with the mellow appearance and the healthy smell of the virgin mould . 
A hundred times his delight was excited by seeing the gray and black squirrels skip away from the trees which he began to fell . 
The red-bird , springing away from the briar copse , which he began to disturb with his grubbing-hoe ; the powerful mocking-bird seated at its leisure on a dead branch , and pouring its gay song , and imitating every noise that was heard ; the loud and joyous bark of the family dog , as he was pursuing his own sport beside them , digging for an opossum ; the morning crow of the cock ; the distant cry of the hounds in the settlement , ringing through the forests ; the morning mists , lying like the finest drapery of muslin , spread over the tops of the trees ; these , and a thousand mingled and joyous morning cries of animals in the woods , filled his young and susceptible heart with the purest joy . 
Excitement and the fulness of joy often arrested his axe and his grubbing-hoe . 
The father once saw him musing in this way , and asked him of what he was thinking . 
`` I can not tell you , '' replied George , laying his hand upon his bosom , `` how glad I feel here , this morning . 
This was a task absolutely beyond the strength of young George . 
Poor George could count his blisters too . 
George followed dropping the corn , and covering it with his . 
Eliza , with her face shaded by her large sun bonnet , and Henry with his broad straw hat , with little bags pinned to their sides , walked beside George and his father . 
In the close of the argument upon which Mr. and Madam Mason , and George , and Eliza , had each given an opinion , it was unanimously settled , that people , who could invent and circulate such falsehoods , would invent and circulate another brood if these were refuted , and that it was wise and right to treat the whole affair with silent contempt . 
Young George , fully comprehending the case , labored from morning until night to spare his father , and to keep down the weeds . 
It discouraged him to see , that more grew up in a night , than he could cut down in a day . 
In attempting to work with his son in the sweet-potatoe patch on the fourteenth of July , under the influence of a powerful sun , Mr. Mason experienced a sun-stroke and was aided to his bed by the united exertions of his whole family . 
At the hour in which he had been accustomed to lead in evening prayers , after informing the children that he was too weak to do it this evening , he requested them to retire into George 's house , as the smaller cabin was called . 
I have prayed God a hundred times , that my children , and especially my dear George , may be of a firmer spirit than I have had . 
George promptly offered to take the trace through the woods to the bank of the Mississippi , where the physician resided . 
George . 
Dear George , I am forced to shut my eyes , whenever I think how papa looked . 
George . 
George . 
George , too , who had been praised in the family for his strength of character , was unnerved , to see his brother cry , and the tears coursed one another down his cheeks . 
They had both indulged in this way for some time , when George , summoning courage , sprang on his feet , kissed his brother , and wiped his eyes . 
Saying this , he looked cheerful , and took his brother by the hand , and raised him up , embraced him , and kissed him again and again , and talked to him in a voice so firm and cheering , that Henry caught something of his courage and cheerfulness , and rose up , and they resumed their way , taking each other by the hand . 
Every one of the family seemed completely vanquished with grief and dejection , but George . 
Since his return from the river to procure the physician , his character appeared to have undergone an entire transformation . 
He alone shed no tears . 
He looked thoughtful , but was always calm . 
The rest , the mother , Eliza , and Henry , took their turn , indeed , in watching ; but nothing ever kept George long from his station beside the bed , by night and by day . 
There sat the one holding the hand of his father , and looking steadily on his pale and emaciated face . 
Whenever George was for a moment away , and the father startled from sleep in his absence , the first thing that his eye sought was this cherished son . 
When George returned , resomed his place , and asked what he could do , the reply , as his satisfied countenance rested upon his son , was , `` Nothing . '' 
The hand of George was instantly clasped in his , and his satisfied look told , that he had then obtained all that he wanted . 
His lips would often move for a moment , and perhaps a tear or two would roll down his cheeks , and he dozed again . 
`` For you , George , '' he continued , `` I see the firmness of duty in your eye . 
A path is cut through the corn a few feet wide to a huge sycamore left in its full verdure in one corner of the field , where Mr. Mason used to repose with George , when he was weary , and where he had expressed a wish , during his sickness , that he might be buried . 
I remark the deeper sense of desertion and loneliness , when Mrs. Mason took down the family Bible at the accustomed hour of evening prayer , and gave it to George . 
George and William went to the field , as they had been wout , when their father was alive -- for on the first morning after the funeral , it was agreed , that to proceed to their duties , as usual , was the proper construction of his dying charge . 
I have more particularly in view to develope the character and conduct of George . 
They expected , that she would come and see their daughters ; and particularly invited Mrs. Mason to bring her and George to a party , and a nut-gathering , which was to take place at the house of Mrs. Pindall in a few days , stating , as a particular accommodation of considerate feeling , that out of regard to their case , as mourners , there was to be no dancing , which would otherwise have made a part of the amusements on the occasion . 
When the important day arrived , George was left to keep house with the care of the younger children , while the mother and daughter , in their new dresses , with hearts aching with apprehension , were helped into the carriage , which Mr. Pindall had sent , in great form , to convey them to the feast . 
From the little which she related of what he had said to her , and the answers , which she had made to him , the state of the case was sufficiently obvious not only to the keen discernment of the mother , but even to the inexperienced judgment of George . 
Wheneverthe question of the future course of the family was in discussion , and whenever the investigation was followed by gloom and despondency , George never failed to ply his father 's motto , and to dwell upon his last declaration , that God never forsakes them , who do not forsake themselves . 
In discoursing every evening upon this theme , Madam Mason , George , and Eliza were of course the chief speakers , though Henry , Thomas , and William , often made their speech , and threw their light upon the subject . 
George had high hopes from a chemical composition for ink and blacking , which he expected to complete from the vegetables of the country . 
The post-master , on the bank of the river , had noticed George , and had inquired into the circumstances and character of the family . 
As a foretaste of good will to them , he was in the habit of sending George the newspapers and pamphlets , that came to his office , after he had perused them . 
From a dissertation upon the kind of grass , used in this manufacture , George was confident , that it was none other , than the identical crab-grass , which was such an abundant and troublesome inmate in their corn-field . 
So impatient were they all , to satisfy themselves upon this point , that immediately after reading the article in question , George and Henry sallied out with a light , at ten in the evening , to gather some of the crab-grass , and to satisfy themselves , as to its capabilities for this manufacture . 
George and the boys concluded to try their skill upon the coarser manufacture of Vevay straw-hats for gentlemen , of which some for domestic use were already made in the settlement . 
George and his brothers , in the same interval , had completed eight gentlemen 's straw hats , which were considered merchantable , besides one , of a less perfect workmanship and the fruit of their first essays and experiments , for each one of their own number . 
The frank deportment and the persevering industry of George had so far won upon the good feelings of the planters about them , that two of the richest offered to send their slaves and teams to plough his field . 
This grand difficulty overcome , it was proposed , that before planting , George and Henry should carry the fruits of their winter 's industry to the village on the banks for sale , at the time , when they were advertised by the papers , that a steam-boat would arrive there from New-Orleans . 
Hero and emperor , as George was , in her eye , she was aware , that he was an inexperienced trader ; that his market was a most unpromising one , and she allowed herself to indulge but very slender hopes from the proposed excursion to the river . 
After giving them all the counsels of maternal apprehension and forecast , after long and laborious dictation , what was to be said and done , in various supposed cases , she did up the venture in two bundles in the only two decent handkerchiefs remaining in the family , the larger to be borne by George , and the smaller by Henry ; she kissed them both , suppressed her starting tears , and trusting the return purchases , if they made sales , entirely to the judgment of George , and his knowledge of what they needed most , she sent them forth . 
There are a million who can claim the alliance of kindred fortune with George and Henry . 
George in heart was as much discouraged , as his brother ; but he had practically and thorougly learned the hard lesson of putting a good face upon a hopeless project . 
So he put himself , to his utmost ingenuity , to prove to his brother , that nobody could ever hope to succeed in any project with a sad countenance , and a discouraged look . 
`` If we do not look cheerful and full of hope , when we arrive , '' said he , `` that alone would spoil our market . 
He then exerted his utmost ingenuity to prove to his brother , that they actually would do well . 
While they rested a few moments , he entreated his brother to look cheerful , and by making such efforts with him actually became so himself . 
George considered this a good omen . 
All these thoughts were sufficiently obvious even to the inexperience of George . 
His heart palpitated . 
His mouth was dry , and as he gave his hand to his brother Henry , to lead him along the plank on board the boat , his very hand was covered with a cold sweat . 
Never had the poor lad more urgent occasion for his motto , `` Do n't give up the ship . '' 
He assumed the courage of desperation , and walked up to a tall gentleman with an air of patronage and authority , who seemed to be a kind of chief gallant among the ladies . 
`` My mother , and myself , '' answered George , firmly . 
George felt every ill-natured remark upon his hats and bonnets , as he would have felt an insult upon his mother , and every rude pull upon his bonnets , as though it were upon his heart-strings . 
His temper , -- for he was a high-spirited boy , -- was fifty times ready to burst forth . 
But he saw , that all depended upon self-possession . 
So he swallowed his words , and attempted to conceal the palpitations of his heart , as they agitated his tattered jacket , and bade himself be calm . 
Some tumbled over his hats , remarking , that they showed an astonishing ingenuity , and began to ask questions about a family , that could originate such manufactures in such a place . 
To all these questions George and even Henry had such modest , prompt , and proper answers , that persons of much thought and feeling would naturally have been aroused to an interest in them . 
She returned the bonnet to George , comparing it with her own Leghorn , however , as she returned it . 
`` You see , my boy , '' said she , holding her own beside his , `` that I should hardly want to buy such a thing , as this . 
At the same time she offered him one from her splendid purse . 
Half dollars had been rare visitants with George , and he thought how much it would purchase for his mother . 
A glow passed over his cheek . 
He knew not , whether the feeling were pride , resentment , or proper spirit . 
He was not casuist enough to decide in a moment , whether he ought or ought not to refuse the money . 
But he answered promptly , `` Thank you , ma'am ; I should be glad to sell , but I did not come to beg . 
It did the business for George . 
The gentleman came forward , and asked George the price of his bonnets and his hats . 
He paid George six dollars , and took the bonnet . 
I dare affirm , that receiving these six dollars made him happier than Napoleon was , when , amidst all the splendors of Paris , and the acclamations of marshals and nobles and conquered kings , he put on the imperial crown . 
In a few minutes George had sold five of his hats . 
Delighted beyond measure , he skipped up the ladder among the hundreds , who were crowded on the deck . 
But no one laughed at him for being ragged , and he sold another of his straw hats . 
The cannon fired , and George was admonished , that the steam-boat was getting under way . 
He carefully led his brother Henry ashore , and with feelings very different from those with which he came on board . 
He had in hand ten dollars and a half , and to him it was the treasure of the Indies . 
`` We have none to sell , '' answered George , `` but an imitation Leghorn bonnet , and a couple of gentlemen 's straw hats . '' 
Dear George , you mustbuy some of these things for them . '' 
Sorry I am to say , that George , with all his natural cleverness and quickness , had better thrown his articles into the river , than have dealt with oneof these traders . 
But oneof the traders was endowed with a heart and a conscience , strange as it may seem , in his case . 
The artless story of the boys had moved his pity and his feelings . 
He was determined , that no advantage should be taken of their youth and inexperience . 
He called his partner aside , and told him as much . 
It was a business of extreme perplexity with George , to decide between conflicting claims in their purchases . 
He went on shore with Henry to consult with him on points , that pride forbade him to mention before the traders . 
The solemn sensations of decaying light in the forests , weariness and the reaction of feelings , that had been too highly excited , drew from Henry , with a long sigh , as they rested for a moment , this remark : `` Dear George , it takes away all my gladness in carrying our fine things home , to think that my poor , dear father is gone , never to come back . 
George was not a little proud of his reputation for philosophy , but he had been brooding in his mind over the same gloomy train of remembrance , and this ill-timed remark of his brother , the echo of his own thoughts , so nearly vanquished him , that he was obliged to turn away to conceal the tears , that were forming in his own eyes . 
His company , and the view of their package introduced a new train of thought . 
It was heavy ; but it was a precious burden , and they wiped their eyes , as George thanked the neighbour , and bent his neck to it . 
As he became weary under his proud burden , Henry shouldered it , and staggered on a quarter of a mile , when George resumed it . 
The family dog received them with his caresses at the door . 
They all agreed , that if his spirit could be among them , it would only be to chide them for any other feelings , than those of gladness on this occasion . 
During this inspection , we see George in the honest pride of head workman and overseer in this important business , directing Henry to straighten the rows , and Thomas to take some kernels from the hill , or add them , as he saw the case require . 
Every day added to the strength of the children and developed the energy , firmness , and forecast of George . 
Eliza and George were continually carrying the water-gourds , first to one , and then to the other . 
George felt that the grand trial of his fortitude was come . 
He repeated his grand maxim , as he kindled the evening light ; told them in the common proverb , `` that the darkest time in the night was just before morning ; '' talked with calmness of this sickness , as the common course of things in the country ; and remarked , that though distressing to endure , they ought all to be thankful , that it was by no means a dangerous disorder , and prophesied with deep apparent conviction , that not only would they all be shortly well from this `` seasoning , '' but find it to be the harbinger of good fortune again . 
Still he was aware , that in such violent attacks , something must be done , to arrest the fury of the disorder . 
He consulted none but his sister . 
He made every considerable arrangement , within the limits of their slender means , to meet the renewal of the paroxysm , which , he was aware , the patients must expect again on the morrow ; and he was away before the dawn in the morning on the road to the river for the doctor . 
George was on his return by half after ten in the morning . 
He had already measured half his distance home , when he felt himself suddonly seized with a chill . 
So violent was the attack , that after walking two or three minutes under its endurance , he was obliged to stop and sit down . 
Fortunately the disease had arrested him on the bank of a rivulet and at the ford . 
He crawled on his hands and knees through the mud , and reclining over the water , drank as long as he could hold his breath . 
A momentary relief flashed an impulse of courage through his frame , that he should be able to resume his journey . 
He waded through the ford , and staggered on a few steps . 
Every thing flashed before his eyes , in long and flaky streams of green and yellow light , succeeded by darkness . 
His head swam , and thick pantings oppressed his bosom . 
It was some minutes before he returned to himself ; and as he felt as he had never felt before , and perceived that he was covered with a cold and clammy sweat , his first thought was , that the hand of death was upon him . 
Poor George had to exert himself to the utmost to be taken up . 
But he succeeded at length , and was carried home . 
Eliza of course had found it necessary to instruct her mother , as the fever returned upon the family in the morning , what was become of George . 
I need not say how they endured their severe fever that day , or what they thought , when they found , that George did not return at night . 
When he did return , he found , that Eliza , towards night , had been attacked in her turn , and that the family had suffered inexpressibly for water . 
But they were still alive , and the sight of him and the doctor revived their spirits . 
However Mrs. Mason and George might be able to sustain the agony of thirst in silence , it was an effort of self-restraint not to be expected of the rest . 
George , though the sickest of the whole , held fast to his grand maxim . 
He declared an undoubting confidence , that things would yet go well with them . 
He called them to consider , how mercifully God had dealt with them in many respects already . 
As they shook hands at parting , George gave him his promise , if he was ever able , as he hoped one day to be , to purchase him and give him his freedom . 
George , in truth , had been too deeply occupied with the examination of Hercules , and his bearing towards his sister , on the occasion to enjoy it . 
But it was not always , that George was so successful in his sales , as he had been at first . 
Hercules had ventured once to solicit the interference of George on the subject . 
No part of these privations weighed so heavily on the spirits of George and his mother , as the necessity of such unremitting labor , imposed upon them all , as left them neither time , nor opportunity for the instruction and education of the younger children . 
The progress of George and Eliza had been respectable , during the life of their father , who had devoted his whole heart to this task , and who had found in them uncommon docility . 
Some more enlarged and efficient plan had occurred to the scheming mind of George a thousand times , to remedy this and various other evils of their condition . 
His rising thoughts and purposes spurned the idea of his vegetating his whole life in the forest . 
Nor could he endure the idea , that the beauty and sweetness of Eliza should never be contemplated by any other , than such , as the Pindalls and Garvins . 
But to go abroad , for his plans always terminated in the necessity of this , and to leave his mother and the desolate and dear ones , to whom his dying father had confided the charge , like lambs in the wilderness ; -- this , too , was an idea , from which he recoiled . 
Yet he always said to himself , that it was better to inflict on them and himself a lesser evil for the sake of a greater good ; and that he ought to give them and himself the pain of leaving them , for a time , in order to fix them and himself in a position , where they could remain permanently together . 
His friend , the post-master of the village , had often conversed with him on the subject . 
He was extensively acquainted with the captains of the steam-boats , that traded on the Ohio and the Upper Mississippi . 
He recommended to George the place of clerk on one of these , as one , for which he thought him , as he said , peculiarly qualified , by his being uncommonly ready at figures , and his writing a hand of remarkable beauty . 
Whenever George named his scruples , he resolutely , and successfully combatted them , proving to him , that he was ruining his own prospects , as well as those of his family , by remaining there in ignorance in the woods , and in pursuits , which , however industriously followed , would never procure an adequate maintenance for the family . 
The idea of leaving his mother , sister , and the young children alone , and unprotected , was a gloomy one to his affectionate heart . 
But in turning over the subject , and taking a view of every side of it , it occurred to him , that it was a part of the duty of mental firmness , to take such measures , as were most for his advantage and theirs , even did they involve the necessity and the pain of a separation . 
This deep attachment to home , identified with a sense of duty , and associated with the feeling of homesickness , was the most formidable determent from his project . 
Once or twice in their evening conversations , he had ventured to hint the thought of the post-master in the family . 
It must be allowed , that his mother had already revolved in her own mind the possibility of such an event . 
She had even allowed herself to contemplate the subject with so much steadiness of vision , as to see , that it would be for his interest , and of course her duty , to consent to it . 
At first , when she discovered , that he was actually thinking of leaving home , she burst into tears , and affected to see in this purpose the extinction of filial affection , and a hardness of heart , which cared not for her and the other children , and a selfishness , which regarded only his own ease and comfort , and his own vagabond projects of wandering abroad . 
George prudently waited until the storm of wounded affection had passed away , and meekly expressing a hope , that she would review the case , and think more favorably of it another time , he withdrew . 
Not many days after , George received a letter from the post-master , informing him , that a most fovorable opportunity offered , for his obtaining a clerkship on board of one of the capital steam-boats . 
When George and the children returned , she was calm , and the matter was at rest in her mind . 
She told him , that she not only consented to his going , but considered it the best thing he could do . 
The heart of George was relieved . 
It seemed to him impossible , that he could ever have forsaken the cabin , unless she had so expressed herself . 
He hurried to the river , saw , and thanked his friend , and was by him conducted on board the steam-boat , which was about to ascend the Ohio , and would return in a few days . 
It must be allowed , that when George saw the noble steam-boat sweep away up the stream , she carried a portion of his heart off with her . 
It must be admitted , that a spice of roving disposition , inherited from his father , had its share in overcoming his reluctance to leave his mother and his home . 
It is not material to relate all the conversations , which ensued , between this engagement and the time of his departure , between him and the different members of the family . 
He was the only one of their number , that had yet developed strength of character , and the mother and the children leaned upon him not only for support but to resolve their doubts , and settle their purposes , and decide their plans , and sustain their mental indecision . 
Neither was George idle on his part . 
He had expended the advanced twenty dollars for the comfort of the family , during his absence . 
George was turned of eighteen , when he was thus thrown upon the world . 
He was dressed in the most plain and quaker-like style . 
A small handkerchiefbundle contained his clothes and a bible . 
Beneath his humble dress beat a heart , at once stout , and affectionate ; and these constituted all his baggage . 
As I have remarked , he stole away before the family had risen in the morning , to avoid the agony of those partings , which make such a distressing part of such a separation . 
When he had taken the last look of mother , sister , and brothers , and the humble cabin , which together made that dear and sacred word home , a word which means more to a good mind and heart , than almost any other in our language , he turned round , before he crossed the stile that led out of the field , and gave the dear spot the benediction , that rose to the Almighty from a pious child , an affectionate brother , and an unpolluted nature . 
But George 's was a still profounder and holier feeling , too deep even to endure a jest . 
The only requisite , which he sought in the horse that was to carry him out to the settlement , was fleetness . 
For once he was a hard rider , and drove his horse to the top of his speed . 
I can see the tears of tenderness rush to his eye ; I can see the heaving of his bosom , as he came in view of the clearing . 
He sprang over the stile , and in the next moment he was in the arms of his mother . 
George was already a great man in the estimation of the settlement . 
All accounts of him tended to one point . 
All agreed , that he was an excellent young man . 
The planters agreed , that he had the `` gab , '' like a lawyer , and Hercules Pindall quailed in view of his manly form and flashing eye . 
The family exercised the most rigid and careful economy ; but by the aid of their ground , and the assistance derived from the wages of George , and the proceeds of the industry of the children , of which he had every chance to dispose in New Orleans , they were not only comfortable , but were laying by a little fund . 
Almost every return trip of the boat allowed George some little time to spend with them . 
For fear he would not be allowed sufficient time to go out to the cabin , they always made it a point to be on the bank , at the time when his boat was expected . 
There are many mothers , who can imagine the impatience , with which they used to gaze on the point below , round which his boat first hove in sight . 
There are many who can imagine the meeting which took place between the parties when he did actually arrive . 
I need only add , that , to soften them as much as possible , he kept a detailed journal of all that he saw , enjoyed , suffered , and felt -- a history of events , thoughts , and actions . 
Each of the children was familiar with all the words and phrases in it ; and in their own essays at letter writing all the thoughts of brother George became matters of classical quoting and illustration . 
Even they had heard George 's journal . 
When he had settled with George , he gave him demonstrations of affectionate friendship at parting , equally honorable to both . 
The ill-fated steam-boat Tennessee was just starting at this juncture for the Ohio , and with the multitude of passengers in that boat , he took his passage . 
Amidst the screaming , agony , and distraction of the scene , George remained calm and self-possessed . 
To some he imparted counsel respecting the best mode of getting on shore without a boat , on a timber or a plank . 
In many cases he saved the parties by repressing resolutions resulting from the counsels of distraction . 
When his presence was no longer useful on board the sinking boat , he swam on shore behind a periogue , which was so overloaded as to upset . 
It had already arrived near the shore , and he saved a mother and her child from those that were on board . 
When the boat first came to the shore , he assisted to pass her cable round a tree . 
Had his directions been followed , the boat had been saved . 
George heard him , and carried a canoe to his relief , and brought him safely ashore , after he was so far exhausted by his exertions and sufferings , as to be unable to speak , when brought to the land . 
It can not be doubted , but he suffered much himself from cold , exposure , fatigue , and exertion in swimming against the current . 
But he enjoyed the most exquisite satisfaction , that a good mind can experience on the earth , meriting the gratitude , and receiving the blessings of many , saved by his exertions , when they were ready to perish . 
Having done every thing , that benevolence and humanity could dictate for the people that had been saved from the foundered boat , and having bestowed his tribute of unavailing sorrow upon the many that perished , notwithstanding all exertions , he set off on his way back to Natchez . 
Thence he took passage on the first boat to L . 
George was engaged in his place , which once more put him on pay . 
This was a circumstance , which remembrance of his mother 's condition forbade him ever to forget . 
From a certain point , indeed , where they took in wood , he had a chance to send a billet to his mother , informing her of his fortunes , and that he should be back in a fortnight from that day , requesting her at that time to be at the Iron Banks with the children . 
In the short interview , which George had with his mother , entirely new arrangements were made for the future . 
He had taken a handsome house , in a large and thriving village near L. which had the advantage of schools , of a higher class , and respectable society , and here he proposed to place his mother , and to take the family up to their residence on his return from New-Orleans . 
The family meeting took place a little removed from the public gaze , and when the first transports were over , George led his mother and sister , followed by three fine , brown , healthy-looking creole boys , into the cabin . 
But they had come on board with a feeling , that all this tremendous power was under the beneficent control of brother George , and this association soon rendered this otherwise formidable spectacle , this clatter and power , an object of pride rather than terror . 
She had as yet seen nothing to love , but her mother and brothers , and imagined , that there was not another fine young man in the world , but brother George . 
We may remark , in passing , that one of the passengers , his name was Leonard , was an uncommonly fine young man , whose expressive countenance was rendered more interesting by a flush of hectic floridness in his cheek , and a touch of debility in his eye , who was returning from a winter 's excursion to Havanna , where he had been for his health , to his home in the state of Maine . 
From these circumstances of affinity , and as he was , moreover , a remarkably good-looking young man , gentle , mild , quiet , and sweet spoken , handsomely dressed , and of elegant manners , and as he so warmly liked George , it was natural , that Mrs. Mason should take a motherly interest in him . 
In the course of the summer , George made two trips to New Orleans , on both of which he was uncommonly fortunate , and in that time he became half owner of his steam-boat , and was well understood to be a young man , who was making money , and the knowing ones pointed him out , as one who knew what he was about , and would be sure to be rich . 
Among the ladies he bore the name of the `` handsome captain . '' 
But he sustained the severe temptation of their unequivocal favor , as he had sustained his other temptations , with the same simple habits of modesty and sobriety . 
Consenting love Sheds his own rosy garlands on their heads . 
Among the parties which Mrs. Mason , George , and Eliza , attended , this summer , I will give a very general sketch of the character and the circumstances of one , with the double purpose of explaining , how they passed their time in this village , and of showing , that even in a village of the third class , in the back-woods of the West , there are all the elements of excitement , of ambition , and interest , that there are in a levée , or a fashionable soirée . 
George , the handsome captain , was a general favorite , and his attention was sought by each of the rival beauties , who strove to gain it by praising the appearance of his sister , which they had just settled by themselves , in private , to be nothing extraordinary , or in any way worthy of the fuss made about it . 
From August until October , the steam-boat was laid up , and George spent all this happy interval with his mother . 
Before I take leave of George , I wish to satisfy the curiosity of the reader , touching another important point of his fortune . 
It was but a few moments , that they conversed with George , and in those few moments , they had , indeed , shown themselves intelligent , beyond what could have been expected , in their case ; but otherwise had said nothing , but what any well informed girls would have said in the same case . 
But the clearness and simplicity of expression , the music of her tones of voice , the mingled dignity , humility , and pensiveness of the countenance and manner of the elder of the girls , -LRB- her name was Jane , -RRB- left an indelible impression upon his heart . 
He returned , and related the result of his commission to the almoners , and naturally conveyed something of the coloring of his own imagination and feelings into the story . 
In fact , in conveying their thanks and their apology , he had unconsciously given a most vivid encomium of the orphans , and the ladies rallied him on the spot , as heart-smitten by these all-conquering `` deckers , '' as they were called . 
In any point of view , the more George saw them , the deeper were his impressions . 
Their manners , their astonishing acquisitions , considering where they had been reared , their loveliness , their being disinherited orphans , even their humiliation in being driven on deck , concurred to raise a spell round his imagination , in their favor . 
Besides , those who have powers and keen sensibilities themselves , instinctively ken these attributes in others ; and it is a fact , that Miss Jane had seen all this in George , and had imagined more than she had seen . 
In truth , she had heard from the ancient maiden , aforesaid , all about him . 
So Miss Jane was somewhat prepared for the declaration in question ; and she heard George to the end , for he fairly made love to her , and offered himself in form . 
After all the usual preliminaries of blushing , and sighing , & c. she told him , in the customary style , `` how much obliged she was for his good opinion , & c. ; but she thought him altogether too sudden in coming to such a decisive resolution , and the acquaintance too short to warrant it , and that she was in no condition to make any definite reply to such a proposition . '' 
But , when she saw his countenance fall very much , on receiving such a damping reply , she told him , that `` although she could not warrant it , she could not doubt , but her grandfather would be happy to see him at his house . '' 
Upon this hint other conversation ensued , until it was understood , that George was to make an excursion over the mountains , to the county of Lancaster , when his boat should be laid up , this summer . 
George made this promise of a journey something in the form of a threat , and Miss Jane answered in a tone of good natured defiance , that she was sure sister Sarah would be peased to see him , to which sister Sarah very graciously assented . 
When they arrived at C. , George gave himself particular interest in all that related to sending them on their journey from that place in the stage . 
George assured them , that he had much rather it had been himself , who should perform that office ; and as the Dutchman aforesaid was a little , old , time-dried , and hard-hearted fellow , as little promising in the inner , as the outer man , I have no doubt , that Miss Jane , in her heart , would have wished the same thing . 
The next day after their arrival , George saw them safely deposited in the stage with the little Dutchman ; and the stage drove off , with very little parting remark between them . 
Be that as it may , it was understood that George was to marry Miss Jane Belden . 
His mother approved his disinterested spirit ; for it was generally remarked by the young ladies , that George had been caught by a pretty face , and nothing else . 
His disinterestedness , as some called it , and his folly , as others had it , was the more famous , for it was matter of common parlance , that he could have married an heiress , in the vicinity , if he would . 
On the first day of the following August , George was on his way over the mountains . 
Sometimes it seemed to him a wild-goose chase in reflection upon his object . 
But he comforted and assured himself in these misgivings , by taking the flattering unction of disinterestedness and sympathy to his soul . 
He was set down from the stage at a tavern , on the declivity of a noble hill , from which a broad sweep of a valley was to be seen . 
George inquired , in a faltering voice , of the landlord , about the young ladies ; whether they had arrived safely ; how they were ; and whether they were kindly received . 
George began to tremble ; for he saw by the tones and manner of the host , that the young persons , about whom he asked , were persons of very different estimation in his mind , in regard to their wealth and importance , from what they had been in his own . 
He immediately put himself in an attitude of respectful oratory , and began to relate , how they arrived , and were received . 
`` Two months ago , '' said he , `` they got out of the stage at my house ; and sweet girls they were , and admired by every body . 
poor George . 
Away went his sympathy and disinterestedness to the winds . 
The tables were sadly turned against him . 
He had been jolted over the mountains , night and day ; and he had soothed his aching bones , and his misgiving mind , with the idea of kindly rescuing two pensive , and ill-treated , and disinherited girls from a brute of a grandfather . 
He took advantage of the astounded silence of George , to run over the catalogue of the estates and mansions , left to the young heiresses , and to state , that they were already looked upon as game for fortune-hunters , all the way to Philadelphia . 
To mend the matter , he added , that they would have good advisers , and would not be likely to be caught easily ; but that he hoped , Miss Jane would lend a favorable ear to the suit of the young gentleman who represented them in Congress , and that he rather believed , she had given him encouragement , that it would be received graciously . 
George pretended to hearken to a great deal more , and to some indirect inquiries , what his business was with them . 
But before the conclusion of the speech of his host , his thoughts were a thousand leagues off . 
His first reflection was , that as affairs stood , his chance was not worth a farthing ; and that he should only show himself a fool , to expect Jane to be the same , now that their relative standing was so completely reversed . 
He had seen enough of the hardening influence of the world , not to expect that she would catch it like the rest . 
He could hardly forbear a bitter smile at the thought of his fancied condescension and disinterestedness . 
His pride , his courage , and his hopes , were all sinking together . 
But , said he , recurring to his old maxim , `` ` Do n't let us give up the ship . ' 
I am his son , and I have that here , '' -LRB- laying his hand on his bosom , -RRB- `` that is as proud as the best of them . 
So thought George with himself . 
George observed , that `` he wished to call on the young ladies , if they were at home , and at leisure . '' 
`` The Congress man , I suppose , '' thought George . 
By mere accident he happened to have a card in his pocket . 
So he wrote on it , that , passing that way , he wished to send his respects , & c . 
The servant took up his name , and during his absence , George was convinced , that the metaphysicians had reason , who said , that , `` the only true measure of time is the succession of ideas . '' 
He had whipped himself up to such an idea of being a lover rejected from mercenary motives , and to such an effort of right and allowable pride and resentment in the case , that he could not instantly let himself down to her affectionate and heart-felt tones . 
But they could not in a moment banish all traces of the storm from his brow . 
He went in , and took the seat that was placed for him , between the two sisters . 
Before the visible cloud had passed away from his face , Jane had drawn from him a partial avowal of his recent thoughts , touching the premises . 
The cloud was immediately transferred from his brow to hers . 
He had never seen any expression in her countenance , but what was as mild as the sweet South . 
But Sarah , who saw how the wind was setting , and the paleness on the cheek of the agitated parties , took the hand of George , and said with great self-composure , `` Never mind , Mr. Mason , you and I have had no quarrel in this matter . 
This well timed interlude enabled the parties to recover their good temper , and it was manifest , that they were too much in earnest , to dare torment one another , and George had soon an entire confidence , that she had the same heart , as an heiress , that she had , as an orphan . 
Pompey , the converted slave , according to George 's promise , was purchased from his master , and set free . 
But his grateful heart bound him to Mrs. Mason and her family by the new and delightful tenure of gratitude . 
