Drawing himself up with a proud air , he cast a supercilious glance over the person of the intruder , from head to foot and from foot to head , looking hard at his thread-bare garments , the remnants of better days , and then answered rather disdainfully : `` See here , Edgar Courtly , you fo ` get you ` sef . 
As soon as he was out of sight , young Courtly folded his arms on his breast , and with brows rather closely knit , in silence awaited his return . 
`` I will not excuse him , '' returned young Edgar , in a sharp tone of indignation , while his face reddened and his dark eyes flashed defiance . 
`` Then I will seek him where he is , '' rejoined Edgar Courtly . 
`` Bess not go , Misser Edgar ! '' 
His appearance , however , was , in some respects , in advance of his years ; for his head was partially bald , and partially covered with thin , gray hairs . 
His features , generally , were regular , and of that peculiar cast which would make them prepossessing or otherwise , according to the mood or will of the owner . 
With the additional statement that in person be was portly , and of an air to command respect among strangers , we turn to Edgar Courtly . 
In stature the latter was slightly above medium , possessing a fine , manly form , and a dignified bearing that would have befitted one his senior by ten years . 
No one , not even the most casual observer , could ever mistake him for a common character -- for one of that herd of human beings who are as much alike as the pebbles on the sea-washed beach . 
`` Well , sir , '' he resumed in a sharper tone , as the young man , dropping his eyes to the floor , did not seem in haste to reply , `` to what am I indebted for this intrusion of Edgar Courtly ? '' 
`` No , I do not think I ran any such risk , '' rejoined Edgar , giving the other such a firm , cool , determined look , that he moved uneasily in his seat , let his eyes sink to the floor , and slightly coughed , by way of filling up the unpleasant interval and reassuring himself . 
-- What is it you want here with me at this time of night , Edgar Courtly ? '' 
`` Justice , '' answered young Edgar , promptly . 
`` Nay , '' returned Edgar , coolly , `` do not get in a passion , Mr. Goldfinch -- uncle I will not call you , since you deny relationship , -- do not be uneasy , sir , but sit down and hear me out , for the worst is still to come . 
There , that is right , '' he added , as , after some hesitation , the other at length resumed his seat ; `` now I will proceed in brief : `` I have said , Mr. Goldfinch , that so soon as it was ascertained my father was dead , you somehow mysteriously discovered a will , which made you principal heir to his possessions . 
`` But -- but , '' gasped the other , turning pale with excitement , `` you -- you -- '' `` Pray do not get in a passion , '' pursued Edgar . 
If you ever did any wrong in your life -- mind , now , I say if -- -LRB- and the dark hazle eye of young Edgar was fixed piercingly upon the other , as if to read his very soul , -RRB- you doubtless had some assistance ; and it sometimes happens that tools turn traitors . 
Glancing at the paper , Edgar Courtly was surprised to discover it a check for one thousand dollars on a banker in Wall street . 
The first impulse of his generous soul , was to seize his uncle 's hand and crave pardon for all he had said , and own he had done him wrong ; but then , remembering the peculiar manner by which the other had been wrought to this liberality , he altered his intention and simply said : `` Sir , I thank you ! 
and with the last words he opened the door and disappeared . 
Well , Edgar Courtly , you triumph now in your own conceit ; but my turn will come next ; and then -- and then -- '' and shaking his head , with a dark smile , but leaving the sentence unfinished , he resumed his seat at the table , and turned again to his paper , as though nothing had occurred to disturb his equanimity . 
Edgar , you know , has gone to see his uncle , who , however unmindful of our necessities he may have been , will surely not reject his petition when he learns our present condition . '' 
`` Hope for nothing there , mother -- hope for nothing from him ! '' 
rejoined the other ; `` for he who was so base as to rob us of all we had , and then so shamefully deceive us , is devoid of all pity . '' 
Is it not most time for Edgar to return ? 
I wish he would come -- for I -- I -- feel -- very -- very weak ; '' and her voice died away to a whisper . 
With a slight motion of the hand , the invalid waved it away , saying , in a feeble tone : `` I wish Edgar would come . 
exclaimed Mrs. Courtly , with something like returning animation , `` God grant it be Edgar ! '' 
and as Virginia sprang forward to give him admittance , she added , in an under tone : `` for I would see him again ere I depart to return no more . '' 
were the first words Edgar spoke as he crossed the threshold . 
I fear she is dying , '' whispered his sister . 
cried Edgar ; and with one bound he stood beside the bed of his mother , and would have embraced her , only that he remembered in time his garments were dripping water . 
`` I am glad you have come , Edgar , '' spoke Mrs. Courtly , in a very weak , husky tone , `` for I was afraid I should never behold you again . '' 
inquired Edgar , in a tremulous voice , striving to master his feelings so as not to appear agitated . 
`` Yes , Edgar , '' was the reply , `` mortal aid I fear can avail me nothing now . 
While speaking , both Edgar and Virgina stood gazing upon the countenance of their dying parent in silence , but with breasts heaving with feelings too deep and potent for the pen to record . 
As she ceased , Edgar exclaimed : `` Oh ! 
I have my uncle 's check for a thousand dollars ; '' and he held the paper up before her . 
As he spoke , he turned hurriedly away and darted to the door to execute his purpose , but the feeble voice of his mother arrested his progress . 
`` Stay , Edgar , '' she said , `` stay , I implore you ! 
Edgar slowly returned , and again taking her hand , the manly tears he could no longer restrain followed each other mournfully down his anguished features ; while his sister , placing her head on her mother 's pillow , sobbed aloud . 
It was thus , but not wholly thus , with Edgar and Virginia . 
For a few minutes after the sufferer had breathed her last , both Edgar and Virginia occupied themselves as just described ; and then , finding too truly she was dead , the latter threw herself upon the corpse , and again and again kissed her cold livid lips , and wept , and groaned , and sobbed alternately ; while the former , sinking upon a seat , buried his face in his hands , and rocked to fro like a strong oak shaken by the tempest . 
For a time he was unable to shed a tear , and his heart crept to his throat and almost strangled him , and his brain seemed parched and withered . 
In this state he rose and paced the floor for some minutes , during which the working on the rack of agony the most intense . 
-- At last , greatly to his relief , he burst into tears , and again seating himself , for a long time he wept freely . 
An hour passed , and both Edgar and Virginia had become more calm . 
In sooth , the latter had lain herself down by the corpse , and with one arm thrown over its breast , and her face partly buried in the clothes , had cried herself into a kind of dreamy stupor , from which she only arroused occasionally to draw a long , sobbing breath . 
Edgar , on regaining somewhat his former composure , approached the bed , and bending over his much loved sister , gently whispered her name ; but finding she took no heed of him , he resolved not to disturb her , and reseating himself near her , he took a hand of the corpse in his own , and was soon lost in a painful revery . 
An hour and then another went by , and still Edgar sat as before , motionless and silent , with features so rigid , that , but for his breathing , he might naturally enough have been mistaken for one of the dead himself . 
Again arousing himself , Edgar now arose , and collecting all the loose clothes he could find , gently spread them over his sister , and then bending down , and pressing his lips to her forehead , softly murmured : `` God bless thee , thou sweet but fragile flower , and let thy sleep be long , that some misery may be spared thee ! '' 
and then taking his position as before , he remained the sad and lonely watcher of the night . 
Towards morning the storm abated ; and though shivering with the cold , for his garments had not been changed and the fire had long since gone out , Edgar , overcome by fatigue and excitement , at last dropped off into a feverish slumber , constantly broken by sudden starts , and as constantly renewed by exhausted nature . 
The gray of morning was just stream ing through the dingy window and crevices of the old hovel , as Edgar , arousing himself with a start and shaking off his drowsiness , turned to his sister . 
Much to his gratification he found her still asleep ; and again stealing a kiss and pressing his lips to the cold cheek of his mother , he sallied forth to procure fuel and food , and make arrangements for the last sad rite he would ever be called upon to perform for her who had given him existence . 
Only a few persons were abroad in the street , and most of the houses were closed and looked as cold and cheerless as he felt at heart . 
Moving on for a square and a-half , Edgar came to a small , miserable looking grocery , -LRB- numbers of which can be seen at all times in all parts of New York , where a little of every thing is kept and doled out to the poor in any quantity , from the value of a cent upwards , -RRB- the owner of which was just taking down his shutters , preparatory to his morning 's sale . 
Here Edgar knew he could procure every thing he desired at present , even to a few sticks of wood , or a small measure of coal ; and approaching the grocer , a rough , coarse looking Dutchman , he said , blandly : `` I wish to purchase a few necessary articles , and in the course of the day will call and settle for them . '' 
`` But , my good sir , '' pursued Edgar , reddening , `` I do not intend to cheat you . 
querried the Dutchman ; and as Edgar informed him , he continued : `` Vy you has der sheck and not der moneys ? '' 
`` Because , '' answered Edgar , humoring him , in the hope he would grant his request , `` it is necessary I should have a few articles now . 
You shust go , mit your dead motter and shister , and your great sheck , vich you ha n't got more nor as I , mitout you stole him ; '' and saying this , the hard-hearted grocer turned his back on Edgar , and coolly proceeded to finish taking down his shutters . 
For a few moments , Edgar stood as one stupified with amazement , at the gross insult to himself , coupled as it was with such cool indifference . 
Then his hand clenched , his teeth closed tightly , his lips quivered , his eyes flashed fierce indignation , and he took a step forward , with the full determination of punishing the other for his insolence ; but then , bethinking himself he would only become involved in a quarrel -- which , to say the least , would now be most imprudent -- he turned away , muttering : `` Such is the selfish , uncharitable world -- and why should I quarrel with what I can not alter ! 
In a few minutes Edgar had entered another of these miserable groceries , where he met with the same success as before , with the exception that the owner simply refused to trust , without farther insulting him . 
`` Oh , Edgar , my dear brother ! '' 
murmured Edgar , tenderly , straining her to his heart , while his eyes grew dim with scalding tears . 
returned Edgar , in that deep , earnest , passionate tone which carries with it the unmistakable evidence of sincerity . 
The visiter , gave him one heartfelt look of gratitude , and then , much to his surprise , covered her eyes with her hands , sunk into a seat , and burst into tears . 
Before Edgar could ask for an explanation of this singular conduct , she rose , and hastily wiping her eyes , as if ashamed of her emotion , said , in a sad , earnest , tremulous voice : `` You are surprised to witness this to you strange ebulition of feeling ; but , sir , it is a long time since I have heard God 's blessing invoked upon my guilty head ; '' and again , in spite of herself , the tears pressed through her eyelids . 
Edgar looked kindly but sadly upon her ere he made a reply , and even Virginia for the moment forgot her own grief , and turning her head , beamed upon her guest a curious but tender expression from her soft blue eyes , which touched the other to the very soul . 
said Edgar , in a soothing , sympathetic tone , accompanied with an expression in keeping with the words he uttered . 
Both Edgar and the stranger gazed upon her in solemn silence , each busy with painful thoughts , till at length she arose , and turning to her brother , in a calmer mood than she had hitherto exhibited , said : `` And why did you leave me , Edgar , without telling me you were going ? 
`` I thought I should return ere you awoke , '' answered Edgar ; `` and I went for fuel and food . 
But I failed to get either , '' he continued , bitterly , `` because the cold-hearted wretches to whom I applied would not sell to me without the money , and that you know I had not . 
And that reminds me , '' he added , with a start , `` that I have missed the check of my uncle , my sole dependence now , without which we must starve . 
and he began an eager search of the apartment , assisted by his trembling sister . 
he groaned , as , after a fruitless search , he gave up in despair , and sinking hopelessly upon a seat , covered his face with his hands , as if to shut out the dread contemplation . 
`` If it be money you need , '' said his guest , `` thank Heaven ! 
I dare not take it , '' returned Edgar , mournfully , motioning her back with his hand , `` for I might never be able to repay you . '' 
`` The deed will repay itself , '' pursued the other , energetically , thrusting it upon Edgar . 
`` It may possibly be in my power at some future time , '' said Edgar , rising , and speaking in a voice made husky by deep emotion , `` to repay this overwhelming debt of kindness ; and if so , rest assured that my very life will be at your command . 
Both Edgar and his sister turned to the card , and beheld simply the name of Ellen Douglas , written in a plain , neat hand . 
To begin then at the beginning , let us go back some twenty-five years , to the marriage of Ethan Courtly and Mary Goldfinch , the parents of Edgar and Virginia . 
From some remarks dropped by Edgar to his uncle , recorded in the opening chapter , the reader has already had an inkling of what is to come ; but still there are many things not yet mentioned , which , as a faithful chronicler , we deem it our duty here to set forth . 
To this , of course , Mrs. Courtly assented ; but judge of her astonishment , and that of her friends , on learning that out of the vast estate of her late husband , only five thousand dollars had been bequeathed to herself and children ; while the balance , amounting at the least calculation to many hundred thousand dollars , including the splendid home mansion , had been bestowed upon Oliver -- with the provise , that should he die childless , it must revert to Edgar and Virginia and their issue -- or , in case of their demise without issue , to the next heir or heirs at law . 
And it did take every cent ; and at last Mrs. Courtly was obliged to recall Edgar and Virginia , for want of means to longer support them abroad . 
To carry out this design , she sold her few remaining effects , and with the proceeds set out on her journey , accompanied by Edgar and Virginia . 
Several times did Edgar call upon his uncle and ask for aid -- but always to be insulted and refused ; and even the negro servant , once his father 's slave , having caught the infection , prided himself on his equality with the poor relations of his present master , as has already been shown by his conduct and language in the opening chapter . 
Vainly did Edgar seek for employment from day to day . 
Nothing could he obtain , for the reason that , having done nothing through life , he could not bring experience to back themselves becoming more and more reduced -- for though very economical now , every little they spent made a wide breach in their limited means . 
The day following the funeral of Mrs. Courtly , saw Edgar and his sister located in small but comfortable lodgings , some three or four squares from their previously wretched abode . 
She had many delicate scruples to overcome in effecting this change ; for though excessively in need , Edgar was naturally very proud , and could not bear the idea of being under farther pecuniary obligations to one on whom he had no claim ; nor would he , in fact , have consented to the arrangement at all , but for his sweet sister , whom it sorely wrung his heart to behold suffering the pangs of poverty . 
For himself he knew he could provide in some way -- but what meantime would become of Virginia ? 
-- and this the generous Ellen pleaded as an inducement to his accepting her proposition . 
It was galling , too , to one bred in the affluence he had been , to be indebted to the wages of sin -- to money earned by guilt -- for the bettering of his condition ; but poverty and circumstances are many times powerful combatants of sensitive scruples , and so they proved in the present instance . 
`` I will accept her aid as a loan , '' he at last said , `` until kind Providence furnishes me with the means of repaying the debt with interest -- for beggars must certainly not be choosers -- and without this assistance , now that my check is irrecoverably lost , starvation stares us in the face . 
And why , '' he farther reasoned , `` should I decline the means which doubtless Heaven has placed in my way for a wise purpose ? 
Having thus settled the matter in his own mind , he went zealously to work , and a couple of hours search put him in possession of two very pleasant rooms , located in the second story of a small private dwelling on Elizabeth street , to which access could be had by a flight of stairs from without -- so that he was as much secluded from a forced contact with others , as if occupying the entire premises . 
Hither he at once removed his sister , and what little furniture was still remaining ; and then by a judicious purchase of a few second-hand articles in Chatham Square , among which a very small outlay , in giving the apartments an air of comfort and tidiness , to which both himself and sister had of late been strangers -- and which , contrasting with their previously wretched abode , made the present one seem a paradise . 
-- Edgar next purchased a few groceries and some fuel , and Virginia prepared the evening meal -- for by this time the day was drawing to a close -- and as they sorrowfully partook of their first morsel since breaking fast in the morning , and thought of their poor , dead mother , no longer with them to share their griefs or joys , both wept freely , in silence -- but wept as those who , not altogether despairing , feel there is something still to live for -- as those who have some hope in the future , and believe that day is again dawning upon a night of rayless gloom . 
Edgar was the first to speak . 
Rising from the table , after having ate sparingly , he approached his sister , and throwing an arm around her neck and drawing her gently to him , said , tenderly : `` Let us try to weep no more , my sweet sister ! 
`` But , Edgar , '' sobbed Virginia , `` I am thinking of our dear , dear mother . '' 
`` But she is in Heaven , '' pursued Edgar . 
After a pause of a few minutes , during which Virginia gradually became more calm , Edgar resumed : `` And now , my sister , let us speak on another subject , but one I fear scarcely less painful . 
dear brother , '' cried Virginia , with a burst of affection , throwing her arms around his neck and pressing her lips to his , `` how much you are like our dear , dear mother , in your counsels ! 
I , too , perhaps , can find employment -- '' `` Nay , '' interrupted Edgar , `` I could not see you labor . 
`` And you , Edgar -- you who have been brought up in the same manner as myself -- how then will you bear it ? '' 
Making a hasty breakfast , Edgar kissed and bade his sister be of good cheer in his absence -- as in all probability he would return with welcome tidings -- and then sailied forth to seek employment in the great metropolis , prepared to put his hand to any honest pursuit that would return a fitting recompense . 
Venders of all kinds were abroad , each loudly crying his particular article of traffic , which , from long habit , had become rather a peculiar , discordant scream , than any sound or word a stranger might find inteligible . 
As Edgar slowly pursued his way down the Bowery into Chatham Square , down Chatham Street toward Park Row , and noted that every one he met seemed to have some employment , either present or prospective , he thought to himself how happy was their condition compared with his , who had nothing but trouble to occupy his mind . 
little did he know that many who passed him with rapid steps , were hurrying to a daily task , that , while it was literally crushing them under its iron burthen , barely returned a pittance sufficient to keep soul and body together . 
Little did he know that those who seemed better off than he , were dying by inches under excessive toil , that the poor beings they loved , and who were solely dependent on them , might eke out a miserable existence . 
Little did he know this , or he might have been more contented with his own situation , trying as it was , and felt he had less cause to complain than they . 
For a long time Edgar could not summon resolution to ask for employment at the different places where there seemed a possibility of his obtaining it , lest he sensitive feelings . 
And then , what occupation should he ask for ? 
and what experience or recommendation could he bring to aid him , even should the services of one like himself be desired ? 
He had done nothing through life , and consequently knew no more of one business than another ; but the fancy struck him , that could he obtain a place as salesman in some kind of a store , he could easily make himself useful and give satisfaction to his employer . 
With the design of seeking something of this kind , he passed the various shops of traffic , with many a wistful look , but still without venturing within to make the necessary inquiries . 
At last , after traversing the entire extent of Chatham street and Square for the third time , and knowing that nothing would ever be accomplished in this way , he made bold to address a middle-aged gentleman , who was standing in the door of a furniture ware-room `` Sir , '' he said , `` can you inform me where a young man like myself can find employment ? '' 
`` Certainly , '' answered Edgar , promptly ; `` I have been blessed with a good education . '' 
`` Why , unfortunately , '' replied Edgar , coloring , `` I am a stranger in the city , and have no friend here to refer to . '' 
asked Edgar . 
returned Edgar : `` God help the poor ! '' 
and he walked away with a desponding heart . 
For an hour or more , Edgar traversed the streets in a very unpleasant state of mind , ere venturing on a second application . 
And when at last he did make another trial , it was only to meet with a result similar to the first . 
Grown somewhat desperate and less sensitive through failing , Edgar now determined , that in case he did not succeed , it should not be his fault , and consequently went boldly to work , pushing his suit wherever there seemed a possibility of success . 
For hours he pursued this course ; but meeting every where with disappointment , and being nearly overcome with fatigue and anxiety , he finally gave up in despair , and strolling into Tammany Hall , threw himself down upon a seat , with the air of one who feels his last hope has departed . 
`` It is no use to longer strive , '' he muttered , despondingly . 
As he said this half aloud , his eye chanced upon a newspaper lying on a seat beside him ; and mechanically raising it , he glanced over the columns in a listless manner , as one who reads while the mind is minutes he sat gazing upon the paper , sometimes distinguishing a word , and sometimes beholding the letters all blurred and indistinct . 
At length something appeared to arrest his attention -- for he straightened himself in his seat , drew the paper nearer to him , while his eyes brightened and no longer exhibited a vacant stare . 
The cause of this change in his appearance , was an advertisement which read as follows : `` Poets , Attention ! 
Edgar was by nature a poet , and in his leisure hours had written some beautiful stanzas , which his modesty had thus far concealed from the public . 
His talents in this line he had never thought of turning to account until now . 
he exclaimed , starting up with an energy that drew many eyes upon him : `` Perhaps ! '' 
and immediately procuring pen , ink and paper , he wrote a few lines and left in haste for -- office , where he deposited the note , superscribed in accordance with the advertisement . 
-- Having done this he departed , with the intention of returning home ; but he had scarcely gone fifty yards , when a hand on his shoulder arrested him , and turning , he beheld an elegantly dressed gentleman , with the billet he had just deposited , open in his hand . 
said the stranger , blandly ; `` but have I the pleasure of addressing the writer of this , Edgar Courtly ? '' 
`` That is my name , at your service , '' returned Edgar , with a graceful and dignified inclination of the head . 
`` I am most happy , sir , '' rejoined Edgar , `` to make your acquaintance so much sooner than I anticipated . '' 
`` I have written some little , '' replied Edgar , blushing ; `` but perhaps I am incompetent to perform what you require . '' 
returned Edgar , much excited at the prospect of obtaining the reward . 
On hearing this , the countenance of Edgar somewhat fell -- for he thought to himself , `` What chance have I among so many ? 
But then , '' he reasoned , `` I can but fail at the worst , and may succeed -- in which event -- '' Here his feelings becoming powerfully excited , he hastily inquired the residence of Elmer , shook his hand and turned away , with the observation that he would soon hear from him again . 
With a fluttering heart , palpitating between hope and fear , Edgar hurried through the crowded streets , heedless of all he met or passed , his mind occupied with one joyful thought , that of cheering the drooping spirits of his sweet sister with his new hopes and lightly up the stairs and into his own apartments , expecting to take his sister by surprise . 
The next moment he felt a chilling sensation creep over him -- a sensation as awful as the coming of death . 
The rooms were tenantless -- his sister was gone -- and echo alone answered to his call . 
Throwing himself upon a seat , in a state of mind full of alarm and strange misgivings , insomuch that he soon found himself in a profuse perspiration , Edgar sought to invent a cause for the absence of Virginia . 
It was so singular she should absent herself while he was away , and leave the house unfastened . 
Somewhat consoling himself with this idea , he waited rather impatiently for her appearance , hoping and expecting every moment she would enter ; but as minute after minute glided by , and no Virginia came , he began to grow alarmed in earnest , and rising from his seat , paced rapidly to and fro the apartment . 
At length , when a half hour had passed , bringing no intelligence of the missing one , the excitement of Edgar had reached such an intensity , that he could no longer content himself in remaining idle . 
Something had happened , he felt sure , and his heart fairly sunk within him at the thought . 
It was passed the hour of noon , and Edgar was fatigued and hungry ; but forgetful of every thing but his sister , whom he somehow fancied was lost , he darted away in search of her . 
Fortunately , he had not to go far , ere , to his great joy , he met her returning , accompanied by a young man of genteel appearance , who walked respectfully by her side , carrying a small bundle wrapped with paper . 
Edgar was not surprised at this , for he fancied she had been shopping , and that the purchased articles were being sent home as is customary . 
he exclaimed , springing forward and seizing her hand , `` how could you so alarm me ! 
queried Edgar , eagerly . 
repeated her brother ; and his dark eyes flushed angrily upon the stranger . 
`` Nay , '' interposed Virginia , divining his thoughts , `` not by him , Edgar . 
said Edgar , quickly , changing his manner and cordially extending the other his hand . 
returned the youngman with warmth , and a hearty shake of the hand ; `` but as to thanks , I know not that one deserves them for simply doing his duty . 
-- eagerly inquired Edgar . 
Here the stranger was about to take his leave , but Edgar and Virginia both insisted he should accompany them , and accordingly all proceeded to the house together . 
`` My pardon I know you will have , '' answered Edgar , `` no matter what you have done , and so I may as well grant it first as last . 
asked Edgar . 
he pursued ; `` how pitiful ! 
chimed in the young man , who on his way hither had given his name as Dudley , and learned those of his new acquaintances in return : `` Indeed there are , Mr. Courtly ; thousands , who are not only forced to toil for this meagre sum , but are glad to get even this , to keep them from starvation . '' 
sighed Edgar , musingly . 
`` But you have not finished your story , Virginia , '' said Edgar , turning to her . 
`` The feeling is mutual , I assure you , '' responded Edgar . 
And then he added , apologetically : `` We were not always as we now are , sir . 
Here Edgar proceeded to briefly sketch some of the prominent events of the past five years , winding up with an account of his last visit to his uncle , the manner in which he obtained the check and its subsequent loss , together with the death of his mother , adding at the conclusion : `` And now , sir , I must say , I feel I have been almost too confiding to one so late an utter stranger ; but there is a something in your countenance and manner , which , step by step , has drawn me on to the full revelation . '' 
Edgar mused a moment , and then said : `` I do not know why I should withold it . 
said Edgar , quickly . 
muttered Edgar , grinding his teeth . 
ejaculated Edgar , with a start , `` I have overlooked that . '' 
Edgar shook his head . 
`` I would rather starve , '' he answered , `` than again enter his hateful presence as a suitor . 
There will perhaps be some way opened , by which my dear sister and I can live without begging favors of rich relations ; '' and as he spoke , he threw an arm fondly around Virginia , drew her to him , and pressed a kiss upon her lips . 
Turning to Edgar , he took his hand and said : `` Our meeting and acquaintance , Mr. Courtly , I trust may prove of mutual advantage . 
With these somewhat mysterious words , Dudley again shook Edgar 's hand warmly , and bowing gracefully to Virginia , withdrew . 
`` Yes , massa , him waiting , '' answered the negro , who , notwithstanding his arrogance to Edgar , and his boast of freedom , did not venture on dropping the usual term of slavery-servitude , by saying mister . 
Similar to these were the reflections of Edgar Courtly , as , pen in hand , and weary with thought , he paused over the task he had undertaken . 
We have said elsewhere , that in his leisure hours he had written poetry -- but that had been done simply through inclination and for his own amusement , and was very different from his present attempt , where , with nothing to inspire him save the hope of reward , on which his very life as it seemed to him depended , and the shuddering fear of failure , he toiled on , straining each mental faculty to its utmost tension . 
`` And even when completed , '' he sighed , `` I may fail , and all my anxiety and brain-torture go for naught . '' 
But he determined to fail not through indolence or carlessness ; and hence he wrote and read , revised and re-wrote , until there seemed no possibility of his improving what he had done ; and gladly then , yet not without misgivings , he pronounced the poem complete . 
This occurred at a rather late hour on the third night from his meeting with Elmer ; and having read it aloud to Virginia , and received her joyful approval , he retired for the night -- but not to sleep soundly -- for hope and fear were too busy in his breast to allow him more than a feverish , fitful slumber . 
At dawn he was up and dressed , and without partaking breakfast , so anxious was he to have the article put in hand as early as possible , he set out for the lodgings of Elmer . 
As Edgar arrived at the Battery , and took in all this at a glance , he felt his spirits revive with a feeling akin to the scene ; and for an hour he forgot his sorrows in a happy reverie . 
Then , remembering he had not yet broken his fast , and that his sister , having prepared the frugal meal , would be patiently awaiting him , he set out upon his return ; but instead of retracing his steps , shaped his course along the shipping of the East river . 
Pushing forward , little heeding any thing around him , his mind occupied with grave reflections , he had passed some half a dozen squares , when his progress was arrested by a groan from a man lying on the pavement just to his right . 
His first impression on coming to a halt , was that the man was drunk , and he was about to pass on , when something in the appearance of the stranger led him to think otherwise , and he approached and accosted him in a kindly tone . 
sighed Edgar , struck with the stranger 's manner and the mysteriousness of his last words ; `` here is another example of the world 's humanity . 
he asked ; `` for though dressed in the garb of a common sailor , your language bespeaks one bred in a different school . '' 
stranger , '' rejoined Edgar , `` it is little assistance I can render to any one ; but what I can do I will ; you must not be left alone to die . 
Have patience a moment ; I will see what can be done ; '' and seeing a well-dressed gentleman at a short distance , he hurried to him , explained the case and asked his advice . 
queried Edgar . 
`` If a sailor , they are bound to do so ; '' and he gave Edgar instructions how to proceed to gain him admittance . 
Acting upon the other 's advice , Edgar procured an elliptic spring dray , a vehicle much in use in the great metropolis , and placing the stranger upon it , accompanied and saw him safely deposited in the hospital , where he would receive the best of care and medical attendance . 
`` Alanson Davis , '' answered the invalid , feebly pressing the hand of Edgar . 
`` Edgar Courtly , '' replied our hero . 
The invalid started , clasped his forehead partly raised himself with the other , while his eyes fastened upon Edgar with a wild , eager expression . 
`` Perhaps I was mistaken , '' he said , in a hoarse whisper . 
Edgar did so . 
`` Is Baltimore , '' said Edgar . 
Edgar set his teeth hard , and frowned darkly , as he replied : `` My mother , God rest her soul ! 
The sick man nodded his head and sank back , too much exhausted to make an immediate reply . 
At length he feebly muttered : `` Go ! 
and so exhausted was the invalid with excitement and the effort to speak , that his last trial died away in a whisper . 
Edgar , surprised and bewildered at these mysterious words , would fain have lingered , in the hope of hearing something farther ; but the physician touched him on the shoulder , and warned him that his presence was endangering the life of the patient . 
And the dark hints he had himself thrown out to his uncle on the night his mother died , and the singular effect they produced , all recurred to the mind of Edgar , with the convincing force , that where was so much uneasiness , there must be some secret but potent cause ; and now that he was once upon the trail , he resolved to ferret this out , let the consequences be what they might . 
His homeward course from this park , led Edgar directly past the Tombs of Centre street , upon which he now gazed with a strange , unacountable feeling of awe , that he had occasion soon after to remember as an evil presentiment . 
While occupied in gazing upon this gloomy structure , and thinking of the poor wretches therein confined , Edgar was suddenly startled by the piercing shrieks of a female ; and looking round , he beheld a horse tearing down the street at the very top of his speed , with a light vehicle attached , in which sat a lady , nearly frightened out of her senses , from whom issued these frightful sounds of agonized despair . 
From the moment Edgar put eyes upon the lady , he determined to save her , even at the risk of his life -- and a fearful risk it was , in the manner he attempted it . 
The horse was descending Centre street from the direction of the Park , and unless his course were changed , must pass within a few feet of where he stood . 
There was but little time for reflection -- but Edgar thought rapidly , and his plan was soon laid , though it must be confessed one of peculiar danger to himself . 
Perceiving a club upon the pavement , he seized it , and steping forward a few paces , awaited the approach of the furious beast , well knowing that should he fail in his design , his own life in all probability would be the penalty . 
On came the maddened beast , rolling fire from the flinty pavement beneath his hoofs , and making each one he passed shudder with an undefined terror . 
Edgar had taken his position directly in front of the animal , so that , unless one or the other turned aside , the latter must pass directly over his body . 
Edgar struck him a violent blow upon the head , which felled him to the earth ; then springing quickly back , he caught the lady in his arms , as she was thrown forward by the sudden stopping of the vehicle . 
It was a most dangerous feat , but one he had correctly counted on performing , and he now stood the proud hero of a thousand admiring eyes . 
His first movement was to bear the lady up the steps of the Tombs , where water being procured and dashed in her face , she presently revived , only to stare in wonder and maidenly timidity upon the dense glance at her person and dress , showed her to be young , beautiful and wealthy -- or at least a lady of some distinction , and Edgar was perplexing himself how to proceed next , when a middle-aged gentleman came pushing through the crowd , which gave panting and way with deference , and catching her in his arms , wildly called her his own dear child , and seemed fairly beside himself with joy at her providential escape . 
Seeing she was now in proper hands , and that there was no longer need for his services , Edgar took advantage of the confusion , and quietly and modestly withdrew . 
In a word , while men were eagerly seeking him , that he might receive a due reward for his noble daring , Edgar was quietly wending his way homeward , satisfied In his own conscience that he had performed his duty , and disposed to seek no other recompense . 
The sun was several hours advanced towards meridian when he reached his humble lodgings , and Virginia , having prepared the morning meal , was awaiting him with an anxiety full of a thousand fears for his safety . 
To her he explained at once all that had happened to detain him ; and throwing her arms around his neck , she pressed upon his lips the sisterly kiss of approval , and both partook of their frugal repast with increased appetites and lightened hearts . 
Although impatient to know the decision of Elmer regarding his production , Edgar did not deem it proper to intrude upon him for a day or two , or until all his competitors should have sent in their efforts . 
Feverish with anxiety as concerned his success , it was now his object to while away his time so as to think as little upon the matter as possible . 
For this purpose he sallied forth into the bustling city , passing through the main thoroughfares , along the quays , and , in short , visiting every place which he fancied would serve to withdraw his thoughts from what had now become a painful subject -- painful , because he felt that in case of failure , the hope which had buoyed up his sinking spirits would be irrecoverably sunk in the dark waters of despair . 
After rambling about for several hours , he visited the hospital , in the hope to gain from the lips of Davis an explanation of his mysterious words ; but in this he was sadly disappointed ; for the physician informed him the man was delirious , and in all probability would not survive the attack , as anxiety and exposure had increased his malady to a very malignant form ; and even should he recover , all conversation on worldly topics must be excluded for at least a couple of weeks . 
This was sore news to Edgar , as he had counted much on getting some clue to the supposed villainy of his uncle , whereby he might , if not convict him , at least force him to a satisfactory compromise , and regain enough of his father 's property to render himself and sister independent . 
It was , therefore , with a heavy heart that he again shaped his course homeward , unconsciously passing over the very ground he had traversed in the morning . 
As he came along side of the Tombs and looked up to the huge pile , he felt a cold shudder pass over his frame , and his very soul recoil , as it were , with an undefinable fear . 
he mentally ejaculated ; `` strange , I should feel thus , when looking upon the walls of a prison ! 
Musing thus , he pursued his way until he entered Mott street , when an his generous benefactress , whom neither himself nor sister had seen since changing their quarters , and also to look once more upon the wretched abode where his poor mother had ended her sufferings . 
As he drew near the place and glanced toward the miserable hovel , again tenanted with the most squalid poverty , his heart leaped to his throat , his eyes grew dim , and he was fain to turn quickly away to master his emotion . 
The dwelling of the unfortunate Ellen was nearly opposite , and to this he bent his steps . 
His first impression was that the house was tenantless -- for the door was not only closed , but heavy wooden shutters barred all the windows . 
Although passed midday , there were no signs of life about the premises , and Edgar was on the point of leaving , thinking there were none within , when something altered his determination , and he at once advanced to the door and stoutly applied the knocker . 
After some little delay , Edgar heard the rattling of bars and the clanking of chains , and then the door swung ajar a few inches , but not sufficiently to admit the entrance or exit of even a child , and a hoarse , cracked female voice said : `` Who are you ? 
asked Edgar , in reply . 
`` Why , then , I desire to see her , '' said Edgar , already half inclined to depart without more ado . 
`` Edgar Courtly . '' 
Then a shutter cautiously opened over Edgar 's head , as if for some one to peer down , and then as cautiously closed . 
As Edgar crossed the threshold , he beheld a corpulent woman , some forty years of age , with a red , bloated countenance and blear eyes , dressed in a loose gown or wrapper , who eyed him coldly until he had cleared the swing of the door , which she shut with impatient violence and carefully refastened . 
Passing through a long , dark hall , preceded by the woman , Edgar ascended a flight of stairs , richly carpeted , to the second story , when , turning to the right , his conductress threw open a door into a fine apartment , magnificently furnished , and lighted , although broad daylight without , by a large alabaster lamp , whose mellow light gave to each object a rich , luxuriant softness . 
As all this flashed upon Edgar , a refinement so far beyond what he had expected to find , he could hardly credit his senses , and was half beginning to fancy himself a subject of fairy magic , translated to an oriental palace , when his eye fell upon the object he sought , the beautiful Ellen , reclining on a settee at the farther side of the room , robed now in a costly silk , and resplendent with pearl , diamonds and gold . 
She did not rise , but motioned him to close the door and advance to her side . 
He did so , and as she reached out her hand to him , he saw she was very pale and a good deal agitated . 
`` I thank you , she is well , '' replied Edgar , seating himself by her side ; `` but I fear I can not say as much for you . '' 
`` I thought there must be something of the kind , that you did not call upon us , '' returned Edgar , `` and therefore came to see you . '' 
`` Not disinterested either , '' rejoined Edgar . 
`` I am in hopes soon to restore it , '' said Edgar . 
returned Edgar , gently and soothingly . 
`` But leave here -- go where you are unknown -- live an upright life , and you need have no fears of being insulted , '' returned Edgar , seriously . 
pleaded Edgar , gently , taking her hand . 
There was one , '' she pursued , pressing her hands upon her throbbing temples , and looking wildly upon Edgar , `` whose warning voice I disregarded ere I became criminal ; and if she could not arrest me in my wayward course , think not that any have now the power to reclaim . 
Edgar endeavored to console and tranquilize her , but for a long time without producing any effect , other than to cause a fresh burst of agony . 
`` It is not that I consider what you are , '' answered Edgar , `` so much as what you may become , if you will but heed my counsel , which makes you less criminal in my eyes than your own . 
`` But the lover -- the seducer , '' asked Edgar , quickly , `` what of him ? '' 
asked Edgar . 
inquired Edgar . 
Edgar made no reply , for he knew there were sorrows , and more especially those where a self-condemning conscience formed a portion , far beyond the power of human consolation , and the which it were but mockery to attempt to soothe . 
After a silence of some minutes , only broken by her sighs and sobs , Ellen turned to Edgar and resumed : `` This , my friend , made me a wretch -- this , and the thoughts of what I am , most wretched . 
she cried , with sudden vehemence , springing to her feet , greatly to the surprise of Edgar , and towering aloft like an indignant queen , while her dark eyes glared fearfully around : `` No , he shall never wed her and I live poluted ! 
`` And if I may be permitted the question , '' said Edgar , almost fearful to hazard the inquiry , `` who is the villain of whom you speak ? '' 
`` Nay , '' cried Ellen , eagerly , suddenly grasping his arm and fixing her eyes upon his , `` call him not a villain -- it is too harsh a term ! 
returned Edgar , perceiving his mistake ; `` but my indignation got the better of my prudence . '' 
exclaimed Edgar , springing to his feet in astonishment : `` Acton Goldfinch ? '' 
almost screamed the other , grasping his arm and looking completely bewildered . 
`` Unfortunately he is so , '' rejoined Edgar , setting his teeth hard in anger . 
`` By the devil 's own labor , '' replied Edgar , bitterly ; `` you know his servants seldom go without the good things of this world , whatever they may receive in the next . 
But come , we have been thrown together singularly , you have briefly sketched me your history , and as I believe our misfortunes both date from one source , sit down and I will briefly tell you mine ; '' and Edgar proceeded to give the outlines of what is already known to the reader . 
`` And now , Ellen , '' he said , in conclusion , `` as you know something of his history , I fancy you will be less credulous to what comes from his forked tongue ; for that your betrayer will keep one vow with you , I solemnly do not believe . '' 
and as she uttered these words rapidly , she fairly pushed Edgar from the apartment and closed the door . 
Edgar followed her instructions to the letter , and the next minute had passed his cousin , whom he now beheld for the first time , and was on his way , unsuspected by the other , to the street door , where the same female who gave him admittance now gave him exit . 
After waiting in much anxiety the time appointed by himself for calling upon Elmer , Edgar repaired to his lodgings and sent up his card . 
In a few minutes the servant returned with Elmer 's compliments , -LRB- who was too busy himself to see any one -RRB- and a package neatly sealed ' which Edgar took with a trembling hand and beating heart , for this he rightly judged contained the so long wished for decision . 
As soon as he was alone in the street , he hurriedly broke it open , and to his dismay found it to contain only his own manuscript and the following note : `` Mr. Elmer begs leave to return Mr. Courtly his manuscript -- not from want of merit , for it is an excellent production -- but simply because he has selected one written by a friend which will answer his purpose . '' 
said Edgar , bitterly , rending the manuscript into a thousand pieces , and scattering them like snowflakes upon the earth . 
-- But stay , let me look at this paper again ; '' and taking one of the daily journals from his pocket , he opened and read : `` The noble stranger , who a day or two since so heroically saved the life of a lady in Centre street , at the risk of his own , is particularly requested to call at No . 
`` This is certainly a curious coincidence , or I must be the person meant , '' mused Edgar ; `` and if so , something advantageous may come of my answering the advertisement . 
Putting his determination in practice , Edgar in due time found himself before a stately mansion -- rivalling , if not on the door of which , engraved on a silver plate , he read the name of Calvin Morton . 
Yes , it must be , for the numbers tallied ; and looking at his thread-bare garments , then at the beautiful marble steps , the silver bell-handle , and the high windows , hung with white and damask curtains , Edgar was debating whether to venture a ring or depart , when a female , richly dressed , but double-veiled for concealment , passed him hurriedly , and then paused , and like himself gazed curiously upon the handsome structure . 
Then ascending the steps , she took hold of the bell-handle , looked around eagerly , partly raised her veil , gave one glance at Edgar , veiled herself again quickly , and , without ringing at all , descended the steps in haste and departed in much apparent agitation . 
mused Edgar ; `` what can this mean ? 
Edgar might have so sworn with impunity , for Ellen Douglas it was ; and the reader will doubtless find less cause to marvel at her appearance there and manner than he did . 
Decided at last to enter , Edgar rang the bell , and on inquiring of the servant for Mr. Morton , was shown into a library at the far end of the hall , where sat a mild , middle-aged gentleman , plainly dressed , of benevolent aspect , who looked up through his spectacles from among a huge pile of books with which he was partly surrounded , and to which it would seem he made frequent reference , as many of them were lying open . 
Before him was a table strewn with manuscripts , and in his hand a pen , which , as he carlessly nodded Edgar to a seat , he dipped in ink and commenced writing with great vigor and haste . 
For something like five minutes , he neither looked up nor spoke ; and Edgar , fancying himself an unwelcome intruder , at last rose to take his leave , when the other , motioning with his hand for him to be seated , said , hurriedly : `` In a moment , sir . '' 
Edgar sat down again , but found the moment of another five minutes duration ; and picking up a huge volume by his side , he was fast becoming interested in a statute on forgery -- for the books were those of the law -- when the gentleman , putting down his pen , moving back his chair and slipping up his spectaeles , said : `` Now , sir , I am at your service . '' 
`` I beg pardon , for intruding upon you while so busy , '' began Edgar ; `` but seeing this advertisement , -LRB- pointing to it -RRB- I thought I would answer it . '' 
`` Of that , '' said Edgar , `` I am not certain , and you may mean another . 
cried Morton , starting up and seizing Edgar by the hand , which he shook long and heartily . 
`` I pray you excuse me , '' said Edgar , coloring ; `` but you see I am hardly in fit condition to enter a lady 's presence ; '' and he glanced wofully over his well-worn , faded garments . 
`` Edgar Courtly . '' 
I once did some business for a namesake of yours , and I found him a perfect gentleman . 
He was from Baltimore , and his Christian name Ethan . '' 
exclaimed Edgar , with a start of surprise . 
But fortune changes , I see , '' he added , glancing at Edgar 's faded garments . 
answered Edgar , mournfully . 
`` She -- she too -- is -- is dead , '' said Edgar , vainly striving to suppress the tears that came bursting through his eyelids . 
By this time the two had reached the parlor , and taking seats , Edgar at once proceeded to sketch the most prominent events of his past life , not overlooking the villainy of his uncle . 
`` And yet , '' rejoined Edgar , `` should I tell you his name , you would be tempted to discredit my story . '' 
`` If there is any mistake , '' said Edgar , `` it must be on your part , in not knowing him so well as I . 
`` And they will -- on him and his -- sooner or later , '' returned Edgar . 
cried Edgar . 
answered Edgar ; `` of her who so generously supplied me with money , when my mother lay a corpse , and her living children had not wherewithal to keep them long from joining her ; of one who has been most foully , most damnably wronged ! '' 
and Edgar proceeded to detail what he knew of Ellen and her seducer . 
said Morton , when Edgar had done . 
Excuse my neglect ; but so taken up was I with your story , I forgot all else ; '' and as he spoke , he rang a bell . 
`` Bid my daughter and her mother come hither at once , '' he said to the servant ; and scarcely three minutes elapsed , ere the door opened , and Mrs. Morton , followed by Edith , entered . 
`` My wife and daughter , '' spoke Morton , `` allow me to present to you Edgar Courtly , the noble young man to whom Edith is indebted for her life . '' 
said Mrs. Morton , seizing both the hands of Edgar in her own , and pressing them warmly . 
`` I do , mother , '' returned Edith , approaching and modestly extending her hand to Edgar , who took it in one , that , in spite of himself , trembled : `` I do thank him , from my very soul . '' 
Her eyes , as she spoke , were looking sweetly into his ; but from some cause , as she concluded , they sank toward the ground , and a bright tint heightened the beauty of her cheeks . 
Edgar would have given the world to speak freely ; but member , now clove to his mouth ; and it was not till after two or three vain attempts , he managed to articulate , in a tremulous voice : `` I did but my duty . '' 
`` Not so , Miss Morton ; I am repaid already , a thousand times -- ay , even were my claim to your gratitude a thousand times greater than it is , '' returned Edgar , with an earnestness of tone and manner that again brought the bright crimson to the lovely face of Edith , and made his own blush correspondingly . 
`` As the preserver of my life , at the risk of your own , I can never cease to remember you with gratitude , '' rejoined Edith , in a voice full of music to the soul of Edgar , accompanied as it was with a sweet but modest smile . 
`` Who would not , '' he thought to himself , `` have done as much for a like reward ? '' 
`` To cut matters short , and end any thing like formality , '' joined in Mr. Morton , '' you must know , Edgar -- excuse the familiarity I take with your Christian name -- that we all feel ourselves under the deepest obligations to you , and will do all in our power to cancel the debt . 
The earnest manner in which this was spoken , showed Edgar , conclusively , the speaker was sincere ; and so affected him , that the tears sprang to his eyes , and it was with difficulty , as he grasped the other 's proffered hand of friendship , he could articulate : `` God bless you ! 
`` You overwhelm me , '' returned Edgar , tremulously , brushing away an obdurate tear . 
`` Nay , I would you let me prepare my sister first , '' interposed Edgar , gently . 
`` There is , some say , a slight resemblance , '' replied Edgar ; `` but in justice to dear Virginia , I must own she is younger and far the best looking . '' 
Edith looked as though she thought the latter impossible , but simply said , in an artless tone , that again brought the blood to Edgar 's cheek : `` O , I know I shall love her . 
Edgar just then thought Edith full as sweet . 
In like manner the conversation proceeded for half an hour , when Mr. Morton , on the plea of business , reconducted Edgar to the library . 
As the latter took leave of the ladies , both Mrs. Morton and Edith pressed him warmly to tarry for dinner , and made Mr. Morton promise to do his best to detain him . 
What a wonderful change a little time had wrought in the condition and feelings of Edgar . 
An hour before he was an object for commiseration , and felt too wretched to exist . 
-- Now he was surrounded by influential friends , and would not have exchanged uncertain life ! 
`` Edgar Courtly , '' said Mr. Morton , abruptly , as they entered the library , `` there is something about you I like . '' 
`` Thank you , '' returned Edgar , coloring . 
No , Edgar ; if you thank any body , thank God , for having made you what you are -- one of his noblest works . 
he continued , as he saw Edgar about to make reply . 
he said , musingly , making an abrupt change to the subject that now bore upon his mind . 
If I can get any hold upon him , friend Edgar , you shall have justice . 
Good morning , sir -- good morning , Edgar ; '' and turning quickly away , the lawyer resumed his writing , without deigning even another look at his visiter . 
As Edgar quitted the mansion and slowly took his way homeward , he mused , with a lightened heart , upon the events we have just described -- upon the curious chain of circumstances which had so suddenly placed him on terms of intimacy with one of the most opulent families of the city -- upon the striking contrast between him he had just parted from and his own uncle -- but , most of all , upon the sweetly smiling countenance , the light and sylph-like form , and the soft , melodious voice of the fair and lovely Edith Morton . 
But the happy termination of his visit to the Mortons , was not the only high favor Edgar was that morning destined to receive from the hands of capricious fortune . 
Scarcely had he proceeded half a dozen squares , when , as chance would have it , he met with Dudley . 
`` Happily met , then , '' replied Edgar , `` for I am homeward bound ; '' and joining arms , the two proceeded on their way . 
`` It proved an entire failure , '' answered Edgar . 
As he spoke , Dudley extended to Edgar a small purse of gold , which the latter gently waved back , saying : `` Be so kind as to return Clarence Malcolm , whom I have never seen , my warmest thanks , and tell him I do not feel myself in a condition at present to borrow , even on his own generous terms . 
`` I have done a trifle in that way , '' answered Edgar , modestly , `` though nothing worthy of notice . '' 
True merit , friend Edgar , is always modest , for it requires no ordinary talent to perceive our own defects . 
`` Why , '' hesitated Edgar , `` if of sufficient merit . '' 
`` You flatter me , Mr. Dudley , '' returned Edgar , somewhat staggered at the offer ; `` but really , I can not take such advantage of your generosity . '' 
`` Why , since you press me , '' replied Edgar , `` and since I so sorely need the money , they are yours , on condition you find them not so good as you expected , you will consider yourself under no obligation to take them . '' 
`` Now , at least , '' he added , mentally , `` I have the means of forcing money upon him without wounding his sensitive feelings . '' 
Then he continued aloud : `` By-the-by , how would you like to take charge of a magazine or newspaper ? '' 
`` Were I deemed competent , and the proposition had been made me a few hours ago , nothing would have pleased me better , '' answered Edgar ; `` but now I hold myself partially engaged to Calvin Morton . '' 
Edgar at once proceeded to narrate the circumstance which had led to this result . 
As he concluded , Dudley grasped his hand and shook it heartily . 
Conversing thus , Edgar and Dudley at last reached the abode of the former . 
-- Virginia , as Edgar entered in advance of his friend , at once flew to embrace him ; but on perceiving who followed , she paused , blushed , and in an embarrassed manner , while she timidly proffered her hand , said : `` You have taken me by surprise , Mr. Dudley : I thought Edgar was alone . '' 
Virginia , embarrassed , did not reply , though evidently desirous to do so , which Edgar perceiving , quickly came to her aid , by saying : `` We are both proud , I assure you , Mr. Dudley , of your disinterested friendship -- for disinterested it is , since we have all and you nothing to gain by it . '' 
But on such and similar topics Edgar never wearied of conversing ; and the two friends continued in a pleasant discussion for more than an hour , gradually passing from one subject to another , as each was suggested by a continuous train of ideas . 
For a short time there was a dead silence ; and the tears sprang from the eyes of both Edgar and his sister , as they thought upon her who had so loved , but who was forever gone from among them . 
And speaking of poetry again -- who among the great masters of song is your favorite , Edgar ? '' 
`` It is difficult for me to say , '' replied the latter , drying his eyes , `` for each is my favorite in his particular sphere . 
When I read Milton , I think none can approach him , for he is great in sublimity ; and in his masterly conceptions of what we never saw , stands preminent -- a something ennobled , exalted and inspired far above frail humanity , and almost beyond human comprehension . 
`` Nay , '' said Edgar , blushing , `` since we have been speaking of the great masters , I am really ashamed to display my humble efforts . '' 
`` Well , as you have bargained for my effusions , unseen , you of course have a right to examine your purchase , '' rejoined Edgar ; `` and this shall be my apology for bringing them forward ; '' and retiring into the adjoining apartment , he shortly returned with a package of some dozen articles , neatly written and folded with care . 
Dudley seized them with avidity , and , in spite of Edgar 's protestations , opened and began to peruse them . 
he exclaimed , as his eye ran rapidly over the first ; `` beautiful ! 
he pursued , as he concluded the second . 
And then hastily scanning the others , he added , grasping Edgar 's hand : `` My friend , I do not wish to flatter you , but , for a first attempt , I have never seen any thing to compare with these . 
Here is your money ; '' and he counted Edgar down a hundred dollars in gold . 
It would be impossible to describe the feelings of the latter , as he modestly accepted the reward of his toil . 
It was gold honestly earned , and it was his : gold paid to his genius : gold that told him he had talents above the herd -- that at least he was fit for something ; and as he thought over the events of the day , his eyes brightened , his soul seemed to expand , and with a sort of giddiness , common to first success , he already fancied he stood on the dizzy heights of fame and beheld an admiring world at his feet . 
As for Virginia , she was all bewilderment ; for the whole proceeding was a mystery to her ; but she saw her brother had at least the means of living , and her heart bounded with delight at the thought . 
As soon as he was gone , Edgar sat down , drew his sister upon his knee , kissed her sweet lips , and , in a voice tremulous with joy , told her all that had happened , and the bright prospects now in store for them ; and both mingled their tears of gladness , that the night of their sorrow was passing away and a day of brightness was already dawning . 
`` We must not appear before our new friends in these faded garments , '' said Edgar ; `` and now that I have money , honestly my own , let us forth and make some purchases . 
Carrying out his own suggestion , Edgar purchased a ready-made suit for himself , and a handsome black dress and bennet for his sister ; and when they had donned their new habiliments , each congratulated the other on appearing again as in the days of their prosperity . 
`` As you will , '' replied Edgar ; `` but with you and I , my sweet sister , it will hardly need these as remembrancers of what we have been . 
he added , as , in overhauling his garments , a paper secured in the torn lining caught his eye . 
he continued , drawing it forth . 
Great were the rejoicings of Edgar and his sister at this discovery , for to them it seemed inexhaustible wealth . 
As it was not yet past banking hours , Edgar hastened to Wall street , and in a short time returned to Virginia with more than a thousand dollars in his possession . 
`` She married a Courtly ? '' 
It was about nine o'clock in the evening , that Edgar and Virginia sat together before a cheerful fire , recalling the events of the day . 
`` And what is he to do with your poems , dear Edgar ? '' 
`` Indeed , sweet sister , I do not know , '' replied Edgar , turning to her his manly , noble countenance , and imprinting on her lips a kiss of fraternal love . 
`` As I told you before , he spoke something of a magazine and newspaper , and of giving me the charge of either ; but I more than half suspect he made the poetry an excuse to put in my possessisn the money I had refused as a loan . 
how noble in him to do this ! 
and what a contrast he forms to our selfish , avaricious , hypocritical uncle , who , though he gave me something at last , did it as if he feared to do otherwise -- fancying , methought , I had a clue to some dark secret , that , if known , would be his undoing . 
`` I , too , '' she said , pretending to search for something at her feet , `` will think of -- '' `` Dudley , '' added Edgar , as she paused . 
`` Nay , I said not him , Edgar , '' cried Virginia , quickly , now showing a face deeply flushed -- possibly caused by bending forward -- possibly by the fire -- or , possibly -- by what you will , reader . 
exclaimed Edgar , suddenly ; `` there are heavy steps on the stairs , and rough voices without . 
Virginia drew close to him in alarm . 
The next moment there came a heavy double-knock on the door , as if struck with a club , and a voice without said hoarsely : `` Guard the windows , and see he do n't escape by t ` other door ! '' 
demanded Edgar , rising and taking a step forward , while Virginia clung tremblingly to him . 
cried Virginia , intercepting her brother as he was about to comply with the demand . 
`` Be firm , Virginia , and reach me yonder knife , '' said Edgar , in a low tone , with deathly pale features and compressed lips . 
returned Edgar . 
`` But , Edgar , dear , '' began Virginia , in trembling tones . 
`` That 's him , '' nodded Wesley toward Edgar . 
demanded Edgar , calmly , while Virginia , uttering a wild shriek , came bounding forward . 
`` There 's the document ; and if you think there 's any mockery in that , why you 're welcome to think so , that 's all , '' replied the constable , showing Edgar the writ for his apprehension . 
`` 'T is even so , '' said Edgar , clasping the almost fainting Virginia to his beating heart . 
he cried , wildly , clasping his hands and looking upwards , `` bid death be speedy and summon us to a better world ! '' 
Then turning fiercely to the officer , he continued : `` Who hath done this , sir ! 
There 's my paper , which says arrest Edgar Courtly , and I 've got to do it . 
So , -LRB- to Edgar -RRB- come along ! 
exclaimed Edgar , as a thought flashed through his brain . 
screamed Virginia , clinging tightly to him ; `` you shall not go ! 
`` Nay , dearest Virginia , '' said Edgar , in an agony of mind better conceived than described , pressing his lips to hers , and straining her to his heart in a fond embrace , `` I must go ; the officer is waiting ; you must not detain me ! '' 
replied Edgar . 
cried Virginia , throwing her arms around his neck and bursting into tears . 
`` Farewell , Edgar ! 
and as if fearful to longer test her resolution by remaining , she sprang away from him and into the adjoining apartment . 
said Edgar to the officer ; and with a firm step , but with a deathly , sickening sensation at heart , he left the constable . 
`` Well , I ` spose we can push ahead now ; '' and the speaker came along side of Edgar , while the fourth personage drew aside and was joined by Wesley . 
As Edgar now moved away between the two officers , he noted , with considerable misgiving , that the other two persons loitered about the premises , conversed in low tones , and occasionally pointed toward the apartments of his sister . 
Could it be possible , he mused , that they meditated treachery ! 
And then like lightning the remembrance came over him , of how strenuous Wesley had been in urging his sister to remain . 
`` Ca n't do it , '' replied one , gruffly , placing his hand heavily on Edgar 's shoulder . 
As the other spoke , Edgar saw the two figures slowly depart in an opposite direction , and watching them disappear , he strove to banish from his mind all suspicion of wrong , and turning , signified his readiness to proceed . 
With a heavy step and heavier heart , Edgar moved through the streets , bitterly reflecting upon his hard destiny , in having the only cup of happiness he had possessed for years dashed suddenly from his lips at the very moment his wearied and thirsty soul was about to take a refreshing draught . 
And what could be the meaning of the accusation for which he was now held a prisoner ! 
He strove to recollect what he had done , to bring himself even under the curse of suspicion ; but for a long time he puzzled his brain without success , when suddenly the truth flashed upon him with almost overwhelming force . 
His uncle -- his base , inhuman uncle -- was at the bottom of it ! 
Yes , this was the cause of that liberality which had so surprised him -- this the cause of that gleam of triumph which he had marked at the time , but without a suspicion of what it imported . 
And to what extent had he power to carry his villainy ? 
He would of course attempt to prove the check he had given him a forged one . 
But would he succeed ? 
Doubtless he already had witnesses bribed to swear falsely ; but notwithstanding , Edgar knew himself innocent , and could not but believe that all would turn out right in the end , and that the black-hearted baseness of his uncle would recoil upon himself and his tools with overwhelming force . 
As he came in sight of the Egyptian Tombs , rearing its massive walls high in the starlight air , and standing out vague , and dim and gloomy from its murky background , the same cold , sickening shudder he had twice before experienced , passed over his frame , and he knew it now a strange omen of evil . 
And what singular feelings were his , as , ascending the steps , he walked over the very spot whither he had borne the lovely Edith , then an unknown female just rescued from peril , but now an object in his eyes of no little interest ! 
And with what peculiar emotions he recalled the plans he had laid for the morrow , in each of which she held a part , only to know them all swept away by the strong hand of destiny , and himself a prisoner , on his way to the dungeon of the criminal ! 
But with all his misery -- his mental anguish -- Edgar had an easy conscience ; and with this we leave him , while we return to those who were even now taking the preliminary steps to a fearful retribution . 
`` I tell you , Acton , '' said Wesley to his companton , as they stood before the lodgings of Edgar and Virginia , `` it 's no use to think of venturing there now , for she 'll know it 's some trick to deceive her : so come away , leave all to me , and I 'll make my plan succeed . '' 
And see , '' continued Wesley , pointing toward Edgar , `` that young scape-grace has stopped . 
`` Is it Courtly ? 
Do you speak of Edgar and Virginia Courtly ? '' 
And Edgar dragged to prison ! '' 
Oh , poor Edgar ! 
how much he has to suffer ! 
In the first place , his plotting father had never told either of his children that the Courtlys were in the city -- in fact , he never at any time mentioned the name of Courtly in their presence -- and hence , neither dreamed of having indigent relations so near . 
Wesley , ever ready to gain money without any scruples as to honesty , soon reconnoitered the premises , and found , much to his surprise and gratification , it was the abode of Edgar and Virginia , for whom he had been searching since their removal from Mott street . 
As chance would have it , and as he partially expected , Wesley was enabled to kill two birds with one stone ; for the arrest of Edgar gave him an opportunity to entrap Virginia , in what manner the reader has already seen . 
`` I am not -- but Edgar is . 
Am I not beneath his roof ? '' 
He had been in the lower part of the city on business , and was on his return home at a rather advanced hour , when the fancy struck him that he wished to see Edgar -- we will not say that he did not think of Virginia , but leave the reader to his own inference -- and he therefore shaped his course accordingly , trusting to good fortune to find the party he sought still astir . 
As a matter of course , the intelligence of Edgar 's arrest for so startling a crime as forgery , fell upon Dudley with stunning force , and for a few moments he stood as one bewildered . 
`` To the latter , then , '' said Virginia , `` if it will not incommode them and you too much -- for thither dear Edgar bade me repair . '' 
The coach which had borne her hither was still standing at the door , and entering it again , but with a very different companion , Virginia rode away , with a heart much lightened by a strong feeling of protection and hope , the first she had experienced since Edgar 's arrest . 
The very fact of his being there at the time of arrest , shows plainly that Oliver Goldfinch is the master-worker of the plot , doubtless contrived to ruin you and Edgar , so that none may be left to bring his former villainies to light . 
But he has over-shot himself in this matter ; and will find , to his cost , that he has roused a spirit that can and will be as bold in the cause of right as he dare be in that of wrong ! '' 
`` A word in private first , '' said Dudley ; and drawing the other aside , out of earshot of Virginia , he hurriedly narrated the leading events of the night , beginning with Edgar 's arrest , and ending with his own rescue of Virginia from her cousin . 
poor Edgar has been sent to prison ! 
Well , well , it shall work out his own salvation ; for when the devil prompts too much , you know his pupils often lose most where most they think to win . 
here I am rattling away , and yonder sits the maiden , waiting as patiently as a bird in a cage ; '' and he darted down the steps to the carriage , exclaiming , as he reached out his hand to Virginia : `` My dear Miss Courtly , I do n't know that we ever met before -- but I knew your lamented father , and a gentlemen he was -- I know your brother , and a most noble young man he is -- I have heard of you ; and so pardon me , if I eschew all formality , consider ourselves acquainted , and welcome you here as I would a long absent daughter . '' 
pursued Morton , as he assisted her to alight and conducted her up the steps of his dwelling , `` what more could one ask than thanks from such pretty lips , unless it were a taste of their sweetness ! 
said Virginia , earnestly , touching his arm as he was moving away ; `` do not , I beg of you , disturb any one tonight , on my account ! 
Come down and you shall have a check for all you ask ; and then we must see what can be done with Acton and young Courtly . '' 
No Edgar Courtly games , you know . '' 
In the first place , what is to be done with this young Courtly ? '' 
`` Let him go , '' replied Wesley . 
-- after all our trouble to get him there ? '' 
`` Ca n't help it ; but you see , in the first place , it will be very hard to prove the forgery , which can only be done by false witnesses , even if he had no friends -- but next to impossible now , since he 's got , by some sorcery or other , that I ca n't understand , two of the most powerful ones I know of . '' 
And besides , being thrown off my guard last night , like a fool , I fairly betrayed myself , by telling Malcolm I had given Edgar a check for a thousand dollars ; and since he is so much interested , of course he would come forward as a witness . 
Now hasten , good Wesley , and return soon and let me know the result ; and besides , think over in the meantime what can be done with this Courtly . 
Wesley shall make way with Edgar , like a short sighted fool that he is , and then good Nathan Wesley shall swing for his pains , while I will laugh in the triumph of security that I am master of my own secret . '' 
`` I thought Edgar would go demented , when I explained the infernal plot against his sister , and how I had succeeded in arresting his cousin in the very act of his villainy . 
He declares I must appear against him , with what other evidence I can find , and that he must be pushed to the extreme of the law . 
You will remain to Edgar 's examination also , at which I will endeavor to be present myself ; '' and the lawyer hastened out of his library . 
There was a smile of triumph on the features of the latter , as she advanced to her companion , and , taking her by the hand , said : `` Miss Virginia Courtly , allow me to present you to your uncle , Mr. Oliver Goldfinch , the father of Acton , who had the kindness , no later than last night , to steal you away by treacherous arts , and basely misuse your confidence . '' 
`` Let the prisoner , Edgar Courtly , be brought forward for examination , '' said the sharp , clear voice of the Recorder at this moment ; and both Virginia and Edith became very pale and tremulous as they heard the words . 
`` Give yourselves no alarm , my friends , '' said Dudley , instantly joining the maidens ; `` for Edgar Courtly , believe me , will come off triumphant . '' 
`` Just in time for the examination of Edgar , '' replied Dudley , `` but too late to witness the discomfiture of his uncle . '' 
yes -- I met him coming down the steps , '' rejoined Morton , `` and , from his manner , I almost fancied him insane . 
`` Well , he will be worse confounded and discomfitted than this ere long , '' replied her father , `` or I am very much mistaken . 
I have him now , '' he pursued , with sparkling eyes : `` I have him now , the hypocritical villain ! 
At this moment Edgar Courtly entered the court-room , attended by an officer , and all eyes eagerly turned upon him . 
He was very pale , and evidently much excited ; but there was the proud look of conscious innocence on his noble countenance , and his head was erect , and his step firm and bold . 
On seeing him , for a moment Virginia half supported herself against the agitated Edith , and the next could hardly resist the impulse to rush forward and throw herself into his arms . 
As Edgar beheld his friends , his features lighted with a look of joy and hope , and his feelings became powerfully excited . 
-- Subduing them as much as possible , he made a cheerful bow of recognition to each ; but the warm , tell-tale blood deeply crimsoned his fine , manly features , as he encountered the soft , gray eye of the lovely Edith fixed upon him , with an expression of sympathetic tenderness , while a close observer might have seen that her own fair countenance brightened with an unwonted glow . 
`` Remain where you are for the present , '' said Morton to his daughter and Virginia ; and advancing with Dudley to Edgar , each shook his hand warmly , and bade him be of good cheer . 
`` Edgar Courtly , '' said the Recorder , glancing over a paper in his hand , `` I perceive you are arrested at the instance of Oliver Goldfinch , on the accusation of forgery . 
`` If there is any one here who has the charge of forgery to prefer against the prisoner , Edgar Courtly , let him or her stand forth ! '' 
Then Edgar received the congratulations of his true friends -- but heard nothing that thrilled more sweetly to his very soul , to be treasured there as `` a joy forever , '' than the simple sentence uttered by Edith , as , her delicate hand locked in his , she fixed her mild , gray eyes tenderly upon him , and said , earnestly : `` I knew -- I knew you were innocent ! '' 
Edgar , you shall with me and Edith . 
`` Yonder , '' spoke Edith , in a low tone , pointing down before her , slightly shuddering , and pressing closer to the side of Edgar : `` Yonder it was you saved my life . '' 
The communication which Morton had to make , was one of great importance to Edgar and all interested in his welfare , and was the result of his interview with the treacherous Nathan Wesley . 
What this communication was , it is not our purpose here to reveal ; suffice , that it altered Edgar 's previous arrangement of taking up law as a profession . 
A week rolled away , and both Edgar and Virginia remained the honored guests of the Mortons . 
In company with him , her brother and Edith , she took daily rides or strolls through the city , and appeared to enjoy herself as much as it was possible for one who had so recently been bereaved of an affectionate and beloved parent . 
We have said that one of his strongest passions was that of vanity ; and never had this received so powerful a shock as at his examination , when he was not only confronted with his cousin whom he had basely treated , but also with one in whose eyes he would have stood a paragon of virtue , and who , as he now saw , being the companion of the other , must necessarily know much of his dissolute and even guilty career . 
As soon as bonds had been entered into for his appearance , he quitted the Tombs , feeling himself abashed , humiliated and disgraced . 
With a clouded brow and hurried pace , he made his way homeward , plotting in his own dark mind what steps to take to make even a feint of maintaining his honor , by retaliation on those who had been the means of exposing him . 
The assertion of the Courtlys being in town at all , was as much as she could credit ; and it was not until the exposure of Acton 's abduction of Virginia , and the knowledge of Edgar 's arrest at the instance of her father , the news of which fell upon her like a thunderbolt , that she began to admit to herself there might be some truth in Malcolm 's report , and some concealed wrong which reflected severely on her father . 
It was between eight and nine o'clock in the evening , that Edgar and Dudley , arm-in-arm , were strolling up Park Row towards Chatham street , in close conversation . 
`` No , '' replied Edgar . 
What should be done with the villain that so wrongs a woman , Edgar ? '' 
`` He should serve out the balance of his days between the four walls of a prison . '' 
And yet the law , Edgar , laughs to scorn our opinion , and holds the seducer innocent . 
We make laws for the poor , Edgar -- for those , who , born in wretchedness , without hope above their birth , can , at the best , but eke out a miserable existence . 
`` You draw a strong picture , '' replied Edgar ; `` and deeply I regret I can not gainsay its truthfulness . 
-LSB- 1 -RSB- Conversing thus , the two friends entered Chatham street ; and continuing their course till they came to Mott , they turned down the latter to visit the unfortunate Ellen -- Edgar with a view to cancel the debt he owed her , and also , if possible , prevail upon her to leave her present abode and retire forever from criminal associations . 
-- `` And yet , '' he added , with a sigh , `` it is but a few days since my poor mother , my sister and myself were inhabitants of this gloomy region . '' 
Yonder , '' added Edgar , in a faltering voice , pointing across the street with an unsteady hand : `` Yonder it was , in that most wretched hovel , surrounded with the dregs of misery , my poor sainted mother took leave of all she held dear on earth ! '' 
As he spoke , he turned away to hide his emotion , and rapped loudly on the door of Madame Costellan 's dwelling . 
Edgar replied by giving his name , and stating that he had called with a friend to see Ellen Douglas . 
exclaimed Edgar ; `` what can be the meaning of this ? '' 
`` Something frightful , I fear , has happened , '' replied his companion . 
Presently the two friends heard an agitated rattling of the chains and bolts at the door , and then it swung wide open , and the same female who had first given Edgar admission , now stood before them , pale , bewildered and terrified . 
cried Edgar , as he sprang within . 
fairly shouted Edgar . 
and he rushed up stairs in frantic haste , followed by Dudley . 
`` Oh , gentleman , '' cried Madame Costellan , rushing up to Edgar and Dudley -- `` such a terrible thing to happen in my house ! 
ejaculated Edgar , shutting the horrid scene from his sight with his hands : `` what a foul murder ! 
questioned Dudley , turning to those who pressed hard behind him . 
Both Dudley and Edgar uttered exclamations of surprise together , and gave each other a look , expressive more of bewildered belief than doubt . 
groaned Edgar -- `` this is more terrible still ! '' 
`` I will go , '' said Edgar , darting through the crowd , down the stairs and into the street , the door to which had been left unfastened by the agitated and frightened servant . 
In less than half an hour Edgar returned , bringing the coroner and his jury , who at once proceeded to hold an inquest on farther particulars . 
Each member of the ill-fated house was then closely interrogated , as were also Edgar and Dudley -- but from none save the domestic , who gave her name as Sarah Farling , was there elicited any important evidence . 
Ordering the remains of Ellen to be properly laid out and prepared for interment , and securing the cloak and dagger for farther evidence , the coroner , after an examination of the premises , especially where the open window showed the murderer had made his escape , quitted the house , accompanied by the jury , Edgar and Dudley . 
Meantime , Edgar and his friends came forward and offered their services to consign to dust the mortal remains of the poor , ill-fated Ellen Douglas . 
Permission being granted by the authorities , they set about their mournful task ; but so great was the excitement , and the desire , excited by curiosity , of hundreds of strangers to be present , that the police were forced to interfere , and it was judged advisable to bury her in the night -- which was finally done -- Edgar and Virginia accompanying the deceased as chief mourners , and dropping a tear upon her humble grave , at the recollection of her many kindnesses to them and the thought of her awful and untimely fate . 
Before him , apparently awaiting his arrival to complete their triumph , stood Morton , and Dudley , and Edgar , and , most dreaded of all , with a Sardonic grin on his ugly features , his own vile tool , the treacherous Nathan Wesley . 
The reader of course has not forgotten the invalid , whom Edgar found and had conveyed to the hospital , although for some time he has been apparently overlooked . 
His malady , as the physician stated it would be , was for some days very severe , so much so that his life was despaired of . 
But good medical attendance and careful nursing turned the important crisis in his favor , and from that moment he began to amend even more rapidly than was anticipated . 
This was doubtless much owing to his strength of will and desire to be abroad . 
So fast did he recover , that just previous to the murder of Ellen , Morton and Edgar were admitted to see him , when he was able to state concisely what he knew of the forgery of Goldfinch . 
It occured in this wise : Goldfinch had procured Davis to draw up a will for Courtly , in the presence of the latter ; and as soon as it was done , he -LRB- Goldfinch -RRB- had taken possession of it , and , under the pretext that proper witnesses were wanting , had delayed its being signed at the time , but had requested the lawyer to call again at Courtly 's office at a certain hour after nightfall . 
Soon after Wesley and Goldfinch came in together , and locking the door , proceeded to discuss their plan of operation ; from which it appeared that a copy of the will , drawn up by Davis , had just been made by Wesley , and was to be presented to Courtly for signing previous to the appearance of Davis , who was to be met by Goldfinch and informed that Courtly had altered his mind in regard to the original instrument , and had had another drawn up since that suited his purpose better . 
Having at last arranged every thing to his satisfaction , touching the alteration of the will , and how Courtly was to be prevented from returning , & c. , Goldfinch struck a light , and , to his horror and dismay , discovered that his dark secret was case he escaped , be sure to betray him . 
Thence he sailed to Livverpool ; and finally , after a great many perils and viscisitudes , landed in New York where , being seized with a fever and thrust out of doors , he was found by Edgar as pre viously related . 
On examination of the Courtly will , the alternations mentioned by Wesley were readily discovered ; and notwithstanding the original writing had been extracted in the manner stated , still , on very close in spection , here and there a word , or a part of a word , faintly traced , could be detected . 
`` Does Edgar know of this ? '' 
`` He did not till quite recently , when some one calling me by my real name in his presence , I was forced to explain -- though I did it by exacting of him a promise to withhold the secret from you . '' 
There was a silence , after the voice of the speaker had ceased -- a tremulous silence on the part of the maiden -- and then , in a solemn , sweet , silvery , artless tone , she replied : `` Edgar , as sacredly , as solemnly , and sincerely as it is proffered , do I accept your hand and heart , and in return yield you a love as true as Heaven , and constant as the needle to its bridal star . '' 
that here we freely pledge ourselves to each other , and stamp it with a seal of more than mortal affection ; '' and upon the lips of the lovely , trembling Edith Morton , Edgar Courtly imprinted the first holy kiss of their mutual and enduring love . 
We have stated previously , that it was not our design to give in detail the trial of Acton Goldfinch for the murder of Ellen Douglas -- the only one he was destined to have -- as Virginia , after hearing of the fate of the latter , had positively refused to appear against him -- although , on behalf of the State , her evidence alone would perhaps have been sufficient to convict him . 
It will therefore only be necessary to our purpose to briefly sketch the proceedings against him and the result . 
She resolved to share his fortune , whatever it might be ; and though the Rev. Mr. Parkhurst tried with all the arguments in his power to dissuade her from it , and offered her a home for life ; and though Edgar , who had now come in possession of his father 's property , so long and wrongfully withheld by his uncle and her father , proposed to settle upon her an independency ; yet all propositions were alike made in vain . 
She firmly but respectfully declined to accept of elther ; and when , soon after , Acton secretly left the city , Arabella was his companion , and went no one knew whither . 
Immediately after the conviction of Oliver Goldfinch , Nathan Wesley left for parts unknown ; while Davis returned to his friends in Baltimore , where Edgar generously settled upon him an income of a thousand dollars per annum . 
Some two or three weeks from the acquital of Acton Goldfinch , a brilliant array of wealth , beauty and talent were assembled at Malcolm Place , to solemnize the nuptials of Edgar and Edith , Clarence and Virginia ; and though every thing was conducted on a scale of sufficient magnificence to excite the envy of the proudest of the beau monde , yet so true were Malcolm and Courtly to their noble principles , that the poor of the city long had cause to remember that day with gratitude , as in truth they still have their generous benefactors . 
On the second morning after his marriage , Edith handed Edgar one of the leading journals of the city , and pointing with her fair , delicate hand to a prominent paragraph , blushingly bade him read . 
Edgar did read ; and his eyes dilated with surprise , and his heart swelled with pride , at the following brief notice : `` Marriage in High Life . 
-- At Malcolm Place , on the 5th inst. , by the Rev. long and favorably known to the literary world as a leading writer of the -- Magazine , and a frequent contributor to various other periodicals , and in private life as a philanthropist , gentleman and scholar -- was united in the holy bonds of wedlock to Miss Virginia Courtly , a niece of Oliver Goldfinch , whose trial and conviction , for the forging of a will of her father , by which both herself and brother were long deprived of their rightful possessions , recently excited so much surprise and attention in this city . 
Also , by the same , at the same time and place , Edgar Courtly , Esq. -- a nephew of the said Oliver Goldfinch , but better known to our readers as a gifted poet , under the nom de plume of `` Orion '' -- was united to the lovely Miss Edith Morton , only child of Calvin Morton , Esq. , a lawyer of great eminence . 
cried Morton , stealing up behind Edgar while he was reading ; `` you were becoming famous without my knowledge . '' 
`` Ay , and without my own , '' returned Edgar , blushing . 
here , methlnks , comes the cause , '' he added , nodding toward Clarence , who at this moment entered the apartment , accompanied by Virginia . 
`` Well , '' answered Malcolm , with a smile , as Edgar explained the subject of conversation , `` you know I purchased your poems , and of course felt I had a right to use them as suited my humor . 
But you are still more famous , Edgar , than you have given yourself credit for . 
Read these at your leisure ; '' and he threw down upon the table some half-a-dozen different journals , each of which contained a high ly complimentary notice of himself and friend . 
Edgar was by no means vain -- but he could not drink in so much praise of his humble efforts and remain totally unmoved . 
The main-spring of a laudable ambition was touched ; and mainly to this circumstance , the world has since been indebted for many a beautiful effusion from his gifted pen ; while Clarence , under an assumed title , already ranks among the leading writers of America . 
