The foul fiend take it , I say ; and Sathanas wither the heathen hand that winged the poisoned javelin at my knightly Lord -- Julian , Count of this gallant castle Di Albarone ! 
Look ye , my bird of a page , never since I left the service of mine own native prince , the brave Richard , of the Lion Heart -- never since the day when the gallant Sir Geoffrey , o ' th ' Long-sword , drew his sword in the wars of Palestine , under the banner of Count Julian Di Albarone , have I felt so sick , so wearied in heart , as I do this day -- mark ye , my page ! 
Then the game 's up with the son o ' th ' Count -- my Lord Adrian ? '' 
here comes Adrian , the son of this sick lord , and from the opposite gallery emerges the monk Albertine , the tool and counsellor of my Lord of Florence . 
`` Whither speed ye , Lord Adrian ? '' 
`` Lord Adrian , by the Virgin tell me how long since parted this finger from the ruby signet ring of thy house ? 
Look abroad , Adrian -- 't is high noon . 
Adrian , to thy chamber , to thy chamber , and rest not till the signet ring again encircles thy finger ! 
exclaimed Adrian in a determined tone -- `` Let our past disputes be forgotten , old man , in this terrible hour . 
My father 's brother need fear no wrong from me -- this maiden 's father can fear no harm from Adrian Di Albarone . 
shrieked the Ladye Annabel , as she awoke from her swoon of terror , and supported by the arm of Adrian , glanced round the scene -- `` Surely my father , you speak not aught against Lord Adrian ? '' 
Aldarin glanced around the throng , he marked each stalwart man-at-arms , each strong-limbed yeoman of the guard , and then his chest heaved and his eye flashed as he shouted -- `` Seize him , men of Albarone , seize the murderer of your lord ! '' 
He pointed to Adrian Di Albarone as he spoke . 
Not a man stirred , not a servitor moved , but all remained like statues , clustering round the group in their centre , where Aldarin stood with his slender form raised to its full stature , his arm outstretched and his eye flashing like a flamecoal , while Adrian gathered the Ladye Annabel in his good right arm , and gazed upon the Signor with a look of concentrated scorn . 
He was a well formed nan with a face marked by no definite expression . 
His dark hair , gathered in short , stiff curls around a low and unmeaning forehead , his small dark eyes protruding from his head , seemed to be trying their utmost to outstrip his faintly delineated eyebrows , the nose neither aquiline , classic , or Judaic , seemed composed of all the varieties of nasal organ , his upper lip was garnished with a portion of the wiry beard that flourished on his prominent chin , his lips were thick , and sensual , while his entire face was as inexpressive as might be . 
`` Adrian , my son , '' cred the Lady of Albarone turning to her son in utter amazement , `` what means this scene of confusion and alarm ! '' 
Adrian took his mother by the hand , and led her to the couch . 
He spoke not a word , but waved his hand toward the couch . 
`` He is dead , '' exclaimed the Lady of Albarone , in a voice of unatural calmness , as she again appeared from amid the hangings of the bed , with a face ghastly and livid as the face of death , `` Vassals of Albarone , your lord is dead ! '' 
He gazed upon the vacant features of the Duke distended by surprise , the countenance of Adrian marked by a settled frown of indignation , the visage of the Countess livid as death , and then the fair face of his daughter Annabel , her eyes swimming in tears , the parted lips and the cheek pale and flushed by turns , met the glance of Aldarin , and a strange expression trembled on his compressed lip , and darkened over his high forehcad . 
`` Lady of Albarone , my brother died not thro ' the course of nature , he died not by the hand of disease , he was murdered ! '' 
Adrian of Albarone looked around the scene and smiled as if in scorn , but said not a word . 
-- `` There has been foul work here -- Adrian -- oh , Adrian , thy sire hath been poisoned ! '' 
`` This is some new mysterie , Sir Scholar , '' exclaimed Adrian with a look of scorn . 
shouted Adrian Di Albarone , as the expression of incredulity lately visible in his manly face changed to a look of pallid horror -- `` Now by the Sacrament of God , he shall be avenged as never was murdered man avenged before ! 
`` Who , '' he shricked in a husky voice , turning to the throng -- `` Who hath done this murder ? '' 
`` Sir Duke , '' exclaimed Aldarin , as though he had not heard Adrian , `` the encrusted substance which fell from the death-bowl may be poisonous -- '' The small white ball , which the Duke had absently clenched in his fingers , fell to the floor , and every ear heard a ringing sound as it fell , and every eye beheld the fragments splintering as it touched the floor . 
The Duke of Florence stooped hastily and again grasped the ring ; he held it aloft , and shouted with a tone of amazement and horror -- `` It is the ring of the murderer , dropped by accident into the death-bowl ! 
Both crest and motto are those of Albarone '' -- his voice sank to a deathlike whisper -- `` Lord Adrian -- behold -- it is , it is the signet ring of Albarone ! '' 
Adrian , oh , Adrian , '' he con tinued as his voice changed with mingled compassion and anguish -- `` what moved thee to this fearful deed ? 
calmly responded Adrian , though his chest heaved and swelled with the tempest aroused in his soul -- `` Tell me , Sig nior Aldarin , what were the contents of the ` soothing ' potion administered by thee to the late Lord Julian at day break ? '' 
`` Thou alone , Aldarin , thou alone has had access to this chamber since daybreak '' -- spoke Adrian , with his calm eye fixed full on the Signior 's visage -- `` Now tell me who it was that drugged you bowl with death ? '' 
-- Who can believe Adrian Di Albarone guilty of so accursed an act ! '' 
`` Nor I '' -- `` nor I '' -- `` He is guiltless . '' 
The Lady of Albarone rushed hurriedly forward , she seized the robe , she held it aloft in the sunbeams , and -- every eye beheld the robe of Adrian Di Albarone ! 
`` Adrian ! '' 
shrieked the Countess , `` Adrian of Albarone -- yonder secret passage leads to thy sleeping chamber -- thy departed sire , myself and thou , alone were aware of its existence . 
Adrian passed his hand wildly over his forehead and with a cry of horror fell lifeless upon the floor . 
The sun was setting , calmly and solemnly setting , behind a gorgeous pile of rainbow-hued clouds , magnificent with airy castle and pinnacle , while the full warmth of his beams shone through the arching window of the Red Chamber , its casement panels thrown wide open , filling that place of death with light and splendor . 
Then came four men-atarms , in armor of blazing gold ; and then , distinguished by his rich array , rode the Duke , mounted upon a snow-white charger , and behind him , environed by guards , his arms lashed behind his back , came Lord Adrian Di Albarone , accused of the most foul and atrocious murder of his sire . 
`` Adrian swept from my path -- and is he not already swept from my path ? 
Methought I lay dead -- dead , Annabel , dead ; and that I died ere thy nuptials were solemnized -- thy nuptials , Annabel , and thine Adrian ! '' 
Surely , I saw Adrian and Annabel but a moment since ? 
Annabel is not with us , nor is my Lord Adrian here ; but I , dear brother , I am by your side . '' 
By his side have I fought and bled ; for him did I leave my own native land -- merrie , merrie England , -- and I will say , a more generous , true-hearted , and valiant knight , never wore spurs , or broke a lance , than my lord , the noble Count Julian Di Albarone . '' 
`` But Adrian -- '' `` What sayest thou of Adrian ? 
A murderer -- a parricide -- his death is certain . 
`` Receive thy warrant as seneschal of the Castle Di Albarone , '' said Aldarin , as he held forth the parchment . 
I must send on to Florence fresh proofs of Adrian 's guilt : witnesses , and so on , and so on . 
shrieked the executioner , as his thick-set hump-backed figure was disclosed in the solitary light , hanging from the ceiling of the gallery -- `` So ye gave him -- Lord Adrian -- to me , to the pincers and the knife , to the hot lead , and the wheel of torture ! 
You are brave fellows -- ha , ha , he dies at day-break -- and the Doomsman thanks ye ! '' 
Adrian the Doomed raised his form from the oaken bench , and paced the dungeon floor . 
He was not shackled by manacles or clogged by chains It was the last night of his existence ; escape came not within his thoughts , the walls were built of rack , hundreds of armed sentinels paced the long galleries of the prison , and a guard of two men-at-arms watched without the triple-locked and triple-bolted door of the Doomed chamber . 
`` To die on the gibbet , with the taunt and the sneer of the idiot crowd ringing in my ears , my last look met with the vulgar grimaces and unmeaning laughter of ten thousand clownish faces ; to die on the rack , each bone splintered by the instruments of ignominious torture , my scarred and mangled carcase mocking the face of day , -- oh , God -- is this the fate of Adrian , heir to the fame , the glory , and the fortunes of the house of Albarone ? 
Pausing in his hurried walk , he stood for a moment still and motionless as the sculptured marble , and then eagerly stretching forth his hands , cried -- `` Father -- father ! 
Adrian drew a dagger from his vest . 
The tone in which he spoke was dread and solemn . 
Again he waited for a response to his adjuration , but no response came . 
`` This , then , '' cried Adrian , raising the dagger ; `` this , then , is the only resource left to me . 
Tighter he clutched the dagger ; his arm was thrown back and his breast was bared ; and , as he thus nerved himself for the final blow , all the scenes of his life -- the hopes of his boyhood -- the dreams of his love , rose up before him like a picture . 
And , like a vast unbounded ocean , overhung with mists , and dark with clouds , was the idea of the Dread Unknown to his mind . 
The weapon flew from the hand of Adrian and fell on the other side of the cell . 
He turned and beheld the muffled form of a monk , who had entered through the massive door , which had been unbolted without Adrian 's heeding the noise of locks and chains , so deep was his abstraction . 
Reproving the sentinels for their insolence , the muffled monk closed the door , and approaching Adrian , exclaimed -- `` My son , prepare thee for thy fate ! 
`` Father , '' Adrian answered ; `` I have been ever a faithful son of the Holy Church , but its offices will avail me naught at this hour . 
Adrian made no reply . 
`` Tell me , young sir , '' cried the monk , seizing Adrian by the wrist , `` wouldst thou accept life , though it were passed within the walls of a convent ? '' 
And as the cowl fell back , Adrian with a start beheld the monk of the ante-chamber ! 
`` Count Adrian Di Albarone , this morning thou wert tried before the Duke of Florence , and his peers , for the murder of thy sire . 
The reason why it is countenanced by the duke , is -- '' Adrian paused as if the words stuck in his throat ; `` is because he would wed my own fair cousin , the Ladye Annabel . '' 
Let Aldarin look to his fate ; and , as for the duke -- '' thrusting his hand into his bosom , he drew from his gown a miniature -- it was the miniature of a fair and lovely maiden . 
cried the monk , `` Adrian Di Albarone , behold this fair and lovely countenance , where youth , and health , and love , beaming from every feature , mingle with the deep expression of a mind rich in the treasure of thoughts , pure and virginal in their beauty . 
Adrian , this was the maiden of my heart , the one beloved of my very soul . 
I am now in his favor -- he loads me with honors ; I accept his gifts -- aye , aye , Albertine , the Monk , takes the gold of the proud duke , that he may effect the great object of his existence -- '' `` And that -- '' cried Adrian -- `` that is -- '' The monk spoke not ; a smile wreathed his compressed lips , and a glance sparkled in his eye . 
Adrian was answered . 
With a last farewell , the Countess of Albarone retired ; the door was closed , and Adrian was left alone with the Duke . 
`` Well , sir , '' exclaimed he , `` I have condescended to visit you . 
Here he opened his sleepy eyes , and , curling his bearded lip , tried to assume a look of dignity . 
Adrian bowed down to the earth . 
`` The son of Count Di Albarone , '' said he , `` feels highly honoured by your condescension . '' 
`` Merely this , most gracious Duke , '' answered Adrian , as he gazed sternly into the very eyes of the haughty prince , `` merely this , that I have been doomed to death by thee and thy minions , in a manner that never was noble doomed before . 
The Duke sneered , as he spoke : `` Surely , I can not help it , an ' a brainless boy takes it into his head to poison his sire . '' 
`` Pardon me , gracious Duke , '' said Adrian , as by a sudden movement he grasped him by the throat , and at the same time seizing his cloak of scarlet and gold , he thrust it into his gaping mouth . 
Closer and yet more close he would his grasp , and , scarce able to breathe , much less to speak , the Duke of Florence stood without power or motion . 
Adrian coolly tripped up his heels , and then placing his knee upon his breast by a dexterous movement , he tore away the scarlet cloak , and then cautiously placing one hand over the mouth of the prince , he gathered some straw with the other , and forced it down his throat . 
He could not speak , and the knee of Adrian placed on his breast , laid him silent and motionless . 
And now behold Adrian , arrayed in the blazing cloak of the Duke , which descending to his knees , sweeps the tops of the fine boots of doe-skin , ornamented with spurs of gold . 
On his head is placed the slouching hat of the prince , surmounted by a group of nodding plumes , and beneath the folds of the cloak shines the richly embossed sheath of his sword . 
Adrian surveyed his figure with a smile -- that smile which arises from the recklessness of desperation -- and then , without heeding the malignant glances of the Duke , he fixed him against the rough bench upon his knees , with his face to the wall , in an attitude of prayer and devotion . 
-- He threw his own sombre cloak over the back of his captive ; and then , having slouched the hat over his face , after the manner of the Duke , he gathered up the cloak of crimson along his chin , and stood ready to depart . 
He opened the door of the traitor 's cell with a beating heart , and in an instant , found himself standing in the gallery where the muffled priest waited for the Duke . 
It declared that the prisoner , Adrian Di Albarone , was to be seen by no one until the morrow , when he was to suffer the doom of the law , by the terrors of the wheel . 
This Adrian and the monk ascended , and at the top they found a company of gay cavaliers , who waited for his grace of Florence . 
Adrian then traversed another gallery , and yet another ; being all the while followed by the band of gallant courtiers . 
`` Why , Cesarini , '' replied his companion , `` it may be that he is weeping for this young springald , Adrian . 
They had arrived at the lofty arching door of the castle leading into the court-yard , when Adrian was alarmed by a noise and shouting in the galleries which he had just traversed . 
thought Adrian , as his hand caught the hilt of his sword . 
They now descended into the court-yard , where a richly-attired page held a steed ready for his grace . 
The monk leaned from his saddle , and whispered to Adrian : `` One effort more , brave boy . 
And finally , innumerable dangers past , behold Adrian enter the palace , traverse innumerable chambers , hung with gorgeous tapestry , lighted by lamps of silver and of gold , and thronged with nobles and courtiers , who much wondered to behold their lord pass them by , without one mark of recognition or sign of respect . 
At last Adrian arrived before folding doors ornamented with exquisite carving , and having the arms of the Duke emblazoned in glowing colours upon the panels . 
`` Push open the doors , and boldly enter , '' whispered the monk to Adrian , who immediately obeyed his directions . 
In a lofty chamber , hung with tapestry of purple , embroidered with rare and pleasant designs , and lighted by lamps of gold , depending from the ceiling , Adrian and the Monk rested themselves after their arduous exploit . 
Adrian reposed on a couch of velvet , and by his side was seated the monk . 
`` Truly , sir monk , '' said Adrian , filling a goblet of wine , `` I have heard of many unmannerly acts , but this deed of mine does seem to me to be the most nnmannerly of all . 
And Adrian laughed . 
Adrian started up , and drew his sword , taking the precaution , however , to resume the scarlet cloak , and slouching hat . 
The monk closed the door , and , turning to Adrian , said , `` Another of this miscreant 's victims , Adrian . 
And now let us away ; every moment increases thy danger ; the duke may even now have freed himself , and set his minions in chase . '' 
This the monk entered , followed by Adrian , and a stairway of stone , some two feet in width , was revealed ; it was cut into the wall and over-arched , and the distance between the steps , and the arch not more than four feet . 
Adrian spoke for the first time in half n hour -- `` And are we to be baulked after all the adventures of this night ? '' 
Seizing the light , Adrian threw himself into the breach , and discovered an extensive vault , hedged in by walls built of hewn stone , while the floor was covered by rows of coffins , with here and there a monument of marble . 
The monk raised his hand , and drawing a bolt which Adrian had not perceived , he pushed with all his strength against the archway , and a trapdoor rose above the heads of our adventurers . 
-- Through this passage the monk ascended , followed by Adrian , who looked around with a gaze of wonder , and found himself standing in the aisle of the Grand Cathedral of Florence . 
And there , in that lone aisle , as the deep toned bell of the cathedral tolled the third hour of the morning , did Adrian and the monk fall lowly on the marble pavement , and , prostrating themselves before the sublime symbol of our most holy faith , give thanks to God , the Virgin , and the Saints , for their most wonderful escape . 
Sometimes Rough Robin would hear a faint booming sound far above , which he supposed was the bell of the castle , tolling for the death of the noble Count Di Albarone , known throughout Christendom , in a thousand lays , as the bravest of crusaders , and the gentlest of knights . 
` For a lord of the royal blood of Florence , ' shricked a bystander : ` for Adrian Di Albarone . 
To-morrow , at daybreak , he dies ; condemned by the Duke and his minions , on the foul accusation of the murder of his father ! ' 
And as he spoke , the cowl fell from the face of the figure who stood beside the monk , and the torch bearers , the monks , and the High Priest , looked from their muffled robes in wonder and in awe , and beheld the face of -- Adrian Di Albarone . 
`` Ye ancient men who bear the corse of the Lord Di Albarone , ye who served your lord with a faithful service while living , prepare to descend into the vault of the dead , there to lay your sacred burden beside his fathers . 
Adrian , our Lord , comes from the dead to lead us ! 
The tumult and outcry , coupled with the name of Adrian , reached the ears of the fair Ladye Annabel , who already half swooning with terror , now felt her brain whirling in wild confusion , as she fell fainting in the arms of the Abbot of St. Peters . 
`` I come to avenge his murder ! '' 
shouted Aldarin -- `` His murderer is already doomed -- even now he festers upon the wheel ! '' 
`` His murderer lives '' -- shouted the Figure , through the bars of his closed helmet , -- `` His murderer breathes , while the Corse asks in the speechless tongue of death -- asks and prays to God , to man for vengeance ! 
`` Our Lord '' -- exclaimed a tall and slalwart man-at-arms -- `` Our Lord Adrian doth rise from the dead to convict thee of the murder of thy brother ! 
Then arose one firm , determined cry from the men-at-arms -- `` He is guilty -- heaven and earth proclaim it ! 
He raised his vizor , and the features of Adrian Di Albarone , pale and sunken , were revealed . 
-- Dog -- '' `` These hands itch for thy blood '' -- shrieked a shrill and ringing voice , and Adrian beheld the distorted form and mishapen features of the Doomsman , pressing forward from the throng of men-at-arms , with his talon-like fingers grasping the air , while his face wore the expression of a demon in human guise , -- `` These hands itch for thy blood ! 
shouted Adrian , gazing upon the circle of men-at-arms who surrounded him . 
And as he spoke , there came gliding from the darkness of the cavern , two forms , clad in robes of sable velvet , who advanced hastily along the floor , and stood between the victim and the Duke . 
Being in this melancholy mood , I requested permission of my gracious master the Duke , to visit Lord Adrian that night . 
`` Why , noble Sir , of the bull-head , '' I answered , `` and right worthy Sir of the Squinting Orb , I intend to watch the coming forth of my Lord Adrian , an ' it please your lordships -- and , as I wish to sleep , I will thank thee Balvardo to turn thy ugly visage another way , for , an ' I shut my eyes after looking at thee , I 'll be certain to dream of half-a-dozen devils or so . 
I answered his question by repeated bursts of laughter ; for although my heart was full heavy at the fate of Adrian Di Albarone , yet for my soul I could not hear such whimsical sounds without giving full rein to my laughing humour . 
I was thunderstruck at the tones of this voice , which I at once knew could not belong to the Doomed Adrian . 
And this , this was to be the fate of Adrian Lord of Albarone ! 
`` O , nothing , '' responded the Duke , `` nothing -- only I thought the murderer Adrian might -- dost understand ? 
`` Why , Count , but three short days ago , upon this very couch lay your gallant brother ; here he folded to his arms his Adrian . 
She had never for an instant believed that Adrian could be guilty of the accursed act , neither had she dreamed that it was her father 's hand that dealt the blow . 
She saw Adrian stretched bleeding and dead upon the wheel -- his limbs severed and torn , and his brow scarred by the instruments of torture , while the doomsman 's laugh rang in her ears ! 
With Adrian , the companion of her childhood , the princely palace would have been like an abode of fairy land ; with the Duke , it would have been a living-tomb -- a golden sepulchre for the living-dead . 
It is because thou dost affect the murderer of my only brother , -- of thy kind uncle , -- the PARRICIDE , Adrian -- '' O ! 
`` Thanks , Sir Page , thanks -- and now , '' continued the yeoman -- `` an thou lovest thy Lord Adrian , wait in the ante-chamber , and see that no one enters . 
`` Ladye '' replied the yeoman , `` I 'm a rough , blunt soldier -- I know little of courtly manners , but so help me St. Withold , I would peril -- I would sacrifice my life , to serve thee and -- Lord Adrian -- '' `` Adrian ? 
What knowest thou of Adrian ? 
thou surely wilt not say that he -- Adrian -- is -- is -- The Murderer ? '' 
`` It is not Adrian : but Ladye -- heaven help thee to bear it -- the murderer is one who is mayhap as beloved of thee , as is Lord Adrian . '' 
murmured Annabel -- `` surely there is no one as beloved as Adrian , no one save my father . 
`` Nay Ladye I trifle not -- again I say it is the one who is as dear to thee as Lord Adrian . '' 
Adrian stood beside the sleeping maiden . 
His face was exceedingly pale and covered with blood , as also was the helmet , and the plates of the armour of azure steel . 
In one hand he grasped the furled banner of the Winged Leopard . 
He turned and sought his place of concealment with a heavy heart ; but ere he turned , he cast one deep , one agonizing look upon the lovely maiden . 
A kiss that told of heart-felt affection he impressed upon her ruby lips , and as he took a last fond , ardent gaze , a burning tear fell upon the unstained cheek of the Ladye Annabel . 
My business calls me and this poor dumb youth away to the north , and therefore is the page sent with me ; he is sent to receive the wares purchased by the Ladye Annabel . 
There were queenly ladies and beauteous damsels , gallant lords and gay cavaliers , blazing in gorgeous attire ; there , mingling with the men-at-arms of Albarone , throughed the retainers of the Duke , robed in the royal livery of his house ; and beside the altar stood the priest and the father , the venerable abbot of St. Peters , arrayed in his sacred robes , and the sage and thoughtful Aldarin , Count Di Albarone , attired , as was his wont , in the plain tunic of sable velvet , relieved by the sweeping robe of black , with his pale forehead surmounted by the cap of fur , glittering with a single gem . 
`` By our Lady , but thou describest the late Count Di Albarone . 
I mean to wend towards the nearest seaport ; I mean to -- '' `` By our Lady , '' interrupted Guiseppo , `` I spy the dawning of our Lord Adrian 's day . 
`` Well , well , we shall soon reach the castle Di Albarone , we shall behold our brave leader the gallant Count Julian . 
And Adrian and Annabel -- must I desert their cause ? 
And he is my father ; he loads me with favors , burdens me with kindness -- the half crazed Guiseppo looked around the confined chamber with a fixed and steady eye -- `` I will stand by my father Aldarin to the death ! '' 
Art not satisfied with the guilt of this -- Adrian ? 
A mighty grief has been swelling the channels of my soul -- grief for the crime of Adrian , grief that his hands , the hands of the son , should be red -- red with his own father 's blood ! 
`` Boy , I tell thee , thy face is like -- her face ! 
`` Her face ? '' 
Tell me -- oh , tell me of her -- my mother ! '' 
They might not wed , for she was the scion of a Royal line . 
`` Forgive me , forgive me , my father '' -- shrieked Guiseppo , as if struck by some sudden thought -- `` Swayed by alternate affection for thee as -- my father -- and regard for Adrian as -- my friend , I have locked within the silence of my bosom an important secret -- Sir Geoffrey o ' th ' Longsword has returned from Palestine ! '' 
Was the murderer Adrian with him ? '' 
He lurks within the recesses of the mountains , some score of miles away -- three hundred men ride in his train -- Adrian , whom I believed guiltless , is with him . '' 
`` Did he speak aught of attacking the Castle Di Albarone ? '' 
`` Slave of thine own wild delusion , '' exclaimed Sir Geoffrey o ' th ' Longsword , as he advanced , `` thou art gazing upon the form of Adrian Di Albarone ! '' 
While Sir Geoffrey trembled ; while the monk Albertine stood beside the altar of ebony , veiling his face in his hands ; while even Adrian , the son of the murdered , hesitated and paused , ere the request of Aldarin was refused , the men-at-arms , led on by Rough Robin , overturned the coffin of iron , heated as it was to a white heat , scattered the embers of the fire along the surface of the floor , and concealed the nameless secret of the coffin with the dark hangings of leather , which they flung over the disgorged contents of the receptacle of the dead . 
The robe fell from the form of the stranger , and Adrian Di Albarone confronted the stout yeoman , his hands upraised , and his blue eye gleaming with a wild light , as he shrieked forth the words , `` I forbid this work of doom ! '' 
`` Adrian Di Albarone , '' exclaimed the deep-toned voice of Robin the Rough , as he seemed inspired with an awful feeling of the duty he owed the dead , `` to morrow , these gallant men , the vassals clustering round yon heights , and thy poor servitor , who stands before thee , will joy to call thee -- Lord ! 
-- Adrian Di Albarone asks the old man 's life of thee ! 
He is stained with my father 's blood , but I would not have him die this fearful death -- spare the old man 's life ! '' 
Adrian turned away , for the stern faces of the men-at-arms told him that his pleadings were all in vain . 
And as he glided from the place of death , the robes were thrust aside from the face of the other figure , and every eye beheld the visage of Albertine the monk . 
`` It is '' -- exclaimed the solemn voice of Adrian Di Albarone -- `` It is the judgment of Heaven ! '' 
`` The moon shines in the heavens , calm and beautiful -- when the mild radiance of her beams pales before the glory of the uprising sun -- then , then , will the angels of fate , write in the books of the Unknown , the Doom of Adrian , the last of the race of Albarone ! '' 
Scarce seven days since we first concealed ourselves in this lonely vale , and Adrian -- ha ! 
Not that he acquires honor thereby -- by my troth , no ! 
Hast journeyed far to-day Adrian ? '' 
Adrian replied in a whisper , and then as they conversed in low murmurs , the dame observed the form of her son agitated by a slight trembling motion , while ever and anon he turned his head aside veiling his face in his hands . 
`` Lord Adrian , '' whispered the Monk , `` at the hour of sunset , when the dark storm arose , howling its requiem over the remains of the Fratricide , thou didst hasten from the castle of Albarone , bound for this lovely valley . 
whispered Adrian -- `` where is their dagger of vengeance , while the tyrant rides abroad on his errands of wrong ? '' 
`` Listen , Lord Adrian ! 
Adrian , Adrian , bear a firm heart through the perils of this night , and in the morrow 's dawn will blaze the star of thy Mighty Fortune ! 
`` He is the last of his race , '' answered Adrian , `` why dost thou ask ? '' 
He turned and sought the door , but as if struck by a sudden thought , he again approached Adrian , and whispered in tones that seemed to come from his very soul -- ` Fare-thee-well , Adrian , fare-thee-well ! 
now I would have my revenge , although the chasm of hell yawned beneath me -- nay , although between me and the object of my hate yawned the gulf of perdition , I would leap the abyss and drag him down , down to the eternal flames that now hunger for his accursed soul -- Fare-thee-well , Adrian -- I 'll never see thee more ! '' 
The fearful look that fired his countenance , and the awful tones in which he spoke , haunted Adrian Di Albarone until his dying hour . 
At last his glance rested upon the form of the disguised Annabel , and advancing toward the damsel , he flung himself at her feet , exclaiming with all the grace of attitude and expression at his command , `` Fair Ladye , it is with joy beyond the power of words to tell , that I hail thee by the title of the -- Fair Ladye Annabel , Countess Di Albarone ! '' 
Thou art now the Courtess Di Albarone , soon shalt thou be my own loved Annabel , Duchess of Florence . '' 
`` Coward and tyrant , '' shouted Lord Adrian , as he caught the sinking maiden in his arms , `` away with thee from this humble tenement . 
Unarmed and weaponless Adrian beheld himself at the mercy of the tyrant . 
The soldiers ad vanced , -- in vain was his defence -- in an instant he found himself in the hands of his foes , and as the minions bound his hands behind his back , he heard the beetle-browed Balvardo -- for he was among the throng -- whisper in the ear of the Duke -- `` At what hour my Lord ? '' 
Great God , behold the bridal -- a lonely cell , hidden in the depths of this fearful monastery , the altar of black , the dark-robed monk , the tyrant-Duke and the victim ; the time , the hour after the bell has tolled midnight , no hope , no aid , afar from human consolation , or the voice of human friend -- such will be the second bridal of Annabel , wife of Adrian Di Albarone ! '' 
The braggart Adrian hugs his death in the vaults below -- I gather his bride to my arm in the cell above . 
`` Adrian , '' whispered the monk , `` dost sleep ? '' 
`` Nay , nay , Adrian , I jest not . 
And as the voice sounded strange and hollow through the cell , the tapestry rustled , and Adrian Di Albarone stood before the monk . 
Adrian Di Albarone it was , but the manly form was bent with chains , the black velvet attire of the student was soiled and torn ; while the faded countenance , the sunken cheek , the lips compressed , the hollow eye sockets , and the quick and fiery eye , all told a tale of the agony of years endured within the compass of a single hour . 
`` Drink , Adrian , '' he cried , `` drink , and be refreshed ! '' 
Adrian raised the goblet to his mouth with his chained right hand -- he wet his lips with the ruddy wine ; and then , as if seized by some fearful spell , he stood motionless as death , while his right arm straightened slowly out from his body , with the hand convulsively clutching the bowl of death . 
`` It is , it is ! '' 
`` Adrian ! '' 
`` I drink , '' cried Adrian , with a wild gesture , `` I drink ; for thy words are truth , and thine eye bears no falsehood in its glance ! 
A shriek that might never be forgotten rang through the corridor and chamber , and a slight form , arrayed in robes of white came rushing from the folds of the tapestry , and Adrian beheld the dreamy face of the Ladye Annabel , her cheek pale as the robes she wore , while , with glaring eye and voice of horror , she shrieked : `` Drink not -- in God 's name do not drink -- the bowl is drugged with death ! '' 
He flung the bowl aside , but ere it left his hand it was received in the quick grasp of the monk , he raised his chained hands on high , and ere they were lowered , his Bride lay panting on his breast ! 
`` Drink not , oh , Adrian , drink not -- the bowl is drugged with death ! '' 
`` Adrian Di Albarone , '' cried the monk , fixing his full and solemn eyes upon the chained knight , `` drink the bowl , I implore thee ! 
`` Dark and mysterious man , '' cried Adrian , sharing the wild glance of Albertine , `` give me the bowl , I drink -- '' `` Adrian , for my sake touch it not -- poison nestles like a snake within its depths ! '' 
As she clung to his chained arms , he raised the goblet to his lips , he drained it to the dregs . 
Adrian handed the goblet to the monk . 
Scarce had the hand of Adrian been extended in the act , than his arm fell like a weight of lead to his side , and Annabel felt her lover leaning heavily upon her shoulder , while her fair arms might scarce stay him in his fall to the floor . 
`` Monk , '' cried Adrian as sinking upon one knee he fixed his ghastly eyes upon the face of Albertine ; `` monk , I trusted thee , and thou art false ! '' 
`` His brow is cold , '' murmured the Ladye Annabel , as sinking on her knees by his side , she supported Adrian 's head upon her virgin bosom . 
`` He is dead -- cold and dead , '' murmured the Ladye Annabel , as she gazed upon the pallid face of Adrian . 
`` Monk , behold -- behold the doom of Adrian of Albarone ! '' 
The sound of a falling body echoed round the room , and the lifeless form of Adrian Di Albarone lay extended across the coffin , while the outspread hands clutched the dark panels with the convulsive grasp of death . 
`` Then this pestilent Adrian will trouble me no more ! 
Methought Adrian lay cold and dead in my arms , while my hand was entwined in the locks of his clustering hair , as they fell over his lifeless face . 
And in a moment , the tapestry , concealing the entrance to the room from which Adrian had issued ere he drank the bowl , was hurriedly thrust aside , and amid the blaze of torches , the Ladye Annabel , beheld the glare of armour and the flash of upraised swords , while the stern visage of the warrior-band were gazing upon her pale countenance and trembling form . 
shouted a soldier , springing from the crowd -- `` Ladye tell us , in God 's name , where is the Lord Adrian ? '' 
`` They have borne him to the grave ! '' 
Prattling after this fashion , the poor old idiot turned up the earth till he stood in a square hole about a foot in depth , when a glance at the pale visage of Adrian arrested his attention . 
List ye , my noble captain . '' 
He then made a motion with his hand , as if in the act of drinking , and then a shout of wild laughter sounded through the cell . 
He swept his spade around with maniac glee , and then in a voice louder and shriller , while his shrunken breast heaved with the wildness of his emotion , he sang , `` A brave song ! 
Three -- three days agone -- we were all fighting and slashing , leading murderers to death , and pulling Dukes from their thrones , daring death in as many shapes as swords are fashioned , and all for my Lord Adrian , and lo ! 
Then it was that the nobles of Florence named their new Duke , then it was that the people confirmed their choice , while the solemn High Priest of the Invisible , by a parchment scroll affixed to a pillar of the grand cathedral , pronounced his blessing on the fortune of Adrian , Count of Albarone and Duke of Florence -- '' `` Thus far all was well . 
Then ye learned the mysterious disappearance of Lord Adrian ? 
A thousand such dukes might disappear , and we could tell , without a doubt , what became of them all , ` the devil takes care of his own ' saith the adage -- '' `` Hast thou no word of the Lord Adrian ? '' 
`` Ask the tombs in the aisles of the convent chapel , which yesternoon we ransacked in search of his body , and let their yawning mouths tell the story of our fruitless labor . 
Doomed on a false accusation , doomed on the testimony of forsworn tools of power , Adrian of Albarone had laid him down to die , when the Messenger of the Steel appeared , the rescue was planned , and the morrow morn beheld the prisoner free . 
Still in the confidence of the Duke -- for a specious tale blinded the eyes of the Tyrant with regard to the part our brother bore in the escape of the Doomed -- still in the confidence of the Duke , the convent doors flew open at his word , Lord Adrian found a home within these walls , and day by day , secretly and surely , Albertine made converts of the Abbot and the Brethren of this Monastery of crime . 
The Duke , flushed with pride , and made reckless by revenge , rode through the convent gates , companioned by his bravoes , who held their knives on high , shouting for the blood of Adrian , the Traitor . 
And while they prepared the doom of Lord Adrian , in the lonely valley , the Invisible bestrode the mighty storm of vengeance that darkened over the night in Florence . 
The Duke , Albertine and Lord Adrian , all had disappeared . 
Brethren , ye have all heard the fearful story of that night of terror -- the farewell of Albertine , uttered in the hillside cot , his sudden re-appearance before the eyes of Adrian , when awaiting his doom in the earth-hidden vault -- ye have heard how the bowl of death was given to the Duke-elect by the monk -- the singular disappearance of Albertine and the Duke when they entered the Chamber of St. Areline -- all has reached your ears , and all is wrapt in mystery -- '' `` The dark story of the bowl of death , hath been darkening o'er my soul since that night of terror and joy , '' exclaimed a veiled Monk of the Order through the folds of his robe as he slowly rose from his seat . 
He was forced to slay Adrian to retain the confidence of the Tyrant -- sooner would Albertine make the Fair City itself a desert of whitened bones , than the Duke , against whom his very soul had sworn vengeance , should live . 
He slow Lord Adrian , though his heart wept blood-drops in the act -- and then came his strange and mysterious vengeance on the Tyrant . '' 
`` Adrian sleeps with his murdered father , '' again spoke the High-Priest . 
Adrian Di Albarone drank the Bowl , and drained it to the dregs , and as he drank the lovely face of Annabel swam round him in wild confusion , mingling with the dark countenance of Albertine , and the bronzed visage of the Sworder , while his heart seemed turning to fire , and his brain to molten lead . 
He drained the bowl to the dregs , and then fell prostrate over the coffin , and then came a cold and unconscious pause , when his heart , his brain , were wrapt in forgetfulness , covering his soul like a thick mist , or the deep darkness of midnight . 
Awaking slowly from this oblivion of soul , he beheld looking him calmly , yet fixedly in the face , the countenance of his father , Lord Julian of Albarone , pale as death , and livid with the hues of corruption yet lighted by the deep glance of those shadowy eyes , that seemed to burn in their very sockets , like meteors seen through the dimness of the daybreak mist . 
As this face so wild , so lofty and so ghastly in its supernatural expression , faded slowly away from the vision of Adrian , his soul became the prisoner of mighty Dreams , the Spirits of the Grave , who called up before his eye , this dark and startling Mysterie . 
He stood in the courtyard of an ancient castle , with the frown of the old walls towering over his head , while the blaze of the festal lights thrown from the lofty windows , gave a ruddy light to the scene , as the bounding strains of music , the light-hearted laugh of the reveller , or the gay carol of the minstrel came echoing to his ear . 
Ascending a massive stairway , with snow white marble steps , and rare paintings adorning the wall ; Adrian made his way through the crowds of feasters , passing to and fro , through the stream of servitors bearing dainty viands to the revellers above , and in a single moment stood within the glare and glitter of the Festival Hall . 
The pillars of a lofty hall swept away from the spot where he stood , in grand perspective , each lofty column bearing its burden of wild flowers , quaintly wreathed around sculptured frieze and capital , hanging in long festoons to the floor , or borne to and fro by the summer breeze , while the glare of ten thousand lamps , arranged amid the intricate ornaments of the arching ceiling , hung along the towering columns , or pendant in the night air , gave a dazzling light to the scene , as the dancers went merrily over the bounding floor , each eye gleaming with revelry , each cheek glowing with the merriment of the hour , and the Spirit of the Dance giving life to every step , animation to every motion of the revellers . 
Adrian gazed over the scene , until his eye grew sick with loveliness , his ears deafened by the sounds of mirth , revelry and music , he gazed around and marked the forms of beauty swaying in the dance , here the blooming form of mature womanhood , bounding amid the dancers , there the blushing cheek of girlhood , receiving the warm blaze of the festal lights on the velvet skin , here soft lips and azure eyes , mingling their messages of love , there delicate hands pressed thrillingly together , on every side the form of a queenly dame revealed in the light , or the soft bosom of a princely damsel , heaving from the folds of her vestment , on all sides beauty and grace , music and motion , comingling their fascinations , while the heart filled with melody , and the pulse throbbed with joy . 
And as Adrian looked , with a wild thrill of delight , he beheld one lovely form , standing apart from the dancers , while her face of dreamy beauty was gazing sadly over the scene , the deep blue eye gleaming with thought , and the swelling cheek paled by melancholy , as the strains of festival music came to her ear . 
With a wild cry of delight Adrian sprang forward , and as he spraug , his bride turned , beheld his face , and came swimming into his arms . 
And at the very word , Adrian lost his bride in the throng of dancers , and all grew dark as mid-night . 
The music and the dancers , the forms of beauty and the pillared hall , all , all were gone , and a strange consciousness was impressed upon the brain of Adrian , that one hundred years from the festal night had passed away , that he had been wrapt in slumber for a long and dreary century of time . 
Adrian gazed around the court-yard , with a feeling of awe , gathering heavy and dark around his heart . 
Gazing along the court yard , Adrian beheld a strange and ghastly spectacle . 
whispered Adrian , as he seized the skeleton servitor of a gloomy hearse by the arm -- `` What means the long array of death cars ? '' 
The skeleton extended his fleshless jaws , in a hideous grin , and with his skeleton hand , brushed the dust of the grave from his gay doublet of blue and silver , and arranged the tasteful knot of his silken sash . 
Still no voice came from his unbared teeth , no answer came from his fleshless visage . 
`` Nay , nay , good youth , '' exclaimed a soft and whispered voice at his very shoulder . 
With a feeling of involuntary horror , Adrian turned and beheld a Figure , clad in a gay robe of purple , faced with snow-white ermine , holding the rod of office in his hand , while a group of rainbow-hued plumes , hung drooping over his brow . 
Adrian dashed the plumes aside , he beheld , oh sight of mockery , the fleshless skull , the hollow eye sockets , the cavity of the nose , the grinning teeth , and the hanging jaw , while the hand grasping the wand of office , was a grisly skelton hand . 
He turned from the bowing skeleton , and was rushing away with horror , when a new wonder fixed his attention . 
The master of ceremonies waved his wand , and each skeleton driver leaped from his hearse . 
A third wave of the wand from the master of ceremonies , and the skeleton drivers , unscrewed each coffin lid , and Adrian beheld the occupant of every tenement of death , slowly rise from their last resting place , gazing beneath the shadow of the uplifted folds of the funeral pall , around upon the court-yard . 
`` Great God , they are thronging around me , '' shouted Adrian , `` skeleton after skelton , clad in the gay costume of life , descend from the funeral hearse wending in one ghastly throng toward the hall door , on their way to the festal scene . 
And as he spoke , the spectral train disappeared within the shadow of the hall door , and he was left alone with the long line of hearses and the skeleton servitors . 
spoke a voice at his shoulder , `` Lo ! 
Adrian turned and beheld the bowing skeleton , Master of Ceremonies . 
whispered the skeleton as he led Adrian thro ' the hall door and along the massive stairway . 
With a gaze of horror , Adrian beheld the hall , whose floor he had trodden some hundred years agone , he beheld the lofty pillars , the magnificent arch , the balcony for the minstrels , all illumined by the glare of pendent lamps , all , all the same , yet still all changed , sadly and fearfully changed . 
And as the grinning skeleton , master of ceremonies , pointed above to the spectral minstrels , Adrian listened to the music that echoed round the hall . 
A wild clanking sound assailed his ears , with a hollow mockery of music , while a deep , booming , rolling sound like the echo of a distant battle-drum broke on the air , maddening the skeleton-dancers with its weird melody , while the revel swelled fiercer , and the mirth grew louder , awaking the echoes of the ancient hall with one deafening murmur . 
And as the skeleton spoke , he pointed to the form of a maiden , clad in snow-white robes , who with her face turned from Adrian , seemed absorbed in watching the motions of the dancers . 
Adrian gazed upon this maidenly form with a beating heart , and advanced to her side . 
The maiden turned her face to Adrian , and he stood spell-bound to the spot with sudden horror . 
Looking from beneath a drooping plume , snow-white in hue , a ghastly skull stared him in the face , with the orbless sockets , the cavity of the nose , and the grinning teeth turned to glowing red by the light of the pendent lamps . 
Adrian stood spell-bound but the form advanced , flinging her skeleton hands on high -- `` Adrian , Adrian , '' whispered a soft woman 's voice issuing from the fleshless skull ; `` Joy to me now , for I behold thee once again ! '' 
`` I know thee not '' shrieked Adrian with a voice of fear -- `` I know thee not , thou thing of death ! 
spoke the sad and complaining voice of the skeleton -- `` Adrian , Adrian , gaze upon me , I am thine own , thine now and thine forever ! '' 
`` And this , '' whispered Adrian , as the fearful consciousness gradually stole over his soul -- `` And this is my love -- my Annabel ! 
Adrian gazed upon the scene in wild amazement , while the skeleton arms of her he loved gathered closer round his neck , and as he gazed he became inspired with the wild excitement of the scene , he clapped his hands on high , he joined in the low muttered laughter , he mingled in the mad whirl of the spectral dance . 
And as Adrian flung his arms around the skeleton-form of his bride , gathering her to his bosom , while thier voices joined in the moaning chaunt of unreal laughter , the voice which he had heard an hundred years before , again came whispering to his ear -- `` Behold the Mysterie of Life and Death ! 
Adrian awoke from his dream . 
Did he awake to another dream , or to a reality yet more terrible ? 
He lay prostrate , and he felt his limbs confined as though they were bound with cords . 
He extended his hand , and it touched a smooth panel of wood , extending along his right side . 
A strange horror , to which the horrors of his late dream were joy intense , gathered like a deadening weight around his heart . 
He threw forth his left hand , and felt a like panel of smooth wood extending along his other side . 
Raising himself slowly from his prostrate position , with every nerve and fibre of his frame stiffened and cramped by his hard resting place , he passed his quivering hands along the panels of wood , and with that insupportable horror deadening over his heart , he felt and examined the shape of his -- Coffin ! 
Bowing his head between his hands , the wretched man essayed toweep , but the fountain of his tears was exhausted . 
And then , as with trembling hands he examined his emaciated face , with the cheek-bones pressing hard against the parched skin , he beheld rising before his soul , one ghastly idea , which would pale the cheek of the bravest man that ever went to battle , or chill with horror and despair , the heart of the holiest Priest that ever offered prayers to God , an idea to which all other horrors were as nothing , all terrors , all fears , all deaths trifling and insignificant -- and the nameless thought , his husky voice gave to the air in a hollow whisper -- `` Buried-Alive ! '' 
All the despair that an Angel of God might feel , when toppled from the battlements of Heaven into the infernal abyss , then visited the breast of Adrian Di Albarone . 
`` It is a mere phantasy , '' he exclaimed , `` I have chanced upon the wrong side of the room . '' 
Again the sides of the vault were paced , and yet the coffin was not within his reach . 
It was gone from its position near the wall , and his physical strength did not suffice to advance toward the centre of the room . 
It might be the echo of his own broken gasps , the thought flashed over the mind of Adrian , and for a moment he held his breath , and listened with all his soul absorbed in the result . 
Again the deep breathing of a human creature met his ear -- `` Is it man or devil ? '' 
thus ran the thoughts of Adrian -- `` Mayhap he may give me water to quench my thirst , or mayhap he will -- ha , ha , -- take my accursed life . 
A whizzing sound disturbed the air , and at the very instant the blow of a sword descended on the left arm of Adrian Di Albarone , while a heavy body fell to the floor , within two paces of the spot where he knelt . 
I may drink my own blood ! '' 
He raised the wounded arm to his mouth and greedily drank the blood . 
In a moment he felt the influence of the draught . 
His veins seemed fired with new life , his brain became for the moment calm and clear , his heart regained its vigor , and gifted with temporary strength he arose on his feet , grasping the sword of the unknown in his good right hand . 
Another moment passed , and with his right hand he wound a bandage of linen , torn from his bosom , around the wounded arm , securing it by a knot tied with the teeth and hand . 
Meanwhile he heard the sound of gasping breath , not two paces distant from the spot where he stood , and as he listened a deep-muttered groan broke on his ear . 
Calling all his powers of mental and physical vigor to his aid he spoke in a faint yet determined voice -- `` Who art thou ? '' 
Adrian shuddered with horror . 
He could hear the gasping of the poor wretch as he struggled for breath , he could hear the groans of his unseen assassin ; well he knew that long absence from nourishment from food alone could lay the sworder helpless as an infant along the floor . 
And as his mind struggled with the mighty horrors that gathered round him , his attention was arrested by a singular circumstance . 
While the hushed and whispered conversation had been in progress between Adrian and Balvardo , the room had been gradually growing warmer and warmer , and at last the walls became heated , the ceiling emitting a warmth almost insupportable , while the confined air of the cell grew like the atmosphere of a furnace . 
Impressed by these gasping words , Adrian advanced slowly along the floor , avoiding the pros trate body , and in a moment stood near the centre of the room . 
He extended his foot -- it touched a substance that gave back a slight sound ; it was his coffin . 
Another extension of his foot , and a whizzing sound assailed his ears , ploughing the air far , far below his feet , then the rebound of wood splintered to pieces on a pointed rock came welling up from earth-hidden depths and echoed around the room . 
The plunging sound of a pebble falling in water , far , far below , came dimly and faintly to his ear , like the pattering of the water-drop upon the age-worn rock . 
Adrian sate him down on the edge of the well , with his feet dangling in the abyss , and gave his very soul to one long and painful effort of thought Death clutched him with a thousand arms , death was in the heated air , death came gibbering and laughing in the form of famine , and from the very depths of the abyss the doomed lord could fancy he beheld the form of the Skeleton-God , with arms outstretched to grasp his victim as he fell . 
The wretch groaned in very agony , and Adrian could hear his fingers clutching convulsively along the floor of stone . 
`` My God , my God , '' cried the doomed lord , as his very soul was wrung by the woe of the forsaken wretch ; `` would I had one cup of water to cool his burning tongue -- '' `` Ha -- ha -- ha ! 
And extending his hands through the darkness , with his body inclined to a level with the pavement , he sought the form of the famine-striken sworder . 
Slowly and with a careful motion Adrian dragged the dying man along the pavement , he laid his head on his knee , as he sat on the verge of the well , and passed his hand over the massive brow of his assassin . 
Clear and distinct , like the unbared skull of the grave , the harsh outline of the withered brow , pressed against his hand , and he could feel the eye sunken far in its socket , and the cheeks hollowed by the touch of famine . 
Fiend , fiend -- curses on thee , thou hast changed the waters to blood ! '' 
while Adrian passed his hands over the beetle-brow of his murderer , and parting the matted hair aside held the famine-eaten face in the full current of the subterranean air . 
The moments , those moments of horror , which seemed lengthened to years , dragged on with steps of lead , and the room grew like a furnace , the walls gave forth an intolerable heat , the ceiling was rapidly becoming a canopy of invisible fire , while the air changed to unseen flame , began to burn into the flesh of Adrian , as the wretch in his arms writhed and writhed in helpless agony . 
A thought flashed over the mind of Adrian . 
A moment and the head of Balvardo lay on the pavement of the stone-room , while the body of Adrian hung swinging in the abyss , as , with his hands grasping the projecting stones , he began that fearful descent of danger and of death . 
`` I go to bring thee water ! '' 
`` Then , then take -- this -- '' was the gasping response , and Adrian felt a substance of metal pressed against his brow by an extended hand ; `` ` twill hold the -- the water , or , ha , -- the blood ! ' 
Hanging over the abyss by the grasp of one trembling hand , Adrian seized the metal substance with the other . 
It was a goblet , a goblet of gold , embossed with strange shapen flowers , and heraldic insignia , and as Adrian placed the vessel within the confines of his doublet , a shudder of horror caused his frame to quiver over the unknown void . 
First grasping a pointed stone with one hand , then inserting his foot in a crevice of the masonry , then clutching another stone with the other hand , while his remaining foot rested in another crevice , he slowly began the fearful descent of the well . 
The thought crossed his brain . 
the shrieking tones of the wretch in the stone-room came faintly to his ear . 
With every nerve quivering , his hand trembling as he grasped the stones , his foot shaking with a nervous tremor as it sought the crevice which might give it momentary support , Adrian continued his terrible descent , until some twenty yards of the subterranean well rose above his head , while the low moans , the piercing shricks , and the hollow laughter of the Sworder came fainter , and yet more faint to his ear . 
Extending his foot in search of a crevice , he was astonished to find it resting on a solid rock , that hung jutting over the abyss , at a point where the well , diverging from its perpendicular course , made a slight inclination to the opposite side . 
Grasping the rugged stones with the eager grasp of his trembling hands , Adrian hung swinging over the abyss , as with extended feet , he examined the formation of the well at this particular point , and tested the extent of the jutting rock . 
He looked over his shoulder , and a wild thrill of surprise ran over his frame . 
`` Mine eyes burn with famine , '' he slowly murmured ; `` they deceive me ! 
As he spoke , a cold substance pressed against the palm of his right hand as it grasped the stone -- it moved and writhed , while a hissing sound broke on the ear . 
Two points of flame , like minute yet intensely brilliant fire coals , glared before the very eyes of Adrian , and as the hissing grew louder , he found that a vile serpent wriggled between the fingers of his right hand . 
With a sensation of unutterable disgust , he suspended his body by the left hand , and dashed the monster down the abyss with one quick motion of his hand . 
The impulse with which he flung the serpent from his grasp , caused his body to quiver and tremble over the abyss , while the sinews of the left hand seemed bursting from the skin , as with the nervous grasp of despair , the doomed lord strove to recover the stone lately clutched by the other hand . 
Well was it for Adrian that he had refrained from trusting to the rock for support . 
It was a moment ere Adrian might recall his wandering thoughts . 
He looked over his shoulder , he gazed upon the opposite side of the well . 
muttered Adrian , as his heart rose to his very throat ; `` it is , it is the light of day ! '' 
Grasping the stones below , Adrian descended another yard , when a ray of light shone on his face from a crevice in the wall of the well to which he hung , trembling with a new joy , quivering in every nerve with a new life . 
He thrust his right hand into the hollow of the crevice , and as a large flat stone fell echoing before him , a blaze of light streamed through the wide aperture into the darkness of the abyss . 
exclaimed Adrian ' `` 't is narrow as the grave , narrow as a coffin , yet twenty yards beyond I see the light of day ! 
Prostrate along the floor of the narrow passage , which the falling of the stone had disclosed , he turned his body , and , thrusting his face into the gloom of the well , once more gazed far , far above . 
`` Murderer that he is , I will not desert him ! '' 
No sooner did the words pass his lips , than a shriek of intense horror , came yelling down the abyss , a mass of red fire crowned the summit of the well , and hot cinders , and burning coals swept through the darkness of the void , hissing by the very face of Adrian , and marking their flight with long lines of streaming flame . 
Adrian withdrew his head from the well and listened . 
The air was cloven by the rushing of a falling body , and thundering down the well , with arms outspread , with his face all crushed and blackened , stamped with a look of agony that might never be forgotten , Balvardo was for a moment disclosed by the light shining through the aperture , before the very eye of Adrian , and then there was a whirling noise , followed by a heaving rebound , and then all was still . 
The soul of Balvardo , the Sworder , stood beside the soul of his master in the judgment halls of the Unknown . 
shouted Adrian , maddened by the sight of that ghastly face ; `` away from this earth-hidden hell ! 
Creeping on hands and knees , he sped along the subterranean passage , the light growing brighter at every step , and at last the twenty paces were left behind , he crawled from the rock , he stood in the open air . 
His voice failed him , he gazed around . 
Far , far above him , ascended the whitened steep on which the Convent was reared , far , far above him , he beheld the blue sky , tinted with the glow of the dying day , he beheld the platform rock and the frowning tower , wrapt in clouds of lurid smoke , while tongues of forked flame , swept up to the very azure , turning the glow of the setting sun to bloody red . 
He stood on the side of a ravine , with the deep darkness of the wild abyss sinking far below him , while the rugged ascent of rocks on the opposite side rose towering before his eye , veiling the mountain lake from his sight , and giving a faint glimpse of the eastern sky . 
With a wild glance , Adrian beheld the smoke and flame , the Convent and the blue sky above , the glimpe of the eastern horizon , the rocks ascending on the opposite of the ravine , and the blackness of the abyss below , and then his soul was riveted to a spectable of horror extended at his very feet . 
There before his very eyes , a mangled carcase , was thrown along the surface of a rugged rock , the trunk , the limbs , the arms , the garments and draperies of gold , all mingled in one foul mass of corruption , while the face was buried amid a cluster of stunted shrubs of laurel . 
Adrian reached forth his hand , he raised the face , he beheld the blue tint of corruption , the eyes lolling from their sockets , the blackened tongue hanging from the mouth ! 
-- `` The Duke , '' he shrieked , `` the Duke of Florence ! '' 
He turned from the sight with intolerable disgust , and as he turned , he beheld appearing from amid the shrubs , on the other side of the small platform of sand on which he stood , a bared arm flung along the earth grasping a keen and slender-bladed dagger , with a grasp that death and corruption could not unclose . 
Adrian sprang forward , he unwound the dagger from the grasp of the hand , he beheld a parchment scroll secured around the haft of the glittering steel . 
He tore the scroll from the dagger , he flung it open to the light , and beheld these words written in a fair unwavering hand -- `` Brothers of the Invisible ! 
Then mingling a potion , which would minister sleep , -- not death , -- I gave it to Lord Adrian -- even now his bride gathers his slumbering form to her embrace in the vaults of the Convent -- even now the assassin waits to bear the body to the grave . 
I go to finish -- '' The scroll broke off abruptly , yet there was sufficient written to fill the heart of Adrian with an emotion of joy , he had never felt before . 
He sprang among the bushes , he dashed the laurel leaves , he turned the blackening face of the mangled corse to the light . 
He clasped his hands on high in silent prayer , while thick burning tears fell streaming over the face of Albertine the Monk . 
There swept the knightly host along the green meadow , their spears gleaming on high , there darkened the smoke and lightened the blaze of the burning convent , there the calm lake extending rippleless along its mountain-shores , gave its silent bosom to the crimson glare of the flame , and there standing erect upon the brow of the grey rock , his slender form boldly and clearly relieved by the background of the convent walls , the light of the flame , the beams of the setting sun ; Adrian Di Albarone , crazed by famine , and maddened with new-risen joy , shook wildly aloft the Goblet of Gold , while his maniac laugh broke echoing on the evening air . 
There are light voices filling the air , there are soft steps tripping thro ' the lordly halls , there are costly draperies sweeping over marble floors , there are strains of music awaking the echoes of ancient domes , there are processions thronging the streets in all the pomp of crucifix and banner , gallant knights ride to and fro , shaking the glitter of their snowy plumes aloft , the poor creep from their dens of want , the mighty pour from their homes of pride , the sordid miser forgets his money bags , the merchant his wares of cost , the scholar his musty book , the bravo his knife , the children of misery their care , and all , aye all , come thronging to the high Cathedral of Florence , where the solemn priest wili , ere an hour , amid the glad shouts of thousands , anoint Adrian Di Albarone , Lord Duke of Florence , and crown his fair bride , the Ladye Annabel , with the coronet for which Aldarin gave his soul . 
`` Did not that rough soldier of the Count Di Albarone that was , the Duke of Florence that is now , did not Rough Robin knight Sir Francisco with his own hands ? 
Standing upon the throne of gold , attired in the purple robes of a prince , Adrian Di Albarone , glanced with a brightening eye , and a swelling heart , upon the gorgeous scene around him , and then his glance was fixed upon the fair and lovely maiden by his side , whose eyes of dreamy beauty were downward cast , while a soft flush deepened the hue of her cheek , as she seemed to shrink from the gaze of the vast multitude , extending over the pavement , and along the aisles of the cathedral . 
Adrian cast his eyes upon the throng around the throne , and there stood bold Robin , the stout Yeoman , attired in a garish appareling , which he seemed to like not half so well as his plain suit of buff , defended by armour plates of steel ; and there his locks of grey , falling on his knightly surcoat , emblazoned on the breast with the red cross of the crusaders , stood the brave Sir Geoffrey O ' Th ' Longsword , pale and worn with the traces of his late wound , attended on either side by the gallant esquires Damian and Halbert , each with a grim smile on his scarred face , as they grimly surveyed the pomp and show glittering along the cathedral aisles . 
And every sound was hushed , as the venerable man of heaven raised the golden coronet , set with rarest jewels , and the sceptre of ivory from the altar of the cathedral , and ascending the steps of the throne he was received by Adrian Di Albarone with lowered head , and bended knee . 
And then the heralds , standing one on either side of the throne , gave a blast loud and long to the air , and proclaiming the lineage , the title , and the birth of Lord Adrian Count Di Albarone , they flung , each man , his glove upon the marble floor , challenging all the world to say aught against the right of descent claimed by the duke elect . 
`` Lord Adrian Count Di Albarone , '' thus spoke the abbot ; `` in the name of God , in the name of Christ and St. Peter , and by the rule of the Holy Vicar of Christ upon earth , I proclaim thee Sover eign Lord of Florence , the city and the field , the mountain and the stream ! 
Adrian , Lord Duke of Florence ! '' 
Adrian arose upon his feet , and lifted the gorgeous coronet from his brow . 
He took the fair lady Annabel by the hand , and as the blushes grew deeper on her cheek , he impressed upon her brow a kiss that told at once of the love of the youth for his mistress , and the admiration of the knight for his fair ladye . 
He extended his hand , and in an instant the coronet rested upon the brow of the lovely bride . 
`` My own fair bride , '' Adrian whispered , `` the night has passed , and our morning cometh . '' 
While her heart yet throbbed with indefinable emotion , Adrian led his gentle bride to the ducal chair , and side by side , they awaited the homage of the noble throng of lords and ladies , knights and damozels . 
`` Rise , brave knight , '' exclaimed Adrian ; `` rise brave Sir Geoffry O ' Th ' Longsword ; rise lord keeper of our castle Di Albarone . 
`` Arise , bold Robin , '' said Adrian , unsheathing the sword that hung at his side -- `` Arise -- no longer Robin the stout yeoman , but Sir Roberto Di Capello , Lord of the Lands of Capello ! '' 
With a smile the Duke granted his characteristic request , and as the bold soldier retired , Adrian waved his hand to one who stood in the throng around the throne . 
And there stood Adrian , with his ducal robe of purple thrown back from his shoulders , his right hand pressing his sword hilt to his lip , his left arm raised to the heavens , while his eyes flashed with all the enthusiasm of his soul . 
`` It is past , the dark and fearful night , '' again repeated Adrian , as he gazed over this scene of wild enthusiasm ; `` Lo ! 
As he spoke the cathedral was suddenly darkened , a thick mist filled the Church , and one man could scarce distinguish the form of another by his side . 
Adrian shouted , drawing his sword ; `` Hist ! 
The hurried words of the scroll , written in the blood of the doomed man , the fearful request , the dark hints at the re-vivification of his mortal body , by the action of the water of life , all to be accomplished by the devotion of his daughter -- flashed over her brain at the moment , when the gloom of the presence of the dead , darkened the joy of the living , and the Ladye turned to Adrian , and murmured with a whisper of hollow emphasis -- `` The corse , Adrian , the corse of my father -- where doth it rest ? '' 
