Still , as she was a virtuous and intelligent woman , and as all her affections were centered in her Edward , for that was her son 's name , she took great care to implant early in his mind , the seeds of sound morality , and to imbue him with a strong sense of the beauty and glory of an honourable life . 
Edward Meredith was one of the first pupils placed under the care of Mr. Balantyne , when that gentleman opened his Academy . 
Sprightly , gay , and in vigorous health , in love with all the world , and all the world in love with him , no happier being could then exist on this perishable globe , than the light-hearted Edward . 
Life to him opened , indeed , with a sweetly vernal dawn . 
Wherever he went , all was smiles and sunshine . 
The flowers of existence alone caught his attention , as if nothing else was springing up around him -- or if a weed or a thorn chanced to obtrude itself in his way , he passed it with heedless indifference , and soon forgot that it had disturbed him . 
Thus passed the gay morning of his life , calm and unclouded . 
But in his sixteenth year , an incident occurred which threatened greatly to agitate the scene , and gave to his bosom the first serious feeling of perplexity and alarm . 
He had passed the afternoon in his favourite recreation , that of fowling in the woods , and was returning home with about twenty wild pigeons , as the trophies of his success , when , late in the evening , in the vicinity of his mother 's residence , he overheard some voices in a thick wood through which he was passing . 
He approached them cautiously , and heard the following alarming dialogue . 
The speakers departed , and in doing so , afforded Edward a view of their persons , which , however , did not enable him to distinguish them , as they were both carefully muffled in large cloaks . 
The apprehension of some mischief being plotted against his mother , was naturally excited in his mind . 
I had scarcely explained to her the impulse under which I had acted , when my confusion was increased by a message from the young stranger , who called himself , Edward Meredith , requesting permission to wait upon me , which my aunt readily granted . 
He entered , apologised for the freedom he had taken ; but said he , addressing me -- ` `` Thy goodness of heart , which was so powerful as to overcome thy evident reluctance to appear in a crowd , struck me as something so rare and admirable , in a young lady of thy rank , that I could not resist my desire to express to thee how much I respect thee for it . 
I wished exceedingly to apprize Edward of his danger , and to urge him to fly from the country , or at least avoid meeting with the incensed baronet . 
But with Edward , I had no means of communicating . 
Since leaving Bath , I had neither seen him , nor heard of him , and delicacy forbade me to attempt inquiring after him . 
` Thy loving friend , E. Meredith . ' 
It was from Edward . 
``` I know the extremity to which thou art reduced , ' said he , ` and the evils that threaten thee . 
A few minutes more placed me in a carriage beside my Edward . 
Elias having given the necessary directions to the servants whom Edward undertook to keep to their duty during the night , returned to his own house , in order to make preparations for to-morrow 's journey . 
`` You must first declare your name and intentions , '' said Edward : `` I am mistaken , if I did not hear your voice in a conversation of no very safe import yesterday evening in the woods . '' 
Edward hastened with the message to his mother . 
Edward accordingly introduced Francis . 
Mrs. Meredith yielded to these reasons , and that evening the young and delighted Edward , for the first time in his life , found himself in the beautful and flourishing metropolis of his native country . 
Edward was now upon the borders of seventeen , with a heart joyous , generous , open , and susceptible to every impression of novelty , and every impulse of sympathy and delight . 
He soon formed a large circle of acquaintances among the respectable young men of the city , with whom his manners became at once assimilated . 
His mother was delighted with the daily improvement he exhibited in manly appearance , in polish of manners , expansion of intellect , and knowledge of the ways of man . 
Such reasoning made but little impression on the judgment , and still less on the feelings of Edward . 
The degradation of tamely submitting to injustice , he considered intolerable to any generous spirit . 
`` And what , '' he would ask , `` could be more pusillanimous or contemptible than for a whole people to submit quietly to be despoiled of the fruits of their industry , at the will and pleasure of dictatorial and hectoring foreigners ? 
This difference of political sentiment , however , although freely avowed on the part of Edward , occasioned no personal variance between him and his uncle . 
Edward had not escaped the ardour ; but a due deference to the feelings not only of his uncle , but his mother , -LRB- for against her views and wishes , he had also to contend , -RRB- prevented him , for some time , from arraying himself openly as a soldier beneath the standard of that cause to which he had given his affections . 
The whiggism of Edward had also to contend with the reasonings and remonstrances of another individual , for the extent of whose knowledge and the soundness of whose judgment , he had long cherished an habitual respect , this was his excellent preceptor , Adam Balantyne . 
It will not be supposed that , when the dark hour of his country 's trials approached , a young man of the feelings and principles of Edward Meredith , would remain long content with favouring her only with his good wishes . 
The first occasion on which he made any active movement in her behalf , was when the ship Polly arrived in the Delaware , with a cargo of the well-known obnoxiously taxed tea . 
He happened to be on a visit to Philadelphia when this event was announced , and a town meeting , at which upwards of eight thousand people were assembled , was held in the State-house yard , to deliberate on the measures that should be adopted to prevent the tea from being landed . 
Meredith joined them . 
While on board of this ship , Meredith fell into conversation with a young man of good address and pleasing appearance , who had come in her , as a passenger from England . 
Although from previous information , Meredith had no reason to be prepossessed in favour of this young man , yet the natural generosity of his disposition , and a feeling of real satisfaction at meeting , for the first time , with a relative of his mother , now afar from his own home , induced him to give him a sincere and hearty welcome , and to invite him to the hospitality of his mother 's board . 
The invitation was accepted ; and , Meredith , instead of returning to the city with the `` Liberty Boys , '' proceeded with his cousin to his own residence . 
As for Edward , his feelings towards his new-found relative were of the most cordial description . 
He looked upon him with respect as well as affection , not only because he was unfortunate , but because he was a few years older , and had seen much more of the world , than himself . 
He listened with delight to the accounts which Harris frequently gave him , of the polish and splendour of English society and manners in the higher ranks . 
But on this subject , the sentiments of Meredith and Harris were at variance . 
Harris was a staunch adherent to the interests of Britain , while Meredith zealously advocated the American cause . 
The cousins did not , however , in their discussions on the subject , indulge in any acrimonious feelings , for each had liberality enough to respect the partiality of the other for the land of his birth . 
But Meredith was frequently subjected to much pain in being obliged to withdraw from the debate in deference to his mother and his uncle , who both favoured the side that Harris had espoused . 
Meredith 's nearest connexions and most venerated friends were thus in political sentiment arrayed against him . 
Yet he adhered fast to the faith he had espoused , and had it not been for the remonstrances of his mother , his zeal would have driven him at once into the ranks of the brave men who were now in arms for the rights and liberties of his country . 
But Meredith was not without friends -- numerous friends -- whose opinions countenanced and encouraged his patriotism . 
The vicinity in which he resided abounded with active and ardent whigs , sufficient not merely to outnumber the tories , but to direct and regulate all the public measures of the district . 
But the time , at length , arrived , when the spirit of Meredith could no longer resist the call of his country . 
The battle of Bunker 's Hill , fortunate and glorious for the arms of America , awakened in the minds of her youth a military ardour which drove them in thousands to her standard . 
This was greatly increased by the appointment of Washington to the command of her armies . 
Animated with the martial feelings which had thus become so prevalent among the patriots of the day , Meredith felt desirous of proceeding at once to the head quarters of Washington and offering his services . 
His mother 's entreaties and his uncle 's remonstrances , however , had , as yet , influence sufficient to prevent this . 
But he could not be altogether an idle spectator of his country 's struggle . 
This afforded an opportunity for Meredith to become active . 
He raised a band of partizan volunteers , self-clothed and self-armed in defence of the district . 
To this , his friends made but little opposition , in the hopes that such indulgence might satisfy his wishes , and prevent him from leaving home to join the regular army . 
Meredith and Harris now became avowed enemies . 
Meredith had become attached to a young lady of Philadelphia , the niece and heiress of an elderly , infirm gentleman , named Lewis . 
He had first met with her at the Yellow-Springs , where she attended her uncle , who was making trial of the waters for his health . 
Meredith had some errand in the vicinity of the Springs . 
He rode slowly on a narrow path , through a thick wood , which led , by a shorter course , than the main road , to the place he wished to visit . 
He was within a quarter of a mile of the Springs , in a lonely dell , hidden by tall and dark trees , where all was silent and solitary , when he heard a female voice scream for help . 
It proceeded from the close woods on his left , which he could not penetrate on horseback . 
He dismounted , and dashing through the brush-wood , in a moment burst into a small glade , when he saw a stout fierce-looking man in the act of robbing an elderly gentlemen , while a young lady , on her knees , was imploring the ruffian for mercy . 
The approach of Meredith was , however , more effectual than her entreaties , for on the instant of his appearance , the robber fled , having made booty of only a small purse containing a few guineas , which the lady in her fright had presented to him in the hope of preventing further violence . 
exclaimed Meredith . 
He was about to pursue the ruffian ; but the tones of the sweetest voice he had ever heard , arrested his attention . 
were the words that thrilled to his heart , and stopped his pursuit of Fitzpatrick . 
He hastened to the gentleman . 
He found him lying on the ground with his countenance discoloured , his eyes swollen , and his whole frame making a convulsive effort for the recovery of breath . 
The lady had unbound his cravat , and from her , Meredith learned that the robber , in making his attack , had seized the old man by the throat and nearly strangled him . 
Meredith raised the sufferer in his arms , and he soon recovered sufficiently to permit being conveyed to his lodging at the Springs . 
This incident produced a commotion in the feelings of Meredith which he never before experienced . 
I shall not sentimentalize upon the state of Meredith 's feelings at this time , however tempting the opportunity may be to the writer of a history like this , which professes to detail the impulses , as well as the actions of the characters that form its subject . 
During the ensuing three weeks , at the termination of which , Mr. Lewis recovered sufficiently to be able to return to Philadelphia , Meredith found , or fancied he had found , business sufficient to require his continuance at the Springs . 
But when the sound of his Harriet 's parting words , had died upon his ears , he discovered that the Springs were intolerably dull , and that he had no longer any business to detain him there . 
He soon , however , made a pretence for visiting the city ; and , as Harris proposed to accompany him , for the transaction of some affairs arising from letters he had just received from England , he could not with propriety refuse his society . 
They were on horseback , and riding on a tolerably good road , in a gay conversable humour , when the subject of gallantry to the ladies happening to be introduced , Harris abruptly , as if suddenly recollecting some forgotten piece of intelligence , observed , `` By the bye , Edward , you had a most enviable adventure lately at the Yellow Springs : and quite a romantic business too , I understand . '' 
asked Edward in some confusion . 
`` How you received your information , '' said Edward , `` I know not . 
`` Sir , '' replied Edward , impatiently , `` since your mirth has driven you into the scoffing vein , I have no objection to be personally your butt . 
But if my cousin , Edward Meredith , can not tolerate from me , a little familiar levity , where on all this wide continent of sulky and touchy humours , may I venture to indulge a jest ? '' 
Meredith 's reply was prevented by the sudden appearance of a man wrapped in a large cloak so as to conceal both his person and his face , who hastily placed in his hand a small packet , and without speaking , hurried back into the woods from which he had issued . 
Meredith opened the packet , and perceiving the signature to a few roughly written lines , he exclaimed , `` It is the outlaw , Fitzpatrick ! 
He was starting in pursuit , when Harris caught the rein of his bridle , and checked his movements . 
`` Meredith , '' said he , `` be not so rash . 
`` You are right , Harris , '' said Meredith ; `` there is a band of tories there . 
exclaimed Meredith , `` we only contend for our rights . 
`` My dear Meredith , '' said Harris , `` you are an enthusiast . 
`` I have little inclination for argument on any subject at present , '' replied Meredith . 
With the anxious eye of a devoted lover , Meredith beheld the sudden rise of this intimacy between Harriet and Harris ; and the feelings of jealousy became added to the former causes of his dislike of the latter ; and as he could not be deceitful , and affect cordiality which he did not feel , his manners as well as his feelings became cool towards his cousin . 
Harris soon perceived this change in the manners of Meredith , and he had too much discernment not to know the cause . 
He triumphed in it . 
It was exactly what he wished for . 
He had never felt a sincere friendship for Meredith -- perhaps never for any one , for his heart was not made for friendship . 
And for some time past , he had cherished feelings altogether inimical to his cousin . 
And Meredith well knew that he was estranged ; but he did not suppose him hostile . 
The arts of dissimulation possessed and practised by Harris , would have been sufficient to deceive one much more experienced in the world , than the youthful , candid and unsuspicious Meredith . 
Even now , when the latter scarcely concealed his aversion , the former affected not to perceive it , but evinced more than usual cordiality towards one on whom he secretly rejoiced to have the power of inflicting pain . 
With a refined cruelty , and a serpent-like disposition , he attempted to wind himself into a breast where he knew he was unwelcome , that he might add venom to the wounds he had already given . 
In this , however , he did not succeed . 
The single-heartedness of Meredith foiled the arts of his enemy ; for no flattery could extort from him a feigned regard or induce him to place confidence where he felt dislike . 
It deprived Meredith of any pretence for coming to an avowed rupture , an event for which his open temper exceedingly longed . 
Preserving , by this means , access to the object who was writhing under the influence of his torturing subtleties , the tormentor could enjoy the malignant satisfaction of witnessing the effects of his artful inflictions , which , with the capricious power of mysterious agency , he could modify , diminish , or increase according to his pleasure or the policy of the occasion . 
The true causes of Harris 's hostility towards Meredith had a foundation much deeper than their political variance , and older than his introduction to Harriet Lewis . 
She had , from her childhood , been a favourite with Edward Meredith . 
He was about four years her senior . 
His attendance at her father 's seminary afforded him daily opportunities of observing her dawning beauties , and , at the same time , of becoming acquainted with the excellent qualities of her mind , to the cultivation of which her father had been anxiously attentive . 
Often and often as Meredith beheld her budding graces opening into womanhood , and breathing around her the vernal sweets of youth , beauty , and purity , would feelings warmer than the fraternal ones he had been long accustomed to cherish towards her , intrude into his bosom ; but he was obliged to check such dangerous emotions . 
He dared not think of a closer connexion with her than that of an endearing and disinterested friendship . 
For his mother , whose sway over his mind was then supreme , amiable and intelligent as she was , had aristocratical feelings on the subject of matrimony , and had formed expectations of seeing her son united to one of the highest females , for rank and fortune , in the land . 
She had early observed Edward 's partiality for the lovely flower that was budding in the bowers of Dilworth ; and fair and sweet as she confessed that flower to be , she deemed it too humble and lowly to match with the splendid fortunes which she conceived to be in store for him . 
She , therefore , repeatedly exhorted him to guard against forming any tender connexion with Miss Balantyne . 
She even laid her injunctions on him to that effect , and Edward obeyed them . 
He had long delighted to gaze on the beauties of Miss Balantyne ; but these beauties had been hitherto , perhaps , too infantile , to inspire him with a serious and lasting passion . 
But the welfare of Mary Balantyne was , notwithstanding , dear to his heart . 
Yet , perhaps , his being the father of the interesting Mary , formed , in reality , the chief claim which Balantyne had upon Edward 's regard . 
These were the feelings cherished by Meredith towards Balantyne and his daughter , when Harris became acquainted with them , and owing to congeniality of political opinions , gained the confidence of the loyal North Briton , who looked upon the young Englishman as his countryman . 
The libertine principles of Harris were not unknown to Meredith , who had been often the confidential auditor of his numerous and expensive gallantries in the British metropolis . 
It was with much uneasiness , therefore , that he observed a man of this description insinuating himself into the affection of the innocent and artless Mary . 
Harris , not aware of the deep interest which Edward took in the welfare of this young woman , one evening , as they rambled along the banks of the Brandywine , confessed , in his loose , affable , and confidential way , that he was greatly enamoured of Miss Balantyne , that he had declared to her his passion , and had reason to believe that it was fully returned . 
said Edward , jocularly . 
Meredith was thrown into seriousness by this reply . 
He remained silent for some moments . 
He then said with firmness : `` Mr. Harris , you have made an insinuation to which I can not listen with complaisance nor reply with levity . 
But , master Edward , whenever I am so fortunate as to win the love of a pretty girl , hang me , if I shall ask your permission to enjoy the blessing ! '' 
said Meredith ; `` I will cut this altercation short , by declaring solemnly , that if you attempt , in any manner , by either word or deed , to injure the spotless fame of Mary Balantyne , I shall hunt you over the face of the earth , until I inflict upon you the vengeance that justice shall require ! '' 
`` And does Edward Meredith suppose that Charles Harris shall not be easily found , when he is wanted for the purpose of combat ? 
But in whose quarrel does the mettlesome Edward wish now to embark ? 
But master Edward , your vehemence awakes a strong suspicion that you are somewhat of a rival to me in the affections of this girl . 
`` I am not the lover of Miss Balantyne in the sense you suppose , '' returned Meredith . 
So saying , Meredith turned abruptly into a different path , on which he observed some people advancing , and left the astonished and irritated Harris cursing equally his own imprudent communication , and his cousin 's impetuosity . 
From this time Meredith and Harris placed no confidence in each other . 
The meeting of Meredith with Miss Lewis , and the occurrences related in the last chapter took place , shortly after this estrangement , and will account for the high and fretful tone of their conversation on their way to Philadelphia . 
The assiduity of Harris 's attentions to Miss Lewis , was at first greatly induced by his desire of inflicting pain on Meredith ; and his success in this matter afforded him , as we have seen , no small triumph . 
The gay and light-hearted beauty for whom Meredith sighed , also observed his uneasiness , for what woman was ever blind to the workings of jealousy in the mind of her lover ? 
Her heart really preferred Meredith to any other suitor , and she did not wish to sport with his feelings so far as either to alienate them from herself , or impel him to a serious and hazardous hostility with Harris . 
When Edward , therefore , driven almost to desperation by her indulgence of the familiarities of his cousin , resolved , even at the risk of incurring her displeasure , to declare to her his feelings on the subject , and require from her an explanation of her conduct , that he might know whether or not , he yet possessed any place in her regards , she afforded him entire satisfaction on the subject . 
`` But cousins , '' he observed , `` may be lovers , and are often dangerous playmates . '' 
`` Edward ! '' 
`` Do not be offended , Miss Lewis , '' said he . 
Meredith caught the beautiful hand thus offered to him , imprinted on it a burning kiss , which sent blushes to the lovely countenance of its owner , and caused her , in some confusion , to snatch it from his grasp . 
`` Come , come , Edward , '' said she , `` you are too violent . 
I am , in every thing , your slave , and must obey you , '' replied Edward , now in the height of good humour and happiness ; and he accompanied her to a brilliant evening party to which they had been engaged . 
He often cast upon Edward a look of malicious triumph . 
But Edward was now proof against its intended effects ; and the officious tormentor was astonished and mortified to observe , that instead of the scowl of vexation and anger , which his exulting glances were accustomed to extort from the writhing object of his malice , they were now only answered with haughty contempt or provoking indifference . 
On this evening , therefore , the triumph was on the part of Edward ; and Harris , with all his dexterity at dissimulation , could not avoid betraying symptoms of discomfiture and chagrin which did not escape the observation of Miss Lewis ; and it afforded her no small satisfaction , especially as she saw that it was also perceived by Edward . 
The next day Edward returned home , but Harris remained in Philadelphia . 
He soon discovered that her heart was , in reality , Edward 's , and he was now tormented with those pangs of jealousy , with which he had so maliciously attempted to afflict his rival . 
When he made his addresses seriously to Miss Lewis , she became at once reserved in her conduct towards him ; and , as a lover , she no longer admitted him to those familiarities in which , as a relative , she had indulged him . 
Meredith was likely to be long and far separated from her ; for he was informed that his military propensities had , in despite of the remonstrances of his mother and uncle , induced him to accept a captain 's commission in the Pennsylvania line , and that he was preparing to join the army under Washington . 
This separation might be followed by a diminution of her affection for his rival and her aversion for himself , which , by waiting for a proper occasion , he might turn to his advantage . 
He resolved , therefore , for the present , to abstain from pressing his suit , lest , by an ill-timed urgency , he should irritate her into an irreconcileable aversion towards him . 
It was on the evening of the twenty-third of December , 1776 , that Edward Meredith received a summons from Washington , to attend him at his quarters without delay . 
Edward obeyed , and , in a few minutes , was in the presence of his illustrious commander . 
`` Captain Meredith , '' said the chief , `` I am aware of your zeal for the great cause in which we are embarked , and my estimation of your prudence and courage will be amply proved by the proposal I am about to make . 
`` Perfectly willing , '' replied Meredith , elated with the idea that Washington had thought him worthy of being selected for such a purpose . 
`` I am proud of this mark of the confidence of your Excellency , '' replied Meredith , `` and your will shall be obeyed . '' 
Meredith disguised himself as an elderly farmer of the Quaker persuasion , a character which he could without difficulty sustain , and which , he conceived , would subject him much less to interrogation , than that of a deserter . 
Meredith , however , was as nimble as he , and feared not to be overtaken . 
But he soon came unexpectedly to the edge of a high precipice that beetled over the river , and over which he had no alternative but to leap or await his pursuer . 
He preferred the latter , having but little fear of facing one individual , since he was secretly armed with a pistol and a small dagger . 
His pursuer he knew to be Harris . 
He had a reluctance to take his life ; but it was necessary for his own safety , as well as for the success of his enterprise , that he should disable him . 
He threw himself down behind the trunk of a large fallen tree , that was convenient . 
At the same moment he discharged his pistol , but its contents were arrested by the tree behind which Meredith had taken shelter . 
The enemy had broken and victory had declared for the American cause , when it fell to the lot of Meredith at the head of his troop to pursue some retreating British cavalry . 
An officer whom Meredith had kept particularly in view as one worthy of capture , at the bottom of a hill , darted suddenly into the woods by an obscure path on the left . 
Meredith followed singly , calling on the fugitive to surrender . 
But the latter continued his flight , until his horse stumbled and threw him . 
The Briton , now on foot , discharged a pistol at Meredith , whose horse received its contents in his head and instantly fell . 
`` But , Sir Robert , you are responsible for your own , '' observed Meredith , `` and I now demand satisfaction for my mother 's wrongs ? '' 
`` Let Sir Robert surrender as a prisoner of war , '' cried Meredith , `` and I shall sheathe my sword . '' 
Meredith 's good-nature , added to the necessity which he now saw he was under of yielding , prevailed , and he cordially took the hand which was extended to him , after which he exchanged a short salutation with his kinsman , and departed . 
His horse having been killed , he was obliged to retrace his way to the main road on foot . 
He had scarcely gained it , when he was overtaken by Francis . 
`` I shall accept your surrender on those terms , '' replied Meredith , `` but with the warning , that if you should , in any manner , attempt to injure our cause by communicating any information relative to us to the enemy , I will not promise you safety . 
`` I guarantee to you perfect freedom from any such compulsion , '' said Meredith . 
`` But Francis , '' observed Edward , `` let me ask how a man of your peaceful habits , came to leave his home , -- for I believe you wrote once to my mother that you were about domesticating in New York , -- to follow the rude and tumultuous trade of a soldier in active service ? '' 
`` You saved him from feeling the hardness of mine , I believe , '' said Edward ; `` but of that , enough . 
Edward and Francis were soon in the presence of Washington . 
`` No ; '' replied Meredith , `` this is a personal friend , who being tired of war , has voluntarily surrendered himself to me , on condition that I should obtain for him permission to live at peace amongst us , as a neutral . 
`` I pledge myself for the sincerity of this man , '' replied Meredith . 
Edward Meredith was , at this time , extremely active at the head of his troop , in harassing the foraging and marauding parties of the British and tories , and in protecting the persons and properties of the whigs from their attacks . 
For this service , he was peculiarly well qualified by his knowledge of the country , which was now the seat of war , as well as by his zeal to defend his immediate friends and neighbours from the spoliations and personal outrages daily inflicted on them by victorious and insolent foes , who denounced them , and often treated them , as rebels unworthy of mercy . 
He had heard of Harris occupying the house of Balantyne , and he was making preparations to dislodge him from it , when he was informed that he had suddenly abandoned it . 
He was , however , determined to make some effort to capture Harris . 
Meredith was at this time attached to the division of the army commanded by General Wayne , who belonged to the same neighbourhood , and was equally solicitous to protect its patriotic inhabitants from the evils of the disastrous war which now surrounded them . 
It was on the evening of the twentieth of September , while Edward was consulting with the General on the propriety of penetrating with a chosen band , through the most private paths of the country , in order to come unawares upon the depredators , he received information that his own house had been plundered and destroyed by the troops of Harris . 
`` I thank Heaven , '' said Meredith , `` that my mother is at a safe distance from the barbarians . 
Edward paused . 
Captain Meredith , to your post on the left . 
said Meredith , and he hastened to the post assigned him . 
Edward Meredith 's post , which was on the extreme left of that memorable field , had been gallantly defended against a powerful attack of the enemy 's cavalry , who , but for this resistance , would have surrounded the main body of the Americans , and prevented the retreat which Wayne fortunately effected with the survivers of the conflict . 
But Edward 's bravery on this occasion cost him dear . 
He was wounded and taken prisoner ; and what added greatly to his mortification , his captor was his arch-enemy , Harris . 
`` I am in your power only as a captive , '' replied Edward ; `` and I demand the protection due to a prisoner of war . '' 
Fitch , who was no other than the noted Fitzpatrick mentioned already in this history , assisted by several other men , immediately dragged Edward to an adjoining obscure hollow in the midst of the woods , where having examined his wound , which was in his right shoulder , and found not to be dangerous , they placed him on horseback , and travelled with him all night , by unfrequented paths , until they came to the foot of a high and rocky precipice , at the bottom of which flowed a rapid running stream . 
`` You speak imperatively , Major Fitch , '' replied Edward . 
He then ascended the hill by a narrow path near the rock . 
Edward ascended also , and was followed by five or six of his escort . 
`` With so polite an invitation , it would be uncivil to refuse compliance , '' replied Meredith , and he bowed ironically to his sarcastic conductor , as he entered his rude prison . 
`` Faith , Meredith , '' observed Fitch , as he followed him , `` you are a pleasant fellow , with a stout heart , and I bear you , in truth , no great degree of ill-will , except for being a vile rebel like many other hot-headed fools of our acquaintance . 
said Meredith . 
Meredith seated himself on one of the logs in silence . 
He believed it to be a waste of words , and a derogation of dignity , to pursue the conversation further in relation to himself , with a man he so thoroughly despised . 
Meredith now leisurely surveyed the extent of his rocky prison . 
It was near mid-day , and the light of the sun penetrated the gloomy recess sufficiently to make the objects around him perceptible , especially as his eyes were becoming familiarized to the darkness of the place . 
With the exception of a quantity of fire-arms and other instruments of war , and some blankets on which Fitch and his drowsy companions were stretched , the furniture was merely such as is usually found in a rustic and slovenly kept kitchen . 
Meredith conceiving that this cavern was one of the grand depots of tory plunder , had expected to find himself surrounded by much of the valuable property of which the neighbouring whigs had , of late , been so abundantly robbed . 
It is true , he did not see far into the cavern . 
His eye could not penetrate its dark and winding recesses . 
He could not tell the extent of its capacity . 
It might have even other communications with the open air than that by which he had entered . 
He was acquainted with several caverns which were merely elongated passages under ground with an entrance at each extremity . 
These reflections suggested to Edward the possibility of effecting his own escape by such means . 
He cast his eye wistfully towards the dark interior . 
His arms alone were bound . 
He could , at least , satisfy his curiosity respecting the extent of his prison , and ascertain whether it contained any thing more remarkable than he had yet discovered . 
He moved cautiously past Fitch and his sleeping companions , and had advanced to an angle of the subterraneous passage , when he heard the sound of voices conversing with the sentinel at the entrance . 
He hastened back to his rude couch , and had soon the mortification to perceive Harris , with five or six soldiers , approaching towards him . 
`` So , Captain Fitch , your prisoner is yet safe , I perceive , '' said Harris , casting a look of scowling hatred at Meredith . 
`` I have no objection , '' said Fitch , `` for I respect young Meredith there as much as e'er a rebel among them , and did not quite like your intentions this morning . '' 
Harris was speedily obeyed , and Edward was left alone , bound and unarmed , in the presence of his most inveterate foe . 
`` Meredith , '' said the latter , with a look of ferocity intended to produce intimidation , `` thank fate , you are now in my power . 
Edward read the paper as follows : `` You were once the object of my fond attachment . 
exclaimed Meredith , tearing the paper into fragments . 
cried Harris , as he presented one of the pistols at Edward 's breast , adding , `` Mutter a short prayer , for you are on the verge of eternity ! '' 
So saying , the apparition again mingled with the darkness of the cavern , and left Edward Meredith equally astonished , although not equally terrified , with the guilty object of its visit . 
At length he convulsively rushed towards Meredith , and hastily loosening the fastenings that bound his arms , without uttering a word , he hurried frantically out of the cavern . 
The fresh air and the presence of his soldiers soon restored his self-possession . 
He ordered the sentinel to leave the cavern and permit Meredith to escape , informing Fitch that he would satisfactorily account to General Gray for so doing . 
The amazement of Edward Meredith at this miraculous interposition , by which he was snatched from the jaws of death , may be easily imagined . 
To account for it was beyond his power . 
That the being who so providentially interfered in his behalf , was from the land of spirits , he could scarcely doubt , for it exhibited the express form , features , and voice -- and in a corpse-like condition , -- of one whose likeness he could never forget , and of whose death several months before , he had been well assured . 
Yet his reason had been so long accustomed to reject the belief that spiritual beings ever assume material and visible forms , that he knew not how to reconcile what he had witnessed with his preconceived convictions on the subject . 
His philosophy and his experience being thus at issue , it is no wonder that , as often as he thought upon the strange occurrence , he became perplexed , and was tempted to abandon the most apparently conclusive deductions of philosophy as being opposed to the evidence of his senses . 
It was not , however , at the moment of his deliverance , that he permitted his mind to revolve on these intricate points . 
He hastened to the mouth of the cavern ; and , as soon as the troops of Harris had disappeared , he descended the hill , and in about twenty minutes , found himself under the hospitable roof of a trusty friend attached to the patriotic cause . 
At length he , apparently by accident , alluded to the circumstance , inquiring whether the lady 's name was not Meredith , and whether she was a resident of the city ? 
He received a suitable answer to the first question ; but was informed that she had left town the day before , accompanied by several of her friends under protection of a passport from General Howe , for the residence of her brother-in-law , her own having been lately destroyed by her kinsman , Captain Harris , while he lay with his troop in the neighbourhood of the Brandywine . 
These were the capturing of Edward Meredith , and the severe wounding of Sir Robert Radnor . 
This was Edward Meredith , and the officer he had wounded was Sir Robert Radnor . 
Edward was but very slightly wounded , although his horse was killed under him before he surrendered . 
His preservation was owing to the magnanimity of the British General Gray , who had observed his bravery when assailed by superior numbers , and gave orders that he should , if possible , be taken uninjured . 
Mounted on a strong charger , he rushed between Meredith and his assailants , commanding the latter to withdraw , at the same time throwing his own sword on the ground , he held out his unarmed hand to Edward , who struck with the singular generosity of the action , and seeing himself on all sides surrounded by enemies , presented his sword and surrendered . 
This noble youth , to whose humanity Meredith was thus so much indebted , became afterwards well-known to history as the victim of an unhappy destiny , which will long continue to excite the sympathy of mankind -- it was Major Andre . 
Edward was for some days confined with the other prisoners of war , in the Walnut street jail . 
But having several very warm friends among the tory faction in the city , powerful intercession was made to procure his enlargement on parole , which was granted within certain prescribed limits of the city . 
This indulgence rendered Edward happy ; for it enabled him to enjoy the society of her , who was daily the first and the last in his thoughts -- and to be with whom he could have cheerfully sacrificed every earthly consideration , except the performance of his duty to his country . 
But Meredith did not enjoy this indulgence long undisturbed . 
He became , at length , so enraged by the preference which she so decidedly and openly manifested for Edward , that he determined to be revenged upon him , and effect his destruction , either by artifice or violence . 
They then cautioned Edward , on the peril of his life , to remain quiet , and withdrew . 
They had not been gone many minutes , when Edward 's gloomy reflections on his unpleasant situation were interrupted by the sound of footsteps in the apartment above him , at first slow and measured , then rapid and irregular . 
They were accompanied by sighs and sorrowful ejaculations , of which , however , he could not distinguish the purport . 
Instantly a brilliant light streamed down the stairway , and illuminated the cell in which he was confined . 
reached the ears of the astonished Edward , and immediately all was silent . 
Edward had not time to recover from his astonishment sufficiently to form any rational conjecture respecting these mysterious occurrences , when he observed the figure of a man in black and masked in a black visor , descending the stairs . 
He approached with a large clasp-knife opened in his hand , and without speaking , hastened to cut the rope , and set Edward at liberty . 
Edward was about to express gratitude for this unexpected interference in his behalf , but his deliverer motioned to him to preserve silence and fly . 
He obeyed , and in a few minutes , reached his lodgings , where he passed a sleepless night , amazed and bewildered in his reflections on this extraordinary adventure . 
The next morning , he received , through an unknown channel , the following anonymous note . 
With the information contained in this short letter , unsatisfactory as it was in relation to the more mysterious parts of the adventure , Edward was obliged to remain content . 
It satisfied him respecting the author and the intention of the attack upon him ; but its being anonymous rendered it unavailable as evidence against his enemy , in case he should complain of him to his commander . 
But , with the injunction of secrecy contained in the communication , he was resolved to comply . 
He , therefore , could not use any evidence , if he had it . 
To know that no new enemy had arisen against him was satisfactory . 
As for his old one , he could guard against him . 
Besides , he was told not to fear him , for his soul was awed , and his schemes would be frustrated . 
He had , therefore , no dread of any similar conspiracy being formed against him , by the same enemy , at least , for some time . 
In the meanwhile , some fortunate event might occur , which would place him beyond the reach of his foe , and restore him to liberty and the service of his country . 
And was not Edward Meredith happy in his captivity , which was , in fact , but nominal , and which afforded him the society of the woman he loved ? 
Could he be desirous of that liberty , which would banish him from the mistress of his heart ? 
Sometimes , it must be confessed , in the weakness of his nature and the fervour of his love , he was tempted to prefer his present delicious thraldom , and would look forward to the prospect of his enlargement , with reluctance and pain . 
But his mind was imbued with a strong sense of his duty to the cause he had espoused ; and if he was an ardent lover , he was also an ardent patriot , and had heroism sufficient , at any time , when honour and his country called , to sacrifice the blandishments of love at the shrine of duty . 
But the period of his release at length came . 
It was , in consequence , proposed to release Edward Meredith in exchange for him , a proposal to which General Washington readily assented ; and Edward , on taking leave of his beloved Harriet , felt that even liberty was unwelcome , when it separated him from her sweet society . 
He grieved for a space ; but his fortitude soon returned , more heroic feelings took possession of his mind , and with true joy and alacrity he resumed his former station at the head of his favourite troop . 
Sir Robert was soon made acquainted , by means of Harris , with the partiality of his favourite for Meredith . 
It was from Meredith 's hand he had received his almost fatal wound , and the insinuations of Harris had given him an unfavourable impression of his antagonist 's character . 
Meredith paid him frequent visits ; and so earnestly expressed his regret at the accident which had brought them into contact on the field of battle , and had occasioned him to inflict such an injury on a near relation , that Sir Robert , whose pride and resentment were now chastened and mollified by sickness , not only forgave him , but extended to him his favour and regard . 
The countenance was masked , but the person and voice brought Edward Meredith to his recollection . 
said he . 
So saying , he turned his eye in search of some subaltern officer whom he might charge with the custody of Meredith , for he felt assured of his identity , when a voice that sent a cold shuddering through his frame , addressed him : `` Beware ! 
In the mean time , Meredith , having conducted Miss Lewis back to her pavilion , to which her father , who had attended as a spectator of the tournament , now came to take charge of her , was again mingling with the crowd , when he became apprized that he was the object of suspicion to two officers who had over-heard the words of Harris , and who were evidently watching his movements with close and alarming attention . 
Immediately after the American troops repossessed Philadelphia , Edward Meredith , accompanied by his mother , visited their suffering relative , between whom and Mrs. Meredith , a reconciliation , much to their mutual satisfaction , took place . 
-- Edward was now once more in the full enjoyment of the society of his beloved , with the additional advantages of being a free man , and having nothing to fear from the presence of armed foes or a ferocious rival . 
He informed Harriet that he had been encouraged to visit the Meschianza from the facilities afforded to his admission by William Barton , who , having entered the service of Captain Delancey , as a royalist , had been appointed one of the heralds . 
Meredith , you are lost . 
`` I caught the reins of his horse . 
He dismounted , and hastening to General Howe , requested a passport to enable a friend desirous of hastily visiting a sick relation in the country , to pass the pickets on the lines . 
Meredith , with his whole heart , responded the fervent prayer . 
He became conscious of it ; and under the impression of this consciousness , one day towards the latter end of June , he called Edward and Harriet into his presence . 
In consequence of this request , Edward Meredith was soon made happy in the possession of his lovely bride . 
-- How different was his lot from that of his gay , accomplished , but unprincipled rival ! 
