`` Paullus , '' she said , `` and you , my Julia , ye are unconscious how the fleeting hours have slipped away . 
There is no danger , Julia , here in the heart of Rome ; and my stout freedman Thrasea awaits me with his torch . 
`` The Gods , my Julia , '' replied the youth unmoved by her alarm , `` the Gods are never absent from their votaries , so they be innocent and pure of spirit . 
`` But , although I , '' she added , `` counsel you not to heed our Julia 's girlish terrors , I love you not to walk by night so slenderly accompanied . 
I will but tarry to taste one cup of your choice of Chian to my Julia 's health , and then straight homeward . 
Health , Julia , and good dreams -- may all fair things attend thee , until we meet again . '' 
`` Sweet slumbers , Julia , and a happy wakening attend you ! 
And for the moment , fool that he was , he fancied he loved Lucia , and his own pure and innocent and lovely Julia was forgotten ! 
Meantime , had no thought crossed him of his own pure and noble Julia , deserted thus and overlooked for a mere wanton ? 
many times , that day , had his mind reverted to her . 
When first he went to Cataline 's house , he went with the resolution of leaving it at an early hour , so soon as the feast should be over , and seeking her , while there should yet be time to ramble among the flower-beds on the hill of gardens , or perchance , to drive out in his chariot , which he had ordered to be held in readiness , toward the falls of the Anio , or on the proud Emilian way . 
the awful oath which he had sworn in the fierce whirl of passion , registered by the arch-traitor -- the oath involving , not alone , his own temporal and eternal welfare , but that of all whom he loved or cherished ; his own pure , beautiful , inimitable Julia , to whom his heart now reverted with a far deeper and more earnest tenderness , after its brief inconstancy ; as he compared her strong , yet maidenly and gentle love , with the wild and ungovernable passions of the wanton , for whom he had once sacrificed her . 
While he was sitting in his lonely chamber , with his untested meal of ripe figs , and delicate white bread , and milk and honeycomb before him , devouring his own heart in his fiery anguish , and striving with all his energies of intellect to devise some scheme by which he might escape the perils that seemed to hem him round on every side , his faithful freedman entered , bearing a little billet , on which his eye had scarcely fallen before he recognized the shapely characters of Julia 's well-known writing . 
Come , then , and quickly , if you would pleasure your own Julia . '' 
Inimitable Julia ! 
And snatching the materials he wrote hastily : `` Chance only , evil chance , most lovely Julia , and business of some weight , restrained me from you most unwilling yesterday . 
I will not be untrue to Rome , nor to Julia , any more -- perish the whole earth , rather ! 
The ladies were both waiting in the atrium , when the young man dismounted from his car ; and never had his Julia , he thought , looked more lovely than she did this morning , with the redundant masses of her rich hair confined by a net of green and gold , and a rich pallium , or shawl of the same colors , gracefully draped over her snowy stola , and indicating by the soft sweep of its outlines the beauties of a figure , which it might veil but could not conceal . 
Joyously , in the frank openness of her pure nature , she sprung forward to meet him , with both her fair hands extended , and the ingenuous blood rising faintly to her pale cheeks . 
Nothing could be more tender , more affectionate , than all her air , her words , her manner . 
Love flashed from her bright eyes irrepressible , played in the dimples of her smiling mouth , breathed audible in every tone of her soft silvery voice . 
The very artlessness of her emotions bore evidence to their purity , their holiness . 
She was rejoiced to see her permitted lover , she felt no shame in that emotion of chaste joy , and would no more have dreamed of concealing it from him whom she loved so devotedly , than of masking her devotion to the Gods under a veil of indifference or coldness . 
Here was the very charm of her demeanor , as here was the difference between her manner , and that of her rival Lucia . 
In Julia , every thought that sprang from her heart , was uttered by her lips in frank and fearless innocence ; she had no thought she was ashamed of , no wish she feared to utter . 
Her clear bright eyes dwelt unabashed and fondly on the face of him she loved ; and no scrutiny could have detected in their light , one glance of unquiet or immodest passion . 
Her manner was warm and unreserved toward Paul , because she had a right to love him , and cared not who knew that she did so . 
Her eye was downcast ; yet did its stolen glances speak things , the secret consciousness of which would have debased the other in her own estimation beyond the hope of pardon . 
Her tongue was guarded , and her words slow and carefully selected , for her imaginations would have made the brazen face of the world blush for shame could it have heard them spoken . 
Hortensia smiled to witness the manifest affection of her sweet child ; but the smile was , she knew not why , half mournful , as she said -- `` You are unwise , my Julia , to show this truant how much you prize his coming ; how painfully his absence depresses you . 
`` Why , mother , '' replied Julia , her bright face gleaming radiantly with the pure lustre of her artless spirit , `` I amglad to see him ; I doprize his coming ; I dolove Paullus . 
returned the girl eagerly , fixing her eyes on her lover 's features , as if she would read therein the outward evidences of that nobility of soul , which she believed to exist within . 
`` May the Gods grant , my Julia , that sad experience shall never teach you that they they are so . 
`` May I die ere I wrong my Julia ! 
Base must his nature be , and his heart corrupt , who remains unsubdued to artlessness and love , such as yours , my Julia . '' 
`` I knew it , '' exclaimed Julia , clasping her snowy hands together , `` I knew it ; I have read it in his eye this half hour . 
Many were the emotions of fear , and pity , and anxiety which that tale called forth ; and more than once the tears of Julia were evoked by sympathy , first , with her lover 's daring , then with the grief of Thrasea . 
But not a shade of distrust came to cloud her pure spirit , for Paullus mentioned nothing of his interview with Catiline on the Cælian , or in the Campus ; much less of his dining with him , or detecting in him the murderer of the hapless Volero . 
And here it was singular , that Julia evinced not so much alarm or perturbation as her mother ; whether it was that she underrated the danger he was like to run , or overrated the prowess and valor of her lover . 
But so it was , for though she listened eagerly while he was speaking , and gazed at him wistfully after he had become silent , she said nothing . 
Her beautiful eyes , it is true , swam with big tear-drops for a moment , and her nether lip quivered painfully ; but she mastered her feelings , and after a short space began to talk joyously about such subjects as were suggested by the pleasant scenery , through which their road lay , or the various groups of people whom they met on the way . 
`` See , Julia , see , '' whispered Arvina , as he passed slowly by their chariot , `` that must be one of their great chiefs , and a man of extraordinary prowess . 
what monsters , '' exclaimed Julia , shuddering at the idea of human hair used as a decoration . 
Julia , '' answered Arvina , laughing ; `` but very valiant warriors , and hospitable beyond measure to those who visit their native mountains ; admirers , too , of women , whom they regard as almost divine , beyond all things . 
The gaze of the old man fell next on the lovely lineaments of Julia , and dwelt there so long that the girl lowered her eyes abashed ; but , when she again raised them , supposing that he had passed by , she still met the firm , penetrating , quiet gaze , rivetted on her face , for he had turned half round in the saddle as he rode along . 
Still he was sad , silent , and abstracted , and Julia marked it all ; and when he rose to say farewell , just as the earliest shades of night were falling , she arose too ; and as she accompanied him to the door , leaning familiarly on his arm , she said -- `` You have not told me all , Paullus . 
The gory visage of the murdered slave , the sweet and calm expression of his own Julia , the truculent eyes and sneering lip of Catiline , and the veiled glance and voluptuous smile of his too seductive daughter , whirled still before him in a strange sort of human phantasmagoria , with the deep searching look of the consul orator , the wild glare of the slaughtered Volero , and the stern face , grand and proud in his last agony , of the dying Varus . 
And now for a mere girlish fancy , a weak feminine caprice for a man , who cares not for you ; who has betrayed you ; who , idiot and inconsistent that he is , fresh from your fiery kisses , was whimpering within an hour at the feet of his cold Julia ; who has , I doubt not , boasted of your favors , while he deplored his own infatuation , to her , his promised wife ! 
Again , when he thought of Julia , there was no balm to his heart , no unction to his wounded conscience ! 
What if she knew not , nor suspected anything of his disloyalty , did not he know it , feel it in every nerve ? 
Did he not read tacit reproaches in every beam of her deep tranquil eye ? 
Did he not fancy some allusion to it , in every tone of her low sweet voice ? 
Did he not tremble at every air of heaven , lest it should waft the rumor of his infidelity to the chaste ears of her , whom alone he loved and honored ? 
And was it not most possible , most probable , that any moment might reveal to her the fatal tidings ? 
But patriotism , the old Roman virtue , clear and undving in the hardest and most corrupt hearts , roused itself in him to do battle with the juggling fiends tempting him to his ruin ; and whenever patriotism half-defeated appeared to yield the ground , the image of his Julia -- his Julia , never to be won by any indirection , never to be deceived by any sophistry , never to be deluded into smiling for one moment on a traitor -- rose clear and palpable before him , and the mists were dispersed instantly , and the foes of his better judgment scattered to the winds and routed . 
`` Not Julia ? 
it is not Julia Serena ? '' 
no , Paullus , it is not your Julia . 
`` But you must not , '' he replied , gravely yet tenderly , `` because '' -- `` You love another , '' she interrupted him , very quickly , `` You love Julia Serena , Hortensia 's lovely daughter ; and she loves you , and you are to be wedded soon . 
I knew that you loved Julia , years ago . 
Have not I lured you into falsehood , momentary falsehood it is true , yet still falsehood , to your Julia ? 
Arvina groaned aloud , but made no answer , so deeply did his own thoughts afflict , so terribly did her strong words oppress him . 
Julia and you , my Paullus , shall be happy ! 
he who destroyed me for his pleasure , shall be destroyed in turn , for mine ! '' 
And sometimes , when you are happy in the chaste arms of Julia , sometimes think , Paullus , of poor , unhappy , loving , lost , lost Lucia ! '' 
Julia herself would not forbid this last , sad , pious kiss ! 
Hortensia 's Julia is very soft and beautiful . '' 
Worn out with anxiety , and watching , sleep fell upon the eyes of Julia , as she sat half recumbent in a large softly-cushioned chair of Etruscan bronze . 
Her fair head fell back on the crimson pillow , with all its wealth of auburn ringlets flowing dishevelled ; and that soft still shadow , which is yet , in its beautiful serenity , half terrible , so nearly is it allied to the shadow of that sleep from which there comes no waking , fell over her pale features . 
The mother gazed on her for a moment , with more gentleness in her eye , and a milder smile on her face , than her indomitable pride often permitted her to manifest . 
`` She sleeps '' -- she said , looking at her wistfully -- `` she sleeps ! 
I fear so '' -- and , with the words , she lapsed into a fit of solemn meditation , and stood for many minutes silet , and absorbed . 
Then a keen light came into her dark eyes , a flash of animation coloured her pale cheeks , she stretched her arms aloft , and in a clear sonorous voice -- `` No ! 
she said , `` Honour -- honour -- immortal honour ; thou , at least , art no dream -- thou art worth dying , suffering , aye ! 
A few minutes longer she stood gazing on her daughter 's beautiful face , until the sound of voices louder than usual , and a slight bustle , in the peristyle , attracted her attention . 
Then , after throwing a pallium , or shawl , of richly embroidered woollen stuff over the fair form of the sleeper , she opened the door leading to the garden colonnade , and left the room silently . 
He approached Julia 's chair , apparently in some hesitation , as if he felt that it was his duty , and was yet half afraid to awaken her . 
At length , however , he made up his mind , and addressed a word or two to her , which were sufficiently distinct to arouse her -- for she started up and gazed wildly about her -- but left no clear impression of their meaning on her mind . 
Julia was sleeping very heavily , at the moment when she was so startled from her slumber ; and , as is not unfrequently the case , a sort of bewilderment and nervous agitation fell upon her , as she recovered her senses . 
Perhaps she had been dreaming , and the imaginary events of her dream had blended themselves with the real occurrence which awakened her . 
But for a minute or two , though she saw the note , and the person who laid it on the table , she could neither bring it to her mind who that person was , nor divest herself of the impression that there was something both dangerous and supernatural in what had passed . 
In a little while this feeling passed away , and , though still nervous and trembling , the young girl smiled at her own alarm , as she took up the billet , which was directed to herself in a delicate feminine hand , with the usual form of superscription -- `` To Julia Serena , health '' -- although the writer 's name was omitted . 
Ought I not then to hate you , Julia ? 
Shall I do so , by making him yours , Julia ? 
`` He hath looked on Julia ! 
Cheer up , my own , sweet , Julia . '' 
And , as he spoke , he passed his arm about her graceful form , and drew her closer to his bosom . 
But whether it was this movement , or something in his words that aroused her , she started from his arms in a moment ; and stood erect and rigid , pale still and agitated , but no longer trembling . 
She raised her hands to her brow , and put away the profusion of rich auburn ringlets , which had fallen down dishevelled over her eyes , and gazed at him stedfastly , strangely , as she had never gazed at him before . 
`` Your own Julia ! '' 
she said , in slow accents , scarce louder than a whisper , but full of strong and painful meaning . 
Julia ! '' 
she said , collecting herself , with a desperate effort . 
she asked him , reaching the letter from the table , and holding it before his eyes . 
`` No more than I know , what so strangely moves you , '' he answered ; and she saw , by the unaffected astonishment which pervaded all his features , that he spoke truly . 
`` Read it , '' she said , somewhat more composed ; `` and tell me , who is the writer of it . 
`` Julia , I know her , '' he replied steadily . 
`` Her ! '' 
Julia , I do not ! '' 
`` Nor ever loved her ? '' 
`` Nor ever -- lovedher , Julia . '' 
she asked , after a moment 's pause , `` if she be so very young , and so very beautiful ? '' 
`` I might answer , because I never saw her , 'till I loved one more beautiful . 
For though , as she says , we met years ago , she was but a child then ; and , since that time , I never saw her until four or five days ago -- '' `` And since then , how often ? '' 
Julia again interrupted him ; for , in the intensity of her anxiety , she could not wait the full answer to one question , before another suggested itself to her mind , and found voice at the instant . 
`` Once , Julia . '' 
`` You have not told me wherefore it was , that you never loved her ! '' 
`` Have I not told you , that I never saw her till a few days , a few hours , I might have said , ago ? 
and does not that tell you wherefore , Julia ? '' 
I told you that she was very young , and very beautiful ; but , Julia , she was also very guilty ! '' 
`` Guilty , before I ever heard her name , or knew that she existed , '' answered the young man , fervently ; but his heart smote him somewhat , as he spoke ; though what he said was but the simple truth , and it was well for him perhaps at the present moment , that Julia did not see his face . 
For there was much perturbation in it , and it is like that she would have judged even more hardly of that perturbation than it entirely deserved . 
He paused for a moment , and then added , `` But if the guilt of woman can be excusable at all , she can plead more in extenuation of her errors , than any of her sex that ever fell from virtue . 
She is most penitent ; and might have been , but for fate and the atrocious wickedness of others , a most noble being -- as she is now a most glorious ruin . '' 
There was another pause , during which neither spoke or moved , Julia overpowered by the excess of her feelings -- he by the painful consciousness of wrong ; the difficulty of explaining , of extenuating his own conduct ; and above all , the dread of losing the enchanting creature , whom he had never loved so deeply or so truly as he did now , when he had well nigh forfeited all claim to her affection . 
At length , she raised her eyes timidly to his , and said , `` This is all very strange -- there must be much , that I have a right to hear . '' 
`` There is much , Julia ! 
`` Julia , I will ! '' 
`` And all , and truly , if I tell you at all ; but you -- '' `` First , '' she said , interrupting him , `` read that strange letter to the end . 
she continued , seeing that he was about to speak , `` I will have it so . 
And seating herself at the table , she took up a piece of embroidery , and made as if she would have fixed her mind upon it . 
But Paullus saw , as his glance followed her , that , notwithstanding the firmness of her words and manner , her hand trembled so much that she could by no means thread her needle . 
He gazed on her for a moment with passionate , despairing love , and as he gazed , his spirit faltered , and he doubted . 
The evil genius whispered to his soul , that truth must alienate her love , must sever her from him for ever . 
she asked , and her voice trembled , as much as her hand had done before . 
`` I have , Julia , to the end . 
`` First , Julia , you must promise me never , to mortal ears , to reveal what I now disclose to you . '' 
exclaimed the youth , starting back , aghast ; for he felt that from her clear eye and powerful judgment nothing could be concealed , and that her iron will would yield in nothing to a woman 's tenderness , a woman 's mercy . 
`` More , I fear , than my Julia 's love will grant me . '' 
`` It is not that , my Julia . 
Say , then ; have I sinned , Julia , beyond the hope of forgiveness ? 
Julia , by these I swear , my heart never did fail or falter ! 
But , catching at her words , with all the elasticity of youthful hope , he fancied that she hadanswered him , and cried joyously and eagerly -- `` Sweet Julia , then you can , you will forgive me . '' 
I have sinned , Julia , deeply , against you ! 
believe me , Julia , my heart never once betrayed you ! 
If not -- speed me on my way , and my first battle-field shall prove my truth to Rome and Julia . '' 
I could as soon have believed the sunflower would forget to turn to the day-god , as that Paul would forget Julia . 
And then , what would then remain to the wretched Julia , but a most miserable life , and an untimely grave ? '' 
`` Will you believe me , Julia ? '' 
remember , Paullus , that if you were indeed untrue to Julia , she could but die ! '' 
`` And now , '' he said , `` my own , own Julia , I must say fare you well . 
But say , Julia , will you tell all these things to Hortensia ? '' 
Rejoice , exult , Julia ! 
`` And since that , I fancy '' -- replied the other laughing , `` You have been sunning yourself in the bright smiles of the fair Julia . 
I thought you were to have led her home , as your bride , ere this time . '' 
`` Julia is absent from the city also . 
She and Hortensia are on a visit to their farm , at the foot of Mount Algidus . 
Do you write to her daily ? '' 
The fool -- so he thinks he shall have Julia . 
`` Never shall have Julia ! '' 
For he shallhave her , by heaven and Him , who dwells in it ! 
he shallhave her ! '' 
A little while before , Julia had been singing in her sweet low voice , one of those favorite old ballads , which were so much prized by the Romans , and to which Livy is probably so much indebted for the redundant imagery of his `` pictured page , '' commemorative of the deeds and virtues of the Old Houses . 
But , as her lay came to its end , her eye had fallen on the broad blood-red disc of the descending day-god , and had followed him upon his downward path , until he was lost to view , among the tangled coppices that fringed the brow of the western hill . 
Her hands dropped listlessly into her lap , releasing the snow-white thread , which they had drawn out so daintily ; and keeping her eyes still fixed steadily on the point where he had disappeared , she gave vent to her feelings in a long-drawn ` heigho ! ' 
`` Wherefore so sad a sigh , my Julia ? '' 
`` Wherefore , alas , my Julia ? '' 
`` That can I not , my Julia , '' she replied -- `` For who is there on earth , who knoweth what the next sun shall bring forth ? 
`` For the most part I fear it is so , Julia , '' answered the matron , `` but some souls there are so innocent and quiet , so undisturbed by the outward world , that they have that , almost by nature , which others only win by suffering and tears . '' 
answered Julia , quickly , `` his creed is mere madness and impiety . 
she interrupted herself suddenly , almost with a shriek . 
And she turned pale as death , although she remained quite firm and self-possessed . 
`` It may be nothing , Julia ; or it may be good tidings , '' answered Hortensia , although she was in truth scarce less alarmed , than her daughter , by the unexpected arrival . 
And a moment afterward she cried out joyously , `` It is in his hand , Julia , Paullus Arvina 's hand . 
-- what is it , my own Julia ? '' 
`` Paullus Arvina , to Julia and Hortensia , greeting ! 
At such times , the heart asks for more tender ministering -- wherefore I pray you , Julia , let not one day elapse ; but come to me ! 
`` We will go , Julia . 
Then she added , addressing Julia , `` I will question him farther , while they prepare the carpentum ! 
As the steward left the room , she gazed attentively at the young slave , who had brought the despatch , and , not recognising his features , a half feeling of suspicion crossed her mind ; so that she stooped and whispered to Julia , who looked up hastily and answered , `` No -- no -- but what matters it ? 
exclaimed Julia , who had devoured every word he uttered , with insatiable longing and avidity . 
If you would have me live , let Julia see this letter before midnight . ' 
Doth it not , noble Julia ? '' 
`` He was very pale , Julia -- very wan , and his lips ashy white . 
`` We will go , Julia . 
Come , Julia , let us go and array us for the journey . 
cried the woman , to whom he had addressed himself , `` Hortensia hath gone but now to Rome , with young Julia , on the arrival of a message from Arvina . '' 
Arm yourselves speedily and follow , else will they carry Julia to Catiline 's camp in the Appenines , beside Fiesole ! 
What there will befall her , Catiline 's character best may inform you ! 
One of these wretches , his own namesake Aulus , the sword-smith 's foreman , had already caught Julia in his licentious grasp , and was about to press his foul lips to her cheek , when the young patrician snatched her from his arms , and pushed him violently backward . 
About an hour afterward , she was released and carried to her Roman mansion , alive and unharmed in body , but almost frantic with despair , by the party of slaves who had come up , too late to save her Julia , under the guidance of the young unknown . 
He , when he perceived that his efforts had been useless , and when he learned how Julia had been carried off by the conspirators , leaving the party to escort Hortensia , and bear their slaughtered comrades homeward , rode slowly and thoughtfully away , into the recesses of the wild country whither Aulus had borne his captive , exclaiming in a low silent voice with a clinched hand , and eyes turned heavenward , `` I will die , ere dishonor reach her ! 
Look you , boy , you love Julia , the bright daughter of Hortensia -- she is worth loving , by the way , and Catiline hath noted it . 
You were sorely wounded a few days since , Arvina , and wrote , I think , to Julia , requesting her to set forth at once to Rome , with Hortensia . '' 
Arvina , I know not where your Julia may be now . 
I know whither they are conveying her -- where she soon will be -- but I fancy that the knowing it , would give you but little pleasure ; unless , indeed , you could prevent it , my poor youth ! '' 
`` To know , is something at least toward preventing it If , therefore , thou art not , as I believe indeed thou art , merely mocking me , I pray thee tell me , whither are they conveying her ? 
Where will she soon be ? '' 
`` For Julia 's love thou didst betray Catiline ! 
betray us!In Julia 's infamy thou shalt be punished ! '' 
Slay me , by inches if thou wilt -- but spare her , oh ! 
-- and Julia shallbe in thy bosom ere to-morrow 's sun shall sink behind the hills of Latium ! '' 
think upon beautiful , soft , weeping , innocentJulia rescued by thee from Catiline -- from pollution -- think on her gratitude , her love , her kiss ! 
to which thou consignest Julia , whom thou lovest!Kind Venus guard me from such lovers ! '' 
`` You have the same which you give Julia ! '' 
Nor had this been their only difficulty , for they had been compelled to avoid all the villages and scattered farm houses , which lay on their route , in the fear that Julia 's outcries and resistance -- for she frequently succeeded in removing the bandage from her mouth -- would awaken suspicion and cause their arrest , while in the immediate vicinity of Rome . 
At one time , the party had been within a very few miles of the city , passing over the Tiber , scarce five miles above the Mulvian bridge , about an hour before the arrest of the ambassadors ; and it was from this point , that Aulus sent off his messenger to Lentulus , announcing his success , thereby directly disobeying the commands of Catiline , who had enjoined it on him almost with his last words , to communicate this enterprise to none of his colleagues in guilt . 
They were , however , admirably mounted on fresh horses , and had procured a cisium , or light carriage for two persons , not much unlike in form to a light gig , in which they had placed the unhappy Julia , with a slight boy , the son of Caius Crispus , as the driver . 
By threats of the most atrocious nature , they had at length succeeded in compelling her to temporary silence . 
Death she had not only despised , but implored , even when the point of their daggers were razing the skin of her soft neck ; and so terribly were they embarrassed and exasperated by her persistence , that it is probable they would have taken her life , had it not been for fear of Catiline , whose orders were express to bring her to his camp alive and in honor . 
Here they obtained a fresh horse for the vehicle which carried Julia , and tarrying so long only as to swallow a draught of wine , they pressed onward through a steep defile along which the road wound among wooded crags toward Sutrium . 
Scarcely however had they reached the first pitch of the hill , in loose and straggling order , when the rearmost rider , came spurring furiously to the head of the column , and announced to Aulus Fulvius , that they were pursued by a body of men , nearly equal to themselves in number , who were coming up at a rate so rapid , as made it certain that they would be overtaken , encumbered as they were with the wheeled carriage conveying the hapless Julia . 
Now it was that Aulus began to regret having sent forward the smith , and those of the conspirators to whom he was individually known , with Julia in the van . 
`` To rescue Julia . 
Tell thou to Arvina how these things have fallen out , and whither they have led her ; and , above all , that one is on her traces who will die or save her . '' 
`` Thou wilt die , but not save her . 
I am avenged , already -- avenged in Julia 's ruin ! '' 
Meanwhile , as the party , who had captured him , returned slowly with their prisoner down the mountain side , the last of the rebels having gallopped off long before to join the swordsmith and his gang , the boy , who took so deep an interest in Julia , dismounted from the white horse , which had borne him for so many hours with unabated fire and spirit , and leaving the high road , turned into a glade among the holm oaks , watered by a small streamlet , leading his courser by the rein . 
We will yet save her , for -- Arvina ! '' 
Since the dread news had reached him of Julia 's abduction , he had not closed his eyes for a moment ; and , although scarcely eight and forty hours had elapsed , since he received the fatal intelligence , he had grown older by many years . 
Julia , I remember -- I remember -- would to the Gods I could have rescued her . '' 
was she with him ? 
saw you aught of her , as you took him ? '' 
`` She was in his power , my poor Paullus , as we were told at Sutrium ; but when we overtook him , he had sent forward all his band but a small party , who fought so hard and handled us so roughly , that , he once taken , we dared not set on them again . 
There is a gallant youth on the track of them ; the same youth who went to save her at the Latin villa but arrived too late ; the same who brought us the tidings of yon villain 's flight , who led us in pursuit of them . 
He follows still , and swears that he will save her ! 
But our food is finished , and our wine wakes low , and Julia '' -- `` Who ? 
Julia ? '' 
what Julia ? '' 
The man stated rapidly , but circumstantially , all that he knew of the occurrences of Julia 's seizure , of the capture of Aulus , and of their journey ; and then , his eyes gleaming with the fierce blaze of excited passion and triumphant hatred , Catiline cross-questioned him concerning the unhappy girl . 
Soft , gentle Julia -- proud , virtuous one that did despise me , thou shalt writhe for it -- from thy soul shalt thou bleed for it ! 
It was singularly characteristic of the brutal pertinacity , and perhaps of the sagacity also , of Caius Crispus , that nothing could induce him to release the miserable Julia , who was but an incumbrance to their flight , and a hindrance to their defence . 
To all her entreaties , and promises of safety from his captors , and reward from her friends , if he would release her , he had replied only with a sneer ; saying that he would ensure his own safety at an obolus ' fee , and that , for his reward , he would trust noble Catiline . 
And the wild cheering of the rebels pealed high above the roar of the torrent , striking dismay into the soul of the wretched Julia . 
He began , therefore , at once , to look about him for means of despatching an envoy , nothing doubting that succor would be sent to him instantly , could the arch traitor be informed , that the lovely Julia was a prisoner awaiting his licentious pleasure . 
But just as he was satisfied with gazing , the lovely face of Julia , pale as an image of statuary marble , with all her splendid auburn hair unbound , was advanced out of the middle window ; evidently looking out like himself for means of escape . 
But to her the prospect was not , as to him , satisfactory ; and uttering a deep sigh she shook her head sadly , and wrung her hands with an expression of utter despair . 
cried Crispus , whom she had not yet observed , with a cruel laugh , `` Nothing , I swear , without wings can descend that abyss ; unless like Sappho , whom the poets tell us of , it would put an end to both love and life together . 
We will not starve you , my fair Julia , and no one shall harm you here , for I will sleep across your door , myself , this night , and ere to-morrow 's sunset we shall be in the camp with Catiline . '' 
He was as good as his word , for he returned almost immediately , bringing a pile of watch-cloaks , which he arranged into a rude semblance of a bed , with a pack saddle for the pillow , in the innermost recess of the inner room , with some bread , and beef broiled hastily on the embers , and some wine mixed with water , which last she drank eagerly ; for fear and anxiety had parched her , and she was faint with thirst . 
Before he went out , again he looked earnestly from the unlatticed window , in order to assure himself that she had no means of escape . 
Scarce was he gone , before she heard the shrill blast of the Roman trumpets blown clearly and scientifically , for the watch-setting ; and , soon afterward , all the din and bustle , which had been rife through the livelong day , sank into silence , and she could hear the brawling of the brook below chafing and raving against the rocks which barred its bed , and the wind murmuring against the leafless treetops . 
Shortly after this , it became quite dark ; and after sitting musing awhile with a sad and despairing heart , and putting up a wild prayer to the Gods for mercy and protection , she went once more and leaned out of the window , gazing wistfully on the black stones and foamy water . 
`` Nothing , '' she said to herself sadly , repeating Caius Crispus ' words , `` could descend hence , without wings , and live . 
-- '' she paused for a moment , and then , while a flash of singular enthusiastic joy irradiated all her pallid lineaments , she exclaimed , `` but the Great Gods be praised ? 
She paused again and considered ; then clasped her hands together , and seemed to be on the point of casting herself into that awful gulf ; but she resisted the temptation , and said , `` Not yet ! 
And with the words she turned away quietly , went to the pile of watch-cloaks , and lying down forgot ere long her sorrows and her dread , in calm and innocent slumber . 
She had not been very long asleep , however , when a sound from without the door aroused her ; and , as she started to her feet , Caius Crispus looked into the cell with a flambeau of pine-wood blazing in his right hand , to ascertain if she was still within , and safe under his keeping . 
he exclaimed . 
And thrusting the flambeau into the earth , between the crevices in the pavement , he left the room abruptly . 
Scarce was he gone , leaving the whole apartment blazing with a bright light which rendered every object within clearly visible to any spectator from the farther side of the ravine , before a shrill voice with something of a feminine tone , was heard on the other brink , exclaiming in suppressed tones -- `` Hist ! 
Julia ? '' 
who calls on Julia ? '' 
`` Julia Serena , is it thou ? '' 
she made answer . 
But Julia heard the heavy step of the swordsmith approaching , and laying her finger on her lips , she sprang back hastily from the window , and when her gaoler entered , was busy , apparently , in arranging her miserable bed . 
It was not long that he tarried ; for after casting one keen glance around him , to see that all was right ; he freed her of his hated presence , taking the torch along with him , and leaving her in utter darkness . 
As soon as his footstep had died away into silence , she hurried back to the embrasure , and gazed forth earnestly ; but the moon had not yet risen , and all the gulf of the ravine and the banks on both sides were black as night , and she could discern nothing . 
She coughed gently , hoping to attract the attention of her unknown friend , and to learn more of her chances of escape ; but no farther sound or signal was made to her ; and , after watching long in hope deferred , and anxiety unspeakable , she returned to her sad pallet and bathed her pillow with hot tears , until she wept herself at length into unconsciousness of suffering , the last refuge of the wretched , when they have not the christian 's hope to sustain them . 
She was almost worn out with anxiety and toil , and she slept soundly , until the blowing of the Roman trumpets in the pass again aroused her ; and before she had well collected her thoughts so as to satisfy herself where she was and wherefore , the shouts and groans of a sudden conflict , the rattling of stones and javelins on the tiled roof , the clang of arms , and all the dread accompaniments of a mortal conflict , awoke her to a full sense of her situation . 
No one came near her , and , although she watched the farther side of the gorge , with all the frantic hope which is so near akin to despair , she saw nothing , heard nothing , but a few wood-pigeous among the leafless tree-tops , but the sob of the torrent and the sigh of the wintry wind . 
It was , perhaps , four o'clock in the afternoon ; and the sun was beginning to verge to the westward , when , just after the cessation of one of the brief attacks -- by which it would appear that the besiegers intended rather to harass the garrison and keep them constantly on the alert , than to effect anything decided -- the sound of armed footsteps again reached the ears of Julia . 
he exclaimed , starting for a moment , as he saw Julia . 
Are you hungry , Julia ? '' 
For her only reply she pointed to the food yet untouched , which he had brought to her on the previous evening , and shook her head sadly ; but uttered not a word . 
Your prayers have availed us , Julia ; for I doubt not , '' he added , with malicious irony , `` that you have prayed for us . '' 
The smith rushed from the room instantly with Rufus at his heels , and Julia had already made one step toward the window , intending to attempt the perilous descent , alone and unaided , when Crispus turned back suddenly , crying , `` The Rope ! 
She hath enough of the Amazon 's blood in her to atttempt it -- '' `` Of the Roman ` sblood , say rather ! '' 
she exclaimed , springing toward the casement , half maddened in perceiving her last hope frustrated . 
Had she reached it , she surely would have perished ; for no female head and hands , how strong and resolute so ever , could have descended that frail rope , and even if they could , the ruffian , rather than see her so escape , would have cut it asunder , and so precipitated her to the bottom of the rocky chasm . 
But she did not attain her object ; for Caius Crispus caught her with both arms around the waist and threw her so violently to the after end of the room , that , her head striking the angle of the wall , she was stunned for the moment , and lay almost senseless on the floor , while the savage , with a rude brutal laugh at her disappointment , rushed out of the room , bearing the rope along with him . 
Scarce had he gone , however , when , audible distinctly amid the dissonant danger of the fray , the same feminine voice , which she had heard on the previous night , again aroused her , crying `` Hist ! 
Julia . '' 
She sprang to her feet , and gained the window in a moment , and there , on the other verge of the chasm , near twenty feet distant from the window at which she stood , she discovered the figure of a slender dark-eyed and dark-complexioned boy , clad in a hunter 's tunic , and bearing a bow in his hand , and a quiver full of arrows on his shoulder . 
She had never seen that boy before ; yet was there something in his features and expression that seemed familiar to her ; that sort of vague resemblance to something well known and accustomed , which leads men to suppose that they must have dreamed of things which mysteriously enough they seem to remember on their first occurrence . 
The boy raised his hand joyously , and cried aloud , without any fear of being heard , well knowing that all eyes and ears of the defenders of the place were turned to the side when the fight was raging , `` Be of good cheer ; you are saved , Julia . 
And with the words , he turned away , and was lost to her sight in an instant , among the thickly-set underwood . 
Ere long , however , she caught a glimpse of him again , mounted upon a beautiful white horse , and gallopping like the wind down the sandy road , which wound through the wooded knolls toward the bridge below . 
Again she lost him ; and again he glanced upon her sight , for a single second , as he spurred his fleet horse across the single arch of brick , and dashed into the woods on the hither side of the torrent . 
Two weary hours passed ; and the sun was nigh to his setting , and she had seen , heard nothing more . 
Her heart , sickening with hope deferred , and all her frame trembling with terrible excitement , she had almost begun to doubt , whether the whole appearance of the boy might not have been a mere illusion of her feverish senses , a vain creation of her distempered fancy . 
At length , however , her close watch was rewarded . 
A slight stir among the evergreen bushes on the brink of the opposite cliff caught her quick eye , and in another moment the head of a man , not of the boy whom she had seen before , nor yet , as her hope suggested , of her own Paullus , but of an aquiline-nosed clean-shorn Roman soldier , with an intelligent expression and quick eye , was thrust forward . 
Perceiving Julia at the window , he drew back for a second ; and the boy appeared in his place , and then both showed themselves together , the soldier holding in his hand the bow and arrows of the hunter youth . 
But so fiercely was the battle raging now , that it was his signs , rather than his words , which she comprehended . 
The next moment , a gesture of his hand warned her to withdraw from the embrasure ; and scarcely had she done so before an arrow whistled from the bow and dropped into the room , having a piece of very slender twine attached to the end of it . 
When voice of man can bid the waves be tranquil , while the north-wester is tossing their ruffian tops , and when the billows slumber at his bidding , then may the comforter assay , with some chance of success , to still the throbbings of the human heart , convulsed by such hopes , such terrors , as then were all but maddening the innocent and tranquil heart of Julia . 
Tranquil she could not be ; but she was calm and self-possessed , and patient . 
Hour after hour lagged away ; and the night fell black as the pit of Acheron , and still by the glare of pale fires and torches , the lurid light of which she could perceive from her windows , reflected on the heavens , the savage combatants fought on , unwearied , and unsparing . 
Once only she went again to that window , wherefrom hung all her hopes ; so fearful was she , that Crispus might find her there , and suspect what was in process . 
With trembling fingers she felt for the twine , fatal as the thread of destiny should any fell chance sever it ; and in its place she found a stout cord , which had been quietly drawn around the mullion , still hanging in a deep double bight , invisible amid the gloom , from side to side of the chasm . 
And now , for the first time , she comprehended clearly the means by which her unknown friends proposed to reach her . 
Perceiving this , and fancying that she could distinguish the faint clink of a hammer among the trees beyond the forest knoll , she did indeed become almost tranquil . 
She even lay down on her couch , and closed her eyes , and exerted all the power of her mind to be composed and self-possessed , when the moment of her destiny should arrive . 
She opened her curtained lids , and lo ! 
Waving his hand to his men to pursue the retreating infantry , he sprang down from his horse , uttering but one word in the deep voice of smothered passion -- `` Julia ! '' 
`` Back from the window , Julia ! '' 
at last , I have thee , Julia ! '' 
`` Atlast , I have thee , Julia ! '' 
It was not , however , in the nature of that man to yield himself up long to any influence , save that of his own passions , and after standing mute for perhaps a minute , during which the flush on his sallow cheek , and the glare of his fiery eye , were blanched and dimmed somewhat , he advanced a step or two toward her , repeating the words , `` I have thee ; thou art mine , Julia . '' 
I am proud , minion , proud to be that I am -- that which thou , Julia , shalt soon find me ! '' 
Thou art mine , Julia . '' 
Julia . 
Wilt yield , or resist , Julia ? 
there are no Gods , Julia ! '' 
For just as Catiline seized Julia the second time in his resistless grasp , and ere his lips had contaminated her sweet mouth , the giant Crispus , who had so long been knocking unheeded , rushed into the room , and seized his leader by the shoulder unseen , until he literally touched him . 
It were better , wiser , safer to stand between the Lion and his prey , than between Catiline and Julia . '' 
cried Julia falling on her knees . 
and , striking the unhappy girl a coward blow , which felled her to the ground senseless , he rushed from the room with his confederate in crime , barring the outer door behind him . 
This well-devised scheme being rendered unfeasible by the sudden charge of Catiline 's horse , and the rout of the legionaries , the small subaltern 's detachment , which had been sent round under Lucia 's guidance -- for it was she who had discerned the means of passing the chasm , while lying in wait to assist Julia , and disclosed it to the centurion commanding -- had been left alone , and isolated , its line of retreat cut off , and itself without a leader . 
Nor had this bridge been established many seconds before the soldier in command ran forward upon it , and met Lucia at the embrasure , bearing with strength far greater than her slight form and unmuscular limbs appeared to promise , the still senseless form of Julia . 
Catching her from the arms of Lucia , the robust legionary cast the fainting girl across his shoulder as though she had been a feather ; and rushed back with her toward his comrades , crying aloud in haste alarm -- `` Quick ! 
The clang of his haughty step had reached the ears of the legionary just as he drew poor Julia , unconscious of her rescue , though the barrack window ; and as they stood on the brink of the ravine , thus far in safety , the red glare of the torches streaming through the embrasures , announced the arrival of their enemies , within almost arm 's length of them . 
cried the man who had rescued Julia , addressing him who had cut away the bridge , `` thou shouldst have let him reach the middle , ere thou didst strike that blow . 
answered the legionary , setting off at a swift pace , still bearing Julia , who was now beginning to revive in the fresh air , following hard on Lucia , who ran , literally like the wind , to the spot where she had tied her own beautiful white Ister , and another horse , a powerful and well-bred Thracian charger , to the stems of two chesnut trees , in readiness for any fortunes . 
`` I am better now , '' exclaimed Julia -- `` Oh ye Gods ! 
`` If you see me no more , as I think you will not , Julia , tell Paullus , Lucia saved you , and -- died , for love of him ! 
It was a little in their favor that the steeds of Catiline 's troopers had been harassed by a long and unusually rapid night march , while their own were fresh and full of spirit ; but this advantage was neutralized at least by the double weight which impeded the progress and bore down the energies of the noble Thracian courser , bearing Julia and the soldier . 
-- Had Lucia chosen it , with her light weight and splendid horsemanship , she might easily have left Julia and the soldier , easily have crossed the defile in advance of Catiline , easily have escaped his vengeance . 
But she reined in white Ister , and held him well in hand behind the others , muttering to herself in low determined accents , `` She shall be saved , but my time is come ! '' 
He wheeled down the road , and Julia , pale as death , whose eyes had been closed in the agony of that fearful expectation , unclosed them at the legionary 's joyous shout , but closed them again in terror and despair with a faint shriek , as they met the grim countenance of Catiline , distorted with every hellish passion , and splashed with blood gouts from his reeking courser 's side , thrust forward parallel nearly to the black courser 's foamy jaws -- both nearly within arm 's length of her , as it appeared to her excited fancy . 
she screamed . 
Lucia dashed her white Ister at full speed , as she crossed the bridge , athwart the counter of black Erebus . 
Julia was kneeling at her side , Paullus Arvina was bending over her in speechless gratitude , and sorrow ; and the stern cavaliers of the legion , unused to any soft emotions , stood round holding their chargers ' bridles with frowning brows , and lips quivering with sentiments , which few of them had experienced since the far days of their gentler boyhood . 
happy , '' she exclaimed , in a soft low tone , `` how happy it is so to die ! 
cried Julia , `` you must not , shall not die ! 
But Paullus spoke not ; a soldier , and a man used to see death in all shapes in the arena , he knew that there was no hope , and , had his life depended on it , he could not , at that moment have deceived her . 
Julia calls me her friend -- me , me her sister ! 
And Julia , whose high soul and native delicacy were all incapable of comprehending the nature , much less the seductions , of such degradation , as that poor victim of parental villainy had undergone , saw clearly and understood at a glance , the difficulty , the gloriousness , the wonder of that beautiful regeneration . 
Dear Lucia , dear sister , if you love that name , '' she said in soothing tones , holding her cold hands clasped in her own quivering fingers , `` indeed , indeed you must not think or speak of yourself thus . 
`` To a life , and a love like mine , both guilty , both unhappy , death is a refuge , not a terror ; and if there be , as you believe , who are so wise and virtuous , a place beyond the grave , where souls parted here on earth , may meet and dwell in serene and tranquil bliss , perhaps , I say , perhaps , Julia , this death may compensate that life -- this blood may wash away the sin , the shame , the pollution . '' 
exclaimed Julia earnestly . 
`` I am sure of it , '' she replied , a brighter gleam of pleasure crossing her features , on which the hues of death were fast darkening . 
Julia -- there is an hereafter -- an eternity -- rest for the weary , joy for the woful ! 
We shall meet , Julia . 
And she sank back fainting and overpowered upon Julia 's bosom . 
In a moment or two , however , she opened her eyes again , but it was clear that the spirit was on the point of taking its departure . 
she said in a very low voice . 
But come sometimes , Julia , Paullus , and look where I lie ; and sometimes -- will you not sometimes remember Lucia ? '' 
replied Julia , stooping down to kiss her . 
will you not let me , Julia ? 
cried Julia , who scarce could speak for the tears and sobs , which almost choked her . 
`` Here , Paullus , take her , gently , gently . '' 
she murmured , as she leaned her head against his heart , and fixed her glazing eyes upon his features , and clasped his hand with her poor dying fingers . 
`` She told you , Paullus , that for your love I died to save her ! '' 
`` She did -- she did -- dear , dearest Lucia ! '' 
-- `` Kiss me , '' she whispered ; `` I am going very fast . 
Then , fancying that he hesitated , she cried , `` you will let him kiss me , now , will you not , Julia ? 
kiss her , kiss her , Paullus , '' exclaimed Julia eagerly , `` how could you fancy , Lucia , that I should wish otherwise ? 
kiss her lips , not her brow , Paullus Arvina . '' 
`` Kiss me first thou , dear Julia . 
And the pure girl leaned over and pressed a long kiss on the cold lips of the unhappy , guilty , regenerated being , whose death had won for her honor , and life , and happiness . 
`` Now , Paullus , now , '' cried Lucia , raising herself from his bosom by a last feeble effort , and stretching out her arms , `` now , ere it be too late ! '' 
-- He bowed down to her and kissed her lips , and she clasped her arms close about his neck , and returned that last chaste caress , murmuring `` Paullus , mine own in death , mine own , own Paullus ! '' 
-- There was a sudden rigor , a passing tremulous spasm , which ran through her whole frame for a moment -- her arms clasped his neck more tightly than before , and then released their hold , all listless and unconscious -- her head fell back , with the eyes glazed and visionless , and the white lips half open . 
`` She is dead , Julia ! '' 
cried Julia , who was still gazing on the face of the dead -- `` There is a change -- see ! 
`` She is gone , peace to her manes . '' 
`` She is at rest , now , Paullus , she is happy ! '' 
murmured Julia . 
`` How excellent she was , how true , how brave , how devoted ! 
I doubt not , she is happy . '' 
he replied fervently . 
`` But I have yet a duty , '' and drawing his short straight sword he severed one long dark curl from the lifeless head , and raising it aloft in his left hand , while with the right he pointed heavenward the gleaming steel , `` Ye Gods ! '' 
he cried , `` supernal and infernal ! 
by this good steel , by this right hand , in presence of this sacred dead , I swear , I devote Catiline and his hated head to vengeance ! 
By this sword may he perish ; may this hair be steeped in his lifeblood ; may he know himself , when dying , the victim of my vengeance -- may dogs eat his body -- and his unburied spirit know neither Tartarus nor Elysium ! '' 
-- It was strange , but as he ceased from that wild imprecation , a faint flash of lightning veined the remote horizon , and a low clap of thunder rumbled afar off , echoing among the hills -- perchance the last of a storm , unheard before and unnoticed by the distracted minds of the spectators of that scene . 
exclaimed Paullus , sheathing his sword , and thrusting the tress of hair into his bosom . 
Nearlya fortnight had elapsed since the rescue of Julia , and the sad death of Catiline 's unhappy daughter , and yet the battle which was daily and hourly expected , had not been fought . 
Julia was in the camp ; for no means had occurred of sending her to Rome in safety , and her high counsels , her noble feminine courage , would have given birth alone to contagious valor in her lover 's spirit , had he been weak and faltering as of old between his principles and his passions . 
-- Julia ! '' 
Such was the fate of Julia . 
No one could tell her aught of her Arvina ; until at a late hour of the night , remembering her solitary situation and high birth , and taking a deep interest in her sorrows , Petreius himself visited her , not to instil false hope , but to console if possible her wounded spirit by praises of her lost lover 's conduct . 
`` He fought beside my right hand , Julia , through the whole of that deadly struggle ; and none with more valor , or more glory . 
Julia , you must not weep for him , you must not envy him such glory . 
Julia , he was a hero . '' 
Such vows are not easy , Julia , nor safe of performance . '' 
asked Julia , -- `` the parricide -- the monster ? '' 
`` I think so , Julia , '' answered the general . 
`` I know it , '' she said slowly -- `` but what availeth that to me -- to me who had rather hear one accent of his noble voice , meet one glance of his glorious eye -- alas ! 
`` Hold , Julia , hold ! 
she exclaimed , a gleam of hope bursting upon her soul like the dayspring . 
`` You must not , Julia . '' 
Who dare to part a betrothed maiden from her true lover , -- true , alas ! 
I will prevent you , Julia . 
Fare you well , try to sleep , and hope , hope for the best , poor Julia . '' 
And with a deep sigh at the futility of his consolation , the noble Roman left the tent , giving strict orders to the peasant girls who had been pressed into her service , and to Arvina 's freedmen who were devoted to her , on no account to suffer her to leave the camp that night , and even , if need were , to use force to prevent her . 
cried Julia , interpreting the casual words at once to signify Arvina , and giving her palfrey the rein , she gallopped to the spot , followed by Petreius shaking his head gloomily ; for he was not so deceived . 
But swifter yet than he , Julia sprang from her saddle , and rushed heedless and unconscious , through pools of blood , ancle deep , treading on human corpses , in her wild haste , and cast herself down on the well known armor , the casque crested and the cloak embroidered by her own delicate hands , which could alone be distinguished of her lover 's prostrate form . 
-- But at the same instant there was a joyous cry from the officers who had lifted Paullus , and a rapturous shriek from Julia . 
But it was blithesome springtide , and the great orator had long since sworn THAT HE HAD SAVED HIS COUNTRY , among the acclamations of a people for once grateful ; had long since retired into the calm serenity of private life and literary leisure , when Paullus was sufficiently recov ered from his wounds to receive the thanks of his friend and benefactor ; to receive in the presence of the good and great Consular his best reward in the hand of his sweet Julia . 
And , for years afterward , when Roman maidens called blessings down upon a kindred bride , they had no fairer fate to wish her than to be happy as Arvina 's Julia . 
And how should any man be blessed , in this transitory life , if not by the love of such a girl as Julia , the friendship of such a man as Cicero , the fame of such a deed , as the death of THE Roman Traitor . 
