And , so , if you will wait , father , near yonder willow bush , until I have heard what Paul can possibly have to say , I shall be sure to come and wish you a good night , before I return to the camp . '' 
`` If one of them lazy sons of Skirting Ishmael is prowling out of his camp to-night , '' said the young bee-hunter , with great vivacity , and in tones that might easily have been excited to a menace , `` he may have an end put to his journey , sooner than either he or his father is dreaming ! '' 
`` If they will carry the tribe of wandering Ishmael to the Rocky Mountains , '' said the young bee-hunter , laughing in his vexation with a sort of bitter merriment , `` I may forgive the rascals . '' 
`` It would be an easy matter to call out , in so loud a voice as to make old Ishmael dream that the wolves were among his flock , '' Paul replied ; `` I can make myself heard a mile in these open fields , and his camp is but a short quarter from us . '' 
Ishmael loves travel so well , there would be no harm in his having a look at the other sea , but the old fellow is in a bad condition to take the long journey ! 
I would try a lock myself before he should be quite murdered . '' 
`` His party is strong in number , and well armed ; do you think it will fight ? '' 
`` Look here , old trapper -- Few men love Ishmael Bush and his seven sledge-hammer sons less than one Paul Hover ; but I scorn to slander even a Tennessee shot-gun . 
As he spoke , the indignant chief pointed in the direction of Ishmael 's encampment , leaving the trapper no reason to doubt , that the superior industry and sagacity of this man had effected a discovery , which had eluded the search of the rest of his party . 
A halt , however , was soon made , and when the captives had time to look about them , they found they were in view of the low , dark outline of the copse , near which lay the slumbering party of Ishmael . 
The reader will readily anticipate that the savage had succeeded in gaining a dangerous proximity to one of those slothful sons of Ishmael , who were deputed to watch over the isolated encampment of the travellers . 
When certain that he was undiscovered , the Dahcotah raised his person again , and bending forward , he moved his dark visage above the face of the sleeper , in that sort of wanton and subtle manner with which a reptile is often seen to play about its victim before it strikes the deadly blow . 
He had already ascertained the contents of the lodge in which were collected the woman and her young children , and had passed several gigantic frames , stretched on different piles of brush , which happily for him lay in unconscious helplessness , when he at last reached the spot occupied by Ishmael in person . 
It could not escape the sagacity of one like Mahtoree , that he had now within his power the principal man among the travellers . 
He stood long hovering above the recumbent and Herculean form of the emigrant , keenly debating in his own mind the chances of his enterprise , and the most effectual means of reaping its richest harvest . 
He had sheathed the knife , which , under the hasty and burning impulse of his thoughts , he had been tempted to draw , and was passing on , when Ishmael turned in his lair , and demanded roughly who it was that he dimly saw moving before his half-opened eyes . 
Imitating the gruff tones and nearly unintelligible sounds he heard , Mahtoree threw his body heavily on the earth , and appeared to dispose himself to sleep . 
Though the whole movement was seen by Ishmael in a sort of stupid observation . 
It was at the precise moment when we left Mahtoree yielding to his nearly ungovernable delight , as he surveyed the number and quality of Ishmael 's beasts of burden , that the man he had selected to watch his captives chose to indulge in the malignant pleasure of tormenting those it was his duty to protect . 
shouted Paul , unable to control his impatience any longer , `` now , old Ishmael , is the time to show the native blood of Kentucky ! 
In the midst of this tumultuous disorder a rushing sound was heard , similar to that which might be expected to precede the passage of a flight of buffaloes , and then came the flocks and cattle of Ishmael into view , in one confused and frightened drove . 
`` Had we not better join the party of Ishmael , '' said the bee-hunter . 
Thoroughly satisfied that he understood the character of the emigrants , by the short but comprehensive description conveyed in Paul 's reply , the old man raised no further question concerning the readiness of Ishmael to revenge his wrongs , but rather followed that train of thoughts which was suggested to his experience by the occasion . 
`` Each one knows the ties which bind him to his fellow-creatures best , '' he answered . 
Howsomever , '' he continued , by a transition not a little characteristic of the pursuits and feelings of the man , `` as this is a business in which there is much more likelihood of a fight than need for a sermon , it is best to be prepared for what may follow -- Hush ! 
`` If I leave you , Ellen , in this desert before I see you safe in the care of old Ishmael , at least , may I never hear the hum of another bee , or , what is worse , fail in sight to line him to his hive ! '' 
He will not leave me . 
How long may it be before these Tetons , as you call them , will be coming for the rest of old Ishmael 's goods and chattels ? '' 
`` But not so long as to forget the tricks of his youth , '' said Ishmael , rearing his huge frame from beneath the slight covering of a low bush , and meeting the trapper , face to face ; `` old man , you have brought this tribe of red devils upon us , and to-morrow you will be sharing the booty . '' 
`` It would have been more like a white-man and a christian , to have let me known as much in better season ; '' retorted Ishmael , casting another ominous side-long glance at the trapper , as if still meditating evil . 
We ar ' of a slow breed , it may be said , and it is often said of us ; but slow is sure ; and there ar ' few men , living , who can say they ever struck a blow , that they did not get one as hard in return , from Ishmael Bush . '' 
`` Then has Ishmael Bush followed the instinct of the beasts rather than the genuine principle which ought to belong to his kind , '' returned the stubborn trapper . 
So saying , Ishmael deliberately led the way back towards his rifled encampment , and ushered the man , whose life a few minutes before had been in real jeopardy through his resentment , into the presence of his family . 
Here , with a very few words of explanation , mingled with scarce but ominous denunciations against the plunderers , he made his wife acquainted with the state of things on the Prairie , and then announced his own determination to compensate himself for his broken rest , by devoting the remainder of the night to sleep . 
Ishmael Bush had passed the whole of a life of more than fifty years on the skirts of society . 
He boasted that he had never dwelt where he might not safely fell every tree he could view from his own threshold ; that the law had rarely been known to enter his clearing , and that his ears had never willingly admitted the sound of a church bell . 
His exertions seldom exceeded his wants , which were peculiar to his class , and rarely failed of being supplied . 
He had no respect for any learning except that of the leech ; because he was ignorant of the application of any other intelligence , than such as met the senses . 
His deference to this particular branch of science had induced him to listen to the application of a medical man , whose thirst for natural history had led him to the desire of profiting by the migratory propensities of the squatter . 
This gentleman he had cordially received into his family , or rather under his protection , and they had journeyed together , thus far through the prairies , in perfect harmony : Ishmael often felicitating his wife on the possession of a companion , who would be so serviceable in their new abode , wherever it might chance to be , until the family were thoroughly `` acclimated . '' 
Although the sluggish nature of Ishmael was not actually awakened , it was sorely pricked by the liberties which had just been taken with his property . 
He slept , however , for it was the hour he had allotted to that refreshment , and because he knew how impotent any exertions to recover his effects must prove in the darkness of midnight . 
He also knew the danger of his present situation too well , to hazard what was left , in pursuit of that which was lost . 
Just as day , however , began to dawn , and a gray light was falling from the heavens , on the dusky objects of the plain , the half startled , anxious and yet blooming countenance of Ellen Wade was reared above the confused mass of children , among whom she had clustered on her stolen return to the camp Arising warily she stepped lightly across the recumbent bodies , and proceeded with the same caution to the utmost limits of the defences of Ishmael . 
He had left sundry folios , and certain boxes well stored with botanical specimens and defunct animals , under the good keeping of Ishmael , and it immediately struck his acute mind , that marauders as subtle as the Siouxes would never neglect the opportunity to despoil him of these treasures . 
Nothing that Ellen could say to the contrary served to appease his apprehensions , and , consequently , they separated ; he to relieve his doubts and fears together , and she to glide , as swiftly and silently as she had just before passed it , into the still and solitary tent . 
The entrance of Obed at such a moment into the camp , accompanied as it was by vociferous lamentations over his anticipated loss , did not fail to rouse the drowsy family of the squatter . 
Ishmael and his sons , together with the forbidding-looking brother of his wife , were all speedily afoot ; and then , as the sun began to shed his light on the place , they became gradually apprised of the extent of their loss . 
Ishmael looked round upon the motionless and heavily loaded vehicles with his teeth firmly compressed , cast a glance at the amazed and helpless groupe of children , which clustered around their sullen but despondent mother , and walked out upon the open land , as if he found the air of the encampment too confined to breathe in . 
He was followed by several of the men , who were his attentive observers watching the dark expression of his eye as the index of their own future movements . 
`` Yonder is one of the creatures left by the villains to mock us , '' said Ishmael , glancing his eye towards the latter , `` and that the meanest of the stock . 
`` The rifle is better than the hoe , in such a place as this , '' returned the eldest of his sons , kicking the hard and thirsty soil on which he stood , with an air of fierce scorn . 
`` What say you , trapper ; '' returned the father , showing the slight impression his powerful heel had made on the compact earth , and laughing with frightful ferocity . 
`` Old man , '' said Ishmael sternly , `` to which people do you belong ? 
As these questions were put with no little earnestness and some spirit , there was every probability that a hot discussion would have succeeded between the two , of whom one was so purely practical and the other so much given to theory , had not Ishmael seen fit to terminate the dispute , by bringing into view a subject that was much more important to his own immediate interests . 
`` Can you tell me if what you encountered was of the species , ursus horribilis -- with the ears , rounded -- front , arquated -- eyes -- destitute of the remarkable supplemental lid -- with six incisores , one false , and four perfect molares -- '' `` Trapper , go on , '' interrupted Ishmael ; `` you believe we shall see more of the robbers . '' 
`` I have come five hundred miles to find a place where no man can ding the words of the law in my ears , '' said Ishmael , fiercely , `` and I am not in a humour to stand quietly at a bar , while a red-skin sits in judgment . 
I tell you , trapper , if another Sioux is seen prowling around my camp , wherever it may be , he shall feel the contents of old Kentuck , '' slapping his rifle , in a manner that could not be easily misconstrued , `` though he wore the medal of Washington , himself ; I call the man a robber who takes that which is not his own . '' 
`` Come , trapper , '' continued Ishmael in a tone of better humour , like a man who feels that he has triumphed , `` neither of us , I reckon , has ever had much to do with title-deeds , or county clerks , or blazed trees ; therefore we will not waste words on fooleries . 
`` It never then shall be said , that Ishmael Bush has less kindness for his children than the bear for her cubs ! '' 
A few direct and pertinent inquiries served to obtain the little additional information that was necessary , in order to make the contemplated movement , and then Ishmael , who was , on emergencies , as terrifically energetic , as he was sluggish in common , set about effecting his object without delay . 
Ishmael himself superintended and directed the whole , occasionally applying his colossal shoulder to some lagging vehicle , until he saw that the chief difficulty , that of gaining the level of their intended route , was accomplished . 
Then he pointed out the required course , cautioning his sons to proceed in such a manner that they should not lose the advantage they had with so much labour obtained , and beckoning to the brother of his wife , they returned together to the empty camp . 
The summons of Ishmael to his gloomy associate , had however , as it would now seem , this hitherto neglected portion of his effects for its object . 
First casting a cautious and suspicious glance on every side of him , the squatter and his companion advanced to the little wagon , and caused it to enter within the folds of the cloth , much in the same manner that it had been extricated the preceding evening . 
It would appear that long practice had made each of the two acquainted with his particular duty , for neither sign nor direction of any sort was necessary from Ishmael , in order to apprise his surly associate of the manner in which he was to proceed . 
Too busy with his occupation to heed the presence of the trapper , Ishmael began to release the folds of the cloth from the ground , and to dispose of them in such a manner around the vehicle as to form a sweeping train to the new form the little pavilion had now assumed . 
Just as the work was ended the scowling eye of Ishmael 's assistant caught a glimpse of the figure of the attentive observer of their movements . 
Dropping the shaft , which he had already lifted from the ground preparatory to occupying the place that was usually filled by an animal less reasoning and perhaps less dangerous than himself , he bluntly exclaimed -- `` I am a fool , as you often say ! 
The cloud as it is about to discharge the subtle lightning is not more dark nor threatening , than was the look with which Ishmael greeted the intruder . 
He turned his head on every side of him , as if seeking some engine sufficiently terrible to annihilate the offending trapper at a blow ; and then , possibly recollecting the further occasion he might have for his counsel , he forced himself to say , with an appearance of moderation that nearly choked him -- `` Stranger , I did believe this prying into the concerns of others was the business of women in the towns and settlements , and not the manner in which men , who are used to live where each has room for himself , deal with the secrets of their neighbours . 
Ishmael stood sullen and thoughtful ; while his companion stole a furtive and involuntary glance at the placid sky , which spread so wide and blue above his head , as if he expected to see the Almighty eye itself beaming from the heavenly vault . 
`` It would be shewing more of the kindness of a friend and comrade , '' Ishmael returned , in a tone sufficiently sullen to betray his humour , though it was no longer threatening , `` had your shoulder been put to the wheel of one of yonder wagons , instead of edging itself in here , where none are wanted but such as are invited . '' 
exclaimed Ishmael , laughing , half in ferocity and half in derision , applying his powerful strength at the same time to the little vehicle , which rolled over the grass with as much seeming facility as though it were drawn by its usual team . 
A rustling in the low bushes that still grew for some distance , along the swale , that formed the thicket on which the camp of Ishmael had rested , caught his ear at the moment and cut short the soliloquy . 
It is hardly necessary to add , that this rude and characteristic fortress was the place where Ishmael Bush had taken refuge , after the robbery of his flocks and herds . 
retorted Ishmael , who , like all of his class , could labour with incredible efforts on emergencies , but who too seldom exerted continued industry , on any occasion , to brook a proposal that offered so little repose . 
`` Is it believing to tell what a roguish -- And yet , Ishmael , the man might have been honest after all ! 
Content with his ascendency , which was too apparent , and had been too often exerted on similar occasions , to leave him in any doubt of its extent , Ishmael coolly continued the discourse , by adverting more directly to his future plans . 
`` You will own the justice at any rate of paying every one in kind , '' he said ; `` I have been robbed of my stock , and I have a scheme to make myself as good as before , by taking hoof for hoof ; or for that matter , when a man is put to the trouble of bargaining for both sides , he is a fool if he dont pay himself something in the way of commission . '' 
Ishmael cast his eye upward to the place , where the offending , but unconscious girl was holding her anxious watch . 
cried Ishmael , lifting his powerful voice a little above the rushing of the element . 
continued Ishmael . 
cried Ishmael ; `` ha ! 
interrupted the whole body of his sons in a breath ; and at that instant she re-appeared to put an end to their different surmises , and , to relieve more than one sluggish nature from its unwonted excitement . 
`` Can it be , the child has found a scout of the Siouxes , '' said Ishmael , bending his look toward the plain ; but a low , significant whisper from Abiram drew his eyes quickly upward again , where they were turned just in time to perceive that the cloth of the tent was agitated by a motion very evidently different from the quivering occasioned by the wind . 
Ishmael struck the breech of his rifle violently on the earth , and shouted in a voice that might easily have been heard by Ellen , had not her attention still continued rapt on the object which so unaccountably attracted her eyes in the distance . 
Ishmael threw his rifle to his shoulder , and at the next moment it was pointed upward at the summit of the rock . 
Few fathers portion their children better than Ishmael Bush ; you will say that for me at least , when you get to the end of your journey . '' 
repeated Abiram , in a voice which sounded hollow and warning ; `` If you have time for any thing but quarrels , Ishmael , look ! '' 
One small and exquisitely moulded hand was pressed on her heart , while with the other she made an impressive gesture , which seemed to invite Ishmael , if any further violence was meditated , to direct it against her bosom . 
The latter , however , as if content with the offer she had made of herself as the most proper victim to the resentment of Ishmael , now calmly retired , and the spot she had so lately occupied became vacant , leaving a sort of stupid impression on the spectators beneath , not unlike that which it might be supposed would have been created had they just been gazing at some supernatural vision . 
More than a minute of profound silence succeeded , during which the sons of Ishmael still continued gazing at the naked rock in stupid wonder . 
Ishmael waved his hand with authority as he ended , and turned away with the air of one who felt assured , that those he had addressed would not have the temerity to dispute his commands . 
Asa evidently struggled with himself to compel the required obedience , but his heavy nature quietly sunk into its ordinary repose , and he soon appeared again the being he really was ; dangerous , only , at moments , and one whose passions were too sluggish to be long maintained at the point of ferocity . 
Like Asa , however , he acquiesced in the decision of the squatter , and the appearance , at least , of harmony was restored again among a set of beings , who were restrained by no obligations more powerful than the frail web of authority with which Ishmael had been able to envelope his restless children . 
`` I will go upon the rock , boys , and look abroad for the savages , '' said Ishmael shortly after , advancing towards them with a mien which he intended should be conciliating at the same time that it was absolute . 
Ishmael , however , directed his footsteps to a point where an ascent might be made through a narrow cleft , which he had taken the precaution to fortify with a breast-work of cotton-wood logs , and which , in its turn , was defended by a chevaux-de-frise of the branches of the same tree . 
Here Ishmael believed he might leave his infants in comparative security , under the protection of their spirited mother , and here he now found Esther engaged at her ordinary domestic employments , surrounded by her daughters , and lifting her voice , in the tones of declamatory censure , as one or another of the idle fry incurred her displeasure , and far too much engrossed with the tempest of her own conversation to know any thing of the violent scene which had been passing among the party below . 
`` A fine windy place you have chosen for the camp , Ishmael ! '' 
But , Ishmael , what have you been killing , my man ; for it was your rifle I heard a few minutes agone , unless I have lost my skill in sounds . '' 
Why , Ishmael ! 
Havingmade the reader acquainted with the manner in which Ishmael Bush had disposed of his family , under circumstances that might have proved so embarrassing to most other men , we shall again shift the scene a few short miles from the place last described , preserving , however , the due and natural succession of time . 
`` Since our separation , I have journeyed far , having entered into a compactum or agreement with a certain man , named Ishmael -- '' `` Bush ! '' 
`` Yes , there is reason , because there is natur ' , in what he says , '' observed the trapper : `` But , friend , you have said you were a dweller in the camp of one Ishmael Bush ? '' 
I was an eye-witness , myself , of the manner in which the Siouxes broke into your encampment , and drove off the cattle ; stripping the poor man you call Ishmael of his smallest hoofs , counting even the cloven feet . '' 
Do you then reckon that Ishmael Bush travels with a beast caged in that little wagon ? '' 
I have already made known that in virtue of a compactum , I journey with the aforesaid Ishmael Bush ; but though I am bound to perform certain duties while the journey lasts , there is no condition which says that the said journey shall be sempiternum , or eternal . 
For that matter , '' he continued , dropping his voice , like one who imparts an important secret , `` I am not without hopes of persuading Ishmael to let me dissect it . '' 
`` As to that , if I wanted evidence of a fact , which is abundantly apparent by the habits of the animal , I have the word of Ishmael , himself . 
I pined greatly in secret to know the contents of the tent , which Ishmael guarded so carefully , and which he had covenanted that I should swear , -LRB- jurare per deos -RRB- not to approach nigher than a defined number of cubits , for a definite period of time . 
It is now some ten days since Ishmael , pitying the state in which he saw me , a humble lover of science , imparted the fact that the vehicle contained a beast , which he was carrying into the prairies as a decoy , by which he intends to entrap others of the same genus , or perhaps species . 
Paul continued to listen , in the most profound silence , until the Doctor concluded his singular but characteristic explanation ; then the incredulous bee-hunter shook his head , and saw fit to reply , by saying -- `` Stranger , old Ishmael has burrowed you in the very bottom of a hollow tree , where your eyes will be of no more use than the sting of a drone . 
`` Your uncle is , and always will be a dull calculator , Nell , '' observed the mother , after a long pause in a conversation that had turned on the labours of the day ; `` a lazy hand at figures and foreknowledge is that said Ishmael Bush ! 
Here he sat lolloping about the rock from light till noon , doing nothing but scheme -- scheme -- scheme -- with seven as noble boys at his elbows as woman ever gave to man ; and what 's the upshot ! 
why , night is setting in , and his needful work not yet ended . '' 
`` It is not prudent , certainly , aunt , '' Ellen replied , with a vacancy in her air , that proved how little she knew what she was saying ; `` and it is setting a very bad example to his sons . '' 
I should like to see the man on the whole frontier who sets a more honest example to his children than this same Ishmael Bush ! 
Show me , if you can , Miss Fault-finder , but not fault-mender , a set of boys who will , on occasion , sooner chop a piece of logging and dress it for the crop , than my own children ; though I say it myself , who , perhaps , should be silent ; or a cradler that knows better how to lead a gang of hands through a field of wheat , leaving a cleaner stubble in his track , than my own good man ! 
Ishmael might have spared his lungs more than a moiety of the effort they were compelled to make in order that he should be heard . 
He had hardly uttered the name of his wife , before the whole of the crouching circle rose in a body , and tumbling over each other , they precipitated themselves down the dangerous passes of the rock with ungovernable impatience . 
`` The plain is free from red-skins , to-night at least , '' said Ishmael , after the bustle of reception had a little subsided ; `` for I have scoured the prairie for many long miles , on my own feet , and I call myself a judge of the print of an Indian moccasin . 
`` Ay , the boy knows too much of many things , '' returned Ishmael , gloomily . 
`` Call 'em twelve , at once , Ishmael ; call 'em twelve ! '' 
cried his termagant assistant . 
Ishmael , you rarely attempt a regular trade but you come out the loser ; and this man , I reckon , is the hardest bargain among them all ! 
`` It is a pity , Eester , '' her husband coolly answered , `` that you did not take it ; I reckon it would have done you considerable good . 
The reader will remember that the citadel of Ishmael stood insulated , lofty , ragged , and nearly inaccessible . 
Ishmael looked sternly around the circle of his silent sons , as if to see whether any among them would presume to say aught in favour of the absent delinquent . 
Ishmael , too sluggish to pursue the subject , or content with the pointed allusion he had just made , rose from his seat on the rock , and stretching his heavy frame , like a well-fed and fattened ox , he announced his intention to sleep . 
One after another disappeared , each seeking his or her rude dormitory , and , before many minutes , Esther , who by this time had scolded the younger fry to sleep , found herself , if we except the usual watchman below , in solitary possession of the naked rock . 
His advance , though abundantly guarded , was not entirely noiseless ; but while he was felicitating himself on having successfully effected his object , and he was in the very act of placing his foot on the highest ledge , a hand was laid upon the skirts of his coat , which as effectually put an end to his advance , as though the gigantic strength of Ishmael himself had pinned him to the earth . 
`` Is there sickness in the tent , '' whispered a soft voice in his very ear , `` that Dr. Battius is called to visit it at such an hour ? '' 
So soon as the heart of the naturalist had returned from its hasty expedition into his throat , as one less skilled than Dr. Battius in the formation of the animal would have been apt to have accounted for the extraordinary sensation with which he received this unlooked-for interruption , he found resolution to reply ; using , as much in terror as in prudence , the same precaution in the indulgence of his voice . 
Should Ishmael gain a knowledge of our plans , he would not hesitate to cast us both from off this rock , upon the plain beneath . 
As the Doctor delivered his injunctions between the intervals of his ascent , by the time they were concluded , both he and his auditor had gained the upper level . 
`` Nothing shall be concealed from thee , my worthy and trusty Nelly -- but are you certain that Ishmael will not awake ? '' 
`` No fear of him ; he will sleep until the sun scorches his eye-lids . 
`` You mean Ishmael Bush , my father 's brother 's widow 's husband , '' returned the offended girl , a little proudly . 
If the animal prove a quadruped , Ishmael is a true man -- if a biped , fledged or unfledged , I care not , he is false , and our compactum at an end ! '' 
The young men brooded over the absence of their elder brother , and the brows of Ishmael himself were sternly knit , as he cast his scowling eyes from one to the other , like a man who was preparing to meet and to repel an expected assault on his authority . 
But , you , old Esther , should know better than to think such will ever be the nature of things in the family of Ishmael Bush . '' 
I know it well , Ishmael ; and one of your sons have you driven from you , by your temper ; and that , too , at a time when he is most wanted . '' 
drily demanded Ishmael : `` it must be a rare doser that , if it gives a heavy feel to the tongue of old Eester ! '' 
She is right , Ishmael ; and what she says , shall be done . 
Ishmael prudently yielded to an impulse he could not resist , and in a few minutes the woman appeared , shouldering her arms , prepared to lead forth , in person , such of her descendants as chose to follow in her train . 
`` Abiram , it will not do to leave the huts without some guard , '' Ishmael whispered , glancing his eye upward . 
The man whom he addressed started , and betrayed extraordinary eagerness in his reply . 
A dozen voices were instantly raised in objections to this proposal . 
He was wanted to point out the places where the hostile tracks had been seen , and his termagant sister openly scouted at the idea , as unworthy of his manhood . 
The reluctant Abiram was compelled to yield , and Ishmael made a new disposition for the defence of the place ; which was admitted , by every one , to be all-important to their security and comfort . 
He offered the post of commandant to Dr. Battius , who , however , peremptorily and somewhat haughtily , declined the doubtful honour ; exchanging looks of singular intelligence with Ellen , as he did so . 
Ishmael , himself , moved among his tall children , like one who expected nothing from the search , and who was indifferent alike to its success or failure . 
Here , however , Ishmael chose to pause , and casting the butt of his rifle from his shoulder to the ground , he observed -- `` This is enough . 
`` Still farther to the west , '' returned the other , pointing in the direction he named . 
`` And a bloody piece of work you made of it , man ; '' cried the squatter , pointing tauntingly to the soiled garments of his kinsman , and then directing the attention of the spectators to his own , by the way of a triumphant contrast . 
Ishmael regarded his intractable mate with a smile of indulgent pity . 
Observing that she had already struck out a path for herself , different both from that of Abiram and the one he had seen fit to choose , and being unwilling to draw the cord of authority too tight , just at that moment , he again sullenly submitted to her will . 
cried Ishmael , knocking up the levelled weapon of his too eager son . 
we have hunters nigh : there ar ' two of them ! '' 
One was an aged dog , whose strength seemed to be sustained purely by his generous emulation , and the other a pup , that gambolled even while he pressed most warmly on the chase . 
They had passed ; and in another minute they would have been running open-mouthed with the deer in view , had not the younger dog suddenly bounded from the course and uttered a cry of surprise . 
His aged companion stopped also , and returned panting and exhausted to the place , where the other was whirling around in swift , and apparently in mad evolutions , circling the spot in his own footsteps , and continuing his outcry , in a short , snappish barking . 
But , when the elder hound had reached the spot , he seated himself , and lifting his nose high into the air , he raised a long , loud , and wailing howl . 
`` Come away , boys ; come away , and leave the hounds to sing their tunes for their own amusement , '' Ishmael said , in his coldest manner . 
`` Tell me , you Abner -- Abiram -- Ishmael ! '' 
what sort of animal has here met his death ? 
Remember , Ishmael , ` twill be a risky job , and one of small profit ! '' 
Ishmael stood for many minutes , with his wife and children clustered together , in an amazement , with which awe was singularly mingled , gazing in death-like stillness on the imposing sight . 
One of the young men complied ; and having succeeded in detaching the hounds from the place , around which , until then , they had not ceased to hover , he led them down to the margin of the thicket . 
`` Put them in , boy ; put them in , '' continued the woman ; `` and you , Ishmael and Abiram , if anything wicked or hurtful comes forth , show them the use of your rifles , like frontier-men . 
But , it would seem , that the elder dog was restrained by some extraordinary sensation , or that he was much too experienced to attempt the rash adventure . 
After proceeding a few yards to the very verge of the brake , he made a sudden pause , and stood trembling in all his aged limbs , apparently as unable to recede as to advance . 
For a minute the pup also was similarly affected ; but less sage , or more easily excited , he was induced at length to leap forward , and finally to dash into the cover . 
An alarmed and startling howl was heard , and , at the next minute , he broke out of the thicket , and commenced circling the spot , in the same wild and unsteady manner as before . 
Tell me , Ishmael , Abiram , Abner ! 
In vain Ishmael attempted a few words of rude consolation ; she neither listened nor answered . 
answered Ishmael ; `` Twice have they put me deeply in their debt ! 
Ishmael made no objections ; but , though he accompanied his children while they proceeded in the investigation , it was more with the appearance of complying with their wishes , at a time when resistance might not be seemly , than with any visible interest in the result . 
To this probable opinion there was now but one dissenting voice , that of the slow-minded Ishmael , who demanded that the corpse itself should be examined in order to a more accurate knowledge of its injuries . 
On examination , it appeared that a rifle bullet had passed directly through the body of the deceased , entering beneath one of his brawny shoulders , and making its exit by the breast . 
It required some knowledge in gun-shot wounds to decide this delicate point , but the experience of the borderers was quite equal to the scrutiny ; and a smile of wild , and certainly of singular satisfaction , passed among the sons of Ishmael , when Abner confidently announced that the enemies of Asa had assailed him in the rear . 
Ishmael took it in his hand and eyed it long and closely . 
`` There 's no mistake ; '' at length he muttered through his compressed teeth . 
Now , Ishmael , will you believe me when I tell you the old knave is a spy of the red-skins ! '' 
Ishmael seemed to press this proof with a singular mixture of sorrow and pride : sorrow , at the loss of a son , whom in their moments of amity he highly valued ; and pride , at the courage and power he had manifested to his last and weakest breath . 
`` He died as a son of mine should die , '' said the squatter , gleaning a hollow consolation from so unnatural an exultation ; `` a dread to his enemy to the last , and without help from the law ! 
Come , children ; we have first the grave to make , and then to hunt his murderer . '' 
When these arrangements were completed , Ishmael approached the seemingly unconscious Esther , and announced his intention to inter the dead . 
She heard him , and quietly relinquished her grasp of the corpse , rising in silence to follow it to its narrow resting place . 
Ishmael stood , with folded arms , steadily watching the manner in which this necessary duty was performed , and when the whole was completed , he lifted his cap to his sons , to thank them for their services , with a dignity that would have become one much better nurtured . 
The woman turned her eyes slowly from the fresh earth , and laying her hands on the shoulders of her husband , stood looking him anxiously in the eyes for many moments , before she uttered in a voice , deep , frightful , and nearly choked -- `` Ishmael ! 
Ishmael ! 
But he , Ishmael , he has not the sin of wasted l'arning to answer for . 
We have spared him that , at least ! 
United to their parents by ties no stronger than those which use had created , there had been great danger , as Ishmael had foreseen , that the overloaded hive would quickly swarm , and leave him saddled with the difficulties of a young and helpless brood , unsupported by the exertions of those , whom he had already brought to a state of maturity . 
But then , these images were so transient and so much obscured in intellectual mists , as to leave no very strong impressions , and the tendency of the whole transaction , as we have already said , was rather to strengthen than to weaken the authority of Ishmael . 
said Ishmael , who , from time to time , did not cease to utter something which he intended should be consolatory to the bruised spirit of his stricken partner . 
`` Say not so , good woman , '' returned the father , glancing his eye a little proudly at the athletic train which followed , at no great distance , in the rear . 
`` Thankful , thankful , '' muttered the humbled woman , `` ye mean thankful ; Ishmael ! '' 
Death is a sad worker in the bosom of families , Ishmael ! 
`` It is not so , '' said Ishmael , whose usually inflexible features were beginning to manifest the uneasiness he violently felt . 
For a moment even Ishmael faltered before the weight of such an unexpected blow . 
But shaking himself , like an awakened lion , he sprang forward , and pushing aside the impediments of the barrier , as though they had been feathers , he rushed up the ascent with an impetuosity which proved how formidable a sluggish nature may become , when thoroughly aroused . 
Esther had already , on one occasion , made good the log tenement of Ishmael against an inroad of savages ; and on another , she had been left for dead by her enemies , after a defence that with a more civilized foe would have entitled her to the honours and attentions of a liberal capitulation . 
I have been deceived in the very premises , and , I hereby pronounce , a certain compactum entered into and concluded between Ishmael Bush , squatter , and Obed Battius , M. D. to be incontinently null and of non-effect . 
We have come to right the wronged and to free the imprisoned ; now , if you are the girl of a true heart , as I have always believed , so far from throwing straws in our way , you will join in the general swarming , and leave old Ishmael and his hive to the bees of his own breed . '' 
I should like to see the man of them all that dare come up into the camp of Ishmael Bush , without asking leave of his children ! '' 
Beware the bush -- beware the bush ! 
Ah ! 
he has done it ; safely and bravely has he done it ! 
In this manner a bloodless and complete victory was obtained over that citadel which Ishmael had vainly flattered himself might prove impregnable , for the short period of his absence . 
It was not difficult to trace a train like that of Ishmael until he was well assured its object lay far beyond the usual limits of the settlements . 
This circumstance in itself quickened his suspicions , and gave additional force to his hopes of final success . 
I was sworn by my patron saint , and faithfully did I keep the vow , until the man they call Ishmael forgot the terms by offering violence . 
The first act of Paul Hover , on finding himself the master of Ishmael 's citadel , had been to sound the note of victory , after the quaint and ludicrous manner that is so often practised among the borderers of the West . 
Flapping his sides with his hands , as the conquering game-cock is wont to do with his wings , he raised a loud and laughable imitation of the exultation of this bird ; a cry which might have proved a dangerous challenge had any one of the athletic sons of the squatter been within hearing . 
come and behold the prospect of skirting Ishmael ; come and look nature boldly in the face , and not go sneaking any longer , among the prairie grass and mullein tops , like a gobbler nibbling for grasshoppers . '' 
As time began to press upon them , and there was great danger of Ishmael 's returning , these several movements were made with singular industry and despatch . 
`` She is just as much a relation of skirting Ishmael , as I am a bishop ! '' 
Tell me that a drone has a sting , and I 'll believe you as easily as I will that this young woman is a debtor to any of the tribe of Bush ! '' 
Favoured by this circumstance he succeeded in reaching the bushes in sufficient time , and Paul Hover had just hurried the breathless Ellen into the tangled brush , as Ishmael gained the summit of the rock , in the manner already described , where he stood like a man momentarily bereft of his senses , gazing at the confusion which had been created among his chattles , or at his gagged and bound children , who had been safely bestowed by the forethought of the bee-hunter under the cover of a bark roof , in a sort of irregular pile . 
`` If old Ishmael gets a squint at that highway through the brush , '' cried Paul , casting , as he left the place , a hasty glance at the broad trail the party had made through the thicket , `` he 'll need no finger-board to tell him which way his road lies . 
But let him follow ! 
I know the vagabond would gladly cross his breed with a little honest blood , but if any son of his ever gets to be the husband of -- '' `` Hush , Paul , hush , '' said the blushing and terrified young woman , who leaned on his arm for support , `` your voice might be heard . '' 
As each one was busy for himself , but a few minutes elapsed before the party rose a swell of the prairie and descending without a moment 's delay on the opposite side , they were at once removed from every danger of being seen by the sons of Ishmael , unless the pursuers should happen to fall upon their trail . 
exclaimed Paul , thrusting his hand into his shaggy locks , like one who thought it prudent to hesitate before he undertook so formidable an adventure ; `` Now heark ` ee , old trapper ; I 've stood in my thinnest cottons in the midst of many a swarm that has lost its queen-bee , without winking , and let me tell you , the man who can do that , is not likely to fear any living son of skirting Ishmael ; but as to meddling with dead men 's bones , why it is neither my calling nor my inclination ; so , after thanking you for the favour of your choice , as they say , when they make a man a corporal in the Kentucky militia , I decline serving . '' 
No stone , no bush , no plant is ever suffered to escape the examination of their vigilant eyes , and thunder may mutter , and rain fall , without disturbing the pleasing abstraction of their reveries . 
It was perhaps lucky for his fortitude that he was ignorant of the artifice of the trapper in leading them around the citadel of Ishmael , and that he had imbibed the soothing impression that every inch of prairie he traversed was just so much added to the distance between his own person and the detested rock . 
Notwithstanding the momentary shock he certainly experienced , when he discovered this error , he was the man who now so boldly volunteered to enter the thicket in which there was some reason to believe the body of the murdered Asa still lay . 
Though not in sight , a bush may hide him . '' 
Not so Paul ; conceiving himself to have obtained the two things dearest to his heart , the possession of Ellen and a triumph over the sons of Ishmael , he now enacted his part , in the business of the moment , with as much coolness as though he was already leading his willing bride , from solemnizing their nuptials before a border magistrate , to the security of his own dwelling . 
He had hovered around the moving family , during the tedious period of their weary march , concealing himself by day , and seeking interviews with his betrothed as opportunities offered , in the manner already described , until fortune and his own intrepidity had united to render him successful at the very moment when he was beginning to despair , and he now cared neither for distance , nor violence , nor hardships . 
To his sanguine fancy and determined resolution all the rest was easily to be achieved . 
Such were his feelings , and such in truth they seemed to be . 
With his cap cast on one side and whistling a low air , he thrashed among the bushes , in order to make a place suitable for the females to repose on , while , from time to time , he cast an approving glance at the agile and rounded form of Ellen , as she tripped past him in the pursuit of her own share of the duty . 
A single cast of an eye this-a-way , would strip us of every rag of clothes , as surely as the lightning scorches the bush , and it might be that our very lives would be far from safe . 
These buffaloes have crossed their path , and in chasing the animals , bad luck has led them in open sight of the hill on which the brood of Ishmael have harboured . 
He then directed his eyes along the ground to those several places where Ishmael had found the same revolting evidences of the passage of some bloody struggle , and motioned to his people to follow . '' 
Here he fastened his penetrating eyes on the other 's honest countenance , and continued the discourse -- `` If my father has hid his young men in the bush , let him tell them to come forth . 
Let him point it in the bush and fire . '' 
The trapper , who had found time to collect his perplexed faculties , saw at once that Middleton , having perceived Ishmael on the trail by which they had fled , preferred trusting to the hospitality of the savages , than to the treatment he would be likely to receive from the hands of the squatter . 
He therefore disposed himself to clear the way for the favourable reception of his friends , since he found that the unnatural coalition became necessary to secure the liberty if not the lives of the party . 
`` Did my brother ever go on a war-path to strike my people ? '' 
he calmly demanded of the indignant chief , who still awaited his reply . 
The lowering aspect of the Teton warrior so far lost its severity , as to suffer a gleam of pleasure and triumph to lighten its ferocity , as sweeping his arm in an entire circle around his person he answered -- `` What tribe or nation has not felt the blows of the Dahcotahs ? 
While affecting to examine the groupe , which still lingered at the spot where it had first halted , as if to discover the characters of those who composed it , he plainly saw that Ishmael contemplated immediate hostilities . 
The result of a conflict on the open prairie , between a dozen resolute border-men , and the half-armed natives , even though seconded by their white allies , was in his experienced judgment a point of great uncertainty , and though far from reluctant to engage in the struggle on account of himself , the aged trapper thought it far more worthy of his years and his character to avoid than to court the contest . 
Then he bent his look on the party of Ishmael and counted its number . 
The Doctor , with infinite labour to himself and Asinus , had maintained a position in the very centre of the Siouxes , so long as there existed the smallest reason for believing that any of the missiles of Ishmael might arrive in contact with his person . 
After this danger had diminished , or rather disappeared entirely , his own courage revived while that of his steed began to droop . 
`` Now Ishmael , my man , if sight and hand ar ' true as ever , now is the time to work upon these Red-skins , who claim to own all your property , even to wife and children ! 
Even the trapper lent his practised faculties , in vain , to detect any of the well-known signs , which might establish the important fact that hostilities had actually commenced between the parties of Mahtoree and Ishmael ; but their horses carried them out of the reach of sounds without the occurrence of the smallest evidence of the sort . 
Then Ishmael and his sluggish sons were seen in the distance , and soon the whole of the united force moved down to the very limits of the stream . 
In short , the family of Ishmael appeared now to be in the plenitude of an enjoyment , which depended on inactivity , but which was not entirely free from certain confused glimmerings of a perspective , in which their security stood in some little danger of a rude interruption from Teton treachery . 
His influence over the bolder , but less active , spirit of Ishmael was far from great , and had not the latter been suddenly expelled a fertile bottom , of which he had taken possession , with intent to keep it , without much deference to the forms of law , he would never have succeeded in enlisting the husband of his sister in an enterprise that required so much decision and forethought . 
`` Nay , nay , I speak not now of any strollers , who have crept into the land to rob the lawful owners of their birth-right , but of a people who are , or rather were , what with nature and what with paint , red as the berry on the bush . '' 
Mahtoreeencountered , at the door of his lodge , the persons of Ishmael , Abiram , and Esther . 
`` Look you here , old gray-beard , '' said Ishmael , seizing the trapper , and whirling him round as though he had been a toy ; `` that I 'm tired of carrying on a discourse with fingers and thumbs , instead of a tongue , ar ' a natural fact ; so you 'll play linguister and put my words into up-and-down Indian , without much caring whether they suit the stomach of a Red-skin or not . '' 
`` It is little that Ishmael Bush regards who or what is damaged in claiming his own . 
Perfectly satisfied , himself , with this laconic reply , the chief was moving towards his expecting counsellors , when suddenly returning he interrupted the translation of the trapper by adding -- `` Tell the Great Buffaloe '' -LRB- a name by which the Tetons had already christened Ishmael , -RRB- `` that Mahtoree has a hand which is always open . 
See , '' he added , pointing to the hard and wrinkled visage of the attentive Esther , `` his wife is too old , for so great a chief . 
Ishmael listened to these replies to his several demands with that species of gathering indignation , with which the dullest tempers mount into the most violent paroxysms of rage . 
He even affected to laugh at the conceit of exchanging his long-tried Esther for the more flexible support of the youthful Tachechana , though his voice was hollow and unnatural in the effort . 
And you , Ishmael Bush , the father of seven sons and so many comely daughters , to open yoursinful mouth , except to curse him ! 
Ishmael , who had made his demands with a stout determination to enforce them , was diverted by the windy torrent , like many a more obstinate husband , from his purpose , and in order to appease a jealousy , that resembled the fury with which the bear defends her cubs , was fain to retire to a distance from the lodge , that was known to contain the unoffending object of the sudden uproar . 
`` Let your copper-coloured minx come forth , and shew her tawney beauty before the face of a woman who has heard more than one church bell , and seen a power of real quality , '' cried Esther , flourishing her hand in triumph , as she drove Ishmael and Abiram before her , like two truant boys , towards their own encampment . 
Not that I care , I , who comes into my place , when it is once lawfully empty , but , Ishmael , I never thought that you , who have had one woman with a white skin , would find pleasure in looking on a brazen -- ay , that she is copper ar ' a fact ; you ca n't deny it , and I warrant me , brazen enough is she too ! '' 
But it would seem that while Ishmael made such a concession to the awakened feelings of Esther , he was far from so easily abandoning his original intentions . 
Here he again pitched his tents , unharnessed his teams , sent his cattle on the bottom , and , in short , made all the customary preparations to pass the night , with the same coolness and deliberation as though he had not just hurled an irritating defiance into the very teeth of his dangerous neighbours . 
Turning , under a sort of confused impression that necromancy was actually abroad in the place , he found that he was in the hands of a sorcerer no less dangerous and powerful than Ishmael Bush . 
Neither Ishmael nor his sons deemed it necessary to enter into prolix explanations . 
During this summary and brief disposition of things , the disappointed agent of Mahtoree and his callous associates were seen flying across the plain , in the direction of the retiring families , and when Ishmael left the spot with his prisoners and his booty , the ground , which had so lately been alive with the bustle and life of an extensive Indian encampment , was as still and empty as any other spot in those extensive wastes . 
As the Teton spoke , he pointed towards the tents of Ishmael , which were in plain sight , and then he paused , to await the effect of his words on the mind of his ingenuous foe . 
In consequence of the admonitions of their leaders , the Siouxes sought such covers as the grass afforded , or here and there some bush or slight inequality of the ground , and the charges of the Pawnee warriors necessarily became more wary , and of course less fatal . 
Then came Ishmael and his stout sons in open view , bearing down upon their late treacherous allies , with looks and voices that proclaimed the character of their succour . 
The tents of Ishmael were still standing , where they had been last seen , but not another vestige of human existence could be traced in any other part of the waste . 
Here and there little flocks of ravenous birds were sailing and screaming above those spots where some heavy-footed Teton had met his death , but every other sign of the recent combat had passed away . 
Ishmael moved through his little encampment , with the seriousness of one who had been unexpectedly charged with matters of a gravity far exceeding any of the ordinary occurrences of his irregular existence . 
There were certain misgivings , in the frequent glances that he turned on the unyielding countenance of Ishmael , which might have betrayed how little of their former confidence and good-understanding existed between them . 
It was in this state of things that the sons of Ishmael , in obedience to an order from their father , conducted the several subjects of his contemplated decisions , from their places of confinement into the open air . 
Ishmael had received his new ally with a coldness that showed his entire insensibility to that delicacy , which had induced the young chief to come alone , in order that the presence of his warriors might not create uneasiness or distrust . 
He neither courted their assistance nor dreaded their enmity , and he now proceeded to the business of the hour with as much composure , as though the species of patriarchal power , he actually wielded , was universally recognized . 
But the effect on Ishmael Bush was not so disheartening . 
Grave in exterior , saturnine by temperament , formidable by his physical means , and dangerous from his lawless obstinacy , his selfconstituted tribunal excited a degree of awe , to which even the intelligent Middleton could not bring himself to be entirely insensible . 
When Ishmael had delivered his mind thus far , he paused and looked about him , as if he would trace the effects in the countenances of his hearers . 
When his eye met that of Middleton , he was answered by the latter -- `` If the evil-doer is to be punished , and he that has offended none to be left to go at large , you must change situations with me , and become a prisoner instead of a judge . '' 
`` You mean to say that I have done you wrong , in taking the lady from her father 's house , and leading her so far against her will into these wild districts , '' returned the unmoved squatter , who manifested as little resentment as he betrayed compunction at the charge . 
said Ishmael , stretching his heavy hand towards his kinsman , in a manner that instantly silenced the speaker . 
If fear of the law had come over me , you would not be here to witness the manner in which Ishmael Bush deals out justice . '' 
`` Yes , there is too much truth in his words , squatter ; '' said the trapper , whose attentive ears rarely suffered a syllable to be uttered unheeded in his presence . 
During the delivery of this very pertinent opinion , Ishmael was content to be silent , though the look , with which he regarded the speaker , manifested any other feeling than that of amity . 
`` But what I did was to liberate -- '' `` The matter is settled between us , '' interrupted Ishmael , with the air of one who , having made up his own opinion on the merits of the question , cared very little for those of other people ; `` you and your wife are free to go and come , when and how you please . 
The singular felicity , with which Ishmael had contrived to shift the responsibility of all that had passed , from his own shoulders to those of his prisoners , backed as it was by circumstances that hardly admitted of a very philosophical examination of any mooted point in ethics , was sufficiently embarrassing to the several individuals , who were so unexpectedly required to answer for a conduct which , in their simplicity they had deemed so meritorious . 
`` That there did exist a certain compactum or agreement between Obed Batt , M. D. , and Ishmael Bush , viator , or erratic husbandman , '' he said , endeavouring to avoid all offence in the use of terms , `` I am not disposed to deny . 
`` Ishmael ! '' 
One thing ar ' a fact , Ishmael ; I like no fellow travellers who can give a heavy feel to an honest woman 's tongue , I -- and that without caring whether her household is in order or out of order . '' 
`` And now , Ishmael , '' resumed his conquering wife , `` in order to keep a quiet family and to smother all heart-burnings between us , show yonder Red-skin and his daughter , '' pointing to the aged Le Balafr and the widowed Tachechana , `` the way to their village , and let us say to them : God bless you and farewell in the same breath ! '' 
`` And , now , young man ; you , who have so often come into my clearing , under the pretence of lining the bee into his hole , '' resumed Ishmael , after a momentary pause , as if to recover the equilibrium of his mind , `` with you there is a heavier account to settle . 
`` Harkee , friend Ishmael Bush , '' returned the bee-hunter , who found that he was expected to answer to the charge of burglary as well as to that of abduction ; `` that I did not give the most civil treatment to your pots and pails , I am not going to gainsay . 
`` It is quite plain , friend Bush , '' he said , `` that there are two opinions in this matter ; yours for your sons and mine for myself . 
`` Take the cords from the young man , '' said Ishmael . 
When the order was obeyed , he motioned for all his sons to advance , and he placed them in a row before the eyes of Ellen . 
Ishmael signed to his sons to fall back , and evidently mortified , though perhaps not disappointed by the result , he no longer hesitated . 
`` Take her , '' he said , `` and deal honestly and kindly by her . 
`` Look then at this , '' said Ishmael , placing before the eyes of the Captain the bullet that had been found about the person of the dead Asa ; `` with this morsel of lead did he lay low as fine a boy as ever gave joy to a parent 's eyes ! '' 
You little thought that one was so nigh , who saw into all the circumventions of your hunt , but there was I , sometimes flat behind a bush or a tuft of grass , sometimes rolling down a hill into a bottom , and little did you dream that your motions were watched , as the panther watches the drinking deer . 
The voice of Ishmael was deep and even awful , as he answered -- `` It is enough . 
The wild and disordered gleam of his eye at first induced the young men to arrest their steps , but when Abner , older and more resolute than the rest , advanced full upon him , with a countenance that bespoke the hostile state of his mind , the affrighted criminal turned , and making an abortive effort to fly , fell with his face to the earth , to all appearance perfectly dead . 
Amid the low exclamations of horror , which succeeded , Ishmael made a gesture which commanded his sons to bear the body into a tent . 
`` Now , '' he said , turning to those who were strangers in his camp , `` nothing is left to be done , but for each to go his own road . 
Throughout the whole of these preparations Ishmael had rarely spoken . 
A gesture , or a glance of the eye , had served to indicate his pleasure to his sons , and with these simple methods of communication , all parties appeared perfectly content . 
Still nothing else transpired for hours , that might denote the existence of any sudden or violent revolution in the purposes or feelings of Ishmael . 
During all that time he marched alone , keeping a few hundred rods in front of his teams , seldom giving any sign of extraordinary excitement . 
Once or twice , indeed , his huge figure was seen standing on the summit of some distant swell , with the head bent towards the earth , as he leaned on his rifle ; but then these moments of intense thought were rare and of short continuance . 
Long practised in the difficulties of that peculiar species of travelling in which he was engaged , the squatter avoided the more impracticable obstacles of their route by a sort of instinct , invariably inclining to the right or left in season , as the formation of the land , the presence of trees , or the signs of rivers forewarned him of the necessity of such movements . 
Ishmael chose the required spot with all his customary sagacity . 
Ishmael chose a spring , that broke out of the base of a rock some forty or fifty feet in elevation , as a place well suited to the wants of his herds . 
Here Ishmael , after making the customary signal for the train to approach , threw his vast frame upon the earth , and seemed to muse on the deep responsibility of his present situation . 
The impression made by the scene of that morning was not so deep or lasting on the children of Ishmael and Esther , as to induce them to forget the wants of nature . 
Ishmael signed to his wife to take a seat beside him on a fragment of rock , and then followed a space , during which neither seemed disposed to speak . 
`` We have journeyed together long , through good and bad , '' Ishmael at length commenced ; `` much have we had to try us , and some bitter cups have we been made to swallow , my woman ; but nothing like this has ever before lain in my path . '' 
`` Oh , Ishmael , we pushed the matter far ! 
but his mercy was not slow in lifting the veil ; I looked into the book , Ishmael , and there I found the words of comfort . '' 
`` There are many awful passages in these pages , Ishmael , '' she said , when the volume was opened , and the leaves were slowly turning under her finger , `` and some there ar ' that teach the rules of punishment . '' 
Ishmael listened with grave attention , as his companion read all those verses , which her memory suggested , and which were thought applicable to the situation in which they found themselves . 
He made her show him the words , which he regarded with a sort of strange reverence . 
A resolution once taken was usually irrevocable , in one who was moved with so much difficulty . 
He put his hand upon the book , and closed the pages himself , as much as to apprize his wife that he was satisfied . 
Esther , who so well knew his character , trembled at the action , and casting a glance at his steady but contracting eye , she said -- `` And yet , Ishmael , my blood , and the blood of my children , is in his veins ! 
`` Woman , '' he answered sternly , `` when we believed , that miserable old trapper had done this deed , nothing was said of mercy ! '' 
The sons of Ishmael turned away in horror at the disgusting spectacle , and even the stern nature of the squatter began to bend before such abject misery . 
Ishmael awaited its arrival . 
He received from the hands of one of his wondering and frighted girls a fragment of that book , which Esther had preserved with so much care . 
Ishmael proceeded to put his new resolution in force . 
The immediate apprehensions of the kidnapper were quieted , by an assurance that he might yet live for days , though his punishment was inevitable . 
Oh , Ishmael , you know not how sweet life is , when the last moment draws so nigh ! '' 
Ishmael then turned and pursued his way across the plain at his ordinary sluggish and ponderous gait . 
Though his head was bent a little towards the earth , his inactive mind did not prompt him to cast a look behind . 
Once , indeed , he thought he heard his name called , in tones that were a little smothered , but they failed to make him pause . 
At the spot where he and Esther had conferred he reached the boundary of the visible horizon from the rock . 
Here he stopped , and ventured a glance in the direction of the place he had just quitted . 
The sun was near dipping into the plains beyond , and its last rays lighted the naked branches of the willow . 
He saw the ragged outline of the whole drawn against the glowing heavens , and he even traced the still upright form of the being he had left to his misery . 
Turning the roll of the swell he proceeded with the feelings of one , who had been suddenly and violently separated from a recent confederate , forever . 
Ishmael bade his sons seek their rest , announcing his intention to look to the safety of the camp in person . 
When all was still , he walked out upon the prairie , with a sort of sensation that he found his breathing among the tents too straitened . 
Yielding to the extraordinary impulses of which he was the subject , he cast a glance around to see that all were slumbering in security , and then he strayed towards the swell of land already mentioned . 
For the first time , in a life of so much wild adventure , Ishmael felt a keen sense of solitude . 
It was not long before he thought a shriek was borne past him on a blast . 
It was not often that the blood of Ishmael moved at the rate with which the fluid circulates in the veins of ordinary men ; but now he felt it ready to gush from every pore in his body . 
The animal was aroused in his most latent energies . 
Ever as he advanced he heard those shrieks , which sometimes seemed ringing among the clouds , and sometimes passed so nigh as to appear to brush the earth . 
When he withdrew the latter , a low and husky voice at his elbow asked in smothered tones -- `` Ishmael , my man , heard ye nothing ? '' 
`` Ishmael , he murdered our first-born , but it is not meet that the son of my mother should lie upon the ground , like the carrion of a dog ! '' 
The moon broke from behind a mass of clouds , and the eye of the woman was enabled to follow the finger of Ishmael . 
But Ishmael drew nigher , and long contemplated his work in awe , though not in compunction . 
As the lifeless form descended , Esther , who sustained the head , looked up into the face of her husband with an expression of anguish , and said -- `` Ishmael , my man , it is very terrible ! 
Esther lingered on her knees , and Ishmael stood uncovered while the woman muttered a prayer . 
