`` Well , Eric , '' said Fanny , raising her matter-of-fact quiet face from her endless work , `` I doubt , dear , whether you will talk of it with quite as much joy a year hence . '' 
It was not merely that she would have to part with Eric , `` but that bright boy , '' thought Fanny , `` what will become of him ? 
Eric Williams was now twelve years old . 
His father was a civilian in India , and was returning on furlough to England , after a long absence . 
Eric had been born in India , but had been sent to England by his parents at an early age , in charge of a lady friend of his mother . 
The parting , which had been agony to his father and mother , he was too young to feel ; indeed the moment itself passed by without his being conscious of it . 
They took him on board the ship , and , after a time , gave him a hammer and some nails to play with . 
These had always been to him a supreme delight , and while he hammered away , Mr. and Mrs. Williams , denying themselves , for the child 's sake even one more tearful embrace , went ashore in the boat and left him . 
It was not till the ship sailed that he was told he would not see them again for a long , long time . 
Poor child , his tears and cries were wild when he first understood it ; but the sorrows of four years old are very transient , and before a week was over , little Eric felt almost reconciled to his position , and had become the universal pet and plaything of every one on board , from Captain Broadland down to the cabin boy , with whom he very soon struck up an acquaintance . 
When Eric arrived in England , he was intrusted to the care of a widowed aunt , whose daughter , Fanny , had the main charge of his early teaching . 
At first , the wayward little Indian seemed likely to form no accession to the quiet household , but he soon became its brightest ornament and pride . 
Everything was in his favour at the pleasant home of Mrs. Trevor . 
He was treated with motherly kindness and tenderness , yet firmly checked when he went wrong . 
From the first he had a well-spring of strength against temptation , in the long letters which every mail brought from his parents ; and all his childish affections were entwined round the fancied image of a brother born since he had left India . 
In his bed-room there hung a cherub 's head , drawn in pencil by his mother , and this picture was inextricably identified in his imagination with his `` little brother Vernon . '' 
He loved it dearly , and whenever he went astray , nothing weighed on his mind so strongly as the thought , that if he were naughty he would teach little Vernon to be naughty too when he came home . 
And Nature also -- wisest , gentlest , holiest of teachers -- was with him in his childhood . 
Fairholm Cottage , where his aunt lived , was situated in the beautiful Vale of Ayrton , and a clear stream ran through the valley at the bottom of Mrs. Trevor 's orchard . 
Eric loved this stream , and was always happy as he roamed by its side , or over the low green hills and scattered dingles , which lent unusual loveliness to every winding of its waters . 
He was allowed to go about a good deal by himself , and it did him good . 
He grew up fearless , and self-dependent , and never felt the want of amusement . 
The garden and orchard supplied him a theatre for endless games and romps , sometimes with no other companion than his cousin and his dog , and sometimes with the few children of his own age whom he knew in the hamlet . 
But above all , it was happy for Eric that his training was religious and enlightened . 
There was nothing exotic or constrained in the growth of Eric 's character . 
He was not one of your angelically good children at all , and knew none of the phrases of which infant prodigies are supposed to be so fond . 
He had not been taught any distinction between `` Sunday books '' and `` week-day books , '' but no book had been put in his way that was not healthy and genuine in tone . 
He had not been told that he might use his Noah 's ark on Sunday , because it was `` a Sunday plaything , '' while all other toys were on that day forbidden . 
Of these things the Trevors thought little ; they only saw that no child could be happy in enforced idleness or constrained employment ; and so Eric grew up to love Sunday quite as well as any other day in the week , though , unlike your angelic children , he never professed to like it better . 
But to be truthful , to be honest , to be kind , to be brave , these had been taught him , and he never quite forgot the lesson ; nor amid the sorrows of after life did he ever quite lose the sense -- learnt at dear quiet Fairholm -- of a present loving God , of a tender and long-suffering Father . 
But as Mr. Lawley allowed his upper class to hear the little boys their lessons , Eric had managed to get on pretty much as he liked . 
Only once in the entire half-year had he said a lesson to the dreadful master himself , and of course it was a ruinous failure , involving some tremendous pulls of Eric 's hair , and making him tremble like a leaf . 
Then , again , he spoke so indistinctly with his deep , gruff voice , that Eric never could and never did syllable a word he said , and this kept him in a perpetual terror . 
Only hearing that he was to do something , too frightened to ask what it was , and feeling sure that even if he did , he should not understand what the master said , Eric ran out , went straight to Mr. Lawley 's house , and after having managed by strenuous jumps to touch the knocker , informed the servant `` that Mr. Lawley wanted his man . '' 
all Eric knew was that he was in the habit of sending sometimes for one or other of these functionaries ; but he was in for it , so with a faltering voice he said `` the young man '' at hazard , and went back to the Latin school . 
Fear entirely prevented Eric from hearing what was said , so he answered at random , `` He 's coming , sir . '' 
`` A mistake , '' growled the schoolmaster , turning on Eric a look which nearly petrified him ; he quite expected a book at his head , or at best a great whack of the cane ; but Mr. Lawley had naturally a kind heart , soured as it was , and pitying perhaps the child 's white face , he contented himself with the effects of his look . 
It was a common practice among the Latin-school boys , as I suppose among all boys , to amuse themselves by putting a heavy book on the top of a door left partially ajar , and to cry out `` Crown him '' as the first luckless youngster who happened to come in received the book thundering on his head . 
The moment he entered the schoolroom , down came an Ainsworth 's Dictionary on the top of his hat , and the boy , concealed behind the door , unconscious of who the victim was , enunciated with mock gravity , `` Crown him ! 
A few years afterwards , Eric heard that he was dead . 
may he rest in peace . 
Such was Eric 's first school and schoolmaster . 
But although he learnt little , there , and gained no experience of the character of others or of his own , yet there was one point about Ayrton Latin School , which he never regretted . 
Many a time afterwards , when Eric , as he passed down the streets , interchanged friendly greetings with some young glazier or tradesman whom he remembered at school , he felt glad that thus early he had learnt practically to despise the accidental and nominal differences which separate man from man . 
Poor Eric ! 
although he had been longing for the time ever since the news came , yet now he was too agitated to enjoy . 
Exertion and expectation made him restless , and he could settle down to nothing all day , every hour of which hung most heavily on his hands . 
Far off they caught the sound of wheels ; a carriage dashed up to the door , and the next moment Eric sprang into his mother 's arms . 
In another moment Eric had been folded to his father 's heart , and locked in the arms of `` little brother Vernon . '' 
The little party at Fairholm retired early , and Eric was soon fast asleep with is arm round his new-found brother 's neck . 
Very happily the next month glided away ; a new life seemed opened to Eric in the world of rich affections which had unfolded itself before him . 
His parents -- above all , his mother -- were everything that he had longed for ; and Vernon more than fulfilled to his loving heart the ideal of his childish fancy . 
`` Ah , Eric , God grant that you may . '' 
But these words often came back to Eric 's mind in later and less happy days -- days when that gentle hand could no longer rest lovingly on his head -- when those mild blue eyes were dim with tears , and the fair boy , changed in heart and life , often flung himself down with an unreproaching conscience to prayerless sleep . 
It had been settled that in another week Eric was to go to school in the Isle of Roslyn . 
Mr. Williams had hired a small house in the town of Ellan , and intended to stay there for his year of furlough , at the end of which period Vernon was to be left at Fairholm , and Eric in the house of the head-master of the school . 
Eric enjoyed the prospect of all things , and he hardly fancied that Paradise itself could be happier than a life at the seaside with his father and mother and Vernon , combined with the commencement of schoolboy dignity . 
On the way Eric saw for the first time the strength of the hills , so that when they reached the town and took possession of their cottage , he was dumb with the inrush of new and marvellous impressions . 
Next morning he was awake early , and jumping out of bed , so as not to disturb the sleeping Vernon , he drew up the window-blind , and gently opened the window . 
Eric learnt the whole landscape by heart , and thought himself a most happy boy to come to such a place . 
He fancied that he should be never tired of looking at the sea , and could not take his eyes off the great buoy that rolled about in the centre of the bay , and flashed in the sunlight at every move . 
He turned round full of hope and spirits , and , after watching for a few moments the beautiful face of his sleeping brother , he awoke him with a boisterous kiss . 
That day Eric was to have his first interview with Dr. Rowlands . 
The school had already reopened , and one of the boys in his college cap passed by the window while they were breakfasting . 
He looked very happy and engaging , and was humming a tune as he strolled along . 
Eric started up and gazed after him with the most intense curiosity . 
Yes , Eric , the thread of that boy 's destiny is twined a good deal with yours ; his name is Montagu , as you will know very soon . 
At any other time Eric would have been overflowing with life and wonder at the murmur of the ripples , the sight of the ships passing by the rock-bound bay , and the number-less little shells , with their bright colours and sculptured shapes , which lay about the beach . 
But now his mind was too full of a single sensation , and when , after crossing a green playground , they stood by the headmaster 's door , his heart fluttered , and it required all his energy to keep down the nervous trembling which shook him . 
He was a kind-looking gentlemanly man , and when he turned to address Eric , after a few minutes ' conversation with his father , the boy felt instantly reassured by the pleasant sincerity and frank courtesy of his manner . 
A short examination shewed that Eric 's attainments were very slight as yet , and he was to be put in the lowest form of all , under the superintendence of the Rev. Henry Gordon . 
Dr. Rowlands wrote a short note in pencil , and giving it to Eric , directed the servant to shew him to Mr. Gordon 's school-room . 
The bell had just done ringing when they had started for the school , so that Eric knew that all the boys would be by this time assembled at their work , and that he should have to go alone into the middle of them . 
As he walked after the servant through the long corridors and up the broad stairs , he longed to make friends with him , so as , if possible , to feel less lonely . 
But he had only time to get out , `` I say , what sort of a fellow is Mr. Gordon ? '' 
Eric stopped irresolutely . 
The man had disappeared , and he was by himself in the great silent building . 
Afraid of the sound of his own footsteps , he ran along the passage , and knocked timidly . 
He heard a low , a very low murmur in the room , but there was no answer . 
He knocked again a little louder ; still no notice ; then , overdoing it in his fright , he gave a very loud tap indeed . 
Eric felt dazzled , and not seeing the regular route to the master 's desk , went towards it between two of the benches . 
As these were at no great distance from each other , he stumbled against several legs on his way , and felt pretty sure that they were put out on purpose to trip him , especially by one boy , who , pretending to be much hurt , drew up his leg , and began rubbing it , ejaculating sotto voce , `` awkward little fool . '' 
The master 's eye was on him , but all Eric had time to observe was , that he looked rather stern , and had in his hand a book which he seemed to be studying with the deepest interest . 
He glanced first at the note , and then looked full at the boy , as though determined to read his character at a glance . 
`` Williams , I suppose ? '' 
`` Yes , Sir , '' said Eric , very low , still painfully conscious that all the boys were looking at him , as well as the master . 
`` Very well , Williams , you are placed in the lowest form -- the fourth . 
Barker , let Williams look over you ! '' 
Eric went and sat down at the end of a bench by the boy indicated . 
Eric secretly thought that he was n't very nice-looking specimen of Roslyn school . 
However , he sate by him , and glanced at the Cæsar which the boy shoved about a quarter of an inch in his direction . 
But Barker did n't seem inclined to make any farther advances , and presently Eric asked in a whisper , `` What 's the lesson ? '' 
Eric repeated , `` I say , what 's the lesson ? '' 
`` Eric -- I mean Williams . '' 
Eric moved his foot impatiently at this ungracious reception ; but as he seemed to have no redress , he pulled the Cæsar nearer towards him . 
he said , and Barker pretended to be deep in his work , while Eric , resigning himself to his fate , looked about him . 
He had plenty to occupy his attention in the faces round him . 
He furtively examined Mr. Gordon , as he bent over his high desk , writing , but could n't make out the physiognomy . 
The boy at once handed it to him with a pleasant smile , and as the lesson was marked , Eric had time to hurry over a few sentences , when Mr. Gordon 's sonorous voice exclaimed , `` Fourth form , come up ! '' 
Eric of course was placed last , and the lesson commenced . 
`` Russell , begin , '' said the master ; and immediately the boy who had handed Eric his Cæsar , began reading a few sentences , and construed them very creditably , only losing a place or two . 
Eric listened admiringly , and felt sure he should like him . 
Then he began to construe ; -- a frightful confusion of nominatives without verbs , accusatives translated as ablatives , and perfects turned into prepositions ensued , and after a hopeless flounder , during which Mr. Gordon left him entirely to himself , Barker came to a full stop ; his catastrophe was so ludicrous , that Eric could not help joining in the general titter . 
`` Williams , translate the piece in which Barker has just failed ! '' 
Eric did as he was bid , and got through it pretty well . 
He had now quite recovered his ordinary bearing , and spoke out clearly and without nervousness . 
He afterwards won several places by answering questions , and at the end of the lesson was marked about halfway up the form . 
On his desk Eric found a torn bit of paper , on which was clumsily scrawled , `` I 'll teach you to grin when I 'm turned , you young brute . '' 
The paper seemed to fascinate his eyes . 
He stared at it fixedly , and augured ominously of Barker 's intentions , since that worthy obviously alluded to his having smiled in form , and chose to interpret it as an intentional provocation . 
Eric naturally went out among the last ; but just as he was going to take his cap , Barker seized it , and flung it with a whoop to the end of the passage , where it was trampled on by a number of the boys as they ran out . 
Eric , gulping down his fury with a great effort , turned to his opponent , and said coolly , `` Is that what you always do to new fellows ? '' 
He was hurt , both mind and body , but was too proud to cry . 
he said , with flashing eyes . 
Eric stamped . 
`` You brutal cowardly bully , '' shouted Eric ; and in another moment he would have sprung upon him . 
It was lucky for him that he did not , for Barker was three years older than he , and very powerful . 
said Russell , as he saw the mark on Eric 's cheek ; `` what a fellow you are , Barker . 
He had caught a glimpse of the scene without understanding it , and seeing the new boy 's red and angry face , he only said , as he passed by , `` What , Williams ! 
`` So , '' thought Eric , `` a nice beginning ! 
it seems both boys and masters are against me ; '' and very disconsolately he walked to pick up his cap . 
The boys were all dispersed in the play-ground at different games , and as he went home he was stopped perpetually , and had to answer the usual questions , `` What 's your name ? 
Eric expected all this , and it therfore did not annoy him . 
Under any other circumstances , he would have answered cheerfully and frankly enough ; but now he felt miserable at his morning 's rencontre , and his answers were short and sheepish , his only desire being to get away as soon as possible . 
It was an additional vexation to feel sure that his manner did not make a favourable impression . 
Before he had got out of the play-ground , Russell ran up to him . 
`` I 'm afraid you wo n't like this , or think much of us , Williams , '' he said . 
So Eric left the field , and wandered home , like Calchas in the Iliad , `` sorrowful by the side of the sounding sea . '' 
Already the purple mantle had fallen from his ideal of schoolboy life . 
He got home later than they expected , and found his parents waiting for him . 
It was rather disappointing to them to see his face so melancholy , when they expected him to be full of animation and pleasure . 
Mrs. Williams drew her own conclusions from the red mark on his cheek , as well as the traces of tears welling to his eyes ; but , like a wise mother , she asked nothing , and left the boy to tell his own story , -- which in time he did , omitting all the painful part , speaking enthusiastically of Russell , and only admitting that he had been a little teased . 
He hated Eric at first sight , simply because his feeble mind could only realise one idea about him , and that was the new boy 's striking contrast with his own imperfections . 
Hence he left no means untried to vent on Eric his low and mean jealousy . 
He shewed . 
undisguised pleasure when he fell in form , and signs of disgust when he rose ; he fomented every little source of disapproval or quarrelling which happened to arise against him ; he never looked at him without a frown or a sneer ; he waited for him to kick and annoy him as he came out of , or went in to , the school-room . 
In fact , he did his very best to make the boy 's life miserable , and the occupation of hating him seemed in some measure to fill up the vacuity of an ill-conditioned and degraded mind . 
Hatred is a most mysterious and painful phenomenon to the unhappy person who is the object of it , and more especially if he have incurred it by no one assignable reason . 
To Eric it was peculiarly painful ; he was utterly unprepared for it . 
In his bright joyous life at Fairholm , in the little he saw of the boys at the Latin school , he had met with nothing but kindness and caresses , and the generous nobleness of his character had seemed to claim them as a natural element . 
`` And now , why , '' he asked impatiently , `` should this bulldog sort of fellow have set his whole aim to annoy , vex , and hurt me ? '' 
Incapable himself of so mean a spirit of jealousy at superior excellence , he could not make it out ; but such was the fact , and the very mysteriousness of it made it more intolerable to bear . 
But it must be admitted that he made matters worse by his own bursts of passion . 
His was not the temper to turn the other check ; but , brave and spirited as he was , he felt how utterly hopeless would be any attempt on his part to repel force by force . 
He would have tried some slight conciliation , but it was really impossible with such a boy as his enemy . 
Eric loathed him , and the only good and happy part of the matter to his own mind was , that conscientiously his only desire was to get rid of him and be left alone , while he never cherished a particle of revenge . 
While every day Eric was getting on better in form , and winning himself a very good position with the other boys , who liked his frankness , his mirth , his spirit , and cleverness , he felt this feud with Barker like a dark background to all his enjoyment . 
He even had to manoeuvre daily how to escape him , and violent scenes were of constant occurrence between them . 
Eric could not , and would not , brook his bullying with silence . 
His resentment was loud and stinging , and , Ishmaelite as Barker was , even his phlegmatic temperament took fire when Eric shouted his fierce and uncompromising retorts in the hearing of the others . 
Meanwhile Eric was on the best of terms with the rest of the form , and such of the other boys as he knew , although , at first , his position as a home-boarder prevented his knowing many . 
Besides Russell , there were three whom he liked best , and respected most -- Duncan , Montagu , and Owen . 
Reserved and thoughtful , unfitted for or indifferent to most games , he was anything but a favourite with the rest , and Eric rather respected than liked him . 
When he first came , he had been one of the most natural butts for Barker 's craving ill-nature , and for a time he had been tremendously bullied . 
All this had happened before Eric 's time , and he heard it from his best friend Russell . 
His heart clave to that boy . 
Eric could not have had a better friend ; not so clever as himself , not so diligent as Owen , not so athletic as Duncan , or so fascinating as Montagu , Russell combined the best qualities of them all . 
said Eric , one day , as he walked on the sea-shore with his friend . 
`` You see , Williams , '' said Russell , `` Barker is an enormously strong fellow , and that makes the younger chaps , whom he fags , look up to him as a great hero . 
`` Well , '' sighed Eric , `` I hope my day of deliverance will come soon , for I ca n't stand it much longer , and ` tell ' I wo n't , whatever Owen may do . '' 
Eric 's deliverance came very soon . 
It was afternoon ; the boys were playing at different games in the green playground , and he was waiting for his turn at rounders . 
At this moment Barker lounged up , and calmly snatching off Eric 's cap , shied it over Dr. Rowlands ' garden wall . 
said Eric , standing irresolutely for a few minutes ; and then with tears in his eyes began to climb the wall . 
It was not very high , but boys were peremptorily forbidden to get over it under any circumstances , and Eric broke the rule not without trepidation . 
However , he dropped down on one of Mrs. Rowlands ' flower-beds , got his cap in a hurry , and clambered back undiscovered . 
He thought this would have satisfied his tormentor for one day ; but Barker was in a mischievous mood , so he again came up to Eric , and calling out , `` Who 'll have a game at football ? '' 
again snatched the cap , and gave it a kick ; Eric tried to recover it , but every time he came up Barker gave it a fresh kick , and finally kicked it into a puddle . 
Eric stood still , trembling with rage , while his eyes lightened scorn and indignation . 
`` You hulking , stupid , cowardly bully '' -- here Barker seized him , and every word brought a tremendous blow on the head , but blind with passion Eric went on -- `` you despicable bully , I wo n't touch that cap again , you shall pick it up yourself . 
Several boys ran up , but they were all weaker than Barker , who besides was now in a towering fury , and kicked Eric unmercifully . 
puppy , you want taking down too , '' was the reply , and some more kicks at Eric followed . 
`` Barker , I wo n't stand this any longer , '' said Russell ; and seizing him by the arm , he dealt him a swinging blow on the face . 
The bully stood in amazement , and dropped Eric , who fell on the turf nearly fainting , and bleeding at the nose . 
He had never heard from Eric how this boy had been treating him , but he had heard it from Russell , and now he had seen one of the worst specimens of it with his own eyes . 
So saying , he made Barker pick up the cap , and , turning away , walked home with Eric leaning on his arm . 
From that day Eric was never troubled with personal violence from Barker or any other boy . 
It must not be thought that Eric 's year as a home-boarder was made up of dark experiences . 
Roslyn had a very bright as well as a dark side , and Eric enjoyed it `` to the finger-tips . '' 
After Barker 's discomfiture , which took place some three weeks after his arrival , Eric liked the school more and more , and got liked by it more and more . 
This might have been easily foreseen , for he was the type of a thoroughly boyish mind in its more genial and honourable characteristics , and his round of acquaintances daily increased . 
Among others , a few of the sixth , who were also day-scholars , began to notice and walk home with him . 
He looked on them as great heroes , and their condescension much increased his dignity both in his own estimation and that of his equals . 
Now , too , he began to ask some of his most intimate acquaintances to spend an evening with him sometimes at home . 
Vernon , too , now a lively and active child of nine , was a great pet among them , so that every one liked Eric who `` knew him at home . '' 
But Montagu and Russell were the most frequent visitors , and the latter became almost like one of the family ; he won so much on all their hearts that Mrs. Williams was not surprised when Eric confided to her one day that he loved Russell almost as well as he loved Vernon . 
As Christmas approached , the boys began to take a lively interest in the half-year 's prizes , and Eric was particularly eager about them . 
He had improved wonderfully , and as both his father and mother prevented him from being idle , even had he been so inclined , he had soon shewn that he was one of the best in the form . 
It was commonly thought in the form that Owen would get the first of these prizes , and Eric the other ; and towards the approach of the examination , he threw his whole energy into the desire to win . 
Some ambition was of course natural ; but he longed for the prize chiefly for the delight which he knew his success would cause at Fairholm , and still more to his own family . 
During the last week , an untoward circumstance happened , which , while it increased his popularity , diminished a good deal -LRB- as he thought -RRB- his chance of success . 
Eric , much to their mutual disgust , still sat next to him in school , and would have helped him if he had chosen to ask ; but he never did choose , nor did Eric care to volunteer . 
The consequence was , that unless he could borrow a crib , he was invariably turned , and he was now particularly anxious to get one , because the time was nearly up . 
The only danger of the transaction being noticed , was when the book was being handed from one bench to another , and as Eric unluckily had an end seat , he had got into trouble more than once . 
On this occasion , just as Graham , the last boy on the form in front , handed Eric the crib , Mr. Gordon happened to look up , and Eric , very naturally anxious to screen another from trouble , popped the book under his own Homer . 
`` Williams , what are you doing ? '' 
`` Nothing , Sir , '' said Eric , looking up innocently . 
Eric blushed , hesitated -- but at last , amid a dead silence , took up the book . 
`` I was n't using it , sir , '' said Eric . 
Eric was silent . 
`` Under the circumstances , Williams , I must punish you , '' said Mr. Gordon . 
As yet , Eric had never been caned . 
It would have been easy for him in this case to clear himself without mentioning names , but -LRB- very rightly -RRB- he thought it unmanly to clamour about being punished , and he felt nettled at Mr. Gordon 's merely official belief of his word . 
He was therefore extremely indignant at this apparent discovery of an attempt to overreach him in a boy so promising and so much of a favourite as Eric Williams . 
`` Hold out your hand , '' he repeated . 
Eric did so , and the cane tingled sharply across his palm . 
He could bear the pain well enough , but he was keenly alive to the disgrace ; he , a boy at the head of his form , to be caned in this way by a man who did n't understand him , and unjustly too ! 
He mustered up an indifferent air , closed his lips tight , and determined to give no further signs . 
The defiance of his look made Mr. Gordon angry , and he inflicted in succession five hard cuts on either hand , each one of which was more excruciating than the last . 
Eric did go to his seat , with all his bad passions roused , and he walked in a jaunty and defiant kind of way that made the master really grieve at the disgrace into which he had fallen . 
The punishment was most severe , and for some weeks after , there were dark weals visible across Eric 's palm , which rendered the use of his hands painful . 
`` Poor Williams , '' said Duncan , as they went out of school , `` how very plucky of you not to cry . '' 
`` Vengeance deep brooding o'er the cane , Had locked the source of softer woe ; And burning pride , and high disdain , Forbade the gentler tear to flow , '' said Eric , with a smile . 
But he only bore up till he got home , and there , while he was telling his father the occurrence , he burst into a storm of passionate tears , mingled with the fiercest invectives against Mr. Gordon for his injustice . 
`` Never mind , Eric , '' said his father ; `` only take care that you never get a punishment justly , and I shall always be as proud of you as I am now . 
`` You do n't mean , Eric , that he will be influenced by partiality in the matter ? '' 
Half the form were as eager about the examination as the other half were indifferent ; but none were more eager than Eric . 
He was much hindered by Barker 's unceasing attempt to copy his papers surreptitiously ; and very much disgusted at the shameless way in which many of the boys `` cribbed '' from books , and from each other , or used torn leaves concealed in their sleeves , or dates writen on their wristbands , and on their nails . 
He saw how easily much of this might have been prevented ; but Mr. Gordon was fresh at his work , and had not yet learnt the practical lesson , that to trust young boys to any great extent , is really to increase their temptations . 
But Eric was too nervous to be present at the hour when this was usually done , and he had asked Russell to bring him the news . 
He was walking up and down the garden , counting the number of steps he took , counting the number of shrubs along each path , and devising every sort of means to beguile the time , when he heard hasty steps , and Russell burst in at the back gate , breathless with haste , and bright with excitement . 
old fellow , '' he cried , seizing both Eric 's hands ; `` I never felt so glad in my life ; '' and he shook his friend 's arms up and down , laughing joyously . 
tell me , '' said Eric . 
`` First , Owen Williams Æquales , '' said he ; `` you 've got head remove you see , in spite of your forebodings , as I always said you would ; and I congratulate you with all my heart . '' 
said Eric , `` have I really ? 
-- I must rush in and tell them ; '' and he bounded off . 
In a second he was back at Russell 's side . 
`` I 'm so glad , '' said Eric . 
I 'm head remove , mother , '' he shouted , springing into the parlour where his father and mother sat . 
In the lively joy that this announcement excited , Russell stood by for the moment unheeded ; and when Eric took him by the hand to tell them that he was third , he hung his head , and a tear was in his eye . 
I 'm afraid you 're disappointed , '' said Mrs. Williams kindly , drawing him to her side . 
asked Eric , surprised . 
no ; do n't ask me ; I am only foolish to-day ; '' and with a burst of sorrow he flung his arms round Mrs. Williams ' neck . 
She folded him to her heart , and kissed him tenderly ; and when his sobs would let him speak , he whispered to her in a low tone , `` It is but a year since I became an orphan . '' 
`` Dearest child , '' she said , `` look on me as a mother ; I love you very dearly for your own sake as well as Eric 's . '' 
Gradually he grew calmer . 
They made him stay to dinner and spend the rest of the day there , and by the evening he had recovered all his usual sprightliness . 
Towards sunset he and Eric went for a stroll down the bay , and talked over the term and the examination . 
At last Eric broke the silence . 
`` Russell , let me always call you Edwin , and call me Eric . '' 
`` Very gladly , Eric . 
But there was little comparative danger for Eric , so long as he continued to be a home boarder , which was for another half-year . 
On the contrary , he was anxious to support in his new remove the prestige of having been head boy ; and as he still continued under Mr. Gordon , he really wished to turn over a new leaf in his conduct towards him , and recover , if possible , his lost esteem . 
His popularity was a fatal snare . 
He enjoyed and was very proud of it , and was half inclined to be angry with Russell for not fully sharing his feelings ; but Russell had a far larger experience of school life than his new friend , and dreaded with all his heart lest `` he should follow a multitude to do evil . '' 
The `` cribbing , '' which had astonished and pained Eric at first , was more flagrant than even in the Upper Fourth , and assumed a chronic form . 
There any boy who chose could read it off with little danger of detection , and , as before , the only boys who refused to avail themselves of this trickery were Eric , Russell , and Owen . 
Eric did not yield to it ; never once did he suffer his eyes to glance at the paper when his turn to repeat came round . 
But although this was the case , he never spoke against the practice to the other boys , even when he lost places by it . 
Nay more , he would laugh when any one told him how he had escaped `` skewing '' -LRB- i.e. being turned -RRB- by reading it off ; and he even went so far as to allow them to suppose that he would n't himself object to take advantage of the master 's unsuspicious confidence . 
`` I say , Williams , '' said Duncan , one morning as they strolled into the school-yard , `` do you know your Rep. ? '' 
`` No , '' said Eric , `` not very well ; I have n't given more than ten minutes to it . '' 
And off the boys ran to the racquet-court , Eric intending to occupy the last quarter of an hour before school-time in learning his lesson . 
`` What a capital fellow he is , '' continued Montagu , leaning on his racquet and looking after him , as Russell left the court ; `` but I say , Williams , you 're not going too , are you ? '' 
Again Eric yielded ; and when the clock struck , he ran into school , hot , vexed with himself , and certain to break down , just as Russell strolled in , whispering , `` I 've had lots of time to get up the Horace , and know it pat . '' 
No sooner was he seated than Graham whispered , `` Williams , it 's your turn to write out the Horace ; I did last time , you know . '' 
Poor Eric . 
He was reaping the fruits of his desire to keep up popularity , by never denying his complicity in the general cheating . 
Everybody seemed to assume now that he at any rate did n't think much of it , and he had never claimed his real right up to that time of asserting his innocence . 
But this was a step farther than he had ever gone before . 
He drew back -- `` My turn , what do you mean ? '' 
`` I 'd rather not , Graham , '' he said , getting very red . 
`` Here , I 'll do it , '' said Eric suddenly ; `` shy us the paper . '' 
His conscience smote him bitterly . 
In his silly dread of giving offence , he was doing what he heartily despised , and he felt most uncomfortable . 
`` There , '' he said , pushing the paper from him in a pet ; `` I 've written it , and I 'll have nothing more to do with it . '' 
Just as he finished , they were called up , and Barker , taking the paper , succeeded in pinning it as usual on the front of the desk . 
Eric had never seen it done so carelessly and clumsily before , and firmly believed , what was indeed a fact , that Barker had done it badly on purpose , in the hope that it might be discovered , and so Eric be got once more into a scrape . 
He was in an agony of apprehension , and when put on , was totally unable to say a word of his Rep. But low as he had fallen , he would not cheat like the rest ; he kept his eyes resolutely turned away from the guilty paper , and even refused to repeat the words which were prompted in his ear by the boys on each side . 
`` Write it out , '' thought Eric ; `` this is retribution , I suppose ; '' and , covered with shame and vexation , he took his place below the malicious Barker at the bottom of the form . 
Several boys moved uneasily , and Eric looked nervously round . 
A boy picked it up , and handed it to him . 
He held it for a full minute in his hands without a word , while vexation , deep disgust , and rising anger struggled in his countenance . 
At last , he suddenly turned full on Eric , whose writing he recognised , and broke out , `` So , Sir ! 
`` Indeed , Sir , '' said the penitent Eric , `` I never meant -- '' `` Silence -- you are detected , as cheats always will be . 
Eric , deeply vexed , kept twisting and untwisting a bit of paper , without raising his eyes , and even Barker thoroughly repented his short-sighted treachery ; the rest were silent and miserable . 
At twelve o'clock two boys lingered in the room to speak to Mr. Gordon ; they were Eric Williams and Edwin Russell , but they were full of very different feelings . 
Eric stepped to the desk first . 
Williams , I wonder that you have the audacity to speak to me . 
`` But sir , I want to tell you that -- '' `` Your guilt is only too clear , Williams . 
Eric 's passion overcame him ; he stamped furiously on the ground , and burst out , `` I will speak , sir ; you have been unjust to me for a long time , but I will not be -- '' Mr. Gordon 's cane fell sharply across the boy 's back ; he stopped , glared for a moment , and then saying , `` Very well , sir ! 
`` O sir , I come to speak for Eric -- for Williams . '' 
`` O Eric , '' he said , `` how came you to write that paper ? '' 
You never crib , Eric , I know , but I ca n't help being sorry that you wrote the paper . '' 
`` Ah , Eric , '' said Russell , `` they will ask you to do worse things if you yield so easily . 
Eric took the advice , and , full of mortification , went home . 
He gave his father a true and manly account of the whole occurrence , and that afternoon Mr. Williams wrote a note of apology and explanation to Mr. Gordon . 
Next time the form went up , Mr. Gordon said , in his most freezing tone , `` Williams , at present I shall take no further notice of your offence beyond including you in the extra lesson every half-holiday . '' 
From that day forward Eric felt that he was marked and suspected , and the feeling worked on him with the worst effects . 
He grew more careless in work , and more trifling and indifferent in manner . 
Several boys now beat him whom he had easily surpassed before , and his energies were for a time entirely directed to keeping that supremacy in the games which he had won by his activity and strength . 
Eric was with a little knot of his chief friends , enjoying the sea breeze as they sat on the grass . 
Eric usually sat with Duncan and Llewellyn , immediately behind the benches allotted to chance visitors . 
But Eric had not yet learnt to disregard the solemnity of the place , and the sacred act in which they were engaged . 
He tried to look away , and attend to the service , and for a time he partially succeeded , although , seated as he was between the two triflers , who were perpetually telegraphing to each other their jokes , he found it a difficult task , and secretly he began to be much tickled . 
Duncan and Llewellyn tittered louder , and even Eric could not resist a smile . 
Eric , having once given way , enjoyed the joke uncontrollably , and the lady made matters worse by her uneasy attempts to dislodge the unknown intruder , and discover the cause of the tittering , which she could not help hearing . 
Eric , with real shame , observed the deep vexation of her manner , and bitterly repented his share in the transaction . 
Eric 's heart sank within him . 
`` Williams , Duncan , and Llewellyn , stand out ! '' 
It gives me special pain , Williams , to have observed that you , too , a boy high in your remove , were guilty of this most culpable levity . 
But not so Eric . 
It was his first flogging , and he felt it deeply . 
To his proud spirit the disgrace was intolerable . 
At that moment he hated Dr. Rowlands , he hated Mr. Gordon , he hated his schoolfellows , he hated everybody . 
He had been flogged ; the thought haunted him ; he , Eric Williams , had been forced to receive this most degrading corporal punishment . 
He pushed fiercely through the knot of boys , and strode as quick as he could along the playground , angry and impenitent . 
Eric felt the meeting inopportune ; he was ashamed to meet his friend , ashamed to speak to him , envious of him , and jealous of his better reputation . 
He wanted to pass him by without notice , but Russell would not suffer this . 
The slightest allusion to his late disgrace would have made Eric flame out into passion ; but Russell was too kind to allude to it then . 
Eric appreciated his kindness , but he was still sullen and fretful , and it was not until they parted that his better feelings won the day . 
But when Russell said to him `` Good bye , Eric , '' it was too much for him , and seizing Edwin 's hand , he wrung it hard , and tears rushed to his eyes . 
`` Nay , Eric , '' said Russell , `` you may be far better than I . 
They parted by Mr. Williams ' door , and Russell walked home sad and thoughtful ; but Eric , barely answering his brother 's greeting , rushed up to his room , and , flinging himself on his bed , sobbed like a child at the remembrance of his disgrace . 
They were not refreshing tears ; he felt something hard at his heart , and , as he prayed neither for help nor forgiveness , it was pride and rebellion , not penitence , that made him miserable . 
I Have caught such a lot of pretty sea anemones , Eric , '' said little Vernon Williams , as his brother strolled in after morning school ; `` I wish you would come and look at them . '' 
`` O , never mind , Eric , if you do n't want to look at them , '' said Vernon , hurt at his brother 's rough manner . 
`` First you ask me to look , and then say ` never mind , ''' said Eric impatiently ; `` here , shew me them . '' 
`` You are n't so kind to me , Eric , as you used to be . '' 
Vernon made no reply , but was putting away his sea-anemones with a sigh , when in came Russell to fetch Eric to the cricket . 
`` Well Verny , '' he said `` have you been getting those pretty sea-anemones ? 
Only it is rather dull being always by myself , and Eric never comes with me now . '' 
`` Naughty Eric , '' said Russell , playfully . 
Eric had stood by during the conversation , and the contrast of Russell 's unselfish kindness with his own harsh want of sympathy , struck him . 
`` O , thank you , Eric , '' said his brother ; and the two schoolboys ran out . 
But when the next half holiday came , warm and bright , with the promise of a good match that afternoon , Eric repented his promise , and left Russell to amuse his little brother , while he went off , as usual , to the playground . 
There was one silent witness of scenes like these , who laid them up deeply in her heart . 
Mrs. Williams was not unobservant of the gradual but steady falling off in Eric 's character , and the first thing she noticed was the blunting of his home affections . 
When they first came to Roslyn , the boy used constantly to join his father and mother in their walks ; but now he went seldom or never ; and even if he did go , he seemed ashamed , while with them , to meet any of his schoolfellows . 
The holidays at Roslyn were the months of July and August , and towards their close Mr. and Mrs. Williams intended to leave Vernon at Fairholm , and start for India -- sending back Eric by himself as a boarder in Dr. Rowlands ' house . 
This year Eric had learned to swim , and he enjoyed the bathing more than any other pleasure . 
At last Eric picked up a piece of wood which he found lying on the beach , and said , `` What do you say to coming crabfishing , Edwin ? 
The Williams ' , for the boys ' convenience , usually dined at one , but on this day they waited half an hour for Eric . 
Since , however , he did n't appear , they dined without him , supposing that he was accidentally detained , and expecting him to come in every minute . 
But two o'clock came , and no Eric ; half-past two , and no Eric ; three , but still no Eric . 
Vernon was watching for his brother at the window , and seeing Duncan pass by , ran down to ask him `` If he knew where Eric was ? '' 
`` No , '' said Duncan ; `` last time I saw him was on the shore . 
We bathed together , and I remember his clothes were lying by mine when I dressed . 
But I hav n't seen him since . 
If you like we 'll go and look for him . 
I daresay he 's on the beach somewhere . '' 
`` Good gracious , Edwin , '' said Eric , pulling out his watch , `` it 's half-past three ; what have we been thinking of ? 
`` Eric , Eric , '' said Mrs.Williams faintly , `` where have you been ? 
`` Thoughtless boy , '' said his father , `` your mother has been in an agony about you . '' 
Eric saw her pale face and tearful eyes , and flung himself in her arms , and mother and son wept in a long embrace . 
The end of term arrived ; this time Eric came out eighth only instead of first , and , therefore , on the prize-day , was obliged to sit among the crowd of undistinguished boys . 
He saw that his parents were disappointed , and his own ambition was grievously mortified . 
But he had full confidence in his own powers , and made the strongest resolutions to work hard the next half-year , when he had got out of `` that Gordon 's '' clutches . 
The Williams ' spent the holidays at Fairholm , and now , indeed , in the prospect of losing them , Eric 's feelings to his parents came out in all their strength . 
In the wildness of their passionate sorrow , Eric and Vernon seemed to hear the sound of everlasting farewells . 
Vernon , weary of crying , soon sank to sleep ; but not so Eric . 
He sat on a low stool , his face buried in his hands , breaking the stillness every now and then with his convulsive sobs . 
`` O Aunty , '' he cried , `` do you think I shall ever see them again ? 
Think , Eric , how gladdened their hearts will be to hear that you and Vernon are good boys , and getting on well . '' 
`` O , I will be a better boy , I will indeed , '' said Eric ; `` I mean to do great things , and they shall have nothing but good reports of me . '' 
`` God helping you , dear , '' said his aunt , pushing back his hair from his forehead , and kissing it softly ; `` without His help , Eric , we are all weak indeed . '' 
Vernon was to have a tutor at Fairholm , and Eric was to return alone , and be received into Dr. Rowlands ' house . 
As he went on board the steam-packet , he saw numbers of the well-known faces on deck , and merry voices greeted him . 
`` Hallo , Williams ! 
there 's Russell , '' said Eric , springing to the gangway , and warmly shaking his friend 's hand as he came on board . 
`` Have your father and mother gone , Eric ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Eric , turning away his head , and hastily brushing his eyes . 
Eric opened his carpet-bag , and took out a little box carefully wrapped up , which he gave to Russell . 
It contained a pretty silver watch , and inside the case was engraved -- `` Edwin Russell , from the mother of his friend Eric . '' 
Eric , as a new comer , was ushered at once into Dr. Rowlands ' drawing-room , where the head master was sitting with his wife and children . 
His greeting was dignified , but not unkindly ; and , on saying `` good night , '' he gave Eric a few plain words of affectionate advice . 
At that moment Eric hardly cared for advice . 
He was full of life and spirits , brave , bright , impetuous , tingling with hope , in the flush and flower of boyhood . 
He bounded down the stairs , and in another minute entered the large room where all Dr. Rowlands ' boarders assembled , and where most of them lived , except the few privileged sixth form , and other boys who had `` studies . '' 
The room in which Eric found himself was large and high . 
This large room , called `` the boarders ' room , '' was the joint habitation of Eric and some thirty other boys ; and at one side ran a range of shelves and drawers , where they kept their books and private property . 
In each dormitory slept four or five boys , distributed by their order in the school list , so that , in all the dormitories , there were nearly sixty ; and of these a goodly number were , on Eric 's arrival , collected in the boarders ' room , the rest being in their studies , or in the class-rooms , which some were allowed to use in order to prevent too great a crowd in the room below . 
Immediately all the boarders took their seats for prayers , each with an open Bible before him ; and when the school servants had also come in , Dr. Rowlands read a chapter , and offered up an extempore prayer . 
While reading , he generally interspersed a few pointed remarks or graphic explanations , and Eric learnt much in this , simple way . 
Prayers over , the boys noisily dispersed to their bed-rooms , and Eric found himself placed in a room immediately to the right of the lavatory , occupied by Duncan , Graham , Llewellyn , and two other boys named Bull and Attlay , all in the same form with himself . 
They were all tired with their voyage , and the excitement of coming back to school , so that they did not talk much that night , and before long Eric was fast asleep , dreaming , dreaming , dreaming that he should have a very happy life at Roslyn school , and seeing himself win no end of distinctions , and make no end of new friends . 
With intense delight Eric heard it announced next morning , when the new school-list was read , that he had got his remove into the `` Shell , '' as the form was called which intervened between the fourth and the fifth . 
Such was the master under whom Eric was now placed , and the boy was sadly afraid that an evil report would have reached his ears , and given him already an unfavourable impression . 
But he was soon happily undeceived . 
Eric found the life of the `` boarders ' room '' far rougher than he had expected . 
For some time they had a form of diversion which disgusted and annoyed Eric exceedingly . 
Eric did not like this ; but , not wishing to come across Barker again , said nothing , and affected not to have observed . 
One night , when the usual exclamation was made , Eric felt sure , from seeing several boys looking at him , that this time some one had been treating him in the same way . 
He indignantly shook his head , and sure enough the bit of wick dropped off . 
Eric was furious , and , springing up , he shouted -- `` By Jove ! 
Then take that ; '' and , seizing one of the tin candlesticks , Eric hurled it at Barker 's head . 
`` I 'll kill you for that , '' said Barker , leaping at Eric , and seizing him by the hair . 
`` But , I say , young un , '' continued he to Eric , `` this kind of thing wo n't do , you know . 
`` He has been making the room intolerable for the last month by his filthy tricks , '' said Eric hotly ; `` some one must stop him , and I will somehow , if no one else does . '' 
Come up to my study , Williams , if you like . '' 
Eric , on the other hand , was just the boy to take his fancy , and to admire him in return ; his life , strength , and pluck , made him a ready pupil in all schemes of mischief , and Upton , who had often noticed him , would have been the first to shudder had he known how far his example went to undermine all Eric 's lingering good resolutions , and ruin for ever the boy of whom he was so found . 
From this time Eric was much in Upton 's study , and constantly by his side in the playground . 
`` You cousin Upton has ` taken up ' Williams , '' said Montagu to Russell one afternoon , as he saw the two strolling together on the beach , with Eric 's arm in Upton 's . 
`` No fear for Eric in that line , though , '' said Russell ; `` he can hold his own pretty well against any one . 
And after all , he is a most jolly fellow . 
Eric learnt a great deal of harm from Upton , and the misapplied hero-worship led to bad results . 
A coolness grew up between the latter and Eric , not unmingled with a little mutual contempt . 
Eric sneered at Owen as a fellow who did nothing but grind all day long , and had no geniality in him ; while Owen pitied the love of popularity which so often led Eric into delinquencies , which he himself despised . 
But Russell loved the good in every one , and was loved by all in return , and Eric he loved most of all , while he oftened mourned over his increasing failures . 
One day as the two were walking together in the green playground , Mr. Gordon passed by ; and as the boys touched their caps , he nodded and smiled pleasantly at Russell , but hardly noticed , and did not return Eric 's salute . 
He had begun to dislike the latter more and more , and had given him up altogether as one of the reprobates . 
`` What a surly devil that is , '' said Eric , when he had passed ; `` did you see how he purposely cut me ? '' 
Oh Eric , that 's the first time I ever heard you swear . '' 
Eric blushed . 
He had n't meant the word to slip out in Russell 's hearing , though similar expressions were common enough in his talk with other boys . 
But he did n't like to be reproved , even by Russell , and in the ready spirit of self-defence , he answered -- `` Pooh , Edwin , you do n't call that swearing , do you ? 
Eric , hush ! '' 
Eric knew what he meant . 
The image of his father and mother rose before him , as they sate far away in their lonely Indian home , thinking of him , praying for him , centering all their hopes in him . 
In him ! 
-- and he knew how many things he was daily doing and saying , which would cut them to the heart . 
He knew that all his moral consciousness was fast vanishing , and leaving him a bad and reckless boy . 
In a moment , all this passed through his mind . 
He remembered how shocked he had been at swearing at first ; and even when it became too familiar to shock him , how he determined never to fall into the habit himself . 
Then he remembered how gradually it had become quite a graceful sound in his ears ; a sound of entire freedom and independence of moral restraint ; an open casting off , as it were , of all authority , so that he had begun to admire it , particularly in Duncan , and above all , in his new hero , Upton ; and he recollected how , at last , an oath had one day slipped out suddenly in his own words , and how strange it sounded to him , and how Upton smiled to hear it , though conscience had reproached him bitterly ; but now that he had done it once , it became less dreadful , and gradually grew common enough , till even conscience hardly reminded him that he was doing wrong . 
`` Dear Eric , I have no right to say it , full of faults as I am myself ; but you will be so much happier , if you try not to yield to all the bad things round us . 
That night Eric knelt at his bedside , and prayed as he had not done for many a long day . 
Many a long and tough struggle had Eric enjoyed , and his prowess was now so universally acknowledged , that his dormitory , No. 7 , was a match for any other , and far stronger in this warfare than most of the rest . 
Eric and Graham backed him up brilliantly ; while Llewellyn and Attlay , with sturdy vigour , supported the skirmishers . 
Backward in work , overflowing with vanity at his supposed good looks , of mean disposition and feeble intellect , he was the very worst specimen of a boy that Eric had ever seen . 
Not even Barker so deeply excited Eric 's repulsion and contempt . 
And yet , since the affair of Upton , Barker and Eric were declared enemies , and , much to the satisfaction of the latter , never spoke to each other ; but with Bull -- much as he inwardly loathed him -- he was professedly and apparently on good terms . 
His silly love of universal popularity made him accept and tolerate the society even of this worthless boy . 
said Duncan to Eric one day . 
answered Eric , `` on coming to think of it , so do I. And yet he 's popular enough in the school . 
Neither Eric nor Duncan meant this answer to be false , and yet if they had taken the trouble to consider , they would have found out in their secret souls the reasons of their dislike . 
Bull had been to school before , and of this school he often bragged as the acmé of desirability and wickedness . 
He was always telling boys what they did at `` his old school , '' and he quite inflamed the minds of such as fell under his influence by marvellous tales of the wild and wilful things which he and his former school-fellows had done . 
Many and many a scheme of sin and mischief at Roslyn was suggested , planned , and carried out on the model of Bull 's reminiscences of his previous life . 
He had tasted more largely of the tree of the knowledge of evil than any other boy , and , strange to say , this was the secret why the general odium was never expressed . 
Such was the temptation which assailed the other boys in dormitory No. 7 ; and Eric among the number . 
Secretly , gradually , he dropped into their too willing ears the poison of his polluting acquirements . 
The first time that Eric heard indecent words in dormitory No. 7 , he was shocked beyond bound or measure . 
Dark though it was , he felt himself blushing scarlet to the roots of his hair , and then growing pale again , while a hot dew was left upon his forehead . 
The others felt that `` a new boy '' was in the room ; they did not know how he would take it ; they were unconsciously abashed . 
Now , Eric , now or never ! 
Virtue is strong and beautiful Eric , and vice is downcast in her awful presence . 
Lose your purity of heart , Eric , and you have lost a jewel which the whole world , if it were `` one entire and perfect chrysolite , '' can not replace . 
But the sense of sin was on Eric 's mind . 
How could he speak ? 
was not his own language sometimes profane ? 
How -- how could he profess to reprove another boy on the ground of morality , when he himself said and did things less ruinous perhaps , but equally forbidden ? 
For half an hour , in an agony of struggle with himself , Eric lay silent . 
It was too late to speak now , Eric thought . 
The moment passed by for ever ; Eric had listened without objection to foul words , and the irreparable harm was done . 
Ah Eric , Eric ! 
Eric lay silent . 
The darkness was not broken by the flashing of an angel 's wing , the stillness was not syllabled by the sound of an angel 's voice ; but to his dying day Eric never forgot the moments which passed , until , weary and self-reproachful , he fell asleep . 
Next morning he awoke , restless and feverish . 
He at once remembered what had passed . 
Bull 's words haunted him ; he could not forget them ; they burnt within him like the flame of a moral fever . 
He was moody and petulant , and for a time could hardly conceal his aversion to Bull . 
Ah Eric ! 
moodiness and petulance can not save you , but prayerfulness would ; one word , Eric , at the throne of grace -- one prayer before you go down among the boys , that God in his mercy would wash away , in the blood of his dear Son , your crimson stains , and keep your conscience and memory clean . 
Had he stayed longer on his knees , he might have given way to a burst of penitence and supplication -- but he heard Bull 's footstep , and getting up , he ran down stairs to breakfast ; so Eric did not pray . 
Eric knew this , and instantly conjectured that it was only a sort of respect for him , and ignorance of the manner in which he would consider it , that prevented Duncan and the rest from taking any further notice of Bull 's remark . 
When Eric first came as a boarder , he invariably went with Russell on Sunday , and many a pleasant stroll they had taken together , sometimes accompanied by Duncan , Montagu , or Owen . 
The latter , however , had dropped even this intercourse with Eric , who for the last few weeks had more often gone with his new friend Upton . 
`` O excuse me to-day , Upton , '' said Eric , `` I 'm going with your cousin . '' 
`` Oh very well , '' said Upton , in high dudgeon , and , hoping to make Eric jealous , he went a walk with Graham , whom he had `` taken up '' before he knew Williams . 
Russell was rather surprised when Eric came to him and said , `` Come a stroll to Fort Island , Edwin -- will you ? '' 
I was beginning to fancy that you meant to drop me , Eric . '' 
He spoke with a smile , and in a rallying tone , but Eric hung his head ; for the charge was true . 
Proud of his popularity among all the school , and especially at his friendship with so leading a fellow as Upton , Eric had not seen much of his friend since their last conversation about swearing . 
Indeed , conscious of failure , he felt sometimes uneasy in Russell 's company . 
In an instant Russell had twined his arm in Eric 's , as they turned towards Fort Island ; and Eric , with an effort , was just going to begin , when they heard Montagu 's voice calling after them -- `` I say , you fellows , where are you off to ? 
`` It will be quite like old times ; now that my cousin Horace has got hold of Eric , we have to sing ` When shall we three meet again ? 
''' Russell only spoke in fun ; but , unintentionally , his words jarred in Eric 's heart . 
He was silent , and answered in monosyllables , so the walk was provokingly dull . 
`` Why what 's the row with you , old boy , '' said Montagu , playfully shaking Eric by the shoulder , `` you 're as silent as Zimmerman on Solitude , and as doleful as Harvey on the Tombs . 
To his surprise Eric 's head was still bent , and , at last , he heard a deep suppressed sigh . 
Eric had not liked to speak while Montagu was by , but now he gulped down his rising emotion , and briefly told them of Bull 's vile words the night before . 
`` I knew it must come , Eric , '' said Russell at last , `` and I am so sorry you did n't speak at the time . '' 
asked Eric . 
`` Let me tell you , '' said Russell solemnly ; `` my father -LRB- he is dead now you know , Eric -RRB- , when I was sent to school , warned me of this kind of thing . 
asked Eric thoughtfully . 
They got up and walked home , but from day to day Eric put off performing the duty which Russell had advised , viz . 
For a while Eric said nothing , but as the strain grew worse , he made a faint remonstrance . 
`` Shut up there , Williams , '' said Attlay , `` and do n't spoil the story . '' 
He did for a time , but a general laugh awoke him . 
He pretended to be asleep but he listened . 
Iniquity of this kind was utterly new to him ; his curiosity was awakened ; he no longer feigned indifference , and the poison flowed deep into his veins . 
Before that evening was over , Eric Williams was `` a god , knowing good and evil . '' 
For a few days after the Sunday walk narrated in the last chapter , Upton and Eric cut each other dead . 
Upton was angry at Eric 's declining the honour of his company , and Eric was piqued at Upton 's unreasonableness . 
But both Upton and Eric were too sensible to carry their differences so far as others similarly circumstanced ; each thoroughly enjoyed the other 's company , and they generally seized an early opportunity for effecting a reconciliation , which united them more firmly than ever . 
As soon as Eric had got over his little pique , he made the first advances , by writing a note to Upton , which he slipped under his study door , and which ran as follows : -- `` Dear Horace -- Do n't let us quarrel about nothing . 
-- Yours , if you are not silly , E. W. '' The consequence was , that as they came out from prayers , Upton seized Eric 's hand , and slapped him on the back , after which they had a good laugh over their own foolish fracas , and ran up stairs , chattering merrily . 
`` There 's to be an awful lark in the dormitories to-night , '' said Eric ; `` the doctor 's gone to a dinner-party , and we 're going to have no end of fun . '' 
He walked slowly up and down the range of dormitories until every boy seemed ready to get into bed , and then he put out all the candles . 
`` Now for some fun , '' said Duncan , starting up , and by way of initiative pitching his pillow at Eric 's head . 
`` I 'll pay you out for that when I 'm ready , '' said Eric , laughing ; `` but give us a match first . '' 
Duncan produced some vestas , and no sooner had they lighted their candle , than several of the dormitory doors began to be thrown open , and one after another all requested a light , which Duncan and Eric conveyed to them in a sort of emulous lampadephoria , so that at length all the twelve dormitories had their sconces lit , and the boys began all sorts of amusement , some in their night-shirts , and others with their trousers slipped on . 
`` O , I will , '' answered Eric , good-naturedly ; `` it 's a shame that one fellow should have all the bother and none of the fun ; '' and he ran to take Wright 's post . 
said the study-boy , approvingly , as he glanced at Eric 's laughing eyes . 
`` O no ; '' said Eric , `` its all serene ; Rowley 's out , and dear old Rose 'd never dream of supposing us elsewhere than in the arms of Morpheus . 
said Eric , `` come along . '' 
They at once made Eric take a part in some very distant reminiscences of Macbeth , and corked his cheeks with whiskers and mustachios to make him resemble Banquo , his costume being completed by a girdle round his nightshirt , consisting of a very fine crimson silk handkerchief , richly broidered with gold , which had been brought to him from India , and which at first , in the innocence of his heart , he used to wear on Sundays , until it acquired the soubriquet of `` the Dragon . '' 
`` Cavè , '' shouted Eric , and took a flying leap into his bed . 
`` Come sir , this shamming will only increase your punishment ; '' but the imperturbable Duncan stretched himself lazily , gave a great yawn , and then awoke with such an admirably feigned start at seeing Dr. Rowlands , that Eric , who had been peeping at the scene from over his bed-clothes , burst into an irresistible explosion of laughter . 
Williams ! 
Eric , forgetful of his disguise , sheepishly obeyed ; but when he stood on the floor , he looked so odd in his crimson girdle and corked cheeks , with Dr. Rowlands surveying him in intense astonishment , that the scene became overpoweringly ludicrous to Duncan , who now in his turn was convulsed with a storm of laughter , faintly echoed in stifled titterings from other beds . 
How could he have twigged ? '' 
`` He must have seen our lights in the window as he came home , '' said Eric . 
said Barker to Duncan , but intending the remark for Eric . 
`` But I say , Williams , '' he continued laughing , `` you did look so funny in the whiskers . '' 
`` What do you think he 'll do to us ? '' 
asked Eric . 
I 'm so sorry about that basin , Eric ; but it 's no good fretting . 
Eric 's cogitations began to be unpleasant , when the door opened , and somebody stole noiselessly in . 
asked Eric , as Upton came and took a seat on his bed . 
said Eric . 
On this occasion I have punished Upton , by depriving him of a privilege which he has abused ; and as I myself detected Duncan and Williams , they will be flogged in the library at twelve . 
Upton and Eric immediately stood up . 
Twelve o'clock came , and Duncan and Eric received a severe caning . 
Corporal punishment , however necessary and desirable for some dispositions , always produced on Eric the worst effects . 
He burned , not with remorse or regret , but with shame and violent indignation , and listened , with a glare in his eye , to Dr. Rowlands ' warnings . 
When the flogging was over , he almost rushed out of the room , to choke in solitude his sense of humiliation , nor would he suffer any one for an instant to allude to his disgrace . 
It was not strange , therefore , that Eric and Upton were thrown more than ever into each other 's society , and consequently , that Eric , while he improved daily in strength , activity , and prowess , neglected more and more his school duties and honourable ambitions . 
During the evening he drew out Eric 's exercise , and compared it with those of Russell and Owen , who were now getting easily ahead of him in marks . 
Eric 's was careless , hurried , and untidy ; the other two were neat , spirited , and painstaking , and had , therefore , been marked much higher . 
Eric was silent . 
Mr. Rose laid his hand gently on his head . 
That is a very bad sign , Eric ; in itself it is a discouraging fact , but I fear it indicates worse evils . 
Eric 's heart seemed to catch a glow from his words , and he loved him as a brother . 
He rose from his knees full of the strongest resolutions , and earnestly promised amendment for the future . 
But poor Eric did not yet know his own infirmity . 
For a time , indeed , there was a marked improvement ; but daily life flowed on with its usual allurements , and when the hours of temptation came , his good intentions melted away , so that , in a few more weeks , the prayer , and the vows that followed it , had been obliterated from his memory without leaving any traces in his life . 
The rule , however , was very generally overlooked , and hence Eric , always glad of an opportunity to escape from the company of Barker and his associates , became a constant frequenter of his friend 's new abode . 
One of them very often read aloud to the rest ; and Eric , being both a good reader and a merry , intelligent listener , soon became quite a favourite among the other boys . 
One day Mr. Gordon had accidentally come in , and found no one there but Upton and Eric ; they were standing very harmlessly by the window , with Upton 's arm resting kindly on Eric 's shoulder as they watched with admiration the network of rippled sunbeams that flashed over the sea . 
Upton had just been telling Eric the splendid phrase anhriqmon gelasma pontou , which he had stumbled upon in an Æschylus lesson that morning , and they were trying which would hit on the best rendering of it . 
Eric stuck up for the literal sublimity of `` the innumerable laughter of the sea , '' while Upton was trying to win him over to `` the many-twinkling smile of ocean . '' 
On this occasion he was particularly angry : he had an especial dislike of seeing the two boys together , because he fancied that the younger had grown more than usually conceited and neglectful , since he had been under the fifth-form patronage ; and he saw in Eric 's presence there , a new case of wilful disobedience . 
`` Williams , here again ! 
His voice startled the two boys from their pleasant discussion . 
Williams , you will bring me the fourth Georgic , written out by Saturday morning , for your repeated disobedience . 
Eric smiled ; and Mr. Gordon frowned , `` Williams , leave the room instantly . '' 
Eric only answered with a fiery glance ; the next minute Upton joined him on the stairs , and Mr. Gordon heard them laughing a little ostentatiously , as they ran out into the playground together . 
This incident had happened on Thursday , which was a half-holiday , and instead of being able to join in any of the games , Eric had to spend that weary afternoon in writing away at the fourth Georgic ; Upton staying in a part of the time to help him a little , by dictating the lines to him -- an occupation not unfrequently interrupted by storms of furious denunciation against Mr. Gordon 's injustice and tyranny ; Eric vowing `` that he would pay him out somehow yet . '' 
Still it was not quite finished on Friday afternoon at six , when school ended , and Eric stayed a few minutes behind the rest to scribble off the last ten lines ; which done , he banged down the lid of his desk , not locking it , and ran out . 
On Saturday morning -LRB- when Eric was to give up his Georgic -RRB- , the boys , as they dropped into the hall for morning school , observed a new notice on the board , and , thronging round to see what it was , read these words , written on a half-sheet of paper , attached by wafers to the board -- As may be supposed , so completely novel an announcement took them all very much by surprise , and they wondered who had been so audacious as to play this trick . 
Just at this juncture Eric came in , having been delayed by Mr. Gordon while he rigidly inspected the imposition . 
said Eric , smarting with the memory of his imposition . 
As only a few of you have seen it , it becomes my deeply painful duty to inform you of its purport ; the words are these -- `` Gordon is a surly devil , '' -- A very slight titter followed this statement , which was instantly succeeded by a sort of thrilling excitement ; but Eric , when he heard the words , started perceptibly , and coloured as he caught Montagu 's eye fixed on him . 
No one stirred , but during the latter part of this address Eric was so uneasy , and his cheek burned with such hot crimson , that several eyes were upon him , and the suspicions of more than one boy were awakened . 
Eric 's heart beat loud , as he saw Mr. Rose point towards him . 
No one stirred ; but Montagu felt that his friend was trembling violently . 
`` Eric Williams , stand out in the room . '' 
But poor Eric could hardly get through his ordinary pursuits ; he felt sick and giddy , until everybody noticed his strange embarrassed manner , and random answers . 
`` The writing was undoubtedly Williams ' , '' suggested some . 
`` And did you notice how red and pale he got when the Doctor spoke to him , and how he hung his head ? '' 
`` Yes ; and one knows how he hates Gordon . '' 
The various items of evidence were put together , and certainly they seemed to prove a strong case against Eric . 
In addition to the probabilities already mentioned , it was found that the ink used was of a violet colour , and a peculiar kind , which Eric was known to patronise ; and not only so , but the wafers with which the paper had been attached to the board were yellow , and exactly of the same size with some which Eric was said to possess . 
In short , the almost universal conviction among the boys proclaimed that he was guilty , and many urged him to confess it at once , and save the school from the threatened punishment . 
But he listened to such suggestions with the most passionate indignation . 
he said , angrily , `` tell a wilful lie to blacken my own innocent character ? 
The consequence was , they all began to shun him . 
Eric was put into Coventry . 
Very few boys in the school still clung to him , and maintained his innocence in spite of appearances , but they were the boys whom he had most loved and valued , and they were most vigorous in his defence . 
On the evening of the Saturday , Upton had sought out Eric , and said , in a very serious tone , `` This is a bad business , Williams . 
said Eric , bursting into proud tears . 
I wo n't speak to you again till you have repented of mistrusting me ; '' and he resolutely rejected all further overtures on Upton 's part . 
His first impulse was to run away and escape ; but Russell determined to stop him , and when he came up , said , `` Dear Eric , I have sought you out on purpose to tell you that I do n't suspect you , and have never done so for a moment . 
`` But he does , Eric , '' said Russell ; `` he told me so just now , and several others said the same thing . '' 
A transient gleam passed over Eric 's face . 
`` O , I do so long for home again , '' he said . 
`` Do n't say so , Eric . 
And you have one friend , Eric , '' he continued , pointing reverently upwards . 
Eric was overcome ; he sat down on the grass and hid his face till the tears flowed through his closed fingers . 
Russell sat silent and pitying beside him , and let Eric 's head rest upon his shoulder . 
When they got home , Eric found three notes in his drawer . 
One was from Mr. Gordon , and ran thus : -- `` I have little doubt , Williams , that you have done this act . 
This note he read , and then , stamping on the floor , tore it up furiously into twenty pieces , which he scattered about the room . 
Another was from Mr. Rose ; `` Dear Eric -- I can not , will not , believe you guilty , although appearances look very black . 
I trust you , Eric , and will use every endeavour to right you in the general estimation . 
The third note was from Owen , as follows : -- `` Dear Williams -- We have been cool to each other lately ; naturally , perhaps . 
Williams , '' said Duncan , `` we have been looking everywhere for you , dear fellow . 
Montagu said nothing , but Eric understood full well the trustful kindness of his soft pressure of the hand . 
His heart was too full to speak , and he went on towards the library . 
It would be well for the school if all the fellows were as honourable as Williams . '' 
They did so , and Avonley asked , `` Is Williams here ? '' 
He took Eric 's arm kindly as they entered , to show the whole school that he was not ashamed of him , and Eric deeply felt the delicacy of his goodwill . 
`` Are you willing to be tried , Williams , '' asked Avonley , `` on the charge of having written the insulting paper about Mr. Gordon ? 
`` There is nothing I should like better , '' said Eric . 
He had quite recovered his firm manly bearing . 
A quiet conversation with his dearly loved friend and master had reassured him in the confidence of innocence , and though the colour on his cheek had through excitement sunk into two bright red spots , he looked wonderfully noble and winning as he stood before the boys in the centre of the room . 
His appearance caused a little reaction in his favour , and a murmur of applause followed his answer . 
He was a clever fellow , and Eric liked the little he had seen of him . 
`` Have you any objection , Williams , to the jury being composed of the sixth form ? 
`` No , '' said Eric , glancing round with confidence . 
`` No , '' said Eric , at once . 
`` I am only a Shell-boy , '' he said , `` but if Eric does n't mind trusting his cause to me , I will defend him , since no other fifth-form fellow stirs . '' 
`` All I have got to do , '' said Gibson , rising , `` is to bring before the school the grounds for suspecting Williams , and all the evidence which makes it probable that he is the offender . 
The first boy called upon was Pietrie , who deposed , that on Friday evening , when he left the room , having been detained a few minutes , the only boy remaining in it was Williams . 
`` Do you know that Williams is in the habit of using a particular kind of ink ? '' 
`` Yes ; it is Williams ' hand . 
`` He makes his r 's in a curious way . '' 
`` Yes ; Williams has a box of them in his desk . '' 
-- '' How do you know that Williams has wafers like those ? '' 
`` I have seen him use them . '' 
`` I ca n't help remarking that you seem very well acquainted with what he does . 
Several of those who know him best , and have seen him oftenest , never heard of these wafers . 
May I ask , '' he said , `` if any one else in the school will witness to having seen Williams use these wafers ? '' 
Gibson began -- `` You have seen a good deal of Williams ? '' 
`` Have you ever heard him express any opinions of Mr. Gordon ? '' 
`` The other day Mr. Gordon gave him a Georgic as an imposition , and I heard Williams say that he would like to pay him out . '' 
`` When did he say this ? '' 
`` Have you ever known Williams do any mean act ? '' 
`` Do you consider him a boy likely to have been guilty on this occasion . '' 
The answer was given with vehement emphasis , and Eric felt greatly relieved by it . 
One or two other boys were then called on as witnesses to the great agitation which Eric had shown during the investigation in the school-room , and then Gibson , who was a sensible self-contained fellow , said , `` I have now done my part . 
The school listened to Gibson 's quiet formality with a kind of grim and gloomy satisfaction , and when he had concluded , there were probably few but Eric 's own immediate friends who were not fully convinced of his guilt , however sorry they might be to admit so unfavourable an opinion of a companion whom they all admired . 
After a minute or two , Russell rose for the defence , and asked , `` Has Williams any objection to his desk being brought , and any of its contents put in as evidence ? '' 
He then began -- `` In spite of the evidence adduced , I think I can show that Williams is not guilty . 
It is quite true that he dislikes Mr. Gordon , and would not object to any open way of showing it ; it is quite true that he used the expressions attributed to him , and that the ink and wafers are such as may be found in his desk , and that the handwriting is not unlike his . 
But it is rather strange that Barker should know about the wafers , since neither I , nor any other friend of Williams , often as we have sat by him when writing letters , have ever observed that he possessed any like them . '' 
It will explain Williams ' agitation when Dr. Rowlands read out the words on that paper ; and , confident of his innocence , I am indifferent to its appearing to tell against him . 
I myself once heard Williams use the very words written on that paper , and not only heard them , but expostulated with him strongly for the use of them . 
I need hardly say how very unlikely it is , that remembering this , he should thus publicly draw my suspicions on him , if he meant to insult Mr. Gordon undiscovered . 
Now , I have just found that there is no paper at all like this in Williams ' desk ; all the note-paper it contains is marked ` Blakes , Ayrton . ' 
`` I might bring many witnesses to prove how very unlike Williams ' general character a trick of this kind would be . 
It is our painful duty to prove Williams ' innocence by proving another 's guilt . 
Russell sat down amid general applause ; he had performed his task with a wonderful modesty and selfpossession , which filled every one with admiration , and Eric warmly pressed his hand . 
The interest of the school was intensely excited , and Duncan , after a minute 's pause , starting up , said -- `` Williams has allowed his desk to be brought in and examined . 
The real culprit now saw at once that his plot to ruin Eric was recoiling on himself . 
He got up , swore and blustered at Russell , Duncan , and Williams , and at first flatly refused to allow his desk to be brought . 
He was , however , forced to yield , and when opened , it was immediately seen that the note-paper it contained was identical with that on which the words had been written . 
At this he affected to be perfectly unconcerned , and merely protested against what he called the meanness of trying to fix the charge on him . 
I was looking on simply from curiosity , and saw him search Williams ' desk , from which he took out something , I could not make out what . 
He then went to his own place , and wrote for about ten minutes , after which I observed him go up and stand by the notice-board . 
When he had done this , he got out by the window again , and ran off . '' 
On Saturday , when the boys left the school-room , I stayed behind to think a little over what had occurred , feeling convinced that Williams was not guilty , spite of appearances . 
They are covered apparently with failures in an attempt at forgery , viz. , first , ` Gordon is a sur -- ' and then a stop , as though the writer were dissatisfied , and several of the words written over again for practice , and then a number of r 's made in the way that Williams makes them . '' 
said Avonley ; `` just see that he does n't escape , while we decide on his punishment . '' 
I need hardly say that neither Eric nor his friends took any part in this retributive act . 
Most warmly did Eric thank them for their trustfulness . 
`` Thank you , '' he said , `` with all my heart , for proving my innocence ; but thank you , even more a great deal , for first believing it . '' 
Upton was the first to join them , and since he had but wavered for a moment , he was soon warmly reconciled with Eric . 
Three cheers for Eric Williams ! '' 
They gave , not three , but a dozen , till they were tired ; and meanwhile , every one was pressing round him , telling him how sorry they were for the false suspicion , and doing all they could to show their regret for his recent troubles . 
His genial , boyish heart readily forgave them , and his eyes were long wet with tears of joy . 
The delicious sensation of returning esteem made him almost think it worth while to have undergone his trial . 
Most happily did he spend the remainder of that afternoon , and it was no small relief to all the Rowlandites in the evening to find themselves finally rid of Barker , whose fate no one pitied , and whose name no one mentioned without disgust . 
After prayers , Mr. Gordon , who had been at Dr. Rowlands ' to dinner , apologised to Eric amply and frankly for his note , and did and said all that could be done by an honourable man to repair the injury of an unjust doubt . 
Eric felt his generous humility , and from thenceforth , though they were never friends , he and Mr. Gordon ceased to be enemies . 
A most bright and joyous evening they passed , for they were in the highest spirits ; and when the master bade them `` good night , '' he kindly detained Eric , and said to him , `` Keep an innocent heart , my boy , and you need never fear trouble . 
`` O , I could n't be guilty , sir , '' said Eric , gaily . 
But , '' he added solemnly , `` there are many kinds of temptation , Eric ; many kinds . 
`` Believe me ; sir , I will try , '' he answered with humility . 
`` Let the Lord be your banner , Eric , and you will win the victory . 
He was imagining for Eric a sunny future -- a future of splendid usefulness , of reciprocated love , of brilliant fame . 
Eric enjoyed the time particularly , and was in great request among all the boys . 
He was now more gay and popular than ever , and felt as if nothing were wanting to his happiness . 
But this brilliant prosperity was not good for him , and he felt continually that he cared far less for the reproaches of conscience than he had done in the hours of his trial ; sought far less for help from God than he had done when he was lonely and neglected . 
Among other dangerous lessons Upton had taught Eric to smoke ; and he was now one of those who often spent a part of his holidays in lurking about with pipes in their mouths at places where they were unlikely to be disturbed , instead of joining in some hearty and healthy game . 
When he began to `` learn '' smoking , he found it anything but pleasant ; but a little practice had made him an adept , and he found a certain amount of enjoyable excitement in finding out cozy places by the river , where he and Upton might go and lounge for an hour to enjoy the forbidden luxury . 
In reality he , like most boys , detested the habit ; but it seemed a fine thing to do , and to some , at any rate , it was a refuge from vacuity . 
One morning of the Easter holidays , Eric , Montagu , and Russell started for an excursion down the coast to Rilby Head . 
As they passed through Ellan , Eric was deputed to go and buy Easter eggs and other provisions , as they did not mean to be back for dinner . 
In about ten minutes he caught up the other two , just as they were getting out of the town . 
The two boys did n't guess , and Eric said , to enlighten them , `` Will you have a whiff , Monty ? '' 
`` Well , I shall , at any rate , '' said Eric , keeping off the wind with his cap , as he lighted a cigar , and began to puff . 
The fact was , Eric did n't guess how much he was hurting Edwin 's feelings , and he was smoking more to `` make things look like the holidays , '' by a little bravado , than anything else . 
But suddenly he caught the expression of Russell 's face , and instantly said -- `` O , I forgot , Edwin ; I know you do n't like smoking ; '' and he instantly flung the cigar over the hedge , being really rather glad to get rid of it . 
`` It is n't that I do n't like smoking only , Eric , but I think it wrong -- for us I mean . '' 
`` O , it 's pleasant enough sometimes , '' said Eric , speaking rather against his own convictions . 
said Eric , laughing , `` I suppose you 're right . 
It was a very favourite resort of Eric 's , as the coast all about it was bold and romantic ; and he often went there with Russell on a Sunday evening to watch the long line of golden radiance slanting to them over the water from the setting sun -- a sight which they often agreed to consider one of the most peaceful and mysteriously beautiful in nature . 
`` We sha n't see the line on the waters this evening , '' said Eric ; `` there 's too much of a breeze . 
`` There 's only one way for it , '' said Eric ; `` if we 're plucky we can jump that ; but we must n't wait till it gets worse . 
Eric 's courage supported the other two . 
`` There 's no good thinking about it , '' said he , `` jump we must ; the sooner the better . 
He drew back a step or two , and sprang out with all his force . 
He was a practised and agile jumper , and , to their great relief , he alighted near the water 's edge , on the other side , where , after slipping once or twice on the wet and seaweed-covered rocks , he effected a safe landing , with no worse harm than a wetting up to the knees . 
`` Now then , you two , '' he shouted ; `` no time to lose . '' 
And as he spoke , a huge furious wave swept down the whole length of the gulf by which they stood , roaring and surging along till the whole water seethed , and tearing the seaweeds from their roots in the rock . 
`` Now 's your time , '' shouted Eric again . 
He lighted into deep water , nearly up to his neck , and at first tried in vain to secure a footing on the sharp slippery schist ; but he stumbled forwards vigorously , and in half a minute , Eric leaning out as far as he could , caught his hand , and just pulled him to the other side in time to escape another rush of tumultuous and angry foam . 
`` Oh Edwin , Edwin -- dear Edwin -- do jump , '' cried Eric with passionate excitement . 
For an instant , Eric and Montagu stood breathless , -- but the next instant , they saw Russell 's head emerge , and then another wave foaming madly by , made them run backwards for their lives , and hid him from their view . 
Besides , they both saw that a jump was no longer possible ; the channel was more than double the width which it had been when Eric leaped , and from the rapid ascent of the rocks on both sides , it was now far out of depth . 
Eric had not lost his presence of mind . 
`` Cheer up , Edwin , '' he shouted ; `` I will get back to you somehow . 
`` Monty , '' said Eric , `` just watch for a minute or two . 
`` Why , Eric , it 's death to attempt swimming that . 
And he drew Eric back hastily , as another vast swell of water came rolling along , shaking its white curled mane , like a sea-monster bent on destruction . 
`` Monty , it 's no use , '' said Eric hastily , tearing off his jacket and waistcoat ; `` I 'm not going to let Russell die on that ledge of rock . 
He turned round ; the wave had just spent its fury , and knowing that his only chance was to swim over before another came , he plunged in , and struck out like a man . 
He was a strong and expert swimmer , and as yet the channel was not more than a dozen yards across . 
He dashed over with the speed and strength of despair , and had just time to clutch the rocks on the other side before the next mighty swirl of the tide swept up in its white and tormented course . 
In another minute he was on the ledge by Russell 's side . 
Eric wrapped up his friend in the clothes , and once more shouted to Montagu to go on his errand . 
Looking back after a few minutes , he caught , through the gathering dusk , his last glimpse of the friends in their perilous situation . 
Eric was seated supporting Russell across his knees ; when he saw Montagu turn , he waved his cap over his head as a signal of encouragement , and then began to carry Edwin higher up the rock for safety . 
he exclaimed , bursting in , `` Williams and Russell are on the Stack , cut off by the tide . '' 
When Montagu told how Williams had braved the danger of reaching his friend at the risk of his life , Dr. Rowlands ' admiration was unbounded . 
Eric heard them . 
When Montagu left , he had carried Russell to the highest point of the rock , and there , with gentle hands and soothing words , made him as comfortable as he could . 
He wrapped him in every piece of dry clothing he could find , and held him in his arms , heedless of the blood which covered him . 
At first Eric could think of nothing but storm and sea . 
Cold , and cruel , and remorseless , the sea beat up , drenching them to the skin continually with its clammy spray ; and the storm shrieked round them pitilessly , and flung about the wet hair on Eric 's bare head , and forced him to plant himself firmly , lest the rage of the gusts should hurl them from their narrow restingplace . 
The darkness made everything more fearful , for his eyes could distinguish nothing but the gulfs of black water glistening here and there with hissing foam , and he shuddered as his ears caught the unearthly noises that came to him in the mingled scream of weltering tempest and plangent wave . 
It was fearful to be isolated on the black rent rock , and see the waves gaining on them higher , higher , higher , every moment ; and he was in ceaseless terror lest they should be swept away by the violence of the breakers . 
`` At least , '' thought he , as he looked down and saw that the ledge on which they had been standing had long been covered with deep and agitated waves , `` at least I have saved Edwin 's life . '' 
And he bravely made up his mind to keep up heart and hope , and weather the comfortless night with Russell in his arms . 
Eric feared that he would die , his fainting-fit continued so long , and from the helpless way in which one of his legs trailed on the ground he felt sure that he had received some dangerous hurt . 
Poor Eric knew not what to do but to shelter him to the best of his power , and when he showed any signs of consciousness again , he bent over him , and said , `` Do n't you remember , Edwin ? 
where 's Eric ? 
Dear Eric , do n't smoke . 
Poor fellow , I 'm afraid he 's getting spoilt , and learning bad ways . 
Oh save him . '' 
And as he wandered on , he repeated a prayer for Eric , which evidently had been often on his lips . 
Eric was touched to the heart 's core , and in one rapid lightning-like glance , his memory revealed to him the faultful past , in all its sorrowfulness . 
And he too prayed wildly for help both for soul and body . 
Alone on the crag , with the sea tumbling and plashing round them , growing and gaining so much on their place of refuge , that his terror began to summon up the image of certain death ; alone , wet , hungry , and exhausted , with the wounded and delirious boy , whose life depended on his courage , he prayed as he had never prayed before , and seemed to grow calmer by his prayer , and to feel God nearer him than ever he had done in the green cricket-field , or the safe dormitories of Roslyn school . 
Long and anxiously did they watch the ebbing tide , and when it had gone out sufficiently to allow of two stout planks being laid across the channel , an active sailor ventured over with a light , and in a few moments stood by Eric 's side . 
Eric saw him coming , but was too weak and numb to move ; and when the sailor lifted up the unconscious Russell from his knees , Eric was too much exhausted even to speak . 
The man returned for him , and lifting him on his back crossed the plank once more in safety , and carried them both to the carriage , where Dr. Underhay had taken care to have everything likely to revive and sustain them . 
Eric and Montagu had beds provided them in another room by themselves , away from the dormitory ; the room was bright and cheerful , with a blazing fire , and looked like home ; and when the two boys had drank some warm wine , and cried for weariness and joy , they sank to sleep after their dangers and fatigues , and slept the deep , calm , dreamless sleep of tired children . 
Montagu opened his eyes , and at first could not collect his thoughts , as he saw the carpeted little room , the bright fire , and the housekeeper seated in her arm-chair before it . 
But turning his head , he caught a glimpse of Eric , who was still asleep , and he then remembered all . 
He sprang out of bed , refereshed and perfectly well , and the sound of his voice woke Eric ; but Eric was still languid and weak , and did not get up that day , nor was he able to go to work again for some days ; but he was young and strong , and his vigorous constitution soon threw off the effects of his fast and exposure . 
And then they preserved a deep silence ; and when Montagu , who immediately began to dress , knelt down to say his prayers , Eric , though unable to get up , knelt also over his pillow , and the two felt that their young earnest prayers were mingling for the one who seemed to have been taken while they were left . 
Often did Eric , and Upton , and Montagu , talk of their loved friend . 
Eric 's life seemed absorbed in the thought of him , and in passionate , unspeakable longings for his recovery . 
Now he valued more than ever the sweet remembered hours spent with him ; their games , and communings , and walks , and Russell 's gentle influence , and brave , kindly rebukes . 
`` And yet you should hear him talk in his delirium , '' he said to Eric ; `` not one evil word , or bad thought , or wicked thing , ever escapes him . 
I 'm afraid , Eric , it would hardly be so with you or me . '' 
`` No , '' said Eric , in a low and humble tone ; and guilty conscience brought the deep colour , wave after wave , of crimson into his cheeks . 
`` And he talks with such affection of you , Eric . 
He speaks sometimes of all of us very gently ; but you seem to be always in his thoughts , and every now and then he prays for you quite unconsciously . '' 
Eric turned his head to brush away a tear . 
`` When do you think I shall be allowed to see him ? '' 
When Eric was told of this , he burst into passionate complaints . 
Eric hardly understood that he was railing at the providence of a merciful God . 
A few days after , he asked Dr. Underhay `` if he might see Eric ? '' 
`` Yes , my boy , '' said the doctor kindly , `` you may see him , and one or two other of your particular friends if you like , provided you do n't excite yourself too much . 
So Eric and Montagu were told by Dr. Rowlands that at six they might go and see their friend . 
`` Be sure , he added , `` that you do n't startle or excite him . '' 
he said , as he felt their tears dropping on his hands while they kissed them , `` Dear Eric , dear Monty , why should you cry so for me ? 
One day Eric brought him a little bunch of primroses and violets . 
He seemed much better , and Eric 's spirits were high with the thoughts and hopes of the coming holidays . 
`` There , Edwin , '' he said , as the boy gratefully and eagerly took the flowers , `` do n't they make you glad ? 
You 'll soon be out among us again , that 's clear -- '' He stopped abruptly : he had been rattling on just in the merry way that Russell now most loved to hear , but , as he was talking , he caught the touch of sadness on Russell 's face , and saw his long , abstracted , eager look at the flowers . 
`` No , no , Eric , talk on ; you ca n't think how I love to hear you . 
And he again fixed on them the eager dreamy look which had startled Eric -- as though he were learning their colour and shape by heart . 
`` I wish I had n't brought them , though , '' said Eric , `` they are filling your mind with regrets . 
`` No Eric , '' said Russell sadly , `` these dear flowers are the last spring blossoms that I shall see -- here at least . 
Yes , I will keep them , for your sake Eric , till I die . '' 
`` Oh do n't talk so , '' said Eric , shocked and flustered , `` why everybody knows and says that you 're getting better . '' 
`` No , Eric , I shall die . 
There stop , dear fellow , do n't cry , '' said he , raising his hands quietly to Eric 's face ; `` is n't it better for me so ? 
I own it seemed sad at first to leave this bright world and the sea -- yes , even that cruel sea , '' he continued smiling ; `` and to leave Roslyn , and Upton , and Monty , and , above all , to leave you , Eric , whom I love best in all the world . 
Yes , remember I 've no home , Eric , and no prospects . 
There was nothing to be sorry for in this , so long as God gave me health and strength ; but health went for ever into those waves at the Stack , where you saved my life , dear , gallant Eric ; and what could I do now ? 
Oh Eric , Eric , I am young , but I am dying -- dying , Eric , '' he said solemnly , `` my brother ; let me call you brother ; I have no near relations , you know , to fill up the love in my yearning heart , but I do love you . 
Kiss me , Eric , as though I were a child , and you a child . 
There , that comforts me ; I feel as if I were a child again , and had a dear brother ; -- and I shall be a child again soon , Eric , in the courts of a Father 's house . '' 
Eric could not speak . 
These words startled him ; he never dreamt recently of Russell 's death , but had begun to reckon on his recovery , and now life seemed darker to him than ever . 
And here he too burst into natural tears , and Eric pressed his hand , with more than a brother 's fondness , to his heart . 
`` Oh Eddy , Eddy , my heart is full , '' he said , `` too full to speak to you . 
Let me read to you ; '' and with Russell 's arm round his neck he sat down beside his pillow , and read to him about `` the pure river of water of life , clear as crystal , proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb . '' 
At first sobs choked his voice , but it gathered firmness as he went on . 
Eric paused and looked at him ; a sort of rapture seemed to be lighted in his eyes , as though they saw heavenly things , and his countenance was like an angel 's to look upon . 
Eric closed the book reverently , and gazed . 
`` And now pray for me , Eric , will you ? '' 
Eric knelt down , but no prayer would come ; his breast swelled , and his heart beat fast , but emotion prevented him from uttering a word . 
The childlike , holy , reverent voice ceased , and Eric rose . 
One long brotherly kiss he printed on Russell 's forehead , and , full of sorrowful forebodings , bade him good night . 
He asked Dr. Underhay whether his fears were correct . 
`` Yes , '' he said , `` he may die at any time ; he must die soon . 
Eric shuddered -- a long cold shudder . 
The holidays drew on ; for Russell 's sake , and at his earnest wish , Eric had worked harder than he ever did before . 
All his brilliant abilities , all his boyish ambition , were called into exercise ; and , to the delight of every one , he gained ground rapidly , and seemed likely once more to dispute the palm with Owen . 
In other respects , too , Eric seemed to be turning over a new leaf . 
He and Upton , by common consent , had laid aside smoking , and every bad habit or disobedient custom which would have grieved the dying boy , whom they both loved so well . 
And although Eric 's popularity , after the romantic Stack adventure and his chivalrous daring , was at its very zenith , -- although he had received a medal and flattering letter from the Humane Society , who had been informed of the transaction by Dr. Rowlands , -- although his success both physical and intellectual was higher than ever , -- yet the dread of the great loss he was doomed to suffer , and the friendship which was to be snapped , overpowered every other feeling , and his heart was ennobled and purified by contact with his suffering friend . 
Long and earnestly that evening did he talk to Eric , and implore him to shun evil ways , striving to lead him gently to that love of God which was his only support and refuge now . 
Tearfully and humbly Eric listened , and every now and then the sufferer stopped to pray aloud . 
`` Good night , Eric , '' he said , `` I am tired , so tired . 
I hope we shall meet again ; I shall give you my desk and all my books , Eric , except a few for Horace , Owen , Duncan , and Monty . 
A little before ten that night Eric was again summoned with Upton and Montagu to Russell 's bedside . 
`` Oh , I should so like to stay with you , Monty , Horace , dear , dear Eric , but God calls me . 
`` God bless you , dear fellows ; God bless you , dear Eric ; I am going -- to God . '' 
That night when Eric returned to No. 7 , full of grief , and weighed down with the sense of desolation and mystery , the other boys were silent from sympathy in his sorrow . 
Duncan and Llewellyn both knew and loved Russell themselves , and they were awestruck to hear of his death ; they asked some of the particulars , but Eric was not calm enough to tell them that evening . 
The one sense of infinite loss agitated him , and he indulged his paroxysms of emotion unrestrained , yet silently . 
Reader , if ever the life has been cut short which you most dearly loved , if ever you have been made to feel absolutely lonely in the world , then , and then only , will you appreciate the depth of his affliction . 
To Eric , as he rested his aching head on a pillow wet with tears , and vainly sought for the sleep whose blessing he had never learned to prize before , how odious seemed all the vice which he had seen and partaken in since he became an inmate of that little room . 
How his soul revolted with infinite disgust from the language which he had heard , and the open glorying in sin of which he had so often been a witness . 
The stain and the shame of sin fell heavier than ever on his heart ; it rode on his breast like a nightmare ; it haunted his fancy with visions of guilty memory , and shapes of horrible regret . 
The ghosts of buried misdoings , which he had thought long lost in the mists of recollection , started up menacingly from their forgotten graves , and made him shrink with a sense of their awful reality . 
Behind him , like a wilderness , lay years which the locust had eaten ; the intrusted hours which had passed away , and been reckoned to him as they past . 
he could not endure such a presence now , with his weak conscience and corrupted heart ; and Eric hid his head under the clothes , and shut his eyes . 
Once more the pang of separation entered like iron into his soul . 
Should he ever meet Russell again ? 
Then he was sinking , sinking , sinking into a gulf , deep and darker even than the inner darkness of a sin-desolated heart ; sinking , helplessly , hopelessly , everlastingly ; while far away , like a star , stood the loved figure in light infinitely above him , and with pleading hands implored his deliverance , but could not prevail ; and Eric was still sinking , sinking infinitely , when the agony awoke him with a violent start and stifled scream . 
He could sleep no longer . 
Whenever he closed his eyes he saw the pale , dead , holy features of Edwin , and at last he fancied that he was praying beside his corpse , praying to be more like him , who lay there so white and calm ; sorrowing beside it , sorrowing that he had so often rejected his kind warnings , and pained his affectionate heart . 
So Eric began again to make good resolutions about all his future life . 
how often he had done so before , and how often they had failed . 
He had not yet learned the lesson which David learned by sad experience ; `` Then I said , it is mine own infirmity , but I will remember the years of the right hand of the Most High . '' 
But Montagu in Edwin 's sick-room and by his deathbed ; in the terrible storm at the Stack , and by contact with Dr. Rowlands ' earnestness , and Mr. Rose 's deep , unaffected , sorrow-mingled piety ; by witnessing Eric 's failures and recoveries ; and by beginning to take in his course the same heartfelt interest which Edwin taught him -- Montagu , in consequence of these things , had begun to see another side of life , which awoke all his dormant affections and porofoundest reasonings . 
All that night of death he had truer comfort than Eric -- for he cast his cares on God ; more calm than Eric -- for he fixed his hopes on the Son of God ; greater strength granted him than Eric -- because he had learned not to rely upon his own ; less fear and torment than Eric -- because he laid the burden of his sins before the cross , and , as a child , believed in their forgiveness for His sake who died thereon . 
Eric , to escape as much as possible from his sorrow , plunged into the excitement of working for the examination , and rapidly made up for lost ground . 
He now spent most of his time with the best of his friends , particularly Montagu , Owen , and Upton ; for Upton , like himself , had been much sobered by sorrow at their loss . 
All the prize-boys wore rosebuds or lilies of the valley in their button-holes on the occasion , but on this day Eric would not wear them . 
Little Wright , who was a great friend of theirs , had brought some as a present both to Eric and Montagu , as they stood together on the prize-day morning ; they took them with thanks , and , as their eyes met , they understood each other 's thought . 
`` No , '' said Eric to Wright , `` we wo n't wear these to-day , although we have both got prizes . 
They all three walked together to the little green , quiet churchyard , where , by his own request , Edwin had been buried . 
`` He would have been the gladdest at our success , Monty , '' said Eric ; `` let us leave the signs of it upon his grave . '' 
Wright and one or two others went nearly all the way with Eric , and when he got down at the little roadside station , from whence started the branch rail to Ayrton , he bade them a merry and affectionate farewell . 
At Roslyn the summer holidays were nine weeks , and the holidays at Christmas and Easter were short , so that it had not been worth while to travel so far as Fairholm , and Eric had spent his Christmas with friends in another part of the island . 
But now he was once more to see dear Fairholm , and his aunt , his cousin Fanny , and above all , his little brother . 
His heart was beating fast with joy , and his eyes sparkling with pleasure and excitement . 
As he thrust his head out of the window , each well-remembered landmark gave him the delicious sensation of meeting again an old friend . 
; -- by the old Roman camp where he had imagined such heroic things when he was a little child ; though all the scenes so rich with the memories and associations of his happy childhood , they flew along ; and now they had entered the avenue , and Eric was painfully on the look-out . 
And Vernon quite returned the admiration as he saw the healthy glow of Eric 's features , and the strong graceful development of his limbs . 
And so they quickly joined Mrs. Trevor , who embraced her nephew with a mother 's love ; and , amid all that nameless questioning of delightful trifles , that `` blossoming vein '' of household talk , which gives such an incommunicable charm to the revisiting of home , they all three turned into the house , where Eric , hungry with his travels , did ample justice to the `` jolly spread '' prepared for him , luxurious beyond anything he had seen for his last year at school . 
When he and Vernon went up to their room at night -- the same little room in which they slept on the night when they first had met -- they marked their heights on the door again , which showed Eric that in the last year he had grown two inches , a fact which he pointed out to Vernon with no little exultation . 
The very next morning Eric received a letter which he at once recognised to be in Upton 's handwriting . 
He eagerly tore off the envelope , and read -- `` My dearest Eric -- I have got bad news to tell you , at least , I feel it to be bad news for me , and I flatter myself that you will feel it to be bad news for you . 
I wanted to stay at school another year at least ; and I will honestly tell you , Eric , one reason : I 'm very much afraid that I 've done you , and Graham , and other fellows , no good ; and I wanted , if I possibly could , to undo the harm I had done . 
Eric folded the letter sadly , and put it into his pocket ; he did n't often show them his school letters , because , like this one , they often contained allusions to things which he did not like his aunt to know . 
The master fully understood his doubts , and wrote him the following reply : -- `` My dear Eric -- I have just received your letter about your brother Vernon , and I think that it does you honour . 
`` Well , Eric , this is all true . 
-- Ever , dear Eric , Affectionately yours , `` Walter Rose . '' 
To Eric the changes were not for good . 
All this took place very gradually ; there were many inward struggles , much occasional remorse , but the struggles by degrees grew weaker , and remorse lost its sting , and Eric Williams soon learned again to follow the multitude to do evil . 
He was now sixteen years old , and high in the fifth form , and , besides , this , he was captain of the school eleven . 
In work he had fallen off , and no one now expected the fulfilment of that promise of genius which he had given when he first came . 
The worst had happened to him , which Eric in his better moments could have feared . 
He had fallen into thoroughly bad hands , and Eric , who should have been his natural guardian and guide , began to treat him with indifference , and scarcely ever had any affectionate intercourse with him . 
Yet Eric could not overlook or be blind to the fact , that Vernon 's chief friend or leader was the most undesirable whom he could have chosen . 
Eric might have done much , Duncan might have done much , to aid the better cause , had they tried ; but they resisted at first but faintly , and then not at all , until they too were swept away in the broadening tide of degeneracy and sin . 
Had Eric done his duty , this would never have been ; but he was half-ashamed to be often with his brother , and disliked to find him so often creeping to his side . 
He flattered himself that in this feeling he was only anxious that Vernon should grow spirited and independent ; but , had he examined himself , he would have found selfishness at the bottom of it . 
Montagu and others noticed him for Eric 's sake ; but , being in the same form with Brigson , Vernon was thrown much with him , and feeling , as he did , deserted and lonely , he was easily caught by the ascendancy of his physical strength and reckless darling . 
Before three months were over , he became , to Eric 's intolerable disgust , a ringleader in the band of troublesome scapegraces , whose increasing numbers were the despair of all who had the interests of the school at heart . 
To Eric and Duncan he was scrupulously civil , and by flattery and deference managed to keep apparently on excellent terms with them . 
Eric pretended to be ignorant of the harm he was bringing about , and in answer to the indignant and measureless invectives of Montagu and others , professed to see in Brigson a very good fellow ; rather wild , perhaps , but still a very good fellow . 
`` O Eric , '' said Montagu , `` why did you not make a stand against all this before ? 
I 'll kick him well for it , '' said Eric . 
Eric sighed , and they parted . 
Montagu had hoped that after this Eric would at least break off all open connection with Brigson ; and , indeed , Eric had meant to do so . 
But that personage kept carefully out of his way until the first burst of indignation against him had subsided , and after a time began to address Eric as if nothing had happened . 
Meanwhile he had completely regained his ascendancy over the lower part of the school , which was not difficult , because they were wincing under Montagu 's contempt , and mingled no little dislike with it ; a dislike which all are too apt to feel towards those whose very presence and moral superiority are a tacit rebuke of their own failings . 
But while Montagu was hated , Eric was at the zenith of popular favour , a favour which Brigson ostentatiously encouraged . 
He was openly flattered and caressed , and if ever he got a large score at cricket , it was chalked triumphantly over the walls . 
All this he was weak enough to enjoy immensely , and it was one of the reasons why he did not wish to risk his popularity by breaking with Brigson . 
So , after a little constraint and coldness , he began to stand in much the same relation to him as before . 
The best-disposed of the upper boys disliked all this very much , and the sixth and fifth forms began to be split up into two main parties -- the one , headed by Eric , and , to a much less degree , by Duncan , who devoted themselves to the games and diversions of the school , and troubled themselves comparatively little about anything else ; the other , headed by Montagu , who took the lead in intellectual pursuits , and endeavoured , by every means in their power , to counteract the pernicious effects of the spreading immorality . 
At the beginning of this quarter Eric and Duncan had succeeded to one of the studies , and Owen shared with Montagu the one which adjoined it . 
So one evening Duncan said to Eric , `` Do you know little Wildney ? '' 
said Eric , laughing ; `` I shall bring out a new Duncan-dictionary , in which kerkokerwnucoV very nice little fellow . '' 
`` No , '' said Eric , `` I do n't care . 
Duncan went to fetch Wildney , and while he was gone , Eric was thinking why he did n't give Vernon the free run of his study . 
He would not admit to himself the true reason , which was , that he had too much ground to fear that his example would do his brother no good . 
Eric soon learned to like Wildney , who was a very bright , engaging , spirited boy , with a dash of pleasant impudence about his which took Eric 's fancy . 
He had been one of the most mischievous of the lower fellows , but , although clever did little or nothing in school , and was in the worst repute with the masters . 
Until he was `` taken up '' by Eric , he had been a regular little hero among his compeers , because he was game for any kind of mischief , and in the new tone of popular morality , his fearless disregard of rules made him the object of general admiration . 
From this time , however , he was much in the studies , and unhappily carried with him to those upper regions the temptation to a deeper and more injurious class of transgressions than had yet penetrated there . 
It was an ill day for General Wildney when he sent his idolised little son to Roslyn ; it was an ill day for Eric when Duncan first asked the child to frequent their study . 
It was past nine at night , and the lower school had gone to bed , but there was Wildney quietly sitting on Eric 's knee by the study fire , while Duncan was doing some Arnold 's verses for him to be shown up next day . 
Do you mind , Eric ? '' 
asked Eric in surprise . 
said Eric , `` then I suppose I must smoke too to keep you in countenance ; '' and he took a cigar . 
It was the first time he had touched one since the day at the Stack . 
The remembrance made him gloomy and silent . 
`` Tempora mutantur , '' thought he , `` nos et mutamur in illis . '' 
said Eric , shaking off unpleasant memories . 
`` Look , '' he continued , pointing out of the window to change the subject , `` what a glorious night it is ! 
`` Nonsense , '' said Eric ; `` it aint worth while . '' 
`` I believe you think I 'm afraid , '' said Wildney , laughing , and looking at Eric with his dark eyes ; `` and what 's more , I believe you 're afraid . '' 
said Eric , colouring , `` as if I was afraid to do anything you dare do . 
`` But I will , though , '' said Eric , a little nettled that Wildney , of all people , should think him wanting in pluck . 
he whispered to Eric , `` if we broke away the rest of the glass ? '' 
then I will , '' and he glided away , while Eric , as quietly as he could , broke away the glass until it was all removed . 
`` There 's only old Stupid , '' whispered he , irreverently designating an under-master named Harley , `` and he 's asleep before the fire . 
Now , then , just lift me up , Eric , will you ? '' 
Eric lifted him , and he removed the nails which fastened the end of the bar . 
Eric followed with some little difficulty , for the aperture would only just admit his passage ; and Duncan , going back to the study , anxiously awaited their return . 
But Eric 's first thought , as he dropped on to the ground , was one of shame that he should suffer his new friend , a mere child , so easily to tempt him into disobedience and sin . 
He had hardly thought till then of what their errand was to be , but now he could n't help so strongly disapproving of it , that he was half-inclined to turn back . 
He did not , however , dare to suggest this , lest Wildney should charge him with cowardice , and betray it to the rest . 
He was obviously beginning to be afraid ; so Eric assumed an air of nonchalance , and played the part of protector . 
`` Here , take my arm , '' he said ; and as Wildney grasped it tight , instead of feeling angry and ashamed at having been misled by one so much his junior , Eric felt strongly drawn towards him by community of danger and interest . 
Reaching Ellan , it suddenly struck him that he did ` nt know where they were going to buy the beer . 
He asked Wildney . 
Eric was silent and disgusted , but Wildney seemed quite at home . 
`` Stop , I 'll pay , '' said Eric . 
He pocketed the money and showed them out , standing to look after them with a malicious leer as they disappeared , and jerking his left thumb over his shoulder . 
said Eric , taking a long breath as they got out again into the moonlight , `` what a poisonous place ! 
But Eric only `` phewed '' again two or three times , and thought of Montagu . 
`` We must run for it , '' whispered Wildney hastily , as Mr. Rose approached the porch ; and the two boys took to their heels , and scampered away as hard as they could , Eric helping on Wildney by taking his hand , and neither of them looking behind . 
`` What an audacious little monkey you are ; you know all sorts of dodges , '' said Eric . 
They had no time to talk , but with a speed winged by fear got to the school , sprang on the buttress beneath the window , effected their entrance , and vanished after replacing the bar -- Eric to his study , and Wildney to his dormitory . 
Eric came in soon after , and found the little fellow vainly attempting to appear indifferent , as he related to his admiring auditors the night 's adventure ; being evidently rather proud of the `` Eric and I , '' which he introduced every now and then into his story . 
`` I hope not , '' said Eric ; `` I 'm sorry for you , Charlie . '' 
Eric went back to Duncan in the study , and they finished the other bottle of beer between them , though without much enjoyment , because they were full of surmises as to the extent of the discovery , and the nature of the punishment . 
Eric went in to tell Montagu of their escapade . 
He listened very coldly , and said , `` Well , Eric , it would serve you right to be caught . 
`` I beg you wo n't speak of any friend of mine in those terms , '' said Eric , drawing up haughtily . 
`` I hope you do n't call a bad little boy like Wildney , who 'd be no credit to any one , your friend , Eric ? '' 
He 's one of the pluckiest , finest , most promising fellows in the lower school . '' 
Upon my word , you 're cool , to speak of any of my associates in that way , '' said Eric , now thoroughly angry . 
`` You 're a couple of confounded muffs , '' shouted Eric , banging the door , and flinging into his own study again without further reply . 
Montagu 's head was resting on his hand as he bent over the table . 
Yes , you 're right , '' he said , after a pause ; `` this was n't the time to speak . 
He found Eric on the stairs going down to bed with an affectation of noise and gaiety . 
He ran after him , and said -- `` Forgive me my passion and sarcasm , Williams . 
He could not trust himself to say more , but held out his hand . 
Eric got red , and hesitated for a moment . 
`` Come , Eric , it is n't wholly my fault , is it , that we are not so warm to each other as we were when ... '' `` Oh , Monty , Monty ! '' 
said Eric , softened by the allusion ; and he warmly grasped his friend 's proffered hand . 
`` Oh , Eric ! '' 
After the flogging , Mr. Rose said shortly to Eric , `` I want to speak to you . '' 
The boy 's heart misgave him as they entered the familiar library . 
Eric was silent . 
Eric still silent . 
`` Whatever you do yourself , Williams '' -- -LRB- it was the first time for two years that Mr. Rose had called him `` Williams , '' and he winced a little -RRB- -- `` whatever you do yourself , Williams , rests with you ; but remember it is a ten-thousandfold heavier and more accursed crime to set stumbling-blocks in the way of others , and abuse your influence to cause any of Christ 's little ones to perish . '' 
`` I was n't the tempter , however , '' thought Eric , still silent . 
Believe , me , Williams , I grieve for you , and that bitterly . 
He has not asked me to see him once this term , '' thought Eric , sadly ; but a shout of pleasure greeted him directly he joined the football in the play-ground , and , half consoled , he hoped Mr. Rose had heard it , and understood that it was meant for the boy whom he had just been rebuking . 
All Eric 's repugnance for this boy seemed to have evaporated ; they were often together , and , to all appearance , were sworn friends . 
Eric did not shrink now from such conversation as was pursued unchecked in his presence by nearly every one ; nay , worse , it had lost its horror , and he was neither afraid nor ashamed to join in it himself . 
The Anti-muffs request the honour of Williams ' company to a spread they are going to have to-morrow evening at half-past four , in their smoking-room . '' 
A note to this effect was put into Eric 's hands by Wildney after prayers . 
He read it when he got into his study , and hardly knew whether to be pleased or disgusted at it . 
He tossed it to Duncan , and said , `` What shall I do ? '' 
`` Because , Eric , '' said Duncan , with more seriousness than was usual with him , `` I ca n't help thinking things have gone too far lately . '' 
As Eric said nothing , Duncan continued , `` And I wish it ended in talk , but -- '' `` But I believe you 're turning Owenite . 
Eric was talking at random , and in the spirit of opposition . 
There was something of assumed bravado in Eric 's whole manner which jarred on Duncan exceedingly . 
He had touched Eric 's weak point . 
`` Do come , '' he said , looking up in Eric 's face . 
`` Confound it all , '' answered Eric , hastily . 
And he scampered off , leaving Eric ill at ease . 
The next day , about half-past four , Eric found himself on the way to Ellan . 
As he was starting , Bull caught him up , and said -- `` Are you going to the Anti-muffs ? '' 
In fact , Eric was very glad of some one -- no matter who -- to keep him in countenance , for he felt considerably more than half ashamed of himself . 
They went to `` The Jolly Herring , '' as the pot-house was called , and passed through the dingy beery tap-room into the back parlour , to which Eric had already been introduced by Wildney . 
`` I vote , boys , that Eric Williams takes the chair . '' 
said half a dozen ; and Eric , rather against his will , found himself ensconced at the end of the table , with Brigson and Bull on either hand . 
The health was drunk with due clamour , and Eric got up to thank them . 
`` I 'm not going to spout , '' he said ; `` but boys must be boys , and there 's no harm in a bit of fun . 
While Wildney sang , Eric had time to think . 
As he glanced round the room , at the flushed faces of the boys , some of whom he could not recognise in the dusky atmosphere , a qualm of disgust and shame passed over him . 
Several of them were smoking , and , with Bull and Brigson heading the line on each side of the table , he could not help observing what a bad set they looked . 
But the bright little Wildney , unconscious of Eric 's bitter thoughts , sang on with overflowing mirth . 
As Eric looked at him , shining out like a sunbeam among the rest , he felt something like blood-guiltiness on his soul , when he felt that he was sanctioning the young boy 's presence in that degraded assemblage . 
And Eric ? 
The instant that the candles were knocked over , he felt Wildney seize his hand , and whisper , `` This way ; all serene ; '' following , he groped his way in the dark to the end of the room , where Wildney , shoving aside a green baize curtain , noiselessly opened a door , which at once let them into a little garden . 
`` Here , Eric , we must cut for it again . '' 
`` Well , it 's all through you I escaped , '' said Eric , `` you knowing little scamp . '' 
`` I 'm glad of it , Eric , '' said Wildney in his fascinating way , `` since it was all through me you went . 
During tea-time Eric was silent , as he felt pretty sure that none of the sixth form or other study boys would particularly sympathise with his late associates . 
Since the previous evening he had been cool with Duncan , and the rest had long rather despised him as a boy who 'd do anything to be popular ; so he sat there silent , looking as disdainful as he could , and not touching the tea , for which he felt disinclined after the recent potations . 
But the contemptuous exterior hid a self-reproving heart , and he felt how far more noble Owen and Montagu were than he . 
All the study and class-room boys were expected to go away during this interval ; but Eric , not noticing Mr. Rose 's entrance , sat gossipping with Wildney about the dinner and its possible consequences to the school . 
Eric heard him , but he was inclined to linger , and had always received such mild treatment from Mr. Rose , that he did n't think he would take much notice of the delay . 
Eric just glanced round and moved slightly ; he might have gone away , but that he caught a satirical look in Wildney 's eye , and besides wanted to show off a little indifference to his old master , with whom he had had no intercourse since their last-mentioned conversation . 
`` Williams , go away instantly ; what do you mean by staying after I have dismissed you ? '' 
Every one knew what a favourite Eric had once been , so this speech created a slight titter . 
Pretending to have forgotten something , he walked conceitedly back to Wildney , and whispered to him , `` I sha n't go if he chooses to speak like that . '' 
A red flush passed over Mr. Rose 's cheek ; he took two strides to Eric , and laid the cane sharply once across his back . 
Eric was not quite himself , or he would not have acted as he had done . 
His potations , though not deep , had , with the exciting events of the evening , made his head giddy , and the stroke of the cane , which he had not felt now for two years , roused him to madness . 
He bounded up , sprang towards Mr. Rose , and almost before he knew what he was about , had wrenched the cane out of his hands , twisted it violently in the middle until it broke , and flung one of the pieces furiously into the fire . 
For one instant , boy and master -- Eric Williams and Mr. Rose -- stood facing each other amid breathless silence , the boy panting and passionate , with his brain swimming , and his heart on fire ; the master pale , grieved , amazed beyond measure , but perfectly self-collected . 
`` Yes I had , '' answered Eric bitterly ; `` there 's your cane . '' 
Duncan was there , and remarking his wild look and demeanour , asked , after a moment 's awkward silence `` Is anything the matter , Williams ? '' 
`` Williams ! '' 
echoed Eric with a scornful laugh ; `` yes , that 's always the way with a fellow when he 's in trouble . 
`` Very well , then , '' said Duncan , good-humouredly , `` what 's the matter , Eric ? '' 
answered Eric , pacing up and down the little room with an angry to-and-fro like a caged wild beast , and kicking everything which came in his way , `` Matter ? 
said Duncan ; but suddenly he caught Eric 's look , and stopped . 
`` -- And I 've been breaking Rose 's cane over his head , because he had the impudence to touch me with it , and -- '' `` Eric , you 're not yourself to-night , '' said Duncan , interrupting , but speaking in the kindest tone ; and taking Eric 's hand , he looked him steadily in the face . 
But Eric sat lonely , sulky , and miserable , in his study , doing nothing , and when Montagu came in to visit him , felt inclined to resent his presence . 
he said , looking up at the ceiling , `` another saint come to cast a stone at me ! 
I suppose I must be resigned , '' he continued , dropping his cheek on his hand again ; `` only do n't let the sermon be long . '' 
But Montagu took no notice of his sardonic harshness , and seated himself by his side , though Eric pettishly pushed him away . 
`` Come , Eric , '' said Montagu , taking the hand which was repelling him ; `` I wo n't be repulsed in this way . 
Oh Eric , one would n't have fancied this in past days , when we were so much together with one who is dead . 
It 's a long long time since we 've even alluded to him , but I shall never forget those happy days . '' 
Eric heaved a deep sigh . 
But still , Eric , for your own sake , dear fellow , I ca n't help being sorry for all this . 
I did hope you 'd have broken with Brigson after the thrashing I gave him , for the foul way in which he treated me . 
I do n't think you can know the mischief he is doing . '' 
The large tears began to soften the fire of Eric 's eye . 
he said , `` it 's all of no use ; you 're all giving me the cold shoulder , and I 'm going to the bad , that 's the long and short of it . '' 
`` Oh , Eric ! 
Eric had laid his head on the table , which shook with his emotion . 
`` I ca n't talk , Monty , '' he said , in an altered tone ; `` but leave me now ; and if you like , we will have a walk to-morrow . '' 
`` Most willingly , Eric . '' 
And again , warmly pressing his hand , Montagu returned to his own study . 
Soon after , there came a timid knock at Eric 's door . 
He expected Wildney as usual ; a little before , he had been looking out for him , and hoping he would come , but he did n't want to see him now , so he answered rather peevishly , `` Come in ; but I do n't want to be bothered to-night . '' 
not if it bothers you , Eric , '' he said gently . 
`` Come here , Verny ; '' and Eric drew him towards him , and put him on his knee , while the tears trembled large and luminous in the child 's eyes . 
And remorseful Eric could not help being amazed , how , in his cruel heartless selfishness , he had let that fair child go so far far astray ; left him as a prey to such boys as were his companions in the lower school . 
`` Eric , did you know I was caught to-night at the dinner ? '' 
said Eric , with a start and a deep blush . 
`` Well , then , -- oh , Eric ! 
`` Because , Eric , he 's been so good , so kind to both of us . 
You 've often told me about him , you know , at Fairholm , and he 's done such lots of kind things to me . 
And only to-night , when he heard I was caught , he sent for me to the library , and spoke so firmly , yet so gently , about the wickedness of going to such low places , and about so young a boy as I am learning to drink , and the ruin of it -- and -- and '' -- His voice was choked by sobs for a time , -- `` and then he knelt down and prayed for me , so as I have never heard any one pray but mother ; -- and do you know , Eric , it was strange , but I thought I did hear our mother 's voice praying for me too , while he prayed , and '' -- He tried in vain to go on ; but Eric 's conscience continued for him ; `` and just as he had ceased doing this for one brother , the other brother , for whom he has often done the same , treated him with coarseness , violence , and insolence . '' 
Vernon hid his face on Eric 's shoulder ; and as his brother stopped over him , and folded him to his heart , they cried in silence , for there seemed no more to say , until wearied with sorrow , the younger fell asleep ; and then Eric carried him tenderly down stairs , and laid him , still half-sleeping , upon his bed . 
He laid him down , and looked at him as he slumbered . 
The other boys had not been disturbed by their noiseless entrance , and he sat down on his brother 's bed to think , shading off the light of the candle with his hand . 
It was rarely now that Eric 's thoughts were so rich with the memories of childhood , and sombre with the consciousness of sin , as they were that night , while he gazed on his brother Vernon 's face . 
He did not know what made him look so long and earnestly ; an indistinct sorrow , an unconjectured foreboding , passed over his mind , like the shadow of a summer cloud . 
`` Poor child , '' thought Eric ; `` dear little Vernon ; and he is to be flogged , perhaps birched , to-morrow . '' 
He went off sadly to bed , and hardly once remembered , that he too would come in for certain punishment the next day . 
On leaving the room he bade Eric follow him into his study . 
Eric obeyed , and stood before the head-master with downcast eyes . 
`` Williams , '' he said , `` I have had a great regard for you , and felt a deep interest in you from the day I first saw you , and knew your excellent parents . 
I can judge only from your outward course ; but I deeply fear , Williams , I deeply fear , that in other respects also you are going the down-hill road . 
`` Let me bear the punishment , sir , instead of him , '' said Eric , by a sudden impulse ; `` for I misled him , and was there myself . '' 
`` You , Williams ! 
Eric again hung his head . 
Eric , with trembling hand , wrote his apology , and Dr. Rowlands glanced at it . 
At twelve all the school were assembled , and Eric , pale and miserable , followed the Doctor into the great school-room . 
Every glance was fixed on Eric , and every one pitied him . 
Williams , read your apology . '' 
There was a dead hush , and Eric tried once or twice in vain to utter a word . 
At last , by a spasmodic effort , he regained his voice , and read , but in so low and nervous a tone , that not even those nearest him heard what he was saying . 
It is to this effect -- ``` I , Eric Williams , beg humbly and sincerely to apologise for my passionate and ungrateful insult to Mr. Rose . ' 
They left the room and dispersed , and Eric fancied that all shunned and looked coldly on his degradation . 
But not so : Montagu came , and taking his arm in the old friendly way , went a walk with him . 
It was a constrained and silent walk , and they were both glad when it was over , although Montagu did all he could to show that he loved Eric no less than before . 
`` I 'm so wretched , Monty , '' said Eric at last ; `` do you think Rose despises me ? '' 
Wo n't you go to him , Eric , and say all you feel ? '' 
`` You can redeem them , Eric , by a nobler present . 
''' They reached the school-door , and Eric went straight to the library . 
He received him kindly , as usual , and Eric went up to the fire-place where he was standing . 
`` Forgive me , sir , '' was all Eric could say , as the tears rushed to his eyes . 
`` I wish you could feel how fully I forgive you ; but , '' he added , laying his hand for the last time on Eric 's head , `` you have far more , Eric , to forgive yourself . 
I will not talk to you , Eric ; it would be little good I fear ; but you little know how much I pity and tremble for you . '' 
While these scenes were being enacted with Eric , a large group was collected round the fire-place in the boarders ' room , and many tongues were loudly discussing the recent events . 
`` You see how he turns on his pets if they offend him , '' said Brigson ; `` why , even that old beast Gordon is n't as bad . '' 
`` Yes ; while poor Eric was reading , Rose reminded me of Milton 's serpent , '' drawled Bull ; `` Hope elevates and joy brightens his crest . '' 
said Pietrie ; `` vide the last fifth form Rep. '' `` I expect Eric wo n't see everything so much couleur de Rose now , as the French frog hath it , '' remarked Graham . 
`` I hope you wo n't , though , '' said Vernon ; `` I know Eric will be sorry if you do . '' 
`` The more muff he . 
`` Well , I shall tell him ; and I 'm sure he 'll ask you not . 
You know how often he tries to stick up for Rose . '' 
Not nearly so many would have volunteered to join , but that they fancied Mr. Rose was too gentle to take up the matter with vigour , and they were encouraged by his quiet leniency towards Eric the night before . 
For Williams ' sake , as a boy who has , or at least once had , something noble in him , I left that matter in the Doctor 's hands . 
I only wanted to say that I hope you wo n't think Eric knew of this . 
He would have hated it , sir , more even than I do . '' 
Cheer after cheer rang out like a sound of silver clarions from the clear boy-voices ; and in the midst of the excited throng stood Eric and Montagu , side by side , hurrahing more lustily than all the rest . 
The day after his exposure Eric had cut him dead , without the least pretence of concealment ; an example pretty generally followed throughout the school . 
In the evening Brigson went up to Eric and hissed in his ear , `` You cut me , curse you ; but , never fear , I 'll be revenged on you yet . '' 
`` Do your worst , '' answered Eric , contemptuously ; `` and never speak to me again . '' 
`` Yes , '' answered Owen ; `` I 've seen a marvellous improvement in little Williams lately . 
I think that Duncan gave him a rough lesson the other night which did him good , and dear old Rose too has been leading him by the hand ; but the best thing is that , through Wright , he sees less of Eric 's friend , that young scapegrace Wildney . '' 
What a pity that Eric spoils him so , or rather suffers himself to be spoilt by him . 
`` Too true , '' answered Montagu , with a sigh ; `` and yet , cool as we now are in our outward intercourse , he little knows how I love him , and yearn for the Eric I once knew . 
Would to God poor Russell had lived , and then I believe that Williams would n't have gone so far wrong . '' 
`` Well , I think there 's another chance for him now that -- that -- what name is bad enough for that Brigson ? 
But '' -- he added after a pause -- `` his works do follow him . 
`` Poor Williams ! 
What a gleam of new hope there was in him after Russell 's death ! '' 
Prominent among them was Eric , stretched at ease , and looking up at the clouds , towards which curled the puffed fumes of his meerschaum -- a gift of Wildney 's . 
This is never a pleasant sensation ; but they observed that Eric made a point of not looking their way , and went on in silence . 
They were doing something which , if Eric does n't take care , will one day be his ruin . '' 
Accordingly , when Eric came in with Wildney about half an hour after , Owen and Montagu heard them talk about ordering some brandy , and then arrange to have a `` jollification , '' as they called it , that evening . 
Duncan had made friends again with Eric ; but he did not join him in his escapades and excesses , and sat much in other studies . 
He had not been altogether a good boy , but yet there was a sort of rough honesty and good sense in him , which preserved him from the worst and most dangerous failings , and his character had been gradually improving as he mounted higher in the school . 
He was getting steadier , more diligent , more thoughtful , more manly ; he was passing through that change so frequent in boys as they grow older , to which Eric was so sad an exception . 
Accordingly Duncan , though sincerely fond of Eric , had latterly disapproved vehemently of his proceedings , and had therefore taken to snubbing his old friend Wildney , in whose favour Eric seemed to have an infatuation , and who was the means of involving him in every kind of impropriety and mischief . 
So that night Duncan , hearing of what was intended , sat in the next study , and Eric , with Bull , Wildney , Graham , and Pietrie , had the room to themselves . 
All of them heard every word that was spoken by Eric and his party , as the walls between the rooms were very thin ; and very objectionable much of the conversation was . 
The three boys went to the door of Eric 's study , and their knock could not at first be heard for the noise . 
`` There , Williams , '' continued Montagu , pointing to the mischievous-looking little boy ; `` see that spectacle , and be ashamed of yourself , if you can . 
They hardly understood the look on Eric 's countenance ; he had been taking far more than was good for him ; his eyes sparkled fiercely , and though as yet he said nothing , he seemed to be resenting the intrusion in furious silence . 
asked Bull , with his usual insufferable drawl ; `` for I want to finish my brandy . '' 
Montagu rather looked as if he intended to give the speaker a box on the ear ; but he was just deciding that Bull was n't worth the trouble , when Wildney , who had been grimacing all the time , burst into a fit of satirical laughter . 
`` By Jove , I wo n't stand this any longer , '' shouted Eric , springing up ferociously . 
Montagu took no sort of notice of his threatening gesture , for he was looking to see if Wildney was hurt , and finding he was not , proceeded to drag him out , struggling and kicking frantically . 
`` Eric , why do you let him bully me ? '' 
`` You let him go this minute , '' repeated Eric , hoarsely . 
That Montagu should have been so struck in public , and that by Eric -- by a boy who had loved him , and whom he had loved -- by a boy who had been his schoolfellow for three years now , and whose whole life seemed bound to him by so many associations ; it was strange , and sad indeed . 
Montagu sprang straight upright ; for an instant he took one stride towards his striker with lifted hand and lightning eyes , while the blood started to his lips in consequence of the blow . 
But he stopped suddenly , and his hand fell to his side ; by a strong effort of selfcontrol he contrived to master himself , and sitting down quite quietly on a chair , he put his white handkerchief to his wounded mouth , and took it away stained with blood . 
No one spoke ; and rising with quiet dignity , he went back into his study without a word . 
`` Oh , Williams , '' said Owen , `` you are changed indeed , to treat your best friend so . '' 
But Eric was excited with drink , and the slave of every evil passion at that moment . 
`` Serve him right , '' he said ; `` what business has he to interfere with what I choose to do ? '' 
Wildney and the rest slunk off ashamed and frightened , and Eric , leaving his candle flaring on the table , went down to his bed-room , where he was very sick . 
He had neither strength nor spirit to undress , and flung himself into bed just as he was . 
When they heard that he was gone , Owen and Duncan -LRB- for Montagu was silent and melancholy -RRB- went into his study , put out the candle , and had only just cleared away , to the best of their power , the traces of the carouse , when Dr. Rowlands came up stairs on his usual nightly rounds . 
Eric awoke with a bad headache , and a sense of shame and sickness . 
When he got up he felt most wretched , and while washing he thought to himself , `` Ah ! 
Of course , after what had occurred , Eric and Montagu were no longer on speaking terms , and miserable as poor Eric felt when he saw how his blow had bruised and disfigured his friend 's face , he made no advances . 
He longed , indeed from his inmost heart , to be reconciled to him ; but feeling that he had done grievous wrong , he dreaded a repulse , and his pride would not suffer him to run the risk . 
So he pretended to feel no regret , and , supported by his late boon-companions , represented the matter as occurring in the defence of Wildney , whom Montagu was bullying . 
Montagu , too , was very miserable ; but he felt that , although ready to forgive Eric , he could not , in common self-respect , take the first step to a reconciliation ; indeed , he rightly thought that it was not for Eric 's good that he should do so . 
`` You and Williams appear never to speak to each other now , '' said Mr. Rose . 
So , with a sigh , Walter Rose and Harry Montagu buried their friendship for Eric until happier days . 
Eric had lately taken a violent dislike to Wright , though he had been fond of him in better days . 
His indifferent look was an additional annoyance to Eric , who walked up to him carelessly , and boxing his ears , though without hurting him , said contemptuously , `` Conceited little sneak . '' 
He did not , however , expect that Eric would have taken part in it , and was therefore unprepared . 
The colour rushed into his cheeks ; he went up , took Wright quietly by the hand , and said with firm determination , `` No one in the school shall touch Wright again . '' 
Eric quite misunderstood Montagu 's proceeding ; he took it for a public challenge . 
Above all , his evil genius Wildney was by , and said , `` How very nice ! 
A threatening circle had formed round Montagu , but his closed lips , and flushing brow , and dilated nostrils , betrayed a spirit which made them waver , and he quietly repeated , `` No one shall touch you , Wright . '' 
`` They will , though , '' said Eric instantly ; `` I will , for one , and I should like to see you prevent me . '' 
And so saying he gave Wright another slight blow . 
Montagu dropped Wright 's hand , and said slowly , `` Eric Williams , I have taken one unexpected blow from you without a word , and bear the marks of it yet . 
The answer was not prompt by any means , though every one in the school knew that Eric was not afraid . 
So sure was he of this , that , for the sake of `` auld lang syne , '' he would probably have declined to fight with Montagu had he been left to his own impulses . 
`` I have been in the wrong , Montagu , more than once , '' he answered , falteringly , `` and we have been friends -- '' But it was the object of many of the worst boys that the two should fight -- not only that they might see the fun , but that Montagu 's authority , which stood in their way , might be flung aside . 
he 's showing the white feather . '' 
flung in Eric ; and turning to Montagu , he said -- `` There ! 
Fellows of sixteen , like Montagu and Eric , rarely fight , because their battles have usually been decided in their earlier school-days ; and it was also but seldom that two boys so strong , active , and prominent -LRB- above all , so high in the school -RRB- , took this method of settling their differences . 
The fight began , and at first the popular favour was entirely on the side of Eric , while Montagu found few or none to back him . 
But he fought with a fire and courage which soon won applause ; and as Eric , on the other hand , was random and spiritless , the cry was soon pretty fairly divided between them . 
There was a tremendous hubbub of voices , and Eric , now thoroughly roused by the remarks he overheard , and especially by Wildney 's whisper that `` he was letting himself be licked , '' was exerting himself with more vigour and effect . 
It was anything but a noble sight ; the faces of the combatants were streaked with blood and sweat , and as the miserable gang of lower school-boys backed them on with eager shouts of -- `` Now Eric , now Eric , '' `` Now Montagu , go it , sixth form , '' etc. , both of them fought under a sense of deep disgrace , increased by the recollections which they shared in common . 
All this Vernon marked in a moment , and , filled with pain and vexation , he said in a voice which , though low , could be heard amid all the uproar , `` Oh Eric , Eric , fighting with Montagu ! '' 
But Eric heard the words , and knew that it was his brother 's voice . 
The thought rushed on him how degraded his whole position was , and how different it might have been . 
He felt that he was utterly in the wrong , and Montagu altogether in the right ; and from that moment his blows once more grew feeble and ill-directed . 
When they again stopped to take rest , the general shout for Montagu showed that he was considered to have the best of it . 
`` I 'm getting so tired of this , '' muttered Eric , during the pause . 
`` That I 'll never do , '' he said , once more firing up . 
`` I 'm sick enough of it , '' said Montagu , `` and am ready to stop if Williams is , -- provided no one touches Wright . '' 
`` I 'm sick of it too , '' said Eric sullenly . 
He had been deeply wronged , deeply provoked , and no one could blame him for the momentary feeling ; but Eric had observed the gesture , and his passionate pride took the alarm . 
`` It 's come to this , then , '' he thought ; `` Montagu does n't think me good enough to be shaken hands with . '' 
he said aloud , in a tone of sarcasm ; `` it may be an awful honour to shake hands with such an immaculate person as Montagu , but I 'm not proud on the subject ; '' and he turned away . 
Montagu 's hesitation was but momentary , and without a particle of anger or indignation he sorrowfully held out his hand . 
It was , too late ; that moment had done the mischief , and it was now Eric 's turn coldly to withdraw . 
`` Nay , leave him , '' said Eric with a touch of remorse . 
The group of boys gradually dispersed , but one or two remained with Eric , although he was excessively wearied by their observations . 
In a few minutes Vernon joined him , and at the mere sight of him Eric burst into tears of shame . 
That evening with Vernon in the study , after the dinner at the Jolly Herring , had revived all his really warm affection for his little brother ; and as he could no longer conceal the line he took in the school , they had been often together since then ; and Eric 's moral obliquity was not so great as to prevent him from feeling deep joy at the change for the better in Vernon 's character . 
`` Oh , but , Eric , you were fighting with Montagu . '' 
`` Do n't you remember the days , Eric , '' he continued , `` when we were home-boarders , and how kind Monty used to be to me even then , and how mother liked him , and thought him quite your truest friend , except poor Russell ? '' 
It was true ; but Eric did n't know that half the kindness which Montagu showed to his brother was shown solely for his sake . 
Perhaps there , '' he added , half to himself , `` I might be more like what I was in better days . '' 
How awfully dull it is , Charlie , '' said Eric , a few weeks before Easter , as he sat with Wildney in his study one holiday afternoon . 
`` I suppose this is what they call ennui , '' said Eric again , after a pause . 
`` By the bye , Eric , you remind me to-morrow 's my birth-day , and I 've got a parcel coming this afternoon full of grub from home . 
So Eric and Wildney started off to the coach-office , where they found the hamper , and ordered it to be brought at once to the school , and carried up to Eric 's study . 
`` Ay , and let it be in one of the class-rooms , Eric ; not up here , lest we have another incursion of the `` Rosebuds . '' 
said Eric . 
`` Good ; and Graham , '' suggested Eric . 
He and Wildney regarded their possessions so much as common property , that he had n't the least delicacy in mentioning the boys whom he wanted to invite . 
said Eric , emphatically . 
`` No , again , '' said Eric ; `` he 's a blackguard . '' 
He thought a little , and then , clapping his hands , danced about , and said , `` Are you game for a regular lark , Eric ? '' 
Eric often talked now of work in this slighting way , partly as an excuse for the low places in form to which he was gradually sinking . 
Everybody knew that had he properly exerted his abilities he was capable of beating almost any boy ; so , to quiet his conscience , he professed to ridicule diligence as an unboyish piece of muffishness , and was never slow to sneer at the `` grinders , '' as he contemptuously called all those who laid themselves out to win school distinctions . 
No , Eric , it 's too late for you to turn ` grinder ' now . 
Eric gave a long whistle . 
''' But Eric still looked serious . 
He did n't tell it plainly , because Duncan was there , but Duncan caught quite enough to guess what was intended , and said , when Wildney had gone -- `` Take my advice , and have nothing to do with this , Eric . '' 
Eric had grown very touchy lately about advice , particularly from any fellow of his own standing ; and after the checks he had recently received , a coolness had sprung up between him and nearly all the study-boys , which made him more than ever inclined to assert his independence , and defy and thwart them in every way . 
`` Keep your advice to yourself , Duncan , till it 's asked for , '' he answered , roughly . 
Nothing more was said in the study that evening , and when Eric went down he did n't even bid Duncan good-night . 
Eric went and sat by him , and he sat up in his bed . 
`` First of all , you 're to keep awake till twelve to-night , '' he whispered ; `` old Rowly 'll have gone round by that time , and it 'll be all safe . 
Eric went to his room and lay down , but he did n't take off his clothes , for fear he should go to sleep . 
Dr. Rowlands came round as usual at eleven , and then Eric closed his eyes for a few minutes , till the head-master had disappeared . 
After that he lay awake thinking for an hour , but his thoughts were n't very pleasant . 
At twelve he went and awoke Wildney . 
So Eric went and sat by his dangerous little friend , and they talked in low voices until they heard the great school clock strike one . 
They then woke Pietrie , and Eric went off to bed again . 
At three Graham awoke him , and dressing hastily , he joined the others in the lavatory . 
`` Quietly and quick , then , '' said Eric . 
In ten minutes he had silently shot back the lock with the old nail , and the boys were on the landing . 
They carried their shoes in their hands , ran noiselessly down stairs , and went to the same window at which Eric and Wildney had got out before . 
`` We must cut for it , '' said Eric ; `` it 's quite too dark for him to see who we are , or even to notice that we are boys . '' 
Eric was last , and just as he got to the top of the wall he heard the back door open , and some one run out into the yard . 
`` Run for your lives , '' said Eric hurriedly ; `` it 's Gordon , and he 's raising the alarm . '' 
We 'd better turn towards the town to put them off the right scent , '' said Eric again . 
`` No , Charlie , I wo n't ; '' and grasping his hand , Eric hurried him over the stile and through the fields as fast as he could , while Pietrie and Graham took the opposite direction . 
They were themselves tired , and in the utmost trepidation ; the usually courageous Wildney was trembling all over , and his fear communicated itself to Eric . 
`` I ca n't run any farther , Eric , '' said Wildney . 
They heard him plodding back over the field , and it was not until the sound of his footsteps had died away , that Eric cautiously broke cover , and looked over the hedge . 
He saw the man 's light gradually getting more distant , and said , `` All right how , Charlie . 
They then stole up stairs with beating hearts , and sate in Eric 's room to wait for the other two . 
`` Well , we 'd best to bed now , '' said Eric ; `` and , to my thinking , we should be wise to keep a quiet tongue in our heads about this affair . '' 
If any old Roslyn boy reads this veracious history , he will doubtless be astounded to hear that the burglars on that memorable night were Eric , Pietrie , Graham , and Wildney . 
A little before eight o'clock everything was ready , and Eric , Attlay , and Llewellyn were summoned to join the rest . 
Eric 's reckless gaiety was kindled by Wildnèy 's frolicsome vivacity , and Graham 's sparkling wit ; they were all six in a roar of perpetual laughter at some fresh sally of fun elicited by the more phlegmatic natures of Attlay or Llewellyn , and the dainties of Wildney 's parcel were accompanied by draughts of brandy and water , which were sometimes exchanged for potations of the raw liquor . 
The disgraceful and deadly habit of tippling had already told physically on both Eric and Wildney . 
The former felt painfully that he was losing his clear-headedness , and that his intellectual tastes were getting not only blunted but destroyed ; and while he perceived in himself the terrible effects of his sinful indulgence , he saw them still more indisputably in the gradual coarseness which seemed to be spreading , like a grey lichen , over the countenance , the mind , and the manners of his younger companion . 
Sometimes the vision of a Nemesis breaking in fire out of his darkened future , terrified his guilty conscience in the watches of the night ; and the conviction of some fearful Erynnis , some discovery dawning out of the night of his undetected sins , made his heart beat fast with agony and fear . 
But he fancied it too late to repent . 
He strangled the half-formed resolutions as they rose , and trusted to the time when , by leaving school , he should escape , as he idly supposed , the temptations to which he had yielded . 
Meanwhile , the friends who would have rescued him had been alienated by his follies , and the principles which might have preserved him had been eradicated by his guilt . 
He had long flung away the shield of prayer , and the helmet of holiness , and the sword of the Spirit , which is the word of God ; and now , unarmed and helpless , Eric stood alone , a mark for the fiery arrows of his enemies , while , through the weakened inlet of every corrupted sense , temptation rushed in upon him perpetually and unawares . 
But still most of them mingled some sense of caution with their enjoyment , and warned Eric and Wildney more than once that they must look out , and not take too much that night for fear of being caught . 
But it was Wildney 's birth-day , and Eric 's boyish mirth , suppressed by his recent troubles , was blazing out unrestrained . 
The least muddled of the party had cleared the room in a moment , and then addressed themselves to the more difficult task of trying to quiet Eric and Wildney , and conduct them steadily into the prayer-room . 
But Eric sat near the head of the first table , not far from Dr. Rowlands ' desk , and none of the others had to go to that part of the room . 
Graham grasped his arm tight , led him carefully down stairs , and , as they were reaching the door , said to him , in a most earnest and imploring tone , `` Do try and walk sensibly to your place , Eric , or we shall all be caught . '' 
Consequently , the room was still , and the entrance of Graham and Eric after the rest attracted general notice . 
Eric had just sense enough to try and assume his ordinary manner ; but he was too giddy with the fumes of drink to walk straight , or act naturally . 
`` Wright , '' whispered he , in a timid voice ; `` just see how Eric walks . 
What can be the matter with him ? 
Good gracious , he must be ill ! '' 
he said , starting up , as Eric suddenly made a great stagger to one side , and nearly fell in the attempt to recover himself . 
he whispered ; `` take no notice ; he 's been drinking , Verny , and I fear he 'll be caught . '' 
He thought , and he had hoped , that since the day at the `` Jolly Herring , '' his brother had abandoned all such practices , for Eric had been most careful to conceal from him the worst of his failings . 
And now he trembled violently with fear for his discovery , and horror at his disgraceful condition . 
The sound of Eric 's unsteady footsteps had made Mr. Rose quickly raise his head ; but at the same moment Duncan hastily made room for the boy on the seat beside him , and held out his hand to assist him . 
It was not Eric 's proper place ; but Mr. Rose , after one long glance of astonishment , looked down at his book again , and said nothing . 
When they were finished , the names were called , and Eric , instead of quietly answering his `` adsum , '' as he should have done , stood up , with a foolish look , and said , `` Yes , Sir . '' 
The head master looked at him for a minute ; the boy 's glassy eyes , and jocosely stupid appearance , told an unmistakeable tale ; but Dr. Rowlands only remarked , `` Williams , you do n't look well . 
It was hopeless for Eric to attempt getting along without help , so Duncan at once got up , took him by the arm , and with much difficulty -LRB- for Eric staggered at every step -RRB- conducted him to his bed-room , where he left him without a word . 
Wildney 's condition was also too evident ; and Mr. Rose , while walking up and down the dormitories , had no doubt left on his mind that both Eric and Wildney had been drinking . 
But he made no remarks to them , and merely went to the Doctor to talk over the steps which were to be taken . 
`` Poor Williams ! '' 
The whole of the miserable Sunday that followed was spent by Eric and his companions in vain inquiries and futile restlessness . 
Eric wished to do so , but as he could not have visited the room without express leave , the rest dissuaded him from asking , lest he should excite further suspicion . 
His apparent neglect made poor Wildney even more unhappy , for Wildney loved Eric as much as it was possible for his volatile mind to love any one ; and it seemed hard to be deserted in the moment of disgrace and sorrow by so close a friend . 
This was done to ascertain formally whether the boys were present on whose account the meeting was convened ; and it at once told Eric and Wildney that they were the boys to be punished , and that the others had escaped . 
`` Eric Williams and Charles Wildney , stand forward . '' 
From his place in the fifth , where he was sitting with his head propped on his hand , Eric rose and advanced ; and Wildney , from the other end of the room , where the younger boys sat , getting up , came and stood by his side . 
So , with eyes bent on the floor , Eric and Charlie awaited their sentence . 
`` Williams and Wildney , '' said Dr. Rowlands in a solemn voice , of which every articulation thrilled to the heart of every hearer , `` you have been detected in a sin most disgraceful and most dangerous . 
Eric Williams and Charles Wildney , your punishment will be public expulsion , for which you will prepare this very evening . 
Eric leaned over the desk with his head resting on a book , too stunned even to think ; and Wildney looked straight before him with his eyes fixed in a stupid and unobservant stare . 
Form by form the school dispersed , and the moment he was liberated Eric sprang away from the boys , who would have spoken to him , and rushed wildly to his study , where he locked the door . 
In a moment , however , he re-opened it , for he heard Wildney 's step , and , after admitting him , locked it once more . 
Without a word Wildney , who looked very pale , flung his arms round Eric 's neck , and , unable to bear up any longer , burst into a flood of tears . 
Eric thought of Fairholm , and of his own far-distant parents , and of the pang which his disgrace would cause their loving hearts ; but he could say nothing , and only stroked Wildney 's dark hair again and again with a soothing hand . 
They sat there long , hardly knowing how the time passed ; Eric could not help thinking how very very different their relative positions might have been ; how , while he might have been aiding and ennobling the young boy beside him , he had alternately led and followed him into wickedness and disgrace . 
His heart was full of misery and bitterness , and he felt almost indifferent to all the future , and weary of his life . 
Eric , do come and entreat Dr. Rowlands to forgive us only this once . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Eric , starting up with sudden energy ; `` he shall forgive us -- you at any rate . 
I will not leave him till he does . 
Filled with an irresistible impulse , he pushed Carter aside , and sprang down stairs three steps at a time , with Wildney following him . 
They went straight for the Doctor 's study , and without waiting for the answer to their knock at the door , Eric walked up to Dr. Rowlands , who sate thinking in his arm-chair by the fire , and burst out passionately , `` O sir , forgive us , forgive us this once . '' 
There could be no more perilous example for the school , than the one you have been setting , Williams . 
But Eric was too excited to be overawed by the master 's manner ; an imperious passion blinded him to all ordinary considerations , and , heedless of the command he broke out again , `` O sir , try me but once , only try me . 
Dr. Rowlands , seeing that in Eric 's present mood he must and would be heard , unless he were ejected by actual force , began to pace silently up and down the room in perplexed and anxious thought ; at last he stopped and turned over the pages of a thick school register , and found Eric 's name . 
`` It is not your first offence , Williams , even of this very kind . 
O sir , '' he said , approaching the doctor in an imploring attitude , `` spare us this one time for the sake of our friends . '' 
`` It was my deliberate conclusion to expel you , Williams . 
Eric wrung his hands in agony . 
It is I who have misled him ; '' and he flung himself on his knees , and lifted his hands entreatingly towards the Doctor . 
But Eric spoke less impulsively , and while the two boys were stammering out their deep gratitude , a timid hand knocked at the door , and Vernon entered . 
`` I have come , sir , to speak for poor Eric , '' he said in a voice low and trembling with emotion , as , with downcast eyes , he modestly approached towards Dr. Rowlands , not even observing the presence of the others in the complete absorption of his feelings . 
`` I have just forgiven him , my little boy , '' said the Doctor kindly , patting his stooping head ; `` there he is , and he has been speaking for himself . '' 
`` O , Eric , I am so , so glad , I do n't know what to say for joy . 
O Eric , thank God that you are not to be expelled ; '' and Vernon went to his brother , and embraced him with the deepest affection . 
Immediately after school Mr. Rose had been strongly endeavouring to change the Doctor 's mind , and had dwelt forcibly on all the good points in Eric 's character , and the promise of his earlier career . 
They had failed to convince him ; but , perhaps , had they not thus exerted themselves , Dr. Rowlands might have been unshaken , though he could not be unmoved , by Vernon 's gentle intercession and Eric 's passionate prayers . 
Wildney , full of joy , and excited by the sudden revulsion of feeling , only shook Eric 's hands with all his might , and then darted out into the playground to announce the happy news . 
The boys all flocked round him , and received the intelligence with unmitigated pleasure . 
Among them all there was not one who did not rejoice that Eric and Wildney were yet to continue of their number . 
But the two brothers returned to the study , and there , sorrowful in his penitence , with his heart still aching with remorse , Eric sat down on a chair facing the window , and drew Vernon to his side . 
The sun was setting behind the purple hills , flooding the green fields and silver sea with the crimson of his parting rays . 
Eric was fond of beauty in every shape , and his father had early taught him a keen appreciation of the glories of nature . 
He had often gazed before on that splendid scene , as he was now gazing on it thoughtfully with his brother by his side . 
He looked long and wistfully at the gorgeous pageantry of quiet clouds , and passed his arm more fondly round Vernon 's shoulder . 
`` What are you thinking of , Eric ? 
`` Let us pray together , Eric , '' whispered his brother reverently , and they knelt down and prayed ; they prayed for their distant parents and friends ; they prayed for their schoolfellows and for each other , and for Wildney , and they thanked God for all his goodness to them ; and then Eric poured out his heart in a fervent prayer that a holier and happier future might atone for his desecrated past , and that his sins might be forgiven for his Saviour 's sake . 
Eric and Wildney were flogged and confined to gates for a time instead of being expelled , and they both bore the punishment in a manly and penitent way , and set themselves with all their might to repair the injury which their characters had received . 
Eric , especially , seemed to be devoting himself with every energy to regain , if possible , his long lost position , and by the altered complexion of his remaining school-life , to atone in some poor measure for its earlier sins . 
And he carried Wildney with him , influencing others also of his late companions in a greater or less degree . 
It was not Eric 's nature to do things by halves , and it became obvious to all that his exertions to resist and abandon his old temptations were strenuous and unwavering . 
He could no longer hope for the school distinctions , which would have once lain so easily within his reach , for the ground lost during weeks of idleness can not be recovered by a wish ; but he succeeded sufficiently , by dint of desperately hard work , to acquit himself with considerable credit , and in the Easter examination came out sufficiently high in the upper fifth to secure his remove into the sixth form after the holidays . 
He felt far happier in the endeavour to do his duty , than he had ever done during the last years of recklessness and neglect , and the change for the better in his character tended to restore unanimity and goodwill to the school . 
Eric no longer headed the party which made a point of ridiculing and preventing industry ; and , sharing as he did the sympathy of nearly all the boys , he was able quietly and unobtrusively to calm down the jealousies and allay the heartburnings which had for so long a time brought discord and disunion into the school society . 
Cheerfulness and unanimity began to prevail once more at Roslyn , and Eric had the intense happiness of seeing how much good lay still within his power . 
Eric was now reconciled again to Owen and Duncan , and , therefore , had a wider choice of companions more truly congenial to his higher nature than the narrow circle of his late associates . 
`` I wo n't go without leave ; '' said Eric , `` I should only get caught , and get into another mess . 
`` Most gladly , '' said Eric , really pleased ; for he saw by this that Duncan observed the improvement in his old friends , and was falling in with the endeavour to make all the boys really cordial to each other , and destroy all traces of the late factions . 
answered Eric , with a slight blush . 
Montagu and he had never been formally reconciled , nor had they , as yet , spoken to each other . 
Montagu hung back lest he should seem to be patronising a fallen enemy , and Eric lest he should have sinned too deeply to be forgiven . 
Feeling that the day would pass off very unpleasantly if any feeling of restraint remained between him and Montagu , Eric , by a strong effort , determined to `` make up with him '' before starting , and went into his study for that purpose after breakfast . 
Directly he came in , Montagu jumped up and welcomed him cordially , and when , without any allusion to the past , the two shook hands with all warmth , and looked the old proud look into each other 's faces , they felt once more that their former affection was unimpaired , and that in heart they were real and loving friends . 
`` Never mind , you shall have my place , Verny , '' said Eric , as he saw his brother 's disappointed look . 
Eric , Graham , Duncan , and Montagu took the first turn at the oars , while Wildney steered . 
When they had done eating , they amused themselves on the shore ; and had magnificent games among the rocks , and in every fantastic nook of the romantic promontory And then Eric suggested a bathe to wind up with , as it was the first day when it had been quite warm enough to make bathing pleasant . 
`` I declare I think this is the prettiest or anyhow the grandest bit of the whole coast , '' said Eric , as they neared a glen through whose narrow gorge a green and garrulous little river gambolled down with noisy turbulence into the sea . 
He might well admire that glen ; its steep and rugged sides were veiled with lichens , moss , and wild-flowers , and the sea-birds found safe refuge in its lonely windings , which were coloured with topaz and emerald by the pencillings of nature and the rich stains of time . 
`` I wonder why Vernon is n't with him , '' said Eric anxiously ; `` I hope -- why , what are you looking at , Charlie ? '' 
`` O do let me look '' said Eric . 
stop , stop Eric , you 'd better not , I think ; pray do n't , it may be all a mistake . 
You 'd better not -- but it looked -- nay , you really must n't Eric , '' he said , and , as if accidentally , he let the telescope fall into the water , and they saw it sink down among the seaweeds at the bottom . 
Eric looked at him reproachfully . 
In strange foreboding silence they urged on the boat , while Eric at the prow seemed wild with the one intense impulse to verify his horrible suspicion . 
Eric could endure the suspense no longer . 
The instant that the boat grated on the shingle , he sprang into the water , and rushed to the spot where his brother 's body lay . 
With a burst of passionate affection , he flung himself on his knees beside it , and took the cold hand in his own -- the little rigid hand in which the green blades of grass , and fern , and heath , so tightly clutched , were unconscious of the tale they told . 
he cried in anguish , as he tenderly lifted up the body , and marked how little blood had flowed . 
But the child 's head fell back heavily , and his arms hung motionlessly beside him , and with a shriek , Eric suddenly caught the look of dead fixity in his blue open eyes . 
`` O God , save my brother , save him , save him from death , '' cried Eric , `` I can not live without him . 
he continued , `` he has fallen from the cliff with his head on this cursed stone , '' pointing to the block of quartz , still red with blood-stained hair ; but we must get a doctor . 
The boys drew round in a frightened circle , and lifted Vernon 's corpse into the boat ; and then , while Eric still supported the body , and moaned , and called to him in anguish , and chafed his cold pale brow and white hands , and kept saying that he had fainted and was not dead , the others rowed home with all speed , while a feeling of terrified anxiety lay like frost upon their hearts . 
Eric saw it , and flung himself with uncontrollable agony on his brother 's corpse . 
And , unable to endure the blow , he fainted away . 
I can not dwell on the miserable days that followed , when the very sun in heaven seemed dark to poor Eric 's wounded and crushed spirit . 
He hardly knew how they went by . 
Time , the great good angel , Time , the mereciful healer , assuaged the violence of Eric 's grief , which seemed likely to settle down into a sober sadness . 
At first his letters to his parents and to Fairholm were almost unintelligible in their fierce abandonment of sorrow ; but they grew calmer in time , -- and while none of his school-fellows ever ventured in his presence to allude to Vernon , because of the emotion which the slightest mention of him excited , yet he rarely wrote any letters to his relations in which he did not refer to his brother 's death , in language which grew at length both manly and resigned . 
answered Eric , rising up in a gust of indignation . 
Eric , greatly discomfited , took the dirty bit of paper . 
It purported to be a bill for various items of drink , all of which Eric knew to have been paid for , and among other things , a charge of # 6 for the dinner at the `` Jolly Herring . '' 
Now Eric knew for the first time what Brigson had meant by his threatened revenge . 
He saw at once that the man had been put up to act in this way by some one , and had little doubt that Brigson was the instigator . 
I do n't chuse to wait for my money no more , '' said Billy , impudently , as he retired with an undisguised chuckle , which very nearly made Eric kick him down stairs . 
Still , between them they could only muster three pounds out of the six which were required , and the week had half elapsed before there seemed any prospect of extrication from the difficulty ; so Eric daily grew more miserable and dejected . 
A happy thought struck him . 
He would go and explain the source of his trouble to Mr. Rose , his oldest , his kindest , his wisest friend . 
To him he could speak without scruple and without reserve , and from him he knew that he would receive nothing but the noblest advice and the warmest sympathy . 
He went to him after prayers that night , and told his story . 
`` Ah , Eric , Eric ! '' 
`` There is only one way that I see , Eric . 
It was a hard course for Eric 's proud and loving heart to write and tell his aunt the full extent of his guilt . 
But he did it faithfully , extenuating nothing , and entreating her , as she loved him , to send the money by return of post . 
Touched by the affection which all seemed to be showing him , it became more and more the passionate craving of Eric 's soul to be worthy of that love . 
The man did so , but with so unmistakeable an air of cunning and triumph that Eric was both astonished and dismayed . 
Could the miscreant have any further plot against him ? 
At first he fancied that Billy might attempt to extort money by a threat of telling Dr. Rowlands ; but this supposition he banished as unlikely , since it might expose Billy himself to very unpleasant consequences . 
Eric snatched the receipt , and said contemptuously , `` Never come near me again ; next time you come up to the studies I 'll tell Carter to turn you out . '' 
He shouted out the latter words , for Eric had turned scornfully on his heel , and was already in the street . 
At first the thought of it was disquieting , but three weeks glided away , and Eric , now absorbed heart and soul in school work , began to remember it as a mere vague and idle threat . 
But one afternoon , to his horror , he again heard Billy 's step on the stairs , and again saw the hateful iniquitous face at the door . 
Billy shambled off in high spirits ; but Eric sank back into his chair . 
The idea haunted him . 
How could he ever get them ? 
The Trevors , though liberal , were not rich , and after just sending him so large a sum , it was impossible , he thought , that they should send him five pounds more at his mere request . 
Besides , how could he be sure that Billy would not play upon his fears to extort further sums ? 
And , leaning his head on his open palms , poor Eric sobbed like a child . 
And all this misery was to come upon him for the want of five pounds ! 
All this passed through Eric 's mind as he sat in his study after Billy had gone . 
`` O put it down , put it down , Eric , '' said Conscience ; `` what business have you with it ? '' 
Eric hesitated , and did put down the box ; but he did not instantly leave the room . 
He began to look at Montagu 's books , and then out of the window . 
The gravel play-ground was deserted , he noticed , for the cricket-field . 
he was doing no harm . 
Slowly at first he put out his hand , and then , hastily turning the key , opened the box . 
He began to count the silver , putting it on the table , and found that it made up three pounds ten more . 
Very slowly Eric took the three sovereigns and put them in his pocket , and then he took up one of the heaps of shillings and sixpences which he had counted , and dropped them also into his trousers ; they fell into the pocket with a great jingle . 
... `` Eric , you are a thief ! '' 
He thought he heard his brother Vernon 's voice utter the words thrillingly distinct ; but it was conscience who had borrowed the voice , and , sick with horror , he began to shake the money out of his pockets again into the box . 
He was only just in time ; he had barely locked the box , and put it in its place , when he heard the sound of voices and footsteps on the stairs . 
He had no time to take out the key and put it back where he found it , and hardly time to slip into his own study again , when the boys had reached the landing . 
They were Duncan and Montagu , and as they passed the door , Eric pretended to be plunged in books . 
`` Hallo , Eric ! 
grinding as usual , '' said Duncan , good-humouredly ; but he only got a sickly smile in reply . 
`` I do n't think there 's any one here but me , '' said Eric , `` and I 'm going a walk now . '' 
He closed his books with a bang , flew down stairs , and away through the play-ground towards the shore . 
But he could not so escape his thoughts . 
`` Eric , you are a thief ! 
Eric , you are a thief ! '' 
rang in his ear . 
`` Yes , '' he thought ; `` I am even a thief . 
It was a lonely place , and he flung himself , with his face hid in the coarse grass , trying to cool the wild burning of his brow . 
And as he lay , he thrust his hand into the guilty pocket . 
He pulled it out ; it was a sovereign ! 
Then he WAS a thief , even actually . 
Oh , everything was against him ; and , starting to his feet , he flung the accursed gold over the rocks far into the sea . 
When he got home , he felt so inconceivably wretched , that , unable to work , he begged leave to go to bed at once . 
It was long before he fell asleep ; but when he did , the sleep was more terrible than the haunted wakefulness . 
For he had no rest from tormenting and horrid dreams . 
And then he saw Wildney , and cried out to him , `` O Charlie , save me ; '' but Charlie ran away , saying , `` Williams , you are a thief ! '' 
and then a chorus of voices took up that awful cry , voices of expostulation , voices of contempt , voices of indignation , voices of menace ; they took up the cry , and repeated and re-echoed it ; but , most unendurable of all , there were voices of wailing and voices of gentleness among them , and his soul died within him as he caught , amid the confusion of condemning sounds , the voices of Russell and Vernon , and they , too , were saying to him , in tender pity and agonized astonishment , `` Eric , Eric , you are a thief ! '' 
The landlord of the Jolly Herring had observed , during his visits to Eric , that at mid-day the studies were usually deserted , and the doors for the most part left unlocked . 
By this path Billy came , two days after his last visit , and walked straight up the great staircase , armed with the excuse of business with Eric in case any one met or questioned him . 
The very first thing which caught his experienced eye was the cricket-fund box , with the key temptingly in the lock , just where Eric had left it when the sounds of some one coming had startled him . 
Meanwhile the unhappy Eric was tossed and agitated with apprehension and suspense . 
Unable to endure his misery in loneliness , he had made several boys to a greater or less degree participators in the knowledge of his difficult position , and in the sympathy which his danger excited , the general nature of his dilemma with Billy -LRB- though not its special circumstances -RRB- was soon known through the school . 
At the very time when the money was being stolen , Eric was sitting with Wildney and Graham under the ruin by the shore , and the sorrow which lay at his heart was sadly visible in the anxious expression of his face , and the deep dejection of his attitude and manner . 
The other two were trying to console him . 
They suggested every possible topic of hope ; but it was too plain that there was nothing to be said , and that Eric had real cause to fear the worst . 
Yet though their arguments were futile , he keenly felt the genuineness of their affection , and it brought a little alleviation to his heavy mood . 
`` Well , well ; at least do hope the best , Eric , '' said Graham . 
`` No , my boy ; not worse scrapes , '' answered Eric . 
`` Poor Eric ! 
said Wildney , putting his arm round Eric 's neck . 
``` The curse is come upon me , cried The Lady of Shallott , ' `` those words keep ringing in my ears , '' murmured Eric . 
`` Well , Eric , if you are sent away , I know I shall get my father to take me too , and then we 'll join each other somewhere . 
Eric winced visibly at this remark , but his companions did not notice it . 
`` Ah , '' thought he , `` there 's one passage of my life which I never shall be able to reveal to any human soul . '' 
`` Come now , Eric , '' said Wildney , `` I 've got something to propose . 
said Eric , with a heavy sigh , as the image of Vernon instantly passed through his mind ; `` no more cricket for me . '' 
And Wildney looked up to him with that pleasant smile , and the merry light in his dark eyes , which had always been so charming to Eric 's fancy . 
`` There 's no refusing you , '' said Eric , with the ghost of a laugh , as he boxed Wildney 's ears . 
I 'm sure I do n't know how I shall ever love you enough , Eric , '' he added more seriously , `` for all your kindness to me . '' 
So that afternoon Eric , for the first time since Verny 's death , played with the first eleven , of which he had been captain . 
The school cheered him vigorously as he appeared again on the field , and the sound lighted up his countenance with some gleam of its old joyousness . 
When one looked at him that day with his straw hat on and its neat light-blue ribbon , and the cricket dress -LRB- a pink jersey and leather belt , with a silver clasp in front -RRB- , showing off his well-built and graceful figure , one little thought what an agony was gnawing like a serpent at his heart . 
But that day , poor boy , in the excitement of the game he half forgot it himself , and more and more as the game went on . 
The other side , headed by Montagu , went in first , and Eric caught out two , and bowled several . 
Montagu was the only one who stayed in long , and when at last Eric sent his middle wicket flying with a magnificent ball , the shouts of `` Well bowled ! 
`` Just listen to that , Eric , '' said Montagu ; `` why , you 're outdoing every body to-day , yourself included , and taking us by storm . '' 
`` Wait till you see me come out for a duck , '' said Eric laughing . 
And now it was Eric 's turn to go in . 
It was long since he had stood before the wicket , but now he was there , looking like a beautiful picture as the sunlight streamed over him , and made his fair hair shine like gold . 
In the triumph of success his sorrows were flung to the winds , and his blue eyes sparkled with interest and joy . 
He contented himself with blocking Duncan 's balls until his eye was in ; but then , acquiring confidence , he sent them flying right and left . 
His score rapidly mounted , and there seemed no chance of getting him out , so that there was every probability of his carrying out his bat . 
A three ' r for Eric , '' cried Wildney to the scorer ; and he began to clap his hands and dance about with excitement at his friend 's success . 
shouted all the lookers on , as Eric caught the next ball half-volley , and sent it whizzing over the hedge , getting a sixer by the hit . 
At the next ball they heard a great crack , and he got no run , for the handle of his bat broke right off . 
he said , flinging down the handle with vexation . 
What had come over Eric ? 
if there had been a sudden breath of poison in the atmosphere he could hardly have been more affected than he was by Montagu 's simple remark . 
But Eric , hastily borrowing another bat , took his place again quite tamely ; he was trembling , and at the very next ball , he spooned a miserable catch into Graham 's hand , and the shout of triumph from the other side proclaimed that his innings was over . 
He walked dejectedly to the pavilion for his coat , and the boys , who were seated in crowds about it , received him , of course , after his brilliant score , with loud and continued plaudits . 
But the light had died away from his face and figure , and he never raised his eyes from the ground . 
`` Modest Eric ! '' 
Eric dropped his bat in the corner , put his coat across his arm , and walked away . 
As he passed Wildney , he stooped down and whispered again in a low voice -- ``` The curse has come upon me , cried , The Lady of Shallott . 
''' `` Hush , Eric , nonsense , '' whispered Wildney ; `` you 're not going away , '' he continued aloud , as Eric turned towards the school . 
Wildney at once joined his friend . 
he asked anxiously , when they were out of hearing of the rest . 
Just at this moment one of the servants handed Eric a kind note from Mrs. Rowlands , with whom he was a very great favourite , asking him to tea that night . 
He was not very surprised , for he had been several times lately , and the sweet womanly kindness which she always showed him caused him the greatest pleasure . 
Besides , she had known his mother . 
But Eric 's sorrow lay too deep for chaff , and only answering with a sigh , he went to dress for tea . 
`` How splendidly Eric played , '' said Duncan . 
He ran down stairs hastily and entered the tea-room , where the boys were talking in high spirits about the match , and liberally praising Eric 's play . 
`` Where is Williams ? '' 
`` He 's taking tea with the Doctor , '' said Wildney . 
`` Well , then , did you hear anything when you and I surprised Eric suddenly two days ago ? '' 
`` Well , it 's no good counting up suspicious circumstances ; we must ask him about it , and act accordingly . '' 
`` Will he come up to the studies again to night ? '' 
`` I think not , '' said Owen ; `` I notice he generally goes straight to bed after he has been out to tea ; that 's to say , directly after prayers . '' 
During the evening he drew out a little likeness which Eric had given him , and looked at it long and earnestly . 
he thought . 
`` Oh Eric ! 
The prayer-bell dispelled his reverie . 
Eric entered with the Rowlands ' , and sat in his accustomed place . 
He had spent a pleasant , quiet evening , and , little knowing what had happened , felt far more cheerful and hopeful than he had done before , although he was still ignorant how to escape the difficulty which threatened him . 
He could n't help observing that as he entered he was the object of general attention ; but he attributed it either to his playing that day , or to the circumstances in which he was placed by Billy 's treachery , of which he knew that many boys were now aware . 
But when prayers were over , and he saw that every one shunned him , or looked and spoke in the coldest manner , his most terrible fears revived . 
He went off to his dormitory , and began to undress . 
As he sat half abstracted on his bed doing nothing , Montagu and Duncan entered , and he started to see them , for they were evidently the bearers of some serious intelligence . 
`` Eric , '' said Duncan , `` do you know that some one has stolen all the cricket money ? '' 
`` he cried , leaping up as if he had been shot . 
`` To cut matters short , Eric , do you know anything about it ? '' 
`` O Duncan , Monty , be merciful , be merciful , '' said Eric . 
`` You must know , Eric , that the suspicion against you is very strong , and rests on some definite facts . '' 
`` Well then , '' he said , `` I will tell you all . 
Duncan left the room , and Montagu sat down beside Eric on the bed , and put his arm round him to support him , for he shook violently . 
There , with deep and wild emotion , and many interruptions of passionate silence , Eric told to Montagu his miserable tale . 
`` I am the most wretched fellow living , '' he said ; `` there must be some fiend that hates me , and drives me to ruin . 
`` O Eric , it is not for one like me to talk of forgiveness ; you were sorely tempted . 
I love you , Eric , still , with all my heart , and do you think God can be less kind than man ? 
And I , too , will pray for you , Eric . 
He gently disengaged himself -- for Eric clung to him , and seemed unwilling to lose sight of him -- and a moment after he was gone . 
Eric felt terribly alone . 
He knelt down and tried to pray , but somehow it did n't seem as if the prayer came from his heart , and his thoughts began instantly to wander far away . 
Still he knelt -- knelt even until his candle had gone out , and he had nearly fallen asleep , thought-wearied , on his knees . 
And then he got into bed still dressed . 
He had been making up his mind that he could bear it no longer , and would run away to sea that night . 
He waited till eleven , when Dr. Rowlands took his rounds . 
Eric did not pretend to be asleep , but opened his eyes , and looked at the head-master . 
Eric never saw him again . 
The moment he was gone Eric got up . 
He meant to go to his study , collect the few presents , which were his dearest mementos of Russell , Wildney , and his other friends -- above all , Vernon 's likeness -- and then make his escape from the building , using for the last time the broken pane and loosened bar in the corridor , with which past temptations had made him so familiar . 
He turned the handle of the door and pushed , but it did not yield . 
Half contemplating the possibility of such an intention on Eric 's part , Dr. Rowlands had locked it behind him when he went out . 
said Eric . 
said Eric . 
They went down to a boat , and `` Maister Davey '' rowed to a schooner in the harbour , and took Eric on board . 
`` There , '' he said , `` you may sleep there for to-night , '' and he pointed to a great heap of sailcloth beside the mast . 
Weary to death , Eric flung himself down , and slept deep and sound till the morning , on board the `` Stormy Petrel . '' 
exclaimed the skipper with a sudden start , next morning , as he saw Eric 's recumbent figure on the ratlin-stuff , `` Who be this young varmint ? '' 
The vessel was under way when Eric woke , and collected his scattered thoughts to a remembrance of his new position . 
At first , as the Stormy Petrel dashed its way gallantly through the blue sea , he felt one absorbing sense of joy to have escaped from Roslyn . 
But before he had been three hours on board , his eyes were opened to the trying nature of his circumstances , which were , indeed , so trying that anything in the world seemed preferable to enduring them . 
He had not been three hours on board when he would have given everything in his power to be back again ; but such regrets were useless , for the vessel was now fairly on her way for Corunna , where she was to take in a cargo of cattle . 
This man from the first took a savage hatred to Eric , partly because he was annoyed with Davey for bringing him on board . 
The first words he addressed to him were -- `` I say , you young lubber , you must pay your footing . '' 
Eric saw no remedy , and making a virtue of necessity , exchanged his good cloth suit for a rough sailor 's shirt and trousers , not over clean , which the captain gave him . 
But it was lucky for Eric that , seeing how matters were likely to go , he had succeeded in secreting his watch . 
Eric soon began to feel very sick , and , to make his case worse , could not endure either the taste , smell , or sight of such coarse food as was contemptuously flung to him . 
he asked , `` I feel very sick . '' 
`` Williams . '' 
Here , '' he added , relenting a little , `` Davey 's slung ye a hammock in the forecastle . '' 
He showed the way , but poor Eric in the dark , and amid the lurches of the vessel , could hardly steady himself down the companion-ladder , much less get into his hammock . 
The man saw his condition , and , sulkily enough , hove him into his place . 
And there , in that swinging bed , where sleep seemed impossible , and out of which he was often thrown , when the ship rolled and pitched through the dark , heaving , discoloured waves , and with dirty men sleeping round him at night , until the atmosphere of the forecastle became like poison , hopelessly and helplessly sick , and half-starved , the boy lay for two days . 
You swab this deck , and in five minutes , or I 'll teach you , and be d -- d. '' Sick as death , Eric slowly obeyed , but did not get through his task without many blows and curses . 
He felt very ill -- he had no means of washing or cleaning himself ; no brush , or comb , or soap , or clean linen ; and even his sleep seemed unrefreshful when the waking brought no change in his condition . 
And then the whole life of the ship was odious to him . 
His sense of refinement was exquisitely keen , and now to be called Bill , and kicked and cuffed about by these gross-minded men , and to hear their rough , coarse , drunken talk , and sometimes endure their still more intolerable familiarities , filled him with deeply-seated loathing . 
The fellow was as good as his word , and the skipper demanded the watch as pay for Eric 's feed , for he maintained that he 'd done no work , and was perfectly useless . 
Eric , grown desperate , still refused , and the man struck him brutally on the face , and at the same time aimed a kick at him , which he vainly tried to avoid . 
`` I ca n't , '' said Eric , in an accent of despair , barely stirring , and not lifting his eyes to the man 's unfeeling face . 
You do it , or I shall have to mend your leg for you ; '' and he showered down a strom of oaths . 
Eric rose , and resolutely tried to mount the rigging , determined at least to give no ground he could help to their wilful cruelty . 
But the effort was vain , and with a sharp cry of suffering he dropped once more on deck . 
-- Eric 's white back was bare , his hands tied up , his head hanging , and his injured leg slightly lifted from the ground . 
Eric , with a shudder , heard it whistle through the air , and the next instant it had descended on his back with a dull thump , rasping away a red line of flesh . 
Now Eric knew for the first time the awful reality of intense pain ; he had determined to utter no sound , to give no sign ; but when the horrible rope fell on him , griding across his back , and making his body literally creak under the blow , he quivered like an aspen-leaf in every limb , and could not suppress the harrowing murmur , `` O God , help me , help me . '' 
But Eric felt no more ; that scream had been the last effort of nature ; his head had dropped on his bosom , and though his limbs still seemed to creep at the unnatural infliction , he had fainted away . 
`` I doubt he 's well-nigh done for him already , '' said Roberts , quickly untying Eric 's hands , round which the cords had been pulled so tight as to leave two blue rings round his wrists . 
it 's all over now , '' he murmured soothingly , as the boy 's body fell motionless into his arms , which he hastily stretched to prevent him from tumbling on the deck . 
But Eric heard not ; and the man , touched with the deepest pity , carried him down tenderly into his hammock , and wrapped him up in a clean blanket , and sat by him till the swoon should be over . 
At last Eric woke with a moan . 
To think was too painful , but the raw state of his back , ulcerated with the cruelty he had undergone , reminded him too bitterly of his situation . 
Roberts did for him all that could be done , but for a week Eric lay in that dark and fetid place , in the languishing of absolute despair . 
Often and often the unbidden tears flowed from very weakness from his eyes , and in the sickness of his heart , and the torment of his wounded body , he thought that he should die . 
But youth is very strong , and it wrestled with despair , and agony , and death , and , after a time , Eric could rise from his comfortless hammock . 
The news that land was in sight first roused him , and with the help of Roberts , he was carried on deck , thankful , with childlike gratitude , that God suffered him to breathe once more the pure air of heaven , and sit under the canopy of its gold-pervaded blue . 
There , in the dark berth , where every move caused irritation , and the unclean atmosphere brooded over his senses like lead ; when his forehead burned , and his heart melted within him and he had felt almost inclined to curse his life , or even to end it by crawling up and committing himself to the deep cold water which he heard rippling on the vessel 's side ; then , even then , in that valley of the shadow of death , a Voice had come to him -- a still small Voice -- at whose holy and healing utterance Eric had bowed his head , and had listened to the messages of God , and learnt his will ; and now , in humble resignation , in touching penitence , with solemn self-devotion , he had cast himself at the feet of Jesus , and prayed to be helped , and guided , and forgiven . 
The sight of him , and the sound of his voice , made Eric shudder again , but he listened meekly , and , with no flash of scorn or horror , put out his hand to the man to shake . 
`` I must leave the ship when we get to port , Roberts , '' said Eric . 
`` I doubt whether you 'll let you , '' answered Roberts , jerking his finger towards the skipper 's cabin . 
That very evening Eric escaped from the Stormy Petrel , unknown to all but Roberts . 
As Eric dragged his slow way to the station , he suddenly saw Wildney on the other side of the street . 
His first impulse was to spring to meet him , as he would have done in old times . 
His whole heart yearned towards him . 
It was six weeks now since Eric had seen one loving face , and during all that time he had hardly heard one kindly word . 
And now he saw before him the boy whom he loved so fondly , with whom he had spent so many happy hours of school-boy friendship , with whom he had gone through so many school-boy adventures , and who , he believed , loved him fondly still . 
Forgetful for the moment of his condition , Eric moved across the street . 
They were talking very merrily , and Eric overheard the word Roslyn . 
Like a lightning-flash the memory of the theft , the memory of his ruin came upon him ; he looked down at his dress -- it was a coarse blue shirt , which Roberts had given him in place of his old one , and the back of it was stained and saturated with blood from his unhealed wounds ; his trousers were dirty tarred , and ragged , and his shoes , full of holes , barely covered his feet . 
Eric Williams pursued his disconsolate way to the station , and found that his money only just sufficed to get him something to eat during the day , and carry him third class by the parliamentary train to Charlesbury , the little station where he had to take the branch line to Ayrton . 
But poor Eric was too sick , and tired , and his heart was too full to talk much , and he contented himself with civil answers to the questions put to him , dropping the conversation as soon as he could . 
At six in the evening the train stopped at Charlesbury , and he got down . 
Eric gave it , turning his head away , for the man knew him well from having often seen him there . 
yes , I am Eric Williams . 
Balmily and beautiful the evening fell , as Eric , not without toil , made his way along the road towards Ayrton , which was ten miles off . 
The road wound through the valley , across the low hills that encircled it , sometimes spanning or running parallel to the bright stream that had been the delight of Eric 's innocent childhood . 
But peace did not remain long in Eric 's heart ; each well-remembered landmark filled his soul with recollections of the days when he had returned from school , oh ! 
how differently ; and of the last time when he had come home with Vernon by his side . 
It was evening , and the stars came out and shone by hundreds , and Eric walked on by the moonlight . 
But the exertion had brought on the pain in his knee , and he had to sit down a long time by the road-side to rest . 
He reached Ayrton at ten o'clock , but even then he could not summon up courage to pass through the town where he was so well known , lest any straggler should recognise him , -- and he took a detour in order to get to Fairholm . 
He did not arrive there till eleven o'clock ; and then he could not venture into the grounds , for he saw through the trees of the shrubbery that there was no light in any of the windows , and it was clear that they were all gone to bed . 
What was he to do ? 
He durst not disturb them so late at night . 
He remembered that they would not have heard a syllable of or from him since he had run away from Roslyn , and he feared the effect of so sudden an emotion as his appearance at that hour might excite . 
So under the star-light he lay down to sleep on a cold bank beside the gate , determining to enter early in the morning . 
It was long before he slept , but at last weary nature demanded her privilege with importunity , and gentle sleep floated over him like a dark dewy cloud , and the sun was high in heaven before he woke . 
It was about half-past nine in the morning , and Mrs. Trevor , with Fanny , was starting to visit some of her poor neighbours , an occupation full of holy pleasure to her kind heart , and in which she had found more than usual consolation during the heavy trials which she had recently suffered ; for she had loved Eric and Vernon as a mother does her own children , and now Vernon , the little cherished jewel of her heart , was dead -- Vernon was dead , and Eric , she feared , not dead but worse than dead , guilty , stained , dishonoured . 
Often had she thought to herself , in deep anguish of heart , `` Our darling little Vernon dead -- and Eric fallen and ruined ! '' 
`` He has had a rough bed , mother , if he has spent the night there , as I fear . '' 
it is Eric , '' cried Mrs. Trevor , as she flew towards him . 
`` O my Eric , our poor , lost , wandering Eric -- come home ; you are forgiven , more than forgiven , my own darling boy . 
And the noble lady wept upon his neck , and Eric , his heart shaken with accumulated feelings , clung to her and wept . 
At once they procured him a proper dress , and a warm bath , and tended him with every gentle office of female ministering hands . 
And in the evening , when he told them his story in a broken voice of penitence and remorse , their love came to him like a sweet balsam , and he rested by them , `` seated , and clothed , and in his right mind . '' 
It was long , long since Eric had ever seen anything like it , and he had never hoped to see it again . 
`` Oh dearest aunty , '' he murmured , as he rested his weary head upon her lap , while he sate on a low stool at her feet , `` O aunty , you will never know how different this is from the foul horrible hold of the ` Stormy Petrel , ' and its detestable inmates . '' 
When Eric was dressed once more as a gentleman , and once more fed on nourishing and wholesome food , and was able to move once more about the garden by Fanny 's side , he began to recover his old appearance , and the soft bloom came back to his cheek again , and the light to his blue eye . 
But still his health gave most serious cause for apprehension ; weeks of semi-starvation , bad air , sickness , and neglect , followed by two nights of exposure and wet , had at last undermined the remarkable strength of his constitution , and the Trevors soon became aware of the painful fact that he was sinking to the grave , and had come home only to die . 
Above all , there seemed to be some great load at his heart which he could not remove ; a sense of shame , the memory of his disgrace at Roslyn , and of the dark suspicion that rested on his name . 
He avoided the subject , and they were too kind to force it on him , especially as he had taken away the bitterest part of their trial in remembering it , by explaining to them that he was far from being so wicked in the matter of the theft as they had at first been -LRB- how slowly and reluctantly ! -RRB- 
he asked one evening , with evident effort . 
he asked eagerly . 
`` There are very few among them that I care about , but there is just one -- '' `` I guessed it , my Eric , and , but that I feared to agitate you , should have given it you before ; '' and she drew out of a drawer the little likeness of Vernon 's sweet childish face . 
Eric gazed at it till the sobs shook him , and tears blinded his eyes . 
`` Do not weep , my boy , '' said Mrs. Trevor , kissing his forehead . 
asked Fanny , to divert his painful thoughts . 
He told her what to fetch , and when she brought them it seemed to give him great pleasure to recal his friends to mind by name , and speak of them -- especially of Montagu and Wildney . 
`` I have a plan to please you , Eric , '' said Mrs. Trevor . 
The Trevors did not know that he was aware of the precarious tenure of his life , but they listened to him in silence , and did not contradict him ; and Mrs. Trevor wrote to both the boys -LRB- whose directions Eric knew -RRB- , telling them what had happened , and begging them , simply for his sake , to come and stay with her for a time . 
She hinted clearly that it might be the last opportunity they would ever have of seeing him . 
They both greeted Eric with the utmost affection ; and he seemed never tired of pressing their hands , and looking at them again . 
Yet every now and then a memory of sadness would pass over his face , like a dark ripple on the clear surface of a lake . 
`` Tell me , Monty , '' he said one evening , `` all about what happened after I left Roslyn . '' 
`` Gladly , Eric ; now that your name is cleared , there is -- '' `` My name cleared ! '' 
said Eric , leaning forward eagerly . 
`` Yes , Eric . 
`` No , '' he murmured faintly , leaning back again ; `` O , thank God , thank God ! 
`` Well , Eric , I will tell you all from the beginning . 
Wildney here was the first to discover it , for he went early to your bed-room -- '' `` Dear little Sunbeam , '' interrupted Eric , resting his hand against Wildney 's cheek ; but Wildney shook his fist at him when he heard the forbidden name . 
Eric 's eyes glistened as he drank in his friend 's story . 
So Eric , dear Eric , at last your name was cleared . '' 
Montagu and Wildney found plenty to make them happy at Fairholm , and were never tired of Eric 's society , and of his stories about all that befel him on board the `` Stormy Petrel . '' 
They perceived a marvellous change in him . 
Eric , even in his worst days , was , as I well remember , a loveable and noble boy ; but at this period there must have been something about him for which to thank God , something unspeakably winning , and irresistibly attractive . 
During the day , as Eric was too weak to walk with them , Montagu and Wildney used to take boating and fishing excursions by themselves , but in the evening the whole party would sit out reading and talking in the garden till twilight fell . 
The two visitors began to hope that Mrs. Trevor had been mistaken , and that Eric 's health would still recover ; but Mrs. Trevor would not deceive herself with a vain hope , and the boy himself shook his head when they called him convalescent . 
Eric was leaning back in an easy chair , with Wildney sitting on the grass , crosslegged at his feet , while Montagu , resting on one of the mossy roots , read to them the `` Midsummer Night 's Dream , '' and the ladies were busy with their work . 
`` There -- stop now , '' said Eric , `` and let 's sit out and talk until we see some of ` the fiery a ` es and o'es of light ' which he talks of . '' 
`` Do you remember , Eric , '' said Montagu , `` how Rose used to chaff us in old days for our ignorance of literature , and how indignant we used to be when he asked if we 'd ever heard of an obscure person called William Shakspeare ? '' 
`` Yes , very well , '' answered Eric , laughing heartily . 
It 's almost enough to make me wish to live , '' said Eric . 
He did not often speak thus ; and it made them sad . 
But Eric half sang , half murmured to himself , a hymn with which his mother 's sweet voice had made him familiar in their cottage-home at Ellan : -- `` There is a calm for those who weep , A rest for weary pilgrims found ; They softly lie , and sweetly sleep , Low in the ground . 
The last two lines lingered pleasantly in his fancy , and he murmured to himself again , in low tones -- `` Than summer evening 's latest sigh That shuts the rose . '' 
`` Oh hush , hush , Eric ! '' 
One might have fancied that the last rays of sunshine loved to linger over Eric 's face , now flushed with a hectic tinge of pleasure , and to light up sudden glories in his bright hair , which the wind just fanned off his forehead as he leaned back and inhaled the luxury of evening perfume , which the flowers of the garden poured on the gentle breeze . 
I 'm wrong , here 's one ; but none for Eric . '' 
`` I expected none , '' said Eric , sighing ; but his eye was fixed earnestly on one of Mrs. Trevor 's letters . 
He saw that it was from India , and directed in his father 's hand . 
Mrs. Trevor caught his look . 
Remember it will be in answer to ours , telling them of -- '' `` Oh , yes , yes , '' he said eagerly , `` do let me hear it . '' 
With instinctive delicacy Montagu and Wildney rose , but Eric pressed them to stay . 
`` It will help me to bear what mother says , if I see you by me , '' he pleaded . 
By the former mail Mrs. Williams had heard of Verny 's melancholy death ; by the next she had been told that her only other child , Eric , was , not dead indeed , but a wandering outcast , marked with the brand of terrible suspicion . 
With bent head , and streaming eyes , and a breast that heaved involuntarily with fitful sobs , Eric listened as though to his mother 's voice , and only now and then he murmured low to himself , `` O mother , mother , mother -- but I am forgiven now . 
`` Here is a little note from your father , Eric , which dropped out when we opened dear aunt 's letter . 
`` Poor Eric is too tired and excited already . '' 
`` Well , then , let me glance it myself , aunty , '' he said . 
He opened it , read a line or two , and then , with a scream , fell back swooning , while it dropped out of his hands . 
said Eric , in a hollow voice , when he came to himself . 
They gathered round him ; they soothed , and comforted , and prayed for him ; but his soul refused comfort , and all his strength appeared to have been broken down at once like a feeble reed . 
At last a momentary energy returned ; his eyes were lifted to the gloaming heaven where a few stars had already begun to shine , and a bright look illuminated his countenance . 
They listened deeply -- `` Yes , mother , '' he murmured , in broken tones , `` forgiven now , for Christ 's dear sake . 
The sounds died away , and his head fell back ; for a transient moment more the smile and the brightness played over his fair features like a lambent flame . 
It passed away , and Eric was with those he dearliest loved , in the land where there is no more curse . 
`` Yes , dearest Eric , forgiven and happy now , '' sobbed Mrs. Trevor ; and her tears fell fast upon the dead boy 's face , as she pressed upon it a long , last kiss . 
Poor , poor Eric ! '' 
And Montagu , in his pleasant musical voice , read me , with much feeling , these lines , written in Eric 's boyish hand , and signed with his name . 
Knowing how strong an interest Mr. Rose always took in Eric , I gave him a copy of these verses when last I visited him at his pleasant vicarage of Seaford , to which he was presented a year or two ago by Dr. Rowlands , now Bishop of Roslyn , who has also appointed him examining chaplain . 
We always knew at school that Eric was one of his greatest favourites , as indeed he and Vernon were with all of us ; and when the unhappy boy had run away without even having the opportunity for bidding any one farewell , Mr. Rose displayed such real grief , that for weeks he was like a man who went mourning for a son . 
After those summer holidays , when we returned to school , Montagu and Wildney brought back with them the intelligence of Eric 's return to Fairholm , and of his death . 
The scene passed before me again as I looked at him , while he lingered over Eric 's verses , and seemed lost in a reverie of thought . 
`` Poor Eric ! 
-- But no , I will not call him poor ; after all he is happier now than we . 
You loved him well , '' he continued ; `` why do you not try and preserve some records of his life ? '' 
My own reminiscences of Eric were numerous and vivid , and several of my old schoolfellows and friends gladly supplied me with other particulars , especially the Bishop of Roslyn , Mr. Rose , Montagu , and Wildney . 
So the story of Eric 's ruin has been told , and told as he would have wished it done , with simple truth . 
Noble Eric ! 
