A Youngman , named Giovanni Guasconti , came , very long ago , from the more southern region of Italy , to pursue his studies at the University of Padua . 
Giovanni , who had but a scanty supply of gold ducats in his pocket , took lodgings in a high and gloomy chamber of an old edifice , which looked not unworthy to have been the palace of a Paduan noble , and which , in fact , exhibited over its entrance the armorial bearings of a family long since extinct . 
These reminiscences and associations , together with the tendency to heart-break natural to a young man for the first time out of his native sphere , caused Giovanni to sigh heavily , as he looked around the desolate and ill-furnished apartment . 
Guasconti mechanically did as the old woman advised , but could not quite agree with her that the Lombard sunshine was as cheerful as that of southern Italy . 
asked Giovanni . 
Giovanni still found no better occupation than to look down into the garden beneath his window . 
From its appearance , he judged it to be one of those botanic gardens , which were of earlier date in Padua than elsewhere in Italy , or in the world . 
While Giovanni stood at the window , he heard a rustling behind a screen of leaves , and became aware that a person was at work in the garden . 
His figure soon emerged into view , and showed itself to be that of no common laborer , but a tall , emaciated , sallow , and sickly-looking man , dressed in a scholar 's garb of black . 
On the contrary , he avoided their actual touch , or the direct inhaling of their odors , with a caution that impressed Giovanni most disagreeably ; for the man 's demeanor was that of one walking among malignant influences , such as savage beasts , or deadly snakes , or evil spirits , which , should he allow them one moment of license , would wreak upon him some terrible fatality . 
cried a rich and youthful voice from the window of the opposite house ; a voice as rich as a tropical sunset , and which made Giovanni , though he knew not why , think of deep hues of purple or crimson , and of perfumes heavily delectable -- `` Are you in the garden ! '' 
Yet Giovanni 's fancy must have grown morbid , while he looked down into the garden ; for the impression which the fair stranger made upon him was as if here were another flower , the human sister of those vegetable ones , as beautiful as they -- more beautiful than the richest of them -- but still to be touched only with a glove , nor to be approached without a mask . 
Then , with all the tenderness in her manner that was so strikingly expressed in her words , she busied herself with such attentions as the plant seemed to require ; and Giovanni , at his lofty window , rubbed his eyes , and almost doubted whether it were a girl tending her favorite flower , or one sister performing the duties of affection to another . 
Night was already closing in ; oppressive exhalations seemed to proceed from the plants , and steal upward past the open window ; and Giovanni , closing the lattice , went to his couch , and dreamed of a rich flower and beautiful girl . 
Giovanni 's first movement on starting from sleep , was to throw open the window , and gaze down into the garden which his dreams had made so fertile of mysteries . 
He was surprised , and a little ashamed , to find how real and matter-of-fact an affair it proved to be , in the first rays of the sun , which gilded the dew-drops that hung upon leaf and blossom , and , while giving a brighter beauty to each rare flower , brought everything within the limits of ordinary experience . 
Neither the sickly and thought-worn Doctor Giacomo Rappaccini , it is true , nor his brilliant daughter , were now visible ; so that Giovanni could not determine how much of the singularity which he attributed to both , was due to their own qualities , and how much to his wonder-working fancy . 
But he was inclined to take a most rational view of the whole matter . 
In the course of the day , he paid his respects to Signor Pietro Baglioni , professor of medicine in the University , a physician of eminent repute , to whom Giovanni had brought a letter of introduction . 
The professor was an elderly personage , apparently of genial nature , and habits that might almost be called jovial ; he kept the young man to dinner , and made himself very agreeable by the freedom and liveliness of his conversation , especially when warmed by a flask or two of Tuscan wine . 
Giovanni , conceiving that men of science , inhabitants of the same city , must needs be on familiar terms with one another , took an opportunity to mention the name of Dr. Rappaccini . 
`` Ill would it become a teacher of the divine art of medicine , '' said Professor Pietro Baglioni , in answer to a question of Giovanni , `` to withhold due and well-considered praise of a physician so eminently skilled as Rappaccini . 
`` Has my friend Giovanni any disease of body or heart , that he is so inquisitive about physicians ? '' 
`` But as for Rappaccini , it is said of him -- and I , who know the man well , can answer for its truth -- that he cares infinitely more for science than for mankind . 
`` Methinks he is an awful man , indeed , '' remarked Guasconti , mentally recalling the cold and purely intellectual aspect of Rappaccini . 
`` I know not , most learned Professor , '' returned Giovanni , after musing on what had been said of Rappaccini 's exclusive zeal for science -- `` I know not how dearly this physician may love his art ; but surely there is one object more dear to him . 
`` So now our friend Giovanni 's secret is out . 
I know little of the Signora Beatrice , save that Rappaccini is said to have instructed her deeply in his science , and that , young and beautiful as fame reports her , she is already qualified to fill a professor 's chair . 
Guasconti returned to his lodgings somewhat heated with the wine he had quaffed , and which caused his brain to swim with strange fantasies in reference to Doctor Rappaccini and the beautiful Beatrice . 
Soon , however , -- as Giovanni had half-hoped , half-feared , would be the case , -- a figure appeared beneath the antique sculptured portal , and came down between the rows of plants , inhaling their various perfumes , as if she were one of those beings of old classic fable , that lived upon sweet odors . 
On again beholding Beatrice , the young man was even startled to perceive how much her beauty exceeded his recollection of it ; so brilliant , so vivid in its character , that she glowed amid the sunlight , and , as Giovanni whispered to himself , positively illuminated the more shadowy intervals of the garden path . 
Her face being now more revealed than on the former occasion , he was struck by its expression of simplicity and sweetness ; qualities that had not entered into his idea of her character , and which made him ask anew , what manner of mortal she might be . 
Nor did he fail again to observe , or imagine , an analogy between the beautiful girl and the gorgeous shrub that hung its gem-like flowers over the fountain ; a resemblance which Beatrice seemed to have indulged a fantastic humor in heightening , both by the arrangement of her dress and the selection of its hues . 
But now , unless Giovanni 's draughts of wine had bewildered his senses , a singular incident occurred . 
It appeared to Giovanni -- but , at the distance from which he gazed , he could scarcely have seen anything so minute -- it appeared to him , however , that a drop or two of moisture from the broken stem of the flower descended upon the lizard 's head . 
But Giovanni , out of the shadow of his window , bent forward and shrank back , and murmured and trembled . 
said he to himself . 
Beatrice now strayed carelessly through the garden , approaching closer beneath Giovanni 's window , so that he was compelled to thrust his head quite out of its concealment , in order to gratify the intense and painful curiosity which she excited . 
Now here it could not be but that Giovanni Guasconti 's eyes deceived him . 
Be that as it might , he fancied that while Beatrice was gazing at the insect with childish delight , it grew faint and fell at her feet ! 
-- from no cause that he could discern , unless it were the atmosphere of her breath . 
An impulsive movement of Giovanni drew her eyes to the window . 
Scarcely knowing what he did , Giovanni threw down the bouquet which he had hitherto held in his hand . 
`` Signora , '' said he , `` there are pure and healthful flowers . 
Wear them for the sake of Giovanni Guasconti ! '' 
But , few as the moments were , it seemed to Giovanni when she was on the point of vanishing beneath the sculptured portal , that his beautiful bouquet was already beginning to wither in her grasp . 
Least of all , while avoiding her sight , should Giovanni have remained so near this extraordinary being , that the proximity and possibility even of intercourse , should give a kind of substance and reality to the wild vagaries which his imagination ran riot continually in producing . 
Guasconti had not a deep heart -- or at all events , its depths were not sounded now -- but he had a quick fancy , and an ardent southern temperament , which rose every instant to a higher fever-pitch . 
Whether or no Beatrice possessed those terrible attributes -- that fatal breath -- the affinity with those so beautiful and deadly flowers -- which were indicated by what Giovanni had witnessed , she had at least instilled a fierce and subtle poison into his system . 
It was not love , although her rich beauty was a madness to him ; nor horror , even while he fancied her spirit to be imbued with the same baneful essence that seemed to pervade her physical frame ; but a wild offspring of both love and horror that had each parent in it , and burned like one and shivered like the other . 
Giovanni knew not what to dread ; still less did he know what to hope ; yet hope and dread kept a continual warfare in his breast , alternately vanquishing one another and starting up afresh to renew the contest . 
Sometimes he endeavored to assuage the fever of his spirit by a rapid walk through the streets of Padua , or beyond its gates ; his footsteps kept time with the throbbings of his brain , so that the walk was apt to accelerate itself to a race . 
One day , he found himself arrested ; his arm was seized by a portly personage who had turned back on recognizing the young man , and expended much breath in overtaking him . 
It was Baglioni , whom Giovanni had avoided , ever since their first meeting , from a doubt that the professor 's sagacity would look too deeply into his secrets . 
Endeavoring to recover himself , he stared forth wildly from his inner world into the outer one , and spoke like a man in a dream . 
`` Yes ; I am Giovanni Guasconti . 
said Giovanni , with feverish impatience . 
Now , while he was speaking , there came a man in black along the street , stooping and moving feebly , like a person in inferior health . 
As he passed , this person exchanged a cold and distant salutation with Baglioni , but fixed his eyes upon Giovanni with an intentness that seemed to bring out whatever was within him worthy of notice . 
`` Not that I know , '' answered Giovanni , starting at the name . 
cried Giovanni , passionately . 
`` I tell thee , my poor Giovanni , that Rappaccini has a scientific interest in thee . 
But Guasconti , finding Baglioni 's pertinacity intolerable , here broke away , and was gone before the Professor could again seize his arm . 
Meanwhile , Giovanni had pursued a circuitous route , and at length found himself at the door of his lodgings . 
As he crossed the threshold , he was met by old Lisabetta , who smirked and smiled , and was evidently desirous to attract his attention ; vainly , however , as the ebullition of his feelings had momentarily subsided into a cold and dull vacuity . 
He turned his eyes full upon the withered face that was puckering itself into a smile , but seemed to behold it not . 
The old dame , therefore , laid her grasp upon his cloak . 
whispered she , still with a smile over the whole breadth of her visage , so that it looked not unlike a grotesque carving in wood , darkened by centuries -- `` Listen , Signor ! 
exclaimed Giovanni , turning quickly about , as if an inanimate thing should start into feverish life . 
whispered Lisabetta , putting her hand over his mouth . 
Giovanni put a piece of gold into her hand . 
`` Show me the way , '' said he . 
A surmise , probably excited by his conversation with Baglioni , crossed his mind , that this interposition of old Lisabetta might perchance be connected with the intrigue , whatever were its nature , in which the Professor seemed to suppose that Doctor Rappaccini was involving him . 
But such a suspicion , though it disturbed Giovanni , was inadequate to restrain him . 
The instant he was aware of the possibility of approaching Beatrice , it seemed an absolute necessity of his existence to do so . 
Giovanni stepped forth , and forcing himself through the entanglement of a shrub that wreathed its tendrils over the hidden entrance , he stood beneath his own window , in the open area of Doctor Rappaccini 's garden . 
So was it now with Giovanni . 
Day after day , his pulses had throbbed with feverish blood , at the improbable idea of an interview with Beatrice , and of standing with her , face to face , in this very garden , basking in the oriental sunshine of her beauty , and snatching from her full gaze the mystery which he deemed the riddle of his own existence . 
But now there was a singular and untimely equanimity within his breast . 
He threw a glance around the garden to discover if Beatrice or her father were present , and perceiving that he was alone , began a critical observation of the plants . 
In fine , Giovanni recognized but two or three plants in the collection , and those of a kind that he well knew to be poisonous . 
While busy with these contemplations , he heard the rustling of a silken garment , and turning , beheld Beatrice emerging from beneath the sculptured portal . 
Giovanni had not considered with himself what should be his deportment ; whether he should apologize for his intrusion into the garden , or assume that he was there with the privity , at least , if not by the desire , of Doctor Rappaccini or his daughter . 
`` And yourself , lady '' -- observed Giovanni -- `` if fame says true -- you , likewise , are deeply skilled in the virtues indicated by these rich blossoms , and these spicy perfumes . 
asked Giovanni pointedly , while the recollection of former scenes made him shrink . 
It would appear that Beatrice understood him . 
There came a deep flush to her cheek ; but she looked full into Giovanni 's eyes , and responded to his gaze of uneasy suspicion with a queen-like haughtiness . 
A fervor glowed in her whole aspect , and beamed upon Giovanni 's consciousness like the light of truth itself . 
A faintness passed like a shadow over Giovanni , and flitted away ; he seemed to gaze through the beautiful girl 's eyes into her transparent soul , and felt no more doubt or fear . 
She talked now about matters as simple as the day-light or summer-clouds , and now asked questions in reference to the city , or Giovanni 's distant home , his friends , his mother , and his sisters ; questions indicating such seclusion , and such lack of familiarity with modes and forms , that Giovanni responded as if to an infant . 
Her spirit gushed out before him like a fresh rill , that was just catching its first glimpse of the sunlight , and wondering at the reflections of earth and sky which were flung into its bosom . 
A fragrance was diffused from it , which Giovanni recognized as identical with that which he had attributed to Beatrice 's breath , but incomparably more powerful . 
As her eyes fell upon it , Giovanni beheld her press her hand to her bosom , as if her heart were throbbing suddenly and painfully . 
`` I remember , Signora , '' said Giovanni , `` that you once promised to reward me with one of these living gems for the bouquet , which I had the happy boldness to fling to your feet . 
He made a step towards the shrub , with extended hand . 
But Beatrice darted forward , uttering a shriek that went through his heart like a dagger . 
She caught his hand , and drew it back with the whole force of her slender figure . 
Giovanni felt her touch thrilling through his fibres . 
Then , hiding her face , she fled from him , and vanished beneath the sculptured portal . 
As Giovanni followed her with his eyes , he beheld the emaciated figure and pale intelligence of Doctor Rappaccini , who had been watching the scene , he knew not how long , within the shadow of the entrance . 
No sooner was Guasconti alone in his chamber , than the image of Beatrice came back to his passionate musings , invested with all the witchery that had been gathering around it ever since his first glimpse of her , and now likewise imbued with a tender warmth of girlish womanhood . 
Thus did Giovanni spend the night , nor fell asleep , until the dawn had begun to awake the slumbering flowers in Doctor Rappaccini 's garden , whither his dreams doubtless led him . 
Giovanni wrapt a handkerchief about his hand , and wondered what evil thing had stung him , and soon forgot his pain in a reverie of Beatrice . 
A third ; a fourth ; and a meeting with Beatrice in the garden was no longer an incident in Giovanni 's daily life , but the whole space in which he might be said to live ; for the anticipation and memory of that ecstatic hour made up the remainder . 
She watched for the youth 's appearance , and flew to his side with confidence as unreserved as if they had been playmates from early infancy -- as if they were such playmates still . 
If , by any unwonted chance , he failed to come at the appointed moment , she stood beneath the window , and sent up the rich sweetness of her tones to float around him in his chamber , and echo and reverberate throughout his heart -- `` Giovanni ! 
Giovanni ! 
-- And down he hastened into that Eden of poisonous flowers . 
But , with all this intimate familiarity , there was still a reserve in Beatrice 's demeanor , so rigidly and invariably sustained , that the idea of infringing it scarcely occurred to his imagination . 
He had never touched one of the gleaming ringlets of her hair ; her garment -- so marked was the physical barrier between them -- had never been waved against him by a breeze . 
On the few occasions when Giovanni had seemed tempted to overstep the limit , Beatrice grew so sad , so stern , and withal wore such a look of desolate separation , shuddering at itself , that not a spoken word was requisite to repel him . 
At such times , he was startled at the horrible suspicions that rose , monster-like , out of the caverns of his heart , and stared him in the face ; his love grew thin and faint as the morning-mist ; his doubts alone had substance . 
But when Beatrice 's face brightened again , after the momentary shadow , she was transformed at once from the mysterious , questionable being , whom he had watched with so much awe and horror ; she was now the beautiful and unsophisticated girl , whom he felt that his spirit knew with a certainty beyond all other knowledge . 
A considerable time had now passed since Giovanni 's last meeting with Baglioni . 
asked Giovanni , turning his eyes downward to avoid those of the Professor . 
`` A childish fable , '' answered Giovanni , nervously starting from his chair . 
`` Nor are there any , '' replied Giovanni , who had turned pale as the Professor spoke ; `` nor , I think , is there any fragrance , except in your worship 's imagination . 
Giovanni 's face evinced many contending emotions . 
`` Giovanni ! 
-- my poor Giovanni ! '' 
You shall hear the truth in respect to the poisoner Rappaccini , and his poisonous daughter . 
Giovanni groaned and hid his face . 
muttered Giovanni to himself , `` surely it is a dream ! '' 
Baglioni laid a small , exquisitely wrought silver phial on the table , and withdrew , leaving what he had said to produce its effect upon the young man 's mind . 
thought he , chuckling to himself , as he descended the stairs . 
Throughout Giovanni 's whole acquaintance with Beatrice , he had occasionally , as we have said , been haunted by dark surmises as to her character . 
On such better evidence , had Giovanni founded his confidence in Beatrice , though rather by the necessary force of her high attributes , than by any deep and generous faith on his part . 
But , now , his spirit was incapable of sustaining itself at the height to which the early enthusiasm of passion had exalted it ; he fell down , grovelling among earthly doubts , and defiled therewith the pure whiteness of Beatrice 's image . 
Not that he gave her up ; he did but distrust . 
He resolved to institute some decisive test that should satisfy him , once for all , whether there were those dreadful peculiarities in her physical nature , which could not be supposed to exist without some corresponding monstrosity of soul . 
His eyes , gazing down afar , might have deceived him as to the lizard , the insect , and the flowers . 
But if he could witness , at the distance of a few paces , the sudden blight of one fresh and healthful flower in Beatrice 's hand , there would be room for no further question . 
With this idea , he hastened to the florist 's , and purchased a bouquet that was still gemmed with the morning dew-drops . 
It was now the customary hour of his daily interview with Beatrice . 
Before descending into the garden , Giovanni failed not to look at his figure in the mirror ; a vanity to be expected in a beautiful young man , yet , as displaying itself at that troubled and feverish moment , the token of a certain shallowness of feeling and insincerity of character . 
Giovanni grew white as marble , and stood motionless before the mirror , staring at his own reflection there , as at the likeness of something frightful . 
He remembered Baglioni 's remark about the fragrance that seemed to pervade the chamber . 
It must have been the poison in his breath ! 
Then he shuddered -- shuddered at himself ! 
Recovering from his stupor , he began to watch , with curious eye , a spider that was busily at work , hanging its web from the antique cornice of the apartment , crossing and re-crossing the artful system of interwoven lines , as vigorous and active a spider as ever dangled from an old ceiling . 
Giovanni bent towards the insect , and emitted a deep , long breath . 
Again Giovanni sent forth a breath , deeper , longer , and imbued with a venomous feeling out of his heart ; he knew not whether he were wicked or only desperate . 
The spider made a convulsive gripe with his limbs , and hung dead across the window . 
muttered Giovanni , addressing himself . 
At that moment , a rich , sweet voice came floating up from the garden : -- `` Giovanni ! 
Giovanni ! 
`` Yes , '' muttered Giovanni again . 
He rushed down , and in an instant , was standing before the bright and loving eyes of Beatrice . 
A moment ago , his wrath and despair had been so fierce that he could have desired nothing so much as to wither her by a glance . 
But , with her actual presence , there came influences which had too real an existence to be at once shaken off ; recollections of the delicate and benign power of her feminine nature , which had so often enveloped him in a religious calm ; recollections of many a holy and passionate outgush of her heart , when the pure fountain had been unsealed from its depths , and made visible in its transparency to his mental eye ; recollections which , had Giovanni known how to estimate them , would have assured him that all this ugly mystery was but an earthly illusion , and that , whatever mist of evil might seem to have gathered over her , the real Beatrice was a heavenly angel . 
Giovanni 's rage was quelled into an aspect of sullen insensibility . 
Beatrice , with a quick spiritual sense , immediately felt that there was a gulf of blackness between them , which neither he nor she could pass . 
Giovanni was affrighted at the eager enjoyment -- the appetite , as it were -- with which he found himself inhaling the fragrance of the flowers . 
`` Beatrice , '' asked he abruptly , `` whence came this shrub ! '' 
repeated Giovanni . 
continued she , observing with terror that Giovanni was drawing nearer to the shrub . 
But I , dearest Giovanni , -- I grew up and blossomed with the plant , and was nourished with its breath . 
Here Giovanni frowned so darkly upon her that Beatrice paused and trembled . 
But her faith in his tenderness reassured her , and made her blush that she had doubted for an instant . 
Until Heaven sent thee , dearest Giovanni , Oh ! 
asked Giovanni , fixing his eyes upon her . 
Giovanni 's rage broke forth from his sullen gloom like a lightning-flash out of a dark cloud . 
cried he , with venomous scorn and anger . 
`` Giovanni ! '' 
exclaimed Beatrice , turning her large bright eyes upon his face . 
The force of his words had not found its way into her mind ; she was merely thunder-struck . 
repeated Giovanni , beside himself with passion . 
cried Giovanni , still with the same fiendish scorn . 
`` Giovanni , '' said Beatrice calmly , for her grief was beyond passion , `` Why dost thou join thyself with me thus in those terrible words ? 
asked Giovanni , scowling upon her . 
They circled round Giovanni 's head , and were evidently attracted towards him by the same influence which had drawn them , for an instant , within the sphere of several of the shrubs . 
He sent forth a breath among them , and smiled bitterly at Beatrice , as at least a score of the insects fell dead upon the ground . 
No , no , Giovanni ; it was not I ! 
For , Giovanni -- believe it -- though my body be nourished with poison , my spirit is God 's creature , and craves love as its daily food . 
Giovanni 's passion had exhausted itself in its outburst from his lips . 
There now came across him a sense , mournful , and not without tenderness , of the intimate and peculiar relationship between Beatrice and himself . 
Besides , thought Giovanni , might there not still be a hope of his returning within the limits of ordinary nature , and leading Beatrice -- the redeemed Beatrice -- by the hand ? 
Oh , weak , and selfish , and unworthy spirit , that could dream of an earthly union and earthly happiness as possible , after such deep love had been so bitterly wronged as was Beatrice 's love by Giovanni 's blighting words ! 
But Giovanni did not know it . 
`` Dear Beatrice , '' said he , approaching her , while she shrank away , as always at his approach , but now with a different impulse -- `` dearest Beatrice , our fate is not yet so desperate . 
said Beatrice , extending her hand to receive the little silver phial which Giovanni took from his bosom . 
As he drew near , the pale man of science seemed to gaze with a triumphant expression at the beautiful youth and maiden , as might an artist who should spend his life in achieving a picture or a group of statuary , and finally be satisfied with his success . 
Giovanni trembled . 
Farewell , Giovanni ! 
And thus the poor victim of man 's ingenuity and of thwarted nature , and of the fatality that attends all such efforts of perverted wisdom , perished there , at the feet of her father and Giovanni . 
So was it now with Giovanni . 
Day after day , his pulses had throbbed with feverish blood , at the improbable idea of an interview with Beatrice , and of standing with her , face to face , in this very garden , basking in the oriental sunshine of her beauty , and snatching from her full gaze the mystery which he deemed the riddle of his own existence . 
But now there was a singular and untimely equanimity within his breast . 
He threw a glance around the garden to discover if Beatrice or her father were present , and perceiving that he was alone , began a critical observation of the plants . 
