`` O certainly , '' answered Heartwell , a young fellow of whom the reader will hear more anon , `` certainly , it is a revival of an old fashion , with a little alteration . 
a question not to be answered ; so Heartwell strolled away in search of farther food for his satire . 
He was one of those men who can say what they please . 
`` When I hear young ladies talk as they do about wanting excitement , '' said Heartwell one day to me , `` I figure to myself a being sated with all the rational delights of the world , wasted by indolence -- weakened by dissipation -- pampering her imagination with dangerous delusions , and sighing for fleeting pleasures either beyond her reach or if within it , fatal in the enjoyment . '' 
So said Heartwell , but he was sometimes a most intolerable proser . 
He who is tired of the company of pure and innocent females , sinks too often down to the society of those who are not so . 
He to whom the gentle smiles of young unsuspecting preference , the speaking eye full of innocent yet expressive meanings , has become incapable of making his heart throb , and his imagination dance , will most likely seek these excitements in tumultuous revelry , or lascivious debaucheries . 
He , in short , who has properly completed his education abroad , can not possibly live without the excitement of something a little piquant in morals , a little spice of foreign seasoning , in short he will require the excitement of something either unattainable , or attainable only at the price of some little delicious fashionable wickedness such as is quite compatible with the character of a gentleman . 
Among the rest he became acquainted with Heartwell , a youth of about seven-and-twenty , tall , handsome , well born , well brought up , and well educated . 
Heartwell had been abroad too , but he brought home something besides vices and follies . 
He brought home a diminished admiration of Europe , and an increased admiration of his own country . 
Simple , yet dignified high bred manners , a simple taste in dress , a fine , open , manly heart , and not whiskers enough for a humming bird to build his nest in . 
He was in the main , good natured and tolerant of foibles , but withal this , there was a vein of sarcastic humour about him , that some people who dreaded it , called ill-nature . 
The daughter was a fine , intelligent , well-bred girl , much admired by Heartwell ; but her father was a hale , hearty , middle aged man , and though rich , might not die in half a century . 
Coming out of the house , he encountered Heartwell , who was passing up the street . 
Heartwell paused , and looked a little serious ; but suddenly resuming his wonted free and spirited manner , he proposed to take Sopus to the Academy of Arts , to see a collection of original paintings , by the most celebrated masters of the Italian and Flemish schools , exhibiting there . 
Heartwell stuffed the whole catalogue into his mouth , and walked away at a quick step . 
He however returned in a few moments . 
`` You are right , '' said he , `` Miss Sally was particularly remarkable for all these characteristics . 
`` A piece of a one , '' answered he , pulling up his stock , and adjusting his striped gingham collar . 
`` But my dear Heartwell , never again call a foreign lady Miss or Mistress . 
After spending some time in pointing out the various excellencies of this rare collection of originals , by the great Italian and Flemish masters , in which Sopus displayed equal taste and accuracy , he was carried into the apartment where the statuary and busts are deposited . 
cried he , stopping opposite the Laocoon . '' 
`` 'T is the famous Laocoon , '' said Heartwell . 
`` No , I regret to say that I have forgot it , '' replied Heartwell , again having recourse to the system of gagging . 
Coming out of the Academy through the park , Heartwell said something about the City Hall , which set Sopus retailing the cant he had learned from the foreign periodicals . 
`` I 've seen a handsomer stable than that , in England , '' said he . 
`` No , '' said Heartwell , `` I confess I did not pay any particular attention to stables . '' 
`` To see the world , '' replied Heartwell . 
Heartwell , who all this time had been looking at the City Hall , turned to see what effect his harangue had produced upon the roué , and found him busily employed in jerking pebbles at a tree , a little way off . 
`` I 'll bet you ten , I hit it three times out of five , '' quoth he . 
Miss Fitzpoisson now entered with Heartwell , and the conversation received a fresh impulse . 
Bravo , thought Heartwell , a member of congress could not have made a better speech about nothing , or come to a more logical conclusion . 
`` They had better personate Pharaoh 's dream , '' said Heartwell . 
`` Categorical , you mean , '' said Heartwell . 
The lady gave Heartwell a great blow with her glove , and the party separated to go and talk of the fancy ball elsewhere . 
Heartwell had taken with him to the ball , a young Italian count , whom he had known in Italy . 
The count requested Heartwell to play the Diable Boiteaux for that night , and take him under his special protection . 
`` That young lady , '' said Heartwell , `` belongs to an old and somewhat decayed family , which is still proud of what it once was . 
Here the soul of Heartwell flashed into his eyes , on seeing our old friend Sopus , who dressed in a superb Spanish suit , he had borrowed from his theatrical friend , was dancing with Julia Wingate with all his might , and to give him his due , exceedingly well . 
The truth is , she was a little piqued at the neglect of Heartwell , who had been in the room at least twenty minutes , without speaking to her . 
Heartwell saw all this , and though he believed in his heart that Julia must in her heart despise the roué , yet he grew at once violently jealous . 
Such is man when he is in love , and his vanity and affections are unnaturally overheated . 
The count twitched his elbow , `` You play Monsieur de Diable badly . 
Heartwell was every moment getting more ill natured , as he looked at Sopus and Julia . 
`` Her husband , '' continued he , `` is a plain , honest old man , such as no sensible person would dare to laugh at , except when he is playing the fish out of water , at a fancy ball , or giving a dinner to a foreign minister . 
The family , '' continued Heartwell , looking like a savage at Sopus , `` the family put themselves forward on all occasions ; call on all strangers of note ; impose themselves as the best company of the city ; stuff them with good eating , and tire them to death with caricatures of fashionable frivolity . 
Heartwell laughed a very little at this ; for just then Julia gave Sopus a tap with her fan . 
`` Look round , '' said Heartwell , `` make use of your free masonry . '' 
`` She is modest and retiring , '' answered Heartwell , with a bitter sneer ; for Julia was still flirting with that `` puppy , Sopus . '' 
`` They are apt to have an instinct for that , '' observed Heartwell . 
A lady now swept along dressed in a load of discordant and atrocious finery , the vulgar characteristic of the day , and was accosted by Heartwell with -- `` My dear Mrs. Smith . '' 
said Heartwell , solemnly . 
`` Your bish -- what do you call it , is hind part before , '' whispered he . 
In strolling about the room , Heartwell chanced upon a young married lady , who had been brought up in the country , whom he found in tears , by the side of her husband . 
`` My dear Mrs. Gocarty , '' said Heartwell , `` I hope you 've heard no bad news from the country ? 
`` Very , '' answered Heartwell , just at the moment Julia gave her hand to Sopus for a third dance . 
But in truth , '' resumed he of the mouldering bridge , `` it is inconceivable how much depends upon this . 
But , '' and a droll idea seemed to come across him -- `` But , suppose now we at one blow make all these Mrs. Smiths , and Mrs Jenks , and Misses Macfaddles and Fitzpoissons high ton ? 
`` As how , '' asked Heartwell . 
The count shook his head -- `` No , no ; he wont do even for a duke . 
asked Heartwell . 
`` If I thought so I 'd forswear matrimony , '' said Heartwell . 
Heartwell , though he was angry with Julia , could not bear this imputation . 
He defended her with such heat that the count was convinced . 
Heartwell was angrier than ever at this , and had a great mind to admit that Julia painted . 
continued he , `` ladies , aye , and gentlemen too , wear false hair , false teeth , false eyes , eyebrows , shapes and dimensions , and practice other innocent deceptions . 
Here Heartwell bristled like a wild boar . 
I will not swear that Heartwell heard all this long speech of the count . 
He was looking most of the time at Julia , who was waltzing with friend Sopus . 
Heartwell boiled with rage and jealousy , but made no reply . 
Heartwell roused himself . 
`` That , '' said Heartwell , `` is a lady of one of the oldest families in the city . 
`` By the way what think you of Goethe , '' said Heartwell , `` they call him one of the only three men of genius the world has produced . '' 
asked he . 
`` Lord , Mr. Heartwell do n't you see ! 
`` Lord Mr. Heartwell , '' replied the lady , glancing at her snowy neck , et cetera , -- `` would you have me look like a witch ? '' 
`` Why not , madam , when you bewitch so many to-night , '' cried Heartwell , gallantly bowing . 
`` The young lady 's loss of memory is particularly distressing , '' said Heartwell , gravely . 
The count whispered in Heartwell 's ear -- `` Do the young republican ladies swear ? '' 
`` O , '' said Heartwell , laughing , `` her sister 's name is Heliodora , and Hel is only an innocent abbreviation . '' 
A little this way as thou lovest me , '' continued he , drawing Heartwell towards a cotillion party . 
`` He certainly is an Englishman , '' said Heartwell , `` no mortal man of any other nation or age , could get through a cotillion without sense or motion . '' 
`` Yes , '' said Heartwell , `` I have observed that if a man happens to be gloriously deficient in any one thing , he generally manages with admirable adroitness , to make it as conspicuous as possible , by placing himself in direct contrast with some one who particularly excels . 
The only persons not pleased with the fancy ball , were Julia Wingate , who was out of humour with herself ; Heartwell , who was out of humour with Julia ; and Mrs. Smith , number nine , who was disappointed at there being no supper . 
She was trying with all her might to be angry with Heartwell , for not speaking to her the whole evening . 
A certain instinct whispered to her , that this was owing entirely to her flirting with Sopus ; but then her flirting with Sopus was as entirely owing to Heartwell 's neglect ; so after all it was his fault and not hers . 
But then again , what business had he to be angry at her flirtations , if he was not a little in love with her ; and if he was in love , then he wanted a proper respect for her in believing for a moment that she could prefer such a man as Sopus to himself . 
Accordingly Julia resolved to be angry with Heartwell , and flirt with Sopus until the former made a downright declaration , or demonstrated his affection by growing very pale and melancholy . 
Heartwell was a man of spirit , and such a man makes a most refractory lover , until he is fairly broke in . 
Heartwell went home to his lodgings , where he sat two hours , making marks in the ashes with a poker . 
His thoughts crossed their tracks , as they say in the western country , a hundred times , and as often did he change his determination . 
To choose such a puppy as Sopus to play off against him ; if he had only been a fine , first rate fellow , full of sense , spirit , and honour , why -- why -- confound it , he would have been satisfied . 
Here he told a great lie , for if Julia had selected such a one he would have been ten times more jealous than ever . 
It was all over with Heartwell . 
He determined to see her in the morning , and pardon her on the spot . 
After which he went to bed and had a very ill natured dream . 
He dreamed he told a young lady who appeared in the costume of Folly , that it was hardly necessary to put on a disguise to play the character in perfection . 
`` I suppose she is fatigued with last night 's dissipation , '' thought Heartwell , and walked slowly down Broadway . 
Happening to turn his head , he saw our hero ringing at the door . 
Heartwell had not the least curiosity in the world , yet he could not help peeping , now and then , over his shoulder . 
Sopus was admitted without hesitation , and what was worse than all , he must have seen Heartwell denied , for he gave him a most provoking , unbearable nod , as he entered the house . 
said Heartwell to himself , `` that 's too bad . 
He took a long walk on the Battery and met there an old acquaintance , who never passed any body without crying out `` fine day , '' in a voice like a north-wester . 
`` Very , '' replied Heartwell . 
`` Very , '' quoth Heartwell . 
Heartwell kept his mouth shut . 
`` Good morning , Mr. Heartwell . '' 
`` What the deuce is the matter with Heartwell . 
I believe the Devil is in him , '' thought Mr. Black . 
The truth is Julia was delighted with having turned Heartwell from the door , and delighted with our hero as the instrument of revenging herself on the man she really preferred to all others . 
After spending about two hours , and tiring poor Julia almost to death , he departed , just as Heartwell who was going up Broadway , by accident was looking directly at the door . 
said Heartwell . 
`` I am going down , '' cried Heartwell , turning short about , and retracing his steps down Broadway . 
Heartwell was engaged to a party that evening , where he was sure of meeting Julia . 
He wrote an apology and threw it into the fire . 
About a quarter of an hour after he wrote another , and lighted his candle with it . 
About ten minutes after , he wrote a third , which he sealed with a wafer instead of perfumed wax . 
It would not do , and he tore it to pieces in a great passion . 
At length , mustering his wrongs in battle array , the flirtation at the ball ; the denial of himself and the admission of Sopus ; his infernal long visit ; his confounded familiar nod ; and his intolerable air of success ; he pronounced himself an injured , insulted man , and sent off his apology . 
Before the servant had got a hundred yards , he regretted this precipitation ; but his fate was sealed , and by perfumed wax . 
As she rode to the party , she revolved in her mind how she should behave towards Heartwell . 
At last she settled it in her mind , that as Heartwell was not quite sufficiently punished , she would play off Sopus against him for that night only , and then forgive Heartwell . 
Heartwell was not there , but no doubt he would come ; accordingly Julia smiled and flirted with our hero , every now and then eyeing the door as it opened . 
She suffered him to snatch a nosegay , intending this to be the last stab she would inflict on poor Heartwell . 
But yet he came not ; and as it grew later and later , Julia said to herself , `` Hewill not come to-night . '' 
As Julia rode home she resolved more resolutely than ever not to forgive Heartwell for not coming to the party , to afford her the satisfaction of making him miserable . 
All this while the disconsolate Heartwell sat by the evening fire , looking intently at it , till his eyes smarted . 
He figured to himself the fair Julia , gliding through the intricacies of the crowd , hanging on the arm of that infernal Sopus , laughing , chatting , and flirting with the intolerable puppy . 
`` Had she only given me a decent rival , '' and he deceived himself just as he did the night before . 
`` Now , '' thought he , `` she is dancing with Sopus . 
But the little foot mollified Heartwell exceedingly , and he was very near forgiving Julia , when he again conjured up Julia 's beautiful little satin shoes , as it were , exchanging civilities with the infernal French pumps of Sopus . 
This idea got the better of the other , and again he relapsed into wrath unappeasable . 
cried a voice close at his elbow . 
asked Heartwell , who being exceedingly anxious on a certain point , began as far off as possible . 
said Heartwell , his voice sinking into a whisper , and his heart beating louder than his tongue . 
Upon my soul , Heartwell , she is a fine girl . 
But 't is a pity she is going to throw herself away on that half bred roué , Sopefat , or Soapsuds -- what 's his confounded name ? '' 
answered Heartwell , in a voice still weaker than before , and a heart sunk away nobody knows where . 
`` Is it all settled , '' cried the gay count , mimicing him . 
She was very particular with him to-night , and either is fond of the blockhead , or wanted to make somebody she was fond of jealous , I do n't know which . 
`` I 'll be -- if I do , '' cried Heartwell , in a great passion . 
Poor Heartwell ! 
he was getting worse and worse every moment . 
As the hours crept slowly and wearily on , he continued present in fancy at the ball , and saw Julia and Sopus flirting together . 
He saw them exchanging looks , and talking with their eyes -- he saw him hand her into supper , sit by her side , crowded so close they almost grew together -- he saw them touch their glasses , nay their very hands -- he saw him help her to the fricasseed Guinea hen -- and oh ! 
horror , he saw her eat of it with an appetite most horrible ! 
He could see no more ; but he swore that night he would act the part of a friend to the family , and apprise the mother that Sopus was a spendthrift , a roué , a ruined man , and a great blockhead . 
The good lady with whom Heartwell was a great favourite , asked him where he had been so long , and was going to ring for Julia , but he stopt her . 
`` Madam , '' said he , `` Madam , I have no business with Miss Wingate -- I mean , I come as an old friend of the family -- you know my grandfather and yours were once in business together -- I come as an old friend -- my mother and you were very intimate -- as an old friend of the family , of whose hospitality I have so often partaken , in whose society I have enjoyed so many happy , happy hours -- to talk to you about Miss Wingate -- that is to say -- to -- to -- warn -- that is to say -- to caution -- to ask you madam -- if if -- ha -- ha -- hem -- hum '' -- and Heartwell ran high and dry ashore . 
They both looked at first like two great fools ; after a little while Julia could not for the soul of her help smiling ; Heartwell smiled too , and asked her as soon as he could find breath to utter it , `` Whether she really meant to marry Mr. Sopus , because if she did , his duty as an old friend -- a very old friend -- '' `` Pray how old are you Mr. Heartwell , '' asked Julia , laughing . 
Heartwell answered warmly -- `` Old enough to admire your beauty -- cherish your virtues -- and wise enough to know that the possession will make me happy beyond all happiness . 
Heartwell ! '' 
replied Julia , as she -- I 'll not swear but she permitted him to fold his arms about her slender waist , and kiss her warm lips . 
`` O , Heartwell ! '' 
`` The Devil take Mr. Sopus , '' thought Heartwell . 
Julia did not swear , but she wished him in Guinea , as Heartwell hastily took his leave , not as well pleased as he should have been . 
how Julia hated him for having made Heartwell miserable . 
`` But I 'll insult Heartwell the first good opportunity . '' 
In the month of May , Julia and Heartwell were married . 
