He had never , until now , spoke of his origin or his prospects ; his name was Du Quesne . 
Du Quesne , with whom we must at present continue , repaired to New-York , where , upon his being admitted to the bar , as in due time he was , his mysterious supply of money was withheld , and he was left without relatives or connexions , to make the usual slow and uncertain progress in the business of his profession . 
At this moment Du Quesne was stooping to raise the body , already lifeless , when several men who had been alarmed by the same noise which drew him to the place , rushed hastily upon him , and , as he began artlessly to ask them for help , secured him as their prisoner , and charged him with the murder . 
`` You are a lawyer , Mr. Du Quesne , '' said the magistrate , `` and know that you can answer or not to the charge . 
`` And if it was , '' said Du Quesne , `` I have no bail . '' 
The Squire , as he was termed , made out the mittimus himself , -LRB- for in this country the magistrates have no clerks , -RRB- and Du Quesne was followed to the gaol by the rabble that had attended his trial . 
One evening as he sat alone , thinking of the approaching troubles , and devising plans of security , a Negro domestic came into the room , and presented to him the letter of Du Quesne . 
Whether he there devised any better plan than the one proposed , is not certain ; but it is certain he never delivered the letters , not even the one for Du Quesne . 
Du Quesne was awakened in the night by the slow and careful unlocking and opening of his dungeon , and in the light of the setting moon , which shone through the grates , an Indian stood before him with his bow in his hand and his tomahawk in his girdle . 
He then returned , and led the way up the island in silence , at a rate so rapid , that elate with liberty and buoyant with hope as Du Quesne was , he could hardly keep pace with him . 
Accustomed as Du Quesne had been for weeks , to no other prospect than what was to be seen from the loop-holes of his dungeon , so many natural beauties gradually displaying by the rising sun , till they were shown in perfection , filled him with joy . 
It was impossible for Du Quesne to conjecture the motives which would be so powerful with his deliverer , as to induce all this labor , nor could he well imagine whither he was going , or where his journey was likely to end . 
This was one of the several places , where , on his way down the river , he had deposited a part of his load of provision , and this unlooked for repast was the more grateful to Du Quesne , from his long fast , to which he was not used . 
Du Quesne who felt at the moment happier , perhaps , than he had ever been before , pointed in silence to the Indian as his deliverer ; and Van Tromp , was astonished at the success of his achievement , and additionally grateful on this emergency , because he should have the assistance of his friend . 
The two friends , left to themselves , commenced that sort of conversation which was natural on the occasion , in the course of which they explained , each to the other , whatever was the subject of mutual inquiry , till Du Quesne declared that as it was the first undisturbed moment that he had enjoyed for long and long before , he would retire . 
`` The Indians , '' said Du Quesne , `` seem a mysterious people , about whom little can be known , though they swarm about us in such numbers . 
The religious service of the evening was performed , and the friends retired ; Du Quesne to a repose , which after his fatigue , was as sweet as the sleep of infancy , and Van Tromp , to visit his new inmates and to go the rounds of his duty -- after which , at the winding of a horn , the garrison was silent . 
He roused Du Quesne , and told his conjectures . 
`` I shall not be able to hunt with you , Du Quesne , '' said Van Tromp , `` and you 'll find it a bad job for a beginner . '' 
I have a dreadful apprehension , Du Quesne . 
`` Any thing that interests you , I care for , '' said Du Quesne . 
But Du Quesne , '' added he , lowering his voice , `` the house and buildings are burnt to the ground ; and what can have become of the girl -- so beautiful , I wish you could have seen her . 
Van Tromp made a pause of some moments , which Du Quesne did not interrupt . 
Du Quesne and Weshop , were to head one party , Jonathan and Shadrach another , and the third was to be directed by some of their sturdy neighbours . 
Weshop and Du Quesne were apart from the rest , but kept near one another , from a sense of duty on the part of the Indian , and of dependance on the part of Du Quesne , who missed his way , when he missed his guide , and was in constant danger of losing him self in the woods . 
He made a sign to Du Quesne not to stir , and crept softly among the bushes , where he saw several of the hostile Indians , and had convincing proof that there were many of them in the neighbourhood . 
Without being discovered , he made good his retreat to Du Quesne , and with his finger on his lip , led his noiseless way to a place where the heavy timbered upland joins the edge of a large natural meadow that extended farther than the eye could reach , and was covered with a coarse jointed grass , which grew thick , and in most places , taller than a man 's head . 
Du Quesne and his party were under the guidance of Weshop , who set off again at a brisk trot for the head of the lake . 
The senses of Du Quesne were confounded . 
Every nerve was strained ; partly from the heat , and partly from exertion , Du Quesne was ready to fall , when he sprained his ancle and dropped . 
As Du Quesne moved with difficulty , his fate was for a moment uncertain ; but the encampment of the enemy happened to be near , and Weshop was compelled to assist his companion in keeping up with the party . 
Weshop and Du Quesne were secured in one of those natural caverns or openings in the rock , which are common in this vicinity , and which the Indians with a little labour often convert into places of residence -- they generally resort to them in times of danger as affording shelter and safety . 
Du Quesne bewailed the continual misfortunes in which he seemed to have involved himself , and those with whom he had been and was connected , and compared his present misery with his more tolerable imprisonment at New Amsterdam , from which his fellow sufferer had released him . 
said Du Quesne in horror , `` God forbid -- tell them , I beg of you , if they carry me as a prisoner among civilized men to wait till I can send your ransom . 
Du Quesne was unable to reply . 
In the course of the next day , Du Quesne was surprised to see him produce his tomahawk , which he had artfully contrived to secure to his arm , by a fold of his blanket , so that it escaped the notice of his enemies . 
Every sensation of anguish was now felt by Du Quesne , in the extreme . 
Du Quesne cast a look upon the departing hero , but it was not answered , and he was about to turn his eyes , when just as Weshop entered the passage , the broad glare of the torch light showed the tomahawk in his hand . 
Weshop put his finger to his lip , as he returned to Du Quesne , with a look that showed him to be , at that instant , perfectly happy . 
Du Quesne instantly obeyed . 
Du Quesne remembered his old posture , and dropped in the bottom of the boat , which his active pilot soon conducted to the middle of the stream . 
Du Quesne was directed to make himself fast to the boat with a cord , that in any event they might not be separated from their only hope . 
The Indian kept it steady while Du Quesne got in , and then sprung lightly over the stern , and continued his course till he reached the peaceful bosom of lake Champlain . 
Du Quesne knew so as to describe to Weshop , nearly the place where the New-England troops were to rendezvous . 
Du Quesne , -LRB- for he and Weshop were the intruders , -RRB- requested that they might be shown to the quarters of the chief in command . 
After hearing Du Quesne without interruption , `` Are you -LRB- said he -RRB- true men and no spies ? 
The engaging manners and conversation of Du Quesne interested the chieftain , though it was apparent he doubted the truth of the story , and looked on the disinterested heroism of Weshop particularly as apocryphal . 
Great was the joy of Du Quesne when he heard that Dudley , his long lost , and as he supposed , far distant friend , was on the spot , and the second in command . 
He saw the emaciated form of Du Quesne , worn down by famine , fatigue and suffering -- represented to himself the exposure of Van Tromp to a fate from which it might even now be too late to save him , and made up his mind . 
During the bustle of a slight and rapid preparation , the young lady found means to set her large dark eyes on Du Quesne , and beckon him towards her . 
His anxiety for Du Quesne and Weshop was succeeded by a horrid conviction , when he saw his savage enemies assembling in formidable numbers near the edge of the wood on the south side , at a little more than gunshot distance . 
Weshop and Du Quesne alarmed at the dangerous situation of their friends , and personally exasperated at the enemy , were directly merged in the middle of the combat . 
Du Quesne , in almost breathless eagerness , met him as he was staggering under his burden . 
Du Quesne stopped , and for a moment , friends , country , all were forgot , but poor Weshop . 
Du Quesne 's grief could not be silent . 
Standish was saying to Dudley , -LRB- who was thinking of something else -RRB- that the Winnebagoes and the Potawatomies would never join on the other side of the river after this , and that the French would soon be obliged to confine themselves to the Canada line ; and Du Quesne was thinking , almost to tears , of the virtues , the services , and the end of Weshop , when Shadrach entered the room with Du Quesne 's watch in his hand . 
`` Massa Du Quesne , -LRB- said he -RRB- here 's your watch -- you left it when you went a hunting -- I buried it the night of the battle , so it do n't go . 
`` Thank ye , Weshop , I mean Shadrach , '' said Du Quesne . 
`` Let me see it , -LRB- said he to Du Quesne -RRB- it 's a very elegant one . '' 
Du Quesne told him all he knew about it or about himself . 
Du Quesne told him . 
`` Upon the birth of my first child , I had written to my brother younger than myself , whom I left in France to manage my paternal estate , that I intended to call him Du Quesne , after a distinguished soldier of that country . 
Dudley and Du Quesne -- Du Bourg and his daughter -- Shadrach and his master , with Miles Standish , who said it fairly put him in mind of the story of Joseph . 
When these groups collected , Du Quesne presented himself to his father and sister . 
The answer to Dudley 's inquiries brought the letters , which Du Bourg knew to be in the hand writing of his brother ; and they were accompanied with the intelligence that the gentleman who was engaged in the duel , and who had been absent from New-York ever since , had sent from the southern plantations an account of that affair , which completely exculpated Du Quesne . 
The mystery which had hitherto involved the life of Du Quesne was now satisfactorily cleared up . 
It appeared that on the reported death of Du Bourg , his brother in France , to whom the inheritance descended on failure of male heirs in the elder branch of the family , had taken effectual means to keep Du Quesne from any knowledge of his right , or even of his parentage . 
Du Quesne never changed his name . 
