for Harold , ' they cried ; ` Hurra ! 
A cry of horror , convulsive and tremulous , instantly broke from the pale lips of all who were near enough to see the body -- But Harold -- he was upon his knees beside it , with the celerity of thought -- ; a sound as of muttered curses was dropping sullenly and continually from his quivering lips , while his cheek flashed with the fiercest red , and then grew livid and death-like at every breath ; with one blow of his foot , he overthrew the great table , and all its accumulated rubbish ; raised the body in his arms , examined with a hasty and trembling hand the clothes , uttering continually the same unintelligible sound , with a frightful earnestness of manner . 
Then he tore open the shirt , pressed his shaking hand again and again upon the heart , knelt down and laid his ear to it , while the cold sweat fell from his forehead upon the naked bosom of the old man , as he appeared to weep and listen for some assurance of vitality . 
` Sergeant , ' said Harold , with a solemn and determined countenance , that portended naught of kindness or forgiveness -- ` take a file of men with you . 
` Stop , my lads , ' said Harold , arresting them with a voice that was not to be disputed . 
Harold came directly in front of one that had answered in the affirmative , his brows knit , and his lips firmly pressed together . 
It was evident that his suspicions were aroused , and that he was determined to make an example of some one . 
` Order your piece , Sir , ' said he , to the trembling soldier . 
The man obeyed -- The rammer sounded -- the musket rang , and Harold 's face grew black with the wrath of his unsparing nature . 
` Lay down your arms , sir ; serjeant , take him away ! ' 
Some murmuring was heard , however , which Harold disdained to notice , until he saw the serjeant himself faltering in his duty , and the men working themselves into the shadow . 
` Take your post there , sir , said Harold . 
` Who goes there , ' cried Harold . 
No answer was returned , and the figure appeared to quicken his tread , with especial earnestness , at the sound of the voice . 
Harold turned , and the speaker actually withered and shrunk . 
said Harold , again -- at the same moment giving a signal to the serjeant , who instantly levelled his piece , and was followed by four others . 
The person , whoever it was , stopped and hesitated for a moment , but hearing the impatient whistle of Harold 's blade , as he plucked it anew from its scabbard , he turned towards the broad stair-case , and leaped over the railing . 
cried Harold . 
Harold instantly leaped forward , and threw himself upon a powerful fellow , whom he found escaping . 
The moment that he felt the impetuous onset of Harold , his spirit and design both seemed to forsake him , and he fell upon his kness . 
Harold held him by the throat , with the strength of a lion , till the torches were gleaming again upon the bright barrels of the musquetry , and blazing upon the countenance of the stranger -- who looked , as if doubting whether he were alive or dead , and wondering what was next to happen . 
cried Harold , as the light showed him the face of his ignoble prisoner -- and he hurled him from him , to the furthest extremity of the vaulted entrance . 
` Take him , serjeant , take him with you . ' 
he added , with the look of sudden recollection , and collaring the slave -- ` Come with me , come ! 
and he dragged him into the council chamber , and led him , shaking in every limb , with his knees knocking together , to the body of the good old man . 
They departed ; and Harold turned once more , in the grief and consternation of his heart , to the cold and lifeless body of the veteran before him , sacrificed by the cowardly misconduct of his own guard perhaps , and yet , how slain ? 
Harold threw himself again by the body , examined it again -- a passionate burst of tears followed -- he fell upon it , and sobbed aloud . 
Where was Harold ! ' 
Who would not have wept with him ? 
Theydid weep , they wept aloud ; even , theywho hated and feared him , they wept . 
` Help me , ' he cried , ` help me ! 
It swung , and heaved so lifelessly , as they raised it , that Harold , Harold ! 
Harold stood in a transport of bewildering and distracting hope , and terror . 
cried Harold -- ` he lives ! 
Harold was still upon his knees . 
-- some wine , some wine , ' he said . 
The party that was sent away soon returned , and the joy of Harold , as the old man opened his eyes upon his bosom , while they chafed his temples and poured cordials down his throat , with the officious tenderness of children , was so transporting and beneficent , that the comrades of Frederick Brown began to look for a gleam of mercy , even from the fierce and implacable Harold . 
Nay , one of them had the hardihood to intercede for him , and to ask if he had not better be sent to the garrison for security ; knowing that when once there , his escapewould be certain , if not his pardon . 
` Yes , yes -- poor Brown , ' answered Harold -- ` to the garrison , with all my heart -- away with him . ' 
The soldiers were ready to kneel to him : that he , Harold , whom nothing could intimidate ; he , who was clothed with the power of life and death in the army , from whose decree there was no appeal ; he , who was so strict and terrible in his retribution ; that heshould relent so readily , was most unaccountable . 
Such were the disposition and heart of Harold -- their riches were only to be seen in convulsion . 
Harold had the constitution of a hero ; young as he was , it could be seen . 
He was great only on great occasions . 
Touch his heart , and it quaked aloud ; but then , it was not easily touched . 
Harold had already sent a messenger to the government-house to apprise its mistress of the situation , and to account for the absence of her husband . 
At last a litter was prepared , and accompanied by a file of soldiers with fixed bayonets , conducted by Harold himself , with a drawn sword , amid the blaze of many torches ; the veteran was borne towards his home , to be committed to the care of his young and lovely wife . 
If aught could soothe him in this world , Harold was sure that it would be her affectionate , innocent attentions . 
Several times on the way , the governour partially arose , and looked about upon the armed men around him , with a troubled and dissatisfied air ; and once , it was evident from the horror that set itself for a moment in every feature , as his eye wandered over the litter and guards , that he took it for some funeral procession -- perhaps his own ! 
-- as he lay extended upon the crimson velvet litter , made of lances , interwoven , and covered with tattered ensigns . 
His recollections were exceedingly discomposed , but enough could be gleaned from his incoherent ejaculations , on the way , to show that he was fearfully beset by some Indian phantom ; once , and once only , as they approached his house , he seemed to recover his faculties for a moment , for he seized Harold 's arm , looked earnestly in his face , and demanded in a low whisper , if he had seen it ? 
Harold shook his head . 
A darker eye is upon her ; an eye rivetted and blazing with intemperate ardour -- Harold is there , unseen till this moment -- he is now advancing with his proud , impatient look subdued , and countenance pale , very pale , with the profound humility of his heart . 
He comes , half conscious of his offence -- will she forgive him . 
But it can not be -- not only is the beautiful , delirious undulation to be seen , but the burning crimson of her neck and bosom , that rose at the sight of Harold , and deepened at every step of his approach , hath tinged the very muslin with an airy and delicate blush . 
Harold advances . 
She turns toward him in all her surpassing loveliness , rebuking him with her majestick silence , till his forehead almost touches the earth , in his awe and timidity , blinded and overpowered by her presence . 
This done -- with the flash of sudden determination so common with him , as he grows older , he raises his fine forehead to the sky , with a look , as haughty as her own , a look , that hath retrieved him , in the moment of his extremest peril -- bows with a stately movement , and slowly withdraws . 
He inquired with deep anxiety into the whole of the adventure ; the hour ; the situation in which he , himself , was found ; the conduct of the sentinel , the garrison , and particularly , into all that had been done and said by Harold . 
` When did he return ? ' 
` As if he had dropped from the skies ! ' 
said another , his eyes shining with enthusiasm . 
-- ` Well , well , I am glad of it ; ' and then , as if aware that his manner might lead their thought astray , the governour added , ` I am now so accustomed to the society of Harold , that I feel in a measure alone , dissatisfied , and unhappy , whenever he is away . ' 
` And do you not , Morgan , ' laying his hand upon the major 's heart , ` do you not , I ask you as a soldier and a man , I put it home to you as one that I reverence , do you not love Harold the better for what you call his rashness and obstinacy ? 
I do not deny that there is something generous and noble in these very qualities ; and you know that I love Harold too , but I do not like to see him spoilt . 
Harold is a godlike boy , but I dotremble for his vindictive , unsparing , and deadly temper . ' 
` It only remains , therefore , ' said Arnold , thoughtfully , ` that we go about convincing Harold that this passion is a weakness . ' 
Do that ; get Harold 's promiseto overcome it , and my salvation on the issue , that , before a twelvemonth is passed , he shall be distinguished for his equanimity . 
` Harold , my dear . ' 
` Harold ! ' 
she exclaimed , half relinquishing the hold that she had of her husband -- ` Harold ! ' 
I have wronged Harold . 
But that event , determined and gallant as it was , is one cause of my injustice to him . 
It excited such hope in my mind , that I doubly feel the disappointment which his present unhallowed and bloody indulgences have caused . 
Is he not , my husband , is he not the most untractable of human beings ? 
Has it not been so with him , from his very childhood ? 
So fierce , so Indian-like in his temper , and then , unlike the indian , he is so profane , that the commonest soldier , I have heard , will shake at the uttering of his blasphemy . 
Therefore , do I fear the very playfulness of Harold . 
His lineaments , even when unconvulsed , unilluminated by a rebellious spirit , in arms against all that is holy and peaceable , even in repose , are inwrought and articulate with bad thought , the thought of a perturbed , ascendant , and unappeasable ambition . 
` No , no , my own dear girl , ' said the governour , in reply , pressing his lips to her delicate forehead , through all the veins of which , the blood flashed like lightning , at the touch -- ` No , no , you must not think so of Harold . 
I would not be unkind , but , poor Harold -- it would go hard with his desolate heart if we forget him . ' 
` He may want your friendship , Elvira , one day , when he shall have no other friend upon this earth ' -- -LRB- his voice faultered , and Elvira had hidden her face in his bosom -- trembling -- trembling , even to the extremity of her locked hands -RRB- -- ` And I would have you do him justice now , that you may be his friend then . 
Believe me , I know him better than you . 
He is altogether better than he appears . 
The naturalexpression of his countenance is mild and thoughtful . 
Observe it when undisturbed , when he is not listening . 
His worst fault is , that he seems anxious to appear worse than he is . 
` Yes , Elvira , I am willing to say it again , the blood of Harold is noblerthan our own . ' 
At some future day , when I shall be permitted , I will make you acquainted with all that concerns him . 
-- It was Harold . 
His look was melancholy . 
As he entered the room , however , he gradually assumed a haughtier aspect , as of one preparing for the encounter of prejudice and unkindness , and walked forward with the aspect and bearing of him , who feelsevery muscle and tendon of his frame , contributing to every motion of his body , and every thought of his heart . 
Lady Elvira instantly left the room ; His eye followed her , and a slight paleness -- was it anger , or sorrow ? 
passed over his countenance . 
The port of Harold was always lofty -- and on this occasion , coming to outface , what he scorned to soothe or conciliate , a mortal prejudice , it had become peculiarly so ; but yet , there was an involuntary bowing and yielding of his whole person , as his eyes followed her retreating and stately form ; and it was not till the governour had spoken twice , that he had sufficiently recovered from the prostrating effect of her last look , as she lifted her blue eyes in passing away with a terrified and timid expression , like that of one who is unwilling to betray all her dislike , and pitying , from her heart , the unfortunate object of it -- to answer him intelligibly . 
His melancholy vanished like an apparition . 
His paleness fled . 
A deep hectick coloured all his sallow cheek . 
His eyes lighted ; and his form heaved and swayed , as with the sudden inroad of tumultuous and boundless thought . 
The governour observed it , and extended his hand . 
Why dwells the old man with such a subdued and compassionate look upon the visage of Harold ? 
and why trembles the lip of Harold ? 
-- so strongly compressed -- why turns he away ? 
-- is he speechless ? 
He recovers . 
said the governour at last -- after repeated attempts , all of which had failed -- ` Poor Harold ! 
` Do not curse them , Harold . 
Did you find him ? ' 
` Find him ! 
Would you have seen me again , think you , if I had notfound him ? 
Find him ! 
I did find him . 
I found him where I wished . 
Hischildren were about him ! 
Saying this , he half plucked from his belt , a blade discoloured and rusty -- ` And this -- this very knife ! 
I drove up to the hilt into his heart ! 
this is hisblood -- and this -- thisis the blood of his oldest son . ' 
` His son ? ' 
` Yes , governour -- but his oldest : -- his youngest is unharmed -- It was his own fault . 
He withstood me ; nay worse , the fool dared to lay his hand upon me , as I passed away . 
` Is this the boy , ' Harold , thought he , ` this the stripling ! ' 
Such had been the experience of Harold since they parted : and there is no discipline so effectual . 
Yea , he was changed , and the change had been wrought upon him in night and in darkness , in the presence of Jehovah and his angels . 
Let us dwell together upon his appearance . 
His form is muscular ; but the strength of his limbs and chest , becomes visible only under vehement excitement . 
Then , he is all over nerve , like the young lion . 
The roundness of his limbs instantaneously assume the angular and broken outline of one heaving at a weight -- toiling from head to foot , against a contracting pressure ; dilating on all sides against a growing and crushing weight . 
His form is slender , of the middle height , and very graceful , not graceful however , with the delicate proportions of white sculpture , but graceful with the angry and high wrought expression of energy and power -- the grace of those god like creatures that inhabit the southern America -- the Creek Indians ! 
` But why , ' continued the governour , after a long and breathless pause , like one who has been travelling in the high places of thought , the mountainous and precipitous , and stops , terrified at the magnificence below him -- rolling cloud -- and burnished metal -- transparent waters shining , in the hues of sunset , and glittering hastily through the trees that outreach their innumerable branches beneath his feet -- all admonishing him of peril , and winning him down from the drifted azure and gold of the sky , to the qualified and temperate lustres of the earth : -- ` But why this expression of sorrow , Harold ? 
` That devil , Logan , ' said Harold , locking his arms , and stamping . 
Continued Harold . 
` But I have yet some hope , some , ' continued Harold , ` he loves -- O , how fiercely ! 
-LRB- his voice faltered -RRB- -- he loves Loena -- the only true Logan left . 
` What mean you , Harold ? ' 
answered Harold impatiently , ` not more terrible -- that were impossible . 
Harold paused , hung his head , and was silent , while his arms dropped lifelessly at his side , as if , having poured out at once , and for the first time , all the accumulated bitterness of his thought for many years , in that one word ` Christian-like ! ' 
continued Harold , with a convulsive heaving of the chest , as if he were dislodging a heavy weight -- ` O , Loena ! 
shall he prevail ? 
-- -LRB- he smote the table with his hand ; the governour started from his reverie , and he continued -RRB- -- ` No , no ! 
he shall not , and if he do notsucceed , ' he added , throwing his arms about the neck of the governour , his fine head all on fire with energy and menace -- ` if he do notsucceed ! 
He will fight them , curse them , make war upon them , all , all ! 
-- -LRB- his voice died away in the tones of rising suffocation . -RRB- 
Harold released his arms . 
` Stay Harold , stay a moment , ' said the governour , recovering and detaining his hand ; ` I have a strange suspicion -- can it be ? 
said Harold , anxiously ; pray tell me ? 
cried Harold , leaping upon his feet , ` it was he ! 
it was he ! 
` Give me thy hand , Harold , my son ! ' 
cried the governour , pulling him down upon his bosom -- ` yes , Harold , I willbe thy father , and thou shalt be my son . 
God bless thee for the thought , Harold ! 
Harold lifted his head ; he was deathly pale ; his brow darkened for a moment ; he turned away his face , and a slight shivering ran over his limbs . 
` Harold , Harold ! 
rapidly articulated the old man , with shining eyes , like one just recovered from delirium -- ` Let me tell thee all about it ; now , now , while I cantell it ; I see it all now -- every thing is distinctly before me , just as it was on that night ' -- -LRB- he shook , and gasped like a dying man , who fears that he shall not have time left to tell a tale of blood ; -- that he shall go mad ere he can exact the oath of vengeance . -RRB- 
He succeeded , however , and detailed , with surprising accuracy , all that had occurred ; every thing , to the minutest particular , in the Council chamber , while the countenance of Harold grew rigid in his breathless attention . 
He finished . 
Harold threw up his arms to the sky . 
` By the blood of my fathers , ' he cried , ` but that wasLogan himself : -- Logan , the white Logan ! 
The governour shuddered from head to foot -- ` Harold ! 
Let nothing tempt thee -- beware -- O , promise me , promise me Harold , -LRB- he fell upon his knees , -RRB- promise me that thou wilt not pursue him . ' 
Harold stood astonished , awe-struck , rebuked -- but unabashed . 
said he , and the governour arose and blessed him . 
But the fervid brightness of his eye faded not -- his cheek reddened a little , and a brief convulsion passed over his upper lip . 
The discipline , the religious discipline of the whites had taught him , that scalping was an atrocious crime , and though the boy did not well understand why it was less courteous and decent , than blowing a man limb from limb to the four corners of the earth , or hewing him down bone and sinew , into chips and shavings ; yet , such is the force of education over reason , that the blood burnt his cheeks , and his ears tingled with the reproach of the governour 's supplication . 
The silence that followed was uninterrupted for many minutes , by aught , but the suppressed difficult breathing of Harold , who appeared occupied in some profound study . 
He sat with his hands strongly pressed upon his forehead , his eyes glittering , and motionless . 
echoed Harold , and instantly disappeared . 
The governour looked out , and discovered him bounding off in the direction to the Council chamber . 
He speedily returned . 
` I miss nothing , ' said he , as he entered , in a tone of peculiar disappointment ; ` and indeed how should I ? 
I know not what tomiss -- what to look for , I am not familiar with the places or appearances of things : but , ' he added , with sudden vivacity -- ` it was Logan , nevertheless ! 
A messenger was sent , not because the governour had any serious apprehension for the property or furniture of the chamber , but merely to appease the impetuous boy , and yet , some how or other , earnestness , even when artificial , is so contagious , that the very basest will catch something of it , and feel a kind of bastard anxiety and enthusiasm , when master spirits are dealing with their passions before them ; and the governor , who was not of the base , or even the poor in spirit , but had done many a gallant deed , and been stirred by many a glorious thought in his youth , now felt the martial spirit of gone by days quickening within him anew , like the dry bones that touched the prophet , whenever it came into contact with the fiery and inspiring material of Harold . 
Just so , did he , on this occasion , gradually work himself into a correspondent inquietude with that of Harold . 
Suddenly a thought seemed to strike him . 
be not too certain governour , ' said Harold , interrupting him , ` if there be any thing in it , any thing , that it would harm you to lose , my life on it , Logan knewit , and has won it ! 
If there be aught within it of surpassing value , or of surpassing mischief , that bag , with all its contents , is at this moment , not only in the possession of Logan , but before the councils of the Creek nation -- ' Harold was interrupted by the entrance of the messenger , who hesitated , and stammered -- ` Speak , blockhead , where is it ? ' 
` Indian friends -- in council ' -- muttered Harold . 
Eagerness is constitutional with Harold . 
Your blood vessels are always distended , -LRB- smiling and taking his hand -RRB- -- But stay -- ' Harold 's fine arm lay naked before him . 
asked Harold , eagerly raising his head from its thoughtful posture . 
` Did you get a glimpse of his face ? 
Did he speak ? ' 
But -- why , Harold , what ails you ? 
He kept on the opposite side and stood in the shadow . 
I remember that he was nearer to me than any other red man -- You shudder , Harold -- what means this ? 
Harold made no answer , except by articulating in a low , troubled , hoarse , and intense whisper -- ` Look at me . 
Did he stand thus ' -- saying these words , he wrapped his panther skin about him , simply throwing the heavy folds over his left shoulder , leaving his right arm free ; his neck open , with his right hand thrust into his bosom -- his head was depressed at the same moment , and he stood as if equally prepared to strike or fly . 
` Did he stand thus ? ' 
cried the governour in astonishment , darting his eyes rapidly from head to foot of Harold , as if to assure himself that Harold was not the very man . 
` Who was he ? 
-- Tell me Harold ; my dear boy , tell me -- tell thy old father ; but why do I tremble . 
` Governour , ' said Harold , after a long pause , with the deepest solemnity , ` governour , there is some plot at work . 
In fifteen minutes more the passes were signed , countersigned , and Harold was away , away , on his midnight journeying again . 
Harold had been gone a whole week . 
` I can bear it no longer , ' said the governour , traversing his magnificent parlour with a hasty step , and eye constantly fixed upon the distant road , which , for more than three miles , wound about the hills , within sight of his dwelling -- ` what hasbecome of him ? ' 
His anxiety had been growing more and more serious every day , until it was now of the most distressing nature . 
It was that of a parent , over his own , his only son . 
He could neither sleep nor eat . 
` What has become of him , ' he would say , twenty times in an hour , with his aged hands locked , and his dim eyes lifted to heaven , ` why did I suffer him to leave me ? ' 
` I have sacrificed him , ' he would continue , ` sent him , God himself only knows where , to be butchered and rent by the damnable invention of savages . 
He is rude to me , from his hatred to Harold . 
Should he despatch messengers for Harold ? 
Harold had been gone a whole week ; no tidings , none . 
It was true that Harold had appointed a time for his return . 
Thattime had not yet elapsed , but why no message from him ? 
Good or evil , we know not of aught that hath betided him , and besides , can his return be depended on -- would he be punctual ? 
was such a creature , ringing his alarums , and bounding away , at every impulse , was heto keep time , and march like clock work ? 
Ask ye the Eolian Lyre to keep touch and time with the science of earth , and then look to Harold for like obedience ! 
It was the eighth day of Harold 's absence . 
` I am Harold , ' was the reply , ` there 's my hand . ' 
Logan convulsively grasped the hand of Harold , articulated with a choking emphasis , some low words and Harold gently detached his arms , left him leaning against a tree , and went in search of the approaching sound . 
The body fell with the tremendous visitation of Harold 's tomahawk , and Logan smiled ! 
Harold sat beside him . 
The giant 's head he took upon his knees , and wiped the cold sweat from his forehead . 
` Let us begone , ' said Harold . 
The dying man feebly shook his head , ` no , no ! ' 
said he at last with a deep sob -- ` no ! 
he added as Harold attempted to comply . 
He shuddered -- he withdrew his hand -- It was covered with clotted blood , and the warm tide gushed after it . 
He lifted his head from the shoulder of Harold , stood erect for a single moment , gazed upon his pale countenance , put back the hair from his noble forehead , with an emotion that shook his whole frame like an earthquake -- smiled proudly , and fell upon his bosom , as if he would cleave and grow to him forever , and sobbed aloud . 
Harold turned his eyes downward -- -LRB- they had been upon the throne of heaven , glittering above his locked hands , -RRB- the head of the Indian was buried in his panther skin . 
` Curse on my cruelty , ' cried Harold . 
Harold threw himself by his side , lifted his head upon his lap , and besought him , wildly , again and again , to look up once more , and forgive him . 
A strange , dreadful interest took possession of his heart , and he , too , in his turn could have fallen upon the murdererand wept , in bitterness and humiliation . 
His efforts and agony prevailed . 
that even Harold could not abide it -- no , no ! 
he couldnot . 
Harold ! 
Harold bit his lip , and half rose from his recumbent posture . 
His hands were clenched . 
` Thou art mad , mad , Harold . ' 
shouted Harold , ` Oh would that I were mad ! ' 
bounding upon his feet , and tossing his arms deliriously to the skies , ` where is Loena ! ' 
Harold lifted his arm , but the weapon was dropped . 
Harold stood calmly before him . 
He tottered towards Harold , covered his face with his hands , and fell at his feet , clasping his knees . 
said he . 
Harold was stupified with amazement . 
A flash , like the lightning of heaven , blazed through his brain -- the sweat rolled down his forehead and lips -- all was explained all ! 
-- his birth ! 
his awe ! 
-- He knelt down and embraced his father . 
he articulated , as their cheeks touched , ` thy son ! 
` Hear me , ' said Logan , as soon as he could speak , ` hear me , Harold . 
shame on thee , Harold . 
In a few moments I shall be at the bar of Him that made me . 
He knows me ; he hath created me ; he knows my infirmities ; but hush , I can not talk on this subject ; I commandthee to forgive them . 
Beware of murder ; but give thembattle in their churches , at their fire sides , funerals -- ' ` I will , I will , ' cried Harold , in a loud voice , firing and trembling , at the awful solemnity of his manner . 
` Harold , remember England . 
Harold , my son , do not execrate me . 
I am thy father , Harold -- steeped to the throat , in blood and guilt ; going , going , Oh God ! 
Oh Harold , my son , my son , pray with me that this may be permitted to us . 
-- -- -- -- -- -- I am going , Harold . 
Nearer , Harold , nearer ; there , lay thy hand upon my forehead . 
Harold pressed his lips upon the awful front of his father , and blessed him . 
It is midnight , is it not Harold ? 
CanHe , Harold , tell me , my child , there is comfort in the sound of thy voice , can Hebe unmindful of a dying man ? 
A moment longer , one moment , place thy hand upon my heart , Harold . 
Tell her that her name was upon my lips , with my last breath . 
Aye , groan Harold , groan ! 
Tell her how , and when , and where I died . 
And tell her that thou art purchased for her in blood . 
Harold , Harold , everlasting hatred to the whites ! 
Beneath our feet is Harold , lying upon his face , the blood stagnating about him , his hair blowing over the rock , and his extended hands motionless as death , beneath him , and encircling his neck , his own father , the terrible , the tremendous Logan . 
Harold disengaged the naked arms of his father , and arose , and seated himself upon a rock under the tree . 
There was an insupportable stillness about him . 
It was deep midnight -- an awful , boundless transparency of shadow : a firmament as of dark chrystal , sprinkled with fire , above him ; a moon shedding a faint and beautiful light on the verge of the horizon , like a lamp of pearl , fed by an inward flame . 
The religious and mysterious horrour of his feelings increased at every breath that he drew . 
The ferment of his blood had subsided . 
His emotions had died away . 
He locked his hands ; he knelt ; he wept . 
A sound -- Harold started and listened . 
He shuddered . 
The chill of an unearthly presence was approaching him . 
He dared not raise his head . 
He composed the limbs of his mighty father , threw himself once more upon the body , and while endeavouring to find the sheathe of his knife , discovered a small ivory tablet , glued with blood , within the bosom of his inner jacket . 
He took it , polluted as it was , and placed it next to his own heart . 
` I will return now , ' said Harold . 
He shall come and do the honours of sepulture for him whose countenance he trembled to look upon ; for him , at the sound of whose tread , his knees smote together . ' 
Onward he toiled , sadly and doubtfully , frequently disturbed by some crackling above him , as the young panthers , snuffing his approach , leaped along from tree to tree , and rock to rock : and starting ever and anon , as if some creature of the upward element were at his elbow . 
Harold wassuperstitious . 
His boyhood had been spent with the Indians , with the Logans particularly , to whom the preternatural visitations of their bold ancestry were common ; so common indeed , that the stranger , nay the passing traveller , sometimes felt , in his proximity to the haunted places of the tribe , a shivering in his very bones , of which he knew not the cause , until he was told by the experienced , and made to participate in the unwilling and awful communications of them , that muttered and wrought there . 
cries Harold , the young Logan of the wilderness . 
-- youchsafe -- ' Harold leaped upon his feet . 
The thunder rolled about the heavens , with a suddenness and loudness that made the hair rise upon his head . 
The foundations of the very earth appeared loosened ; and Harold stood blinded , shivering , and bowing as if he had seen some palace or pyramid , tumbled headlong , in the concussion of the air ; and the fire and smoke of an angry god rolling and flaming amid the dust of its ruins -- even while he was gazing upon it . 
Harold shouted as the reverberations died away . 
He shouted , with the shout of a warrior to embattled legions , when the first banner of the enemy is shattered in the blast of his onset . 
He stood , in the hurricane of his spirit , and brandished his arms , and shouted , again and again . 
A sublime and incomprehensible feeling took instant possession of him . 
He regarded the sudden roll of the thunder , and the sheet of blue flame that rushed by him , as a manifestation from heaven , that his prayer was heard , and that he was appointed to rebuild the habitation of the Indian . 
` And yet , ' whispered Harold , while an instinctive shudder of admiration thrilled through and through him , ` and yet , he was great , in his awful vindictiveness ; his immoveable steadiness ; his unapproachable , unassailable seclusion of spirit ; impervious , indiscrutable ; compounded of the fiercest elements , impelled and agitated by the most unearthly ambition . 
But who was he ? 
The eagle-eyed Harold shrunk not , quailed not , moved not , from the inquisitive and searching look of the old man . 
Harold told all , every thing ; the death of Logan , the Indians , the discovery of his birth . 
The pressure of the turf beneath the tree , where Harold had just left the body of Logan , was yet visible ; nay , almost warm , and the life blood had settled thickly in its centre , but so recently , that it had scarcely coagulated , or blackened in the sun and wind . 
His spirit had departed from him ; and hours , whole hours had passed , while young Harold had set , beleaguered by dead men , under the violent and dreadful oppression of thought growing cold again , like lava , after an eruption , and stagnating and glowing under a boundless and comfortless , dark and silent sky . 
And yet , there was said to be , though Harold had no opportunity of examining for himself , there was said to be , an appearance , as if the prow of a canoe had run ashore near the spot -- and , at an incredible distance , the print of joined feet , and the proportions of a body , as if some one , of preternatural strength , had leaped , and fallen . 
Harold 's blood ran cold . 
Enough for Harold that Logan was not found . 
A heavy roll of drums roused Harold from his meditations . 
A quick discharge of musquetry drew him to the windows of the apartment . 
The Indians were huddled together ; but there was that in their looks , which , even at the distance that Harold was , served , to his experienced eye , to demand explanation . 
He continued to watch them . 
The governour was proceeding to explain these appearances to them , when it occurred to him , that by burying the two slain Indians with some appearance of parade , he would do more towards conciliating them , than by any explanation whatever . 
And poor Harold , who could endure the preparation no longer , galloped in among them on horseback . 
His eyes flashed fire . 
His lips were ashy and quivering ; his voice was hoarse with suffocation and wrath . 
The flanks of his young horse were streaming with blood , and the rowels were driven in , again and again , ere he could bring the furious animal sufficiently near to be heard . 
There was a rising shout -- ` Silence , ' he cried , ` silence . ' 
His sword lightened in their eyes . 
The Indians gathered about him . 
` Silence , ' cried Harold again . 
Harold saw it all . 
He observed another Indian , who had been the nearest to him , and the foremost all the while , withdraw , and stand aloof , with an aspect of command . 
Others did the like at a distance , and their eyes were upon him . 
Harold looked to the priming of his pistols : secured his sword knot to his wrist ; thrust his feet home in his stirrups , reined up his horse , and prepared himself for the worst . 
All eyes were upon him . 
-- Behold him now ! 
He waves his hand See ! 
A bugle rings out his charge ; and the troop of horse , in a whirlwind of dust , are at his heels . 
His voice rises above the cry of a multitude . 
His horse is seen every where . 
His voice is heard every where . 
The Indians throw themselves upon him , man after man , as by a preconcerted arrangement . 
He is wounded -- his horse falls -- he is upon his knee ! 
-- entangled in his harness . 
his pistols ring -- he is partially liberated -- staggering , and many are upon him . 
A blindness follows -- ` Harold , Harold ! ' 
He recovers . 
He thunders and lightens in his wrath . 
Can he be deceived . 
Can mortal force keep down his mounting spirit , at such a moment . 
No , no , all the Indians in hell could not hold him to the earth , though the breath had left his body , and they were heaped upon him by tribes . 
He breaks from them ; he rends himself away ! 
They fall to the right and left ; his blows rain upon them with flashes , like the northern light . 
Quicker than the thought of man could believe it possible , Harold hath cut his way through his foes -- alone , alone . 
Rifle after rifle ringing after him -- onward he bounds , amid the renewed whooping and yelling of the foe , who are recovering from the panick that seized them at the first sight of the lovely vision that broke upon the cloud of battle . 
They gather , and thicken , and crowd and wrestle , with a more diabolical obstinacy than ever , about him . 
His gray hair is in the dust . 
His lovely wife -- her dishevelled tresses flying in the wind ; her bosom naked ; her garments of lilied whiteness , rent and stained with blood -- is rushing towards him . 
Harold is leaping forwards , she sees him , she extends her arms , she utters a thrilling cry ; the cavalry hear it , they wheel , and down they come , thundering , to the rescue . 
Harold fights on , covered with wounds , the blood falling from him like rain . 
He marshalls his chosen ones about the precious spot -- a circle of foot and horse , of fire and smoke , now encompass the old man and the woman of beauty . 
Harold leaps into the saddle ; bare headed , and red with the tribute of battle . 
He flies , shouting and waving his sword , again to his cavalry , while the deadly fire of the Indian rifles is raining in upon them , from every stump and tree ; and every shot tells . 
` Charge , charge , ' cries Harold . 
Each man singles out his enemy , and gallops over him . 
The Indians fight with their accustomed desperation ; giving no quarter , taking none ; renewing again and again , their onset upon Harold . 
He is still upon the field , racing from one end to the other , panting and worn out with the hunt . 
At this moment he stops -- gives a sudden order -- points with his sword to a spot , where the enemy are rallying again . 
He refuses -- what means he ? 
Would he be so rash , with that little band to gallop upon them ? 
He will ! 
he does . 
Shield him heaven ! 
He places himself at their head -- God of mercy ! 
-- he blazes upon them in a tempest of fire and smoke ! 
He dashes through and through them : they are reeling and tumbling about as from a clap of thunder . 
A moment before , at the onset , Harold had cursed himself for his precipitation , in applying the spark as he did , to the conspiracy ; but now , he was glad that he had done so , while the troops were under arms . 
From this moment , Harold became a universal favourite . 
All eyes and all hearts were upon him . 
Till then , the whites had generally regarded him with jealousy and distrust . 
His swarthy Indian aspect ; his haughty calm manner ; they had made no friends , many enemies . 
For other reasons , he had been regarded by the Indians with a lowering and inquisitive eye . 
He was an Indian . 
Then why herded he there ? 
An Indian sleeping out of his lair , holding council and communion with the white man . 
Shame on him . 
Was he an apostate , a traitor , a renegade , leagued against his red brethren ? 
Better , said they , for thenthey could have forgiven him ; better that he were leagued withred men againstred men . 
Now , now , he was indeed their foe . 
After this bloody affair , the whites appeared wholly to forget that he had one drop of Indian blood in his veins . 
The very women and children shouted and echoed his name as the watchword of safety . 
All that they had hitherto doubted and hated him for , his loftiness , melancholy sternness , all these things were now looked upon as the magnificent indications of greatness -- preternatural greatness . 
He was their chosen one -- their saviour . 
` Saul had slain his thousands , but David his ten thousands : ' and the very soldiers who had formerly writhed under the lightning of Harold 's rebuke , were now bearing their voiciferous tribute to his bed side . 
He was wounded , gashed and pierced from head to foot . 
Where should he go ? 
There was no question that he was entitled to the kindness of all -- that his bed of dry leaves and fur , with the wind blowing about him , was no place for such a creature , at such a time -- that he was the preserver of all and each -- and therefore , all and each insisted upon the exclusive right of washing his wounds , and healing his broken spirit . 
His life had been saved again , again by the same dear hand . 
Yea , the life of her whom he loved , with a love passing the love of women -- with all the doating , distracting , desolate fondness of parent , lover , friend , husband , all in one ! 
She was the creature of his idolatry : a being , whose element was prayer and tears and tenderness . 
She too had stood over him , wounded , bleeding and naked to the gaze of ruffian violence , and the rude hands of men smoking with gore -- and yet , she was saved ! 
How could he be thankful enough for her safety ! 
He knelt and she knelt . 
Nor was Harold forgotten -- a chamber and attendants were allotted to him . 
All that tenderness and veneration coulddo , was done for him . 
The holy enthusiasm of his character , fiery and desperate as it was , had become contagious . 
The very servants felt it , and they blessed him , fervently and repeatedly ; and woke and prayed for him , and wept for him , in the silence of midnight . 
They would creep softly , one by one , to the door of his apartment , and listen there for hours , to discover if any sound betrayed his suffering ; and sure was every one , go when he would , by night or by day , that he would meet some companion there , upon the same errand . 
The truth is , that there was , in the mysterious history , and yet more mysterious adventures and deportment of Harold , a something like fascination , that spell-bound the interest and affections of all that came within the glance of his eye , or the sound of his voice : and , young as he was , the very aged themselves would stop , and lean upon their canes , and gaze upon him , affectionately and mournfully , as he walked by them , in the intense abstraction of his thought , with the step and tread of early manhood , yet buoyant and elastick with youth -- firm and confident , as with the composure of assured superiority . 
His wife , poor creature , was unable to attend him , and Harold , alas for him ! 
he was powerless in aid or council -- he was unable to pursue the rapid and wide developments of his own character . 
He gazed upon the adventures of the week with terrour and delight . 
A thousand fearful and brilliant evolutions passed before him . 
He trembled and was afraid at times , and at times an unspeakable thrilling , a kind of delirium ran through his arteries , and his heart danced in his bosom , amid the strange and indefinable feelings that had sprung up -- at once -- at once ! 
in the compass of a single night , within the solitudes of his thought . 
This would pass away -- a sense of desolation , enclosing him round about with a cold , dark atmosphere , and shutting out all communication with aught that was sunshiny or beautiful , would follow ; and he would throw himself upon his bed , confounded and dismayed . 
Toward the evening of the fourth day , he sat at the window of his chamber , supported by pillows , quite faint and exhausted , with the bewildering action of his own mind , which quickened its activity , exactly in proportion to the torpor and quiet of his body . 
But is this peculiar to him ? 
Can he who is wearied by metaphysical speculation , intoxicated with the liquor of heaven , which is poured out in golden cups to the inspired , can he hunt or swim , or leap with his accustomed spirit ? 
Or can he who has just left the field of athletick competition , go to his books , with a mind sufficiently tranquil for successful inquiry ? 
Enough then , this was no peculiarity in Harold 's constitution . 
Well then , he was at the window . 
His eyes rested upon the crimson and flame coloured sky . 
His was to be a name among the men of this earth . 
He was weary of inaction . 
The sky was before him -- supremely beautiful . 
Before him , reddening to its extremest verge , went the blue river , rippling in the light of the setting sun . 
The mind of Harold caught the reflection , and was heated to intensity . 
He raised his eyes . 
Harold was inconceivably affected . 
And yet , such spectacles were common enough to his experience . 
Time and again , had he seen the sky , all changeable with the shifting hues of an arched and glittering furnace , encompassed by chrystalizations and spar of every beautiful colour -- their lustres shedding all over the earth and water their innumerable and indistinguishable tinting . 
Many a time too , had he seen a cloud in a serene sky , settled , immoveable ; its edges crimsoned and fiery like the bloody curtains of a brazen chariot ; from its very centre , as of innumerable rockets -- the quick meteors whistling and darting ceaselessly , in every direction , like the spokes of a wheel , to the extremities -- and often , often too , had he heard the same uninterrupted reverberations ; but never before had he been so immeasurably affected by their beauty and terrour . 
Because never before had his thought moved in so capacious and sublime an elevation ; never before , had he walked so fearlessly over the dominions of his God : never before , had the towering energies of his nature been so all awake , while the ferocious passions were so slumbering -- and , never , never ! 
had he felt such a melancholy and awful solitude of the spirit . 
It was as if he had suddenly been enthroned , and sceptred , within the illimitable dominions of space , and there , left alonein his sovereignty . 
He was in a trance of astonishment and delight . 
He was awakened from it by a sudden brightness , that blazed athwart the ceiling and walls of his apartment . 
He started -- arose , as well as he could , and endeavoured to assure himself that what he saw was no illusion . 
His heart stopped . 
The superstition of his nature usurped her terrifick influence anew over his senses . 
He scarcely dared to lift his eyes . 
He felt as if the sky itself were descending , and the elements dissolving . 
He heard the shout of a multitude . 
He lifted up his eyes and beheld , afar off , a throng of women and children , or the appearance thereof , bearing faggots , and trailing branches of trees ; and piling them up on the top of a high hill that over-topped the water ; and ever and anon , he could see the gleaming of some weapon , flourished or unsheathed in the fire light , among the crowd . 
He gazed upon the spectacle quietly , and wondering at the cause , and still doubting if it were not a creation of his fancy . 
In a few moments , while the sky grew darker , and the objects at a distance , water and wood and hill , were all melting away into massive , shapeless , indistinctness , he saw a small body of men , strangely habited , and walking heavily along , with the attitude and expression of them that carry a burden . 
Harold leaned backward and covered his face with his hands . 
His hair rose . 
His flesh crept . 
In the early history of his family , just such a scene had taken place , with one of the earliest Logans . 
the very same , ' whispered Harold , shudderingly to himself . 
Harold bowed his head upon the pillow , and actually wept with the unaccountable melancholy that oppressed him . 
And beneath the evolving smoke , a multitude came trooping downward -- could it be possible -- toward the window where Harold sat in his helplessness . 
` They do not touch the earth , ' said Harold , as he shut his eyes , and closed his ears in terrour . 
Harold listened , ` where am I ? 
cried he , clasping his brain . 
he arose -- trembled -- grew heart-sick with pleasure . 
It came from a neighbouring window -- there was no mistaking the voice -- and Harold felt , as his hands dropped lifelessly over the arms of his chair , that he was near to her , the sound of whose lips so affected him . 
He blushes . 
His eye kindles . 
His form shakes with self indignation . 
His blood , suspended and chilled by the superstitious and strange terrours that have just left him , now rushes with distressing velocity through every channel and artery , all at once , from his heart to his brain -- from his brain to his heart . 
The veins swell upon his forehead -- his wounds open anew -- he gasps for breath -- the blood flows -- and he faints , faints with the excess of his self reproach . 
When he came to his senses , he found a fair creature stooping reluctantly over him -- bloody too -- her tresses bloody -- her drapery torn -- a mist was over his eyes , and he lay , holding his breath , and fearing to move , lest the beautiful apparition should depart . 
At last , he could support the delicious swimming of his heart no longer , he sighed , drew his palms faintly over his eyes , and caught a soft hand , almost unconsciously , to his lips and eyelids . 
He drew her to his heart -- but she struggled -- repulsed him , with a tremulous dignity -- a kind of haughty tenderness -- reeled and sank upon the bed . 
His arm was over her waist , and their cheeks touched -- and thrilled . 
She was faint -- very faint , and tried again and again to speak . 
She could only turn her blue eyes upon him -LRB- as he leant upon his elbow , and held her pale hand to his heart -RRB- dissolving in mournfulness and reproach . 
Oh , what were his sensations ! 
He would have shuddered and recoiled at the touch of impurity . 
He would have died -- died upon her bosom , without one feeling , but of love , love the holiest and tenderest . 
He knew not -- she knew not , the peril that beset them . 
` Lady , ' he whispered , ` Lady ! 
Nay , there were circumstances , in her early history , of a nature to render her tenderness to poor Harold , less extraordinary to him , than it was to herself . 
But these circumstances were a mystery to all but him . 
For his soul , he would not have communicated them to her -- her -- who was the partner of every other secret of his life . 
` She had been sitting at her window : the bodies of the two slain Indians had been burnt , in a paroxysm of rage , by the women and children , upon a neighbouring hill , out of especial kindness to Harold : they were returning -- she feared their cries would disturb her -- husband ! 
It was in Harold 's room . 
Poor Harold ! 
Did she not owe her life to him ? 
` I found Harold , ' she continued , with a manner more stately than her husband had ever seen her wear when addressing him , ` I found Harold , our preserver , lifeless , weltering in his blood . 
The bandages were off , and the thick fluid was throbbing out with every convulsion of his heart . 
I tore off a part of my own dress and staunched the wound and bound it up anew , before he opened his eyes . ' 
She turned her full blue eyes upon his countenance . 
thought Harold , as he lay , with his chest heaving , in a delicious , troubled , but guilty reverie , after Elvira had departed . 
` Harold , Harold ! 
-- he continued , with his palms pressed to his sore and aching temples -- ` awake thee ! 
-- -LRB- he shivered in an agony of indignation . -RRB- 
Harold , Harold ! 
-- Oh , wake thee , Harold . 
-- -LRB- the blood ran cold about his heart , at the thought , and his hot eye balls throbbed in their sockets -RRB- -- ` Forgive me ! 
Poor Harold was half crazy with the tumult ; and he awoke to a full sense of his situation , only to feel a more deadly sickness at the heart , a more faint and weary loathing and detestation , of all that had motion and life in it . 
Gladly would he have slept -- and slept forever . 
But sleep was forbidden to him . 
Yea the very air -- the blessed air , that blew over his damp forehead , seemed , for a while , purged of its vitality . 
It felt to poor Harold , as he lay , with the tears and sweat stealing under his long lashes , like the tepid breath of a sick child . 
No wonder that he suffered . 
His whole heart was undergoing a purification . 
He had been ` dazzled and drunk with beauty , ' and his God was visiting him now , for his intemperance . 
Lights passed over the water -- fleets engaged ; and the apparition of many ships , shattered and blazing , drifted by -- Harold sprang from his bed -- knelt down . 
he cried , in his delirium , ` God of the red men ! 
-- for heredoth Harold consecrate himself ; and all that he hath , all his powers and faculties ; all his passions and hopes , and fears to thee ! 
Here , I -- the -- I -- the -- ' The impulse was gone -- he faultered , bowed his head , and an universal trembling seized him . 
His pillow was drenched with his tears . 
But whither should he fly ? 
Where gain the maturity and experience , and means , necessary for his purpose ? 
Did he return to the red men ? 
where were all his high-spirited and sublime notions of government ? 
how should he rescue his countrymen from the thraldom , not of strength , but of cunning ? 
where should he look for that ennobling intercourse , which , should fit him for command and companionship with the captains of Europe ? 
that discipline , which should make his name terrible , when generation after generation had passed away ? 
where that high and polished chivalry of deportment which should sustain him , as an Indian Prince , in his future intercourse with the whites ? 
Harold had often been told by the governour , that it was his intention to send him to Europe , to complete the already singularly excellent education , which he had obtained at an early period , from the officers of a French garrison , where he had been a captive in his boyhood , till he won all hearts , and despoiled all their treasuries of science . 
All that the military art could teach , theoretically , to one so young , had been taught him . 
He was an admirable draughtsman -- a good engineer -- a good soldier -- a good horseman , and decidedly the best swordsman in the fort , at the time of his escape . 
In time , no man strode a young war horse like Harold , and no human being wielded such a sword . 
` He played his weapon like a tongue of flame . ' 
He panted to consummate himself alike , in all the graces , as well as the terrours of a brave man . 
Too easily forced into vehement action , the nature of Harold had acquired an intensity of expression that was unintelligible to ordinary minds . 
He fevered and burnt , when the thought was upon him . 
There was , even in his most hidden and mysterious movements , however , an air of reality , that convinced those who could not understand howit would be done , that whatever he determined upon , wouldbe done . 
There was such a stern and lofty carriage in his eye , so much of that composure which bespeaks a spirit familiar with its own resources -- accustomed only to success , that yourheart would swell in your contemplation of him , and you would speakand predictas rashly , and as positively as he thought . 
His manner was preternatural -- portentous . 
He should not keep so firmly upon his feet -- his shut mouth should not indicate so resolute , so unsparing a decision of character , at his age . 
But misfortunes , exposure , a rough world , neglect and keenness , had exasperated the stormiest elements of his nature into wrath and madness . 
In the boiling thereof , there had been forced up from the profoundest depths of his heart , many precious and detestable things ; many unknown and unnatural thoughts , which , under a gentler sky , with a less windy and tempestuous visiting , had remained forever , undisturbed , unvisited , unthought of . 
The few that knew him had been his enemies : and it was remarked , -LRB- and let this be remembered as the strongest of the features that set Harold alone among mankind -- -RRB- that just in proportion to their former hostility , when he condescended to soothe and win them from it , was their devoted and passionate admiration , when he had succeeded . 
And he always did succeed . 
Harold never attempted to make a friend , even of an enemy -- but he succeeded . 
He never trifled , no unhallowed levity was about him . 
But , if he smiled , his smile was rapturous -- it wasa smile , indeed ; brief , but delightful . 
And his scorn -- his indignant sarcasm -- O ! 
But his -- his ! 
it was his life , and blood , and pulse ! 
Look at his brow ! 
It told to the oppressor , as beneath his dark locks it broke out , like an inscription on the forehead of a youthful Jove -- ` Thy kingdom hath departed from thee . ' 
Look at his eye ! 
I would avoid the man that trod like Harold , unless I knewhim to be my friend . 
But his voice ! 
-- all distinctly busy in his strong articulation . 
-- whole years have passed , and yet I hear it , ringing in the wind -- its solemnity , its energy -- the brief and terrible transparency , picturing with a startling emphasis , absolutely picturing his words and thoughts upon the mind . 
So much for Harold . 
Approach him , and struck by his collectedness of manner , rendered still more impressive , from the youthful gracefulness of his proportions , you would , and why , for the soul of you , you could not tell , grow restless and dissatisfied with their contradictions . 
His age , was always the first question of them that saw him , for the first time . 
he is betrayed into emotion -- he alters his voice ! 
How he lifts you along with him ! 
Do you like him ? 
know ye not , that it is the homage of your spirit to his ? 
he treads among you like a celestial among the creatures of earth . 
` Your stars stand still before him ! ' 
Your mind , your faculties descend from their thrones , and lay down their sceptres at his bidding . 
His silence is rebuke and faintness . 
His look fires you with enthusiasm . 
Listen to him ! 
observe ye how confidently , and yet , not boastingly , he speaks , or rather meditates , aloud . 
Follow the fervid action of his mind . 
Has he -- that boy , been accustomed to dictating to gray beards ? 
look at him -- do you not see his restless nature perpetually poising her wings ? 
-- the unslipped falcon brandishing her plumage for some forbidden flight ! 
-- what is she ? 
who is she ? 
she is there ! 
-- her naked feet upon a brazen chariot , a whirlwind of smoke and dust rolling about her ! 
-- her head encumbered with stars ! 
-- her locks streaming , like a rent banner , in the wind -- her chariot wheels rolling over , and grinding to dust , the shattered and glittering fragments of an empire -- an eagle , with thunderbolts upon her right hand -- her garments rolled in blood ! 
stands she , the object of his idolatry . 
Such were the bright and desperate visions of Harold ; such the exhibitions of the dreadful spirit , that haunted , and visited , nay , dwelt , within the encrusted lava of his heart . 
quoth Harold -- ` and -- ' he hesitated -- ` and the sooner , the better . ' 
Sudden in determination as he was , yet was he more sudden in action . 
He resolved to begin his preparations immediately -- determined to go , the moment that he had life enough , with the governour 's consent , and under his directions , if possible ; if not , without them . 
He slept little , and ate nothing . 
Nay , he loathed food -- there was a hunger and appetite perpetually gnawing his vitals , which could not be appeased or assuaged by aught of earthly aliment . 
One evening , however , he awoke , so exceedingly refreshed , and with all his recollections so clear , that he felt as if he could bound into his saddle , and scour hill and plain , as he was wont : He rang the bell , determined to prepare , that very hour , for his departure , in a sloop of war , which , he had been told , was nearly ready to sail ; but he was informed that the governour was too ill to receive any communication : and that the lady Elvira refused to see , and had for weeks , any body except her confidential servant . 
So happy , Harold ! 
-- Shame on thee , Harold ! 
A light tap at the door , disturbed him in his revery . 
He started -- trembled -- with a thousand indefinite , but thrilling emotions . 
He opened the door himself , softly . 
What was his disappointment ? 
Heaven only knows what he had expected ; but he turned pale , and shivered from head to foot , with a convulsive , sick shivering , as a servant reached him a brief note , scrawled with a pencil . 
` Harold ! 
E. ' Harold was thunderstruck . 
What could she mean ! 
just at this moment , too , when his heart was overflowing with gratitude ! 
just when he was going , voluntarily , and proudly -- to be turned out of doors ! 
He recovered himself : a few scalding tears came to his relief . 
The bitterness of his heart rose to his mouth ; he could taste it . 
He writhed and stamped , in the first agony of his rage and vexation . 
He stood like a statue . 
His heart scarcely heaved . 
His lips moved not . 
A sense of forlornness and desolation came over him , and he would have thrown himself down and wept , but he felt that he could not shed a tear , if it were to save his soul from utter perdition . 
A hollow whisper broke from him , at last -- ` turned out -- turned out -- neck and heels -- wounded and bleeding -- turned out of thishouse . 
-- oh , shame on him -- why plucked he me from my kindred ? 
Hath he tamed me ? '' 
His lip quivered -- a deadly paleness followed -- hectick -- a few more tears , and it was all over . 
He was a man , again . 
The girl stood before him , stupified with amazement , and quaking in every limb , at the terrible alternations of wrath and tenderness that she beheld -- but now , when he addressed her calmly , so calmly , that his voice fell , syllable by syllable , like the low notes of a near instrument , blown by a master , she was awe-struck . 
-- and the hand was withdrawn -- the spectre gone -- and Harold upon his face . 
He awoke . 
Where was his spirit then ? 
His blood felt thick -- and he cared not if he never arose gain . 
His temples -- his very arteries were sore with the excess and rapidity of his recent sensations . 
He arose . 
He was weak even to helplessness -- what could he do . 
He had been driven forth with dishonour and contempt . 
He was too proud to ask why , or wherefore . 
It was enough for him , that it was so , and he would have immolated himself upon the threshold of the habitation that he had saved -- more than once , from fire and sword -- but for a new feeling -- a desire of vengeance almost , that had taken possession of him . 
cried Harold , towards evening , ` and I am at home ! ' 
Another hour , and he was at home , in the thick green wood -- a living fountain at his feet , the wild ash bending over it : a hunting cabin within a few paces , where he had slept , night after night , with white men , before the last quarrel with the Indians . 
It had not been visited of late , he supposed , as the collected fuel , food , ammunition , skins , and utensils were all as he had seen them last . 
He threw himself , worn and exhausted , upon a bed of dry leaves , and bear skins , and slept , Oh ! 
He dreamt of home -- the home that he had left , of his father -- his murderers -- Strange , wild and incoherent cries rang in his ear . 
A shot -- He started upward . 
It was dark -- perfectly dark about him , and it was some minutes before he could recollect himself . 
The smell of powder was about him , but where was he ? 
In his chamber ? 
He felt about . 
Whatever he found was in the wrong place -- all relationship was confounded . 
A confused recollection of the past crowded upon him . 
Step by step , he recovered his senses : and , as he did , he feared to breathe . 
Was he in the cabin yet ? 
Could he have slept so long ? 
-- he had left none . 
He felt for his pistols -- They were gone -- his sword . 
he almost articulated aloud , as he felt the hilt , and unsheathed it , in silence . 
-- what does he see ? 
Why rolls young Harold 's eyes so terribly upon the roof . 
Why starts out the hot sweat upon his forehead . 
The spirit of his father is before him ! 
The hair of his flesh rose . 
He gasped for breath . 
He heard a voice . 
It was not his father 's . 
How came he there ? 
Harold shuddered . 
cried Harold , horrour struck -- All was instantly dark . 
Harold covered his face with his hands . 
He heard a loud rushing above him , as of suddenly extended and great wings . 
He was fanned by cold drapery , that swept by him . 
` But one step more , ' thought Harold , ` and I shall know the worst . ' 
He made that one step -- the spot was all open to his eye -- something dark , shapeless , but wearing , nevertheless , to the fearful apprehensions of Harold , the appearance of a murdered human creature , lay upon the ground , just in the shadow of the tree . 
cried Harold , and something that was near the body , watching by it perhaps , crouching , reared itself up , shrieked , and sprang into the tree . 
Harold was stupified for a moment . 
But the next , aware of the desperate peril of the instant , his pistol shot rang through the branches -- a sullen , quick cry followed , and the animal , whatever it was , leaped upon the ground , from the very topmost branch , and fled , snapping his teeth , and occasionally rearing , probably , with the pain of a wound , perpendicularly , up the near precipice . 
Harold was appalled , and could only attribute his safety to the fact that this terrible creature , the American panther , was already satiated , glutted , with some horrible spoil . 
He dreaded to approach the body beneath his feet -- dreaded to turn it upon its back , lest he should find its face without form or shape , from the abominable appetite of the monster that had departed . 
At this moment , his attention was caught by a sound , and he saw the same animal leaping from crag to crag , and flying before a dreadful apparition that shouted after it , and pursued it , with a voice of terrifick loudness , resembling that which he had heard in his sleep . 
cried Harold . 
He leaped down by the body , and stood over it . 
The form was of him that he had seen , in his dream . 
He turned it over , impatiently ; the face was horribly rivetted , and ghastly . 
Harold was overcome . 
Why , he knew not . 
But she felt , and thrilled ; and therefore , he felt , and thrilled . 
Nay , the very lute appeared to murmur , now and then , in his ear , as he leant over it , as one delicate instrument willanswer to another , when touched tenderly , and both are in unison . 
Harold was chilled to the heart . 
She had never forgiven him -- till of late ; but the man , whom he saw , had . 
He was her husband -- the governour ; and had wearied himself with endeavouring to overcome her mortal terrour of Harold . 
He had succeeded : wo to him ! 
-- His wife was no longer his . 
Such was Harold 's first glimpse of the lady Elvira . 
Years had passed away ; all his character had changed ; he was now a man . 
He had seen her since , in his maturity , and often had he seen that very book in her hands . 
Nay , he had once listened to her , as she related to another , the effect of his sudden , and wild apparition before her , with such earnestness , such mysterious tenderness , that he had held his breath to hear her . 
Thisbook was a treasure to him . 
He deposited it in his bosom ; and then , as an offering that could not be mistaken , the silent oblation of the heart , he determined to study the language in which it was written ; and hence , he would be able to commune with her spirit , even in its most secret and innocent thinking , however widely they were separated . 
Every mark of her pencil , every scored passage , yea , every word that he should find marked emphatically , would be a key to some peculiarity of her heart . 
He remembered the paper that had fluttered and fallen , as he first ran over the leaves . 
He took it up again . 
He examined it . 
The outline was his own -- it was bold and spirited ; but surely -- yes -- it was so -- the finishing was by another hand . 
Need he ask what hand ? 
The more he gazed , the more was he flattered by the exceeding accuracy and vividness of the resemblance . 
His cheeks burnt ; and his heart beat with tenfold trepidation . 
He continued , hardly conscious of what he was about , shuffling over the leaves . 
Another sketch struck his eye -- a single glance showed him the subject . 
His confusion and dizziness increased . 
His heart told him that it was like himself , at a much earlier day ; nay , more -- for who shall mistake the mysterious intelligence of young hearts , in their electrick communication ? 
-- he was equally sure that the picture was drawn for him years before , and that the peculiarity of his look and manner , -- the menacing and terrifick earnestness of his attitude and lip , were all faithfully his own , when he first broke upon Lady Elvira ! 
He threw himself upon the bed again : clasped his hands over his hot eyeballs , and endeavoured to shut out the thought that crowded upon him . 
he cried , starting up , and tearing a leaf from the book , and writing -- agitated even to death : -- ` Farewell ! 
Could he send it ? 
of what avail would it be to him , or to her ? 
why wound her so cruelly ? 
did he indeed mean to bid her farewell forever ? 
-- to forget her ? 
then , he should notwrite . 
If he did notmean it , how cruel , how unworthy of him , was such mockery ! 
-- ` yes -- yes -- I will write to her , reason with her , ' he cried ; and the tears trickled down his face -- ` and then we willpart , forever and ever , indeed . ' 
He wrote : ` Farewell , lady , farewell . 
Harold . 
He stopped , overcome with his emotions -- then enclosed the protrait of himself -- folded the letter -- charged his pistol -- thrust the book and the letter into his pocket , and was departing ; when it occurred to him , that he might find a bow and arrow , such as were hung upon the walls of the cabin , of use , in conveying the letter . 
He took one down , therefore , and sick and wandering as he was , returned upon his steps . 
Such were the feelings of Harold . 
He had , for it was the same to him -- he had seen his loved one -- dead -- dead to him -- yea , worse , for she was another 's . 
There was , now no hope in futurityfor him ! 
He could not reclaim herin the skies . 
Nay , he would not dare to meet her there . 
Yea , he was more incurably , helplessly forlorn than if he hadfelt her dying breath upon his bosom . 
Then , there were a tender melancholy -- ten thousand fearful remembrances , to sooth and subdue him -- to win him into tears . 
Now , he dared not weep . 
Who will condemn Harold ? 
Let him who would notrather see his beloved in her shroud , than in the arms of another -- let him cast the first stone . 
` But one way -- one way on earth , is left to me , ' said he , as he meditated aloud upon his path . 
` But -- ' and he trod more loftily with the sublime conception -- ` I will emancipate myself -- my countrymen ! 
Harold had no time to soothe the terrible animal -- He leaped backward , and drew his pistol -- He fired -- the dog uttered a low growl , and came limping towards him . 
Harold leaped upon the wall , directly in full view of the window . 
A bullet whistled by him , and a bell instantly rang an alarm . 
He heard a gate open behind him , and voices approaching . 
It was with pain that he did it , for the poor creature knew him at last , and actually turned about , with the sword cutting his vitals , and licked the feet of Harold . 
Harold shuddered . 
That dog had been his friend more than once -- more than once , in battle , and in hunting , had saved him in imminent peril . 
Harold had loved the dog , and his heart grew big as he thought of the fatality that seemed to assail all that he loved , and all that loved him . 
For a moment , all considerations of personal safety were forgotten , and he could have said , as a woman has since been made to say : But he was soon aroused to a painful sense of his situation . 
Harold is afraid to breathe , afraid to make any exertions for his safety , and yet , every moment may be his last , as he hangs suspended only by a fold in his dress . 
The old man at length returns , and Harold is left to reinstate himself . 
Hardly has he done it , when the window opens , and Elvira , herself , appears ! 
His heart rises in his throat . 
He is near enough to be heard -- the faintest whisper , it appeared to him , could reach her . 
He whispered . 
How greatly he was deceived ! 
He moves -- now -- now ! 
Does she see him ? 
It was impossible that she should , and yet , Harold could hardly forbear reaching out his hands to her . 
`` Lady '' -- he articulates . 
Harold shook the branches . 
She trembled and clasped her hands -- stood irresolute for a moment -- snatched her lute , and touched the only air that ever had appeared to affect him . 
She waited the answer -- some answer , to convince her that it was Harold : -- he repeated the closing words of each stanza -- `` to thee , love , '' in the faintest intelligible sound . 
He descends -- snatches it up -- exchanges one salutation -- The window is shut -- and he is satisfied -- happy . 
Behold him again -- once more -- in his cabin . 
He stopped not , rested not on the way ; -- except once , for a single moment , when he thought that he heard a footstep , and saw , for a single moment , a diminutive shadow , apparently tracking him . 
It was near the town -- and he attributed the appearance to the delusion of his terrour . 
He has forgotten it now . 
A fire of dry leaves is blazing before him -- and he prepares to read . 
The note is already open in his hand -- why is his hand upon his pistol ? 
-- why rises he so slowly ? 
-- is he listening ? 
Has he been pursued ? 
`` A wild beast perhaps , ' says Harold ; -- yet he feels an invincible repugnance to fire , until he is assured that it is . 
The whole cabin shakes -- the door yields -- a colossal figure stands before him . 
He fires . 
Now , for the first time , he discovers that his pistols are unloaded . 
He draws his sabre . 
Harold has no power to follow . 
Why did he not cleave it down ? 
He could not . 
His blood was chilled -- his arm was paralyzed . 
He could as soon have slain his own father , as lift his hand , in the presence of this tremendous shadow . 
What was he to think ? 
`` Come what , come will , '' cried he , at last , `` I will not be disturbed again . 
He read as follows . 
`` Harold ! 
E. Harold was stupified with amazement . 
Already had her conscience reproached her , bitterly , for her cruelty to young Harold . 
Had his apparition stood before her , she could not have been more terrified -- or more fully assured , that some tremendous evil had befallen him . 
And now did she reproach herself again , for the haughty spirit that had destroyed him . 
She need not have answered his love -- she need not have acknowledged her own -- for she didlove him -- but she might have treated him generously , and sealed his heart and lips with kindness -- not with death . 
The incident of the torn papers was at last entirely forgotten , or only referred to , by some accidental remark now and then ; but her anxiety to learn what had become of Harold became insupportable . 
It was Harold ! 
He hesitated -- he drew his dagger . 
He knew not if it were not better to consummate his horrible guilt at once , and let out her heart 's blood upon the spot . 
His own then ! 
He relented . 
Was he not sufficiently avenged ? 
Would he damn her , and himself , forever and ever ? 
Could he cleanse her of all pollution , he would have done it , gladly , gladly , now that his fell purpose was accomplished . 
There she lay , before him -- lifeless -- utterly lifeless . 
He threw himself by her side -- kissed her pale lips -- her forehead , and called down the curses of heaven upon his own head . 
She shuddered , and repulsed him -- and her eylids shut slowly again . 
He was desperate . 
He rang the bell ; and it was only , when he heard an approaching footstep , that he reflected on the consequences of his being found in the chamber . 
For this reason alone , he determined to go . 
He threw open the long blinds upon the walk , stepped out , and was gone -- Onward he goes -- behold him now ! 
A child might pinion him , hand and foot . 
The leaves rustle as he approaches , and he gazes upon them , with a vacant eye , as if they were whispering at him . 
The wild beasts pass him , and avoid him . 
He neither sits nor sleeps . 
A shadow is at his side , mocking and leering at him . 
He turns upon it , now and then , and shakes his head at it , reproachfully , like a heart-broken creature ; but his countenance never changes -- vacancy and distraction are only legible there . 
Sometimes he pauses for a moment -- thrusts his hand into his bosom -- and plays with the ivory tablet which he has so long carried there -- attempting , with his fingers , to pull apart the glued leaves , but without any other appearance of consciousness , than the loathing , which his countenance expresses , when he touches his tongue the second time with the samefinger , and leaves some of his father 's blood upon it . 
But tis the taste only , not the reflection , that convulses his features . 
He dashes the tablet from him . 
Onward he goes . 
Another spectre , as wild and haggard as himself , is tracking his footsteps . 
He treads in a circle . 
He can not pass beyond the scene of his guilt . 
` Harold ! ' 
Harold started at the sound of his own name . 
Harold felt like Cain , when he heard the voice of the Almighty walking in the garden . 
Harold felt something pass him . 
He lifted up his face . 
Months and months , however , Harold wandered among the detestable and obscure things of the desert ; his flesh was lacerated -- he was sore and bleeding , from head to foot -- his hair was torn and matted , and nightly he battled with the wolf or the bear , in his desperation , unarmed , but with the branches of some uptorn tree , for a morsel of its execrable food . 
His living was a continual miracle . 
The following circumstances gave , however , a new turn to his mind . 
He was sitting upon the extreme point of a jutting cliff , of a cold wintry morning ; it was a favourite place with him . 
The sun broke out all at once over his head , and the water below rippled like fire . 
He was tempted to plunge headlong : he half rose for the purpose , when his attention was diverted from the thought , by the sound of a rifle , shot among the near hills . 
The next moment , an elk broke covert below him , in the mist and shadow , and clattered over the precipice , at his feet . 
Shot after shot rang after her . 
She falls . 
A human creature , indistinctly seen , stands over her . 
He has felled her with his club . 
Was he one of the huntsmen ? 
no , for he drags her away , as he would a rabbit , to his den . 
Is this the spectre that has haunted him so long ? 
With a brief return of reason , Harold determined to pursue it , and was descending for the purpose , when he saw the dim apparition of several hunters , with their dogs in advance , as they turned a jutting rock at a little distance , stop , and while one of their number pointed at him , enter into earnest conversation . 
Harold caught it , struck him to the earth , and pursued his way . 
The Indian arose , and hurled his tomahawk at his head . 
Harold answered with a bullet , and brought him from the cliff , headlong , into the water below . 
At the sound of the shot , three other huntsmen ran toward him . 
There was no escape , but down the precipice , and down it , he was going , when his course was arrested for a moment , by seeing the same extraordinary being , who , he supposed , had visited him twice in his cabin , emerge from his cave , and go toward them . 
Harold was intimidated -- awe-struck ; for a while , he looked upon the party -- they vanished in the rolling vapour , upon which the sun at that instant , broke , with inconceivable splendour . 
Weary of adventure , and once more seriously determined to live , and atone for the fearful transgressions of his hand , Harold now turned his steps , resolutely , toward the tribe of the Logans . 
They will welcome me , wretched and miserable as I am , ' said he , ` one , at least , will weep for me , and forgive me : yet , oh , how shall I ever be able to meet her ! 
After a toilsome journey of some weeks , he arrived at the village of the Logan tribe . 
Harold felt his blood heating , and turned proudly , and sternly away . 
Violent hands were laid upon him . 
The council broke up , tumultuously , and a number of young warriors , their eyes flashing fire , rushed upon him , with uplifted tomahawks . 
Harold folded his arms , and turned upon them , undismayed -- undisturbed . 
The hands of them had held him , relaxed . 
He broke suddenly from their hold -- leaped backward , and drew his sabre . 
Yet stood Harold , stern and collected -- at bay -- parleying only with his sword . 
He waved his arm . 
Smitten with a sense of their cowardice , perhaps , or by his great dignity , more awful for his very youth , their weapons dropped , and their countenances were uplifted upon him , less in hatred , than in wonder . 
The old men gathered about him -- he leant upon his sabre . 
-- for , knowing the effect of eloquence , and feeling the loftiness of his own nature , the innocence of his own heart , the character of the Indians for hospitality , and their veneration for his blood , Harold dealt out the thunder of his strength to these rude barbarians of the wilderness , till they , young and old , gathering nearer and nearer in their devotion , threw down their weapons at his feet , and formed a rampart of locked arms and hearts about him , through which his eloquence thrilled and lightened , like electricity . 
The old greeted him with a lofty step , as the patriarch welcomes his boy from the triumph of far off battle ; and the young clave to him , and clung to him , and shouted in their self-abandonment , like brothers round a conquering brother . 
Harold soon discovered the cause of their convocation . 
They were that moment meditating a war upon a distant tribe , -LRB- one of the Six nations -RRB- for the murder of Logan ; and there having been some unaccountable connexion between the last mysterious mission of Harold , and the death of Logan , they had begun to think darkly of Harold . 
This had been the subject of their deliberation , and they had nearly determined , on the first sight of Harold , to sacrifice him to the terrible manes of his own father . 
But Harold 's bearing saved him : and ere another moon , after several exhibitions of his power and activity , he was chosen for the leader of this expedition against the tribe , to which the murderers of his father belonged : a tribe , whose bloody depredation , had been incessant for years . 
` Warriors ; Logan was the father of Harold ! ' 
They fell back in astonishment , but they believed him ; for Harold 's word was unquestioned , undoubted evidence , to them that knew him . 
Harold stood over the fire , and the oldest man among them pronounced his malediction , word by word , on their foe , as the scalp of their greatest enemy , blackened , and crisped , in the flame . 
cried Harold , -LRB- as the scalp dropped upon the live embers , and shrivelled , and curled , in the offensive smoke that issued from it , and the quick sparkles that it emitted , shot upwards , even to the elevation of his hands . 
-- The old men shook their heads , and turned away their countenances , mournfully from him . -RRB- 
Harold 's blood thrilled . 
This was what he wanted -- this ! 
-- it was employment , occupation to his spirit . 
Like the Spartan , battle to him was pastime : its fierce inquietudes , and ` stern alarms ' musick , and rapture . 
Harold returned . 
His march had been extermination . 
Like the Lacedemonian , he never gave a second battle to the same people . 
But how felt he ? 
was his heart quiet -- his conscience ? 
-- He loathed himself more than ever , and flew for many months afterwards , from shock , to shock ; less from an appetite for blood , than in the hope of drowning the cries of humanity within him -- the curse of innocence , was upon him -- of innocence deflowered , and perishing -- He could have lain down , and rolled in the dust -- dug his own grave , with his own fingers , to find one moment 's repose . 
But no -- the hottest agonies beset him , night and day -- amid the tremendous repose of the region where he trod , and the conflicting uproar of that , upon which he speedily emerged -- the empire of thunder , and earthquake . 
He forsook the council . 
He kept aloof from his companions . 
He brooded alone , on the ways of providence . 
Nothing but disorder was visible to him . 
A whole year did he thus wear away , in alternate battle , bloodshed , and reflection . 
Nothing but disorder was visible to him . 
But his steps were pursued ; and one day , as he was meditating alone , by a dark stream , an aged man arose before him , as from the earth , and rebuked him . 
-- Harold hesitated . 
Harold held his breath , in amazement . 
What was this that dared to pursue him to his hiding-place ? 
-- that commanded him , with the look , and emphasis of authority ? 
-- His dazzling eyes reminded him of some that he had seen before . 
He obeyed -- awe-struck , and silent . 
` I know not , ' said Harold . 
He told thee that in heaven , thou shouldst have every hope of thy heart , gratified . 
` Yes , tell me , ' cried Harold , ` why am I pained by fire ? 
-- Be thou , man , or devil , ' said Harold . 
` Didst thou ever see a human being that was willing to live his life over again -- exactly as he had lived it ? ' 
Having said this , he buried his face in his hands . ' 
Harold was troubled at the long silence that followed . 
He lifted his head ; the old man had gone . 
But his lesson was never forgotten . 
Time and again did it recur to him , with a bright and convincing energy , in his subsequent temptations . 
Nay , it led him -- it was one of the first steps , to feel and to know that God is good , and that , to be good , is to be happy . 
Every hour , every moment , was now developing some new power , or enlarging some old one , in the mind of Harold . 
That indefinite longing , which had hitherto haunted him like the perfume of some unknown flower -- that he had dreamt of , and rifled somewhere , in some brief delirium ; that constant and uneasy sensation -- that yearning , for what , he knew not , had now began to assume a healthier and more definite character . 
But the laurel was in her hand -- not the quenched thunderbolt , smoking in blood . 
The unappeasable appetite for distinction , which characterised Harold in his childhood , in his youth -- that distempered longing -- had now hardened and consolidated , into a sort of religious sentiment , pervading his whole heart and soul , with vitality . 
Loftier , and worthier designs took possession of him . 
Brutal force , the reputation of the warriour , he no longed courted , or coveted ; nay , he derided both ; but he burnt , phrenzied , with an unquenchable ardour for intellectual distinction . 
` all things are possible , ' thought Harold , to him that perseveres -- to him that hath faith in himself!Is it not so ? 
thought Harold . 
A new and strange confidence arose within him . 
He was all alone , by a mighty waterfall . 
The everlasting thunder of the deep , was about him . 
Harold felt , and the sublime consciousness of immortality opened upon , in the darkness of this holy place , with all its dignity , and terrour , and obligation -- he felt that hiswas that presence ! 
and that all that he heard , and saw , was in homage to it . 
said Harold . 
The words burst , like an earthquake , from his heart . 
He was overcome by the genius of the place . 
His soul brake her silence , and spoke aloud . 
He continued . 
Wearied with the exhausting energy of his meditation , Harold sat , or rather leaned , against a lofty , broken , and greenly decorated rock . 
Its castellated appearance , the battlements at the summit , over which , the waters rushed in one sheet of light , thundering all the way , gave a sudden and fierce elevation to his thought . 
He clapped his hands , and shouted in the rapture of his heart . 
The tears gushed from his eyes . 
He could have stood upon its summit , and wrestled with a giant ! 
It was too much -- he yielded . 
Reaction came back upon him . 
He staggered , and sunk , at the foot of the rock . 
New and calmer visions opened upon him -- A more temperate nature , like that of the young bridegroom , not the gladiator . 
Harold trod , as he had desired , among the glittering fragments of armour , and thrones , and jewels , and diadems , and light . 
A flaming jewel lay before him . 
He touched it . 
-- it dissolved while he held it , like the ice that departs in a vapour ! 
all , all a dream , ' thought Harold , even in his sleep : and he struggled to awake . 
He was among a multitude . 
All eyes were upon him . 
All hands were extended toward him . 
He was suddenly filled with inspiration and musick . 
He spoke -- his language was mighty -- it flowed , and flowed forever , without effort or diminution . 
The multitude were agitated , like his own limbs . 
He felt himself rising from the earth ! 
His voice became more and more sounding . 
He rose , and the multitude arose with him . 
The blue sky opened , and he entered , arm and arm , with them that he had loved upon the earth -- The spirit of Elvira passed him ! 
She was dead -- She touched his heart with her rotten finers ! 
He screamed ! 
The echo of his scream came back to him from the skies , with such horrible clearness -- so loud -- so appalling , that the very hair of his head stood up with affright . 
He fled . 
It was long before he had the spirit to recall the transactions of his dream . 
When he did , it was with high encouragement . 
It appeared to him , a type of the intellectual dominion , which he was one day to hold over his fellow men . 
But where shall I go , ' cried he , mournfully , ` who will take the young Indian by the hand , and bless him , and encourage him , and love him ? 
-- love him ! 
oh , who will ever love him again ? 
him ! 
A wild cry broke from his shivering , pale lips . 
` I willgo , I willgo , ' he cried , the impetuosity of his nature breaking out into quick , inarticulate sounds -- ` I will fly , fly to the uttermost ends of the earth . 
he shuddered . 
it was not for him . 
cried Harold , unable to endure the chiding of her apparition . 
She was now journeying with a tribe towards the remote Spanish possessions , and he knew not but that he might have to pursue her even to Mexico . 
But he resolved to begin that very hour . 
It was midnight , the very depth of a starry midnight , when he departed . 
He stood upon the hills . 
The home of his childhood was now abandoned forever . 
The stars , from their blue thrones , looked pleasantly down upon him . 
The whole earth , with its covering of dewy leaves , sparkled back the effulgence of Heaven , and he trod , like a celestial , for awhile , in a luminous atmosphere , between heaven and earth ! 
Here he begins his pilgrimage -- here ! 
a little lower than the angels -- in the windy musick of a midnight water , flowing on , flowing on , through all eternity , to its solitary place , the deep ocean -- by a smooth and beautiful stream -- by the side of this , is he to begin his wandering . 
He turns toward the home of his childhood . 
He invokes the Great Spirit of the place . 
He descends to the nearest running water . 
He kneels , scoops up a handful , and throws it over his head ; an awful rite that , on a departure like this , was not to be omitted . 
He listens for the expected answer . 
He hears , or fancies that he hears , a shrill cry in the firmament . 
His blood runs cold . 
He gazes all over the heavens . 
He leaps backward ! 
Something has passed him -- he is chilled to the heart -- and see ! 
Whatever might be the cause , Harold 's heart felt cold and heavy , and he could not stir from the spot . 
How was he to interpret such omens ? 
-- at all times -- and only heard and seen now , because his senses , under his intense expectation , have became more tremblingly vigilant ? 
He recovers , and pursues his way , oppressed , in spite of himself , with lonely and melancholy apprehensions -- the saddest sadness of a young heart , going , for the first time , into its solitary exile ; seeing , in anticipation , all its future life shadowed and stained by vicissitude and misfortune , and wondering if any eyes will weep at his departure , or brighten at his return . 
Who that parts with another , even when that other may be indifferent to him , can patiently endure the thought of being utterly forgotten ? 
Harold , himself , yea , Harold , the young and impetuous boy -- his heart a fountain of high hopes , even he , hehad learned that the desolation of woman , the youngest and loveliest , the most impassioned of women , was soon to be comforted ! 
He had left her , and they knelt together . 
He had embraced her again and again -- kissed her forehead , and her eyes -- pressed the very blood from her lips , in the agony of his delight and terrour ! 
bathed her cheeks , her lips , and her very hands with his tears ! 
-- felt her tremble with the pulsation of unutterable love , from head to foot , as he held her in his arms -- heard her quick , humid , and fainting respiration , while her inarticulate murmuring betrayed her nature , in her pure , but passionate embrace . 
And yet -- Harold had been forgotten ! 
So he believed . 
So had Harold parted . 
So had he dreamed ; and often , in his boyhood , had he awoke with the cold sweat standing upon his lips , and his forehead reeking with fever . 
Thus had he parted from Loena . 
-- Hehad supplanted the boy , Harold . 
Yes , he ! 
he whom Harold had heard her execrate , with a bitterness and sincerity , that made his blood curdle , had trodden upon the steps of Harold , in the heart of his dear , dark-eyed girl , and obliterated them forever ! 
What faith could he have in woman , afterward ? 
Did he love ? 
Go look at his forehead . 
Study his dim and sunken eye -- watch the throbbing of his pale , hollow temples -- his pallid cheek -- his wasted form , transparent with thought -- then tell me if ever man loved woman , as Harold loved Loena . 
What gave him that unquiet look ? 
such love , on a temperament like his ? 
It is a drunkenness of the heart , so enervating , so wasting , as to leave him , upon whom it hath wrought , in the torpor and inebriety of death . 
His life issues at his pores , with the tinge of blood , under the pressure of the atmosphere , while the enchantment is upon him . 
Who that loves in his boyhood , loves not -- if he survive -- in his prime ? 
But loves he always her that he loved first ? 
Whence the mysterious transfer of his affection ? 
So stood it with Harold . 
Behold him now upon the hills . 
The morning sun pours his unchannelled light over the highest barriers of earth . 
The cloud beneath his feet heaves like illuminated drapery -- like an ocean of changeable silk . 
So , and with similar gradations , cleared away the thought of young Harold . 
The early breeze came sounding in his ear , and his heart awoke like a new strung harp , when first visited by the loud wind , from the high places . 
His veins swelled . 
He saw the bright sun dancing away below him , in the deepest part of the blue water ; and he was , in the very levity of his spirit , ready to descend , and strip , and plunge , and riot as deeply , in the beautiful element . 
A great bird passed him , with a continual shriek ; perhaps the very bird that had appalled him in the night time , by her cry . 
Now , he stood on tip-toe , and lifted up his hands in astonishment , as she sailed by , utterly regardless of the being , to whom God had given dominion over her . 
She derided him . 
Away she swept ! 
On she went , on ! 
directly in her course , as toward some outlet of heaven . 
She departed . 
Harold saw her , like a shining motion , to the last moment . 
He knew that she had gone , and yet , for a whole hour afterward , whenever he turned his eyes suddenly upward , there was that bird ! 
-- constantly before him -- constantly ascending ; swaying her mighty pinions all the while , and bearing away for her anchorage among the stars , while he -- he ! 
Harold grew discontented , melancholy , with the thought . 
He , who had begun , with a feeling of rapturous enjoyment , to thank his God , that he could travel with this majestick creature , almost within her own haunted dominion , far above the evolving clouds , now saddened with the thought that there had not been given to him ; wings with which to accompany her . 
He started from his revery . 
The trees nodded as he passed , but it was light , now , and he scarcely observed them . 
They were the dwarfish vegetation of another world , and he was pleased with the motion of their tops -- the same motion , that , the last night , in darkness , had chilled him with horrour ! 
cried Harold , and he leaped down the near channel , and disappeared . 
Shot after shot , rang from the precipice , above , and rattled among the trees , and the thin smoke twined beautifully over his head . 
He caught a sight of the animal , with the shaggy dog at her heels , scrambling up the precipice . 
She toils -- yells -- and with a desperate spring , seats herself , at last , upon a rock , beyond the reach of the dog ; her eyes dilated , snapping , and red as blood -- her back bristling -- and her hot blood rattling upon the rock . 
She throws herself suddenly upon her back ! 
He springs at her throat . 
She strikes him but once , with her claw , and he rolls over the rock -- embowelled ! 
-- a mass of blood and intestines , upon his companion , beneath . 
Harold stands , with wonder and affright , and gazes upon the terrible creature . 
He raises his rifle , reluctantly ; levels , snaps -- the animal hears him -- it misses fire ! 
She rears upon her hind legs , and gnashes her teeth . 
Aware of the consequences , Harold throws aside his rifle , and leaps down the precipice . 
The desperate creature follows -- the branches crackle as she falls through them , from her blinding elevation . 
She reaches the earth . 
She shivers with rage , and prepares to throw herself upon Harold , who is lying almost insensible , at a few paces distance . 
He shuts his eyes . 
-- and a dog jumps at her throat . 
It is all over with the brave creature ; and her heart appears to burst , just as a young Indian girl breaks through the tangled , and flowery underwood , and -- ` Gracious heaven ! ' 
cried the delirious Harold . 
The Indian girl shrieked -- ran to him , plucked away his hands from his face , and threw herself upon him -- sobbing , and chafing his forehead . 
He awoke . 
he cried . 
He caught her hands -- he plucked her down upon his bosom , in an agony of suffocation : he pressed her again and again , to his troubled and whirling heart . 
At this instant , the expiring animal , recovered for a moment , and with , a giddy , reeling motion , threw herself toward Harold . 
Her paw only reached him , but his ribs were laid bare . 
The blood of Harold , and the beast mingled and frothed together , and smoked , as in mortal strife , yet . 
The Indian girl sank , with her eyes swimming , and her mouth trembling , by his side . 
Harold was recognised , and men who had never wept before , wept now , at the spectacle of blood , and youth and beauty before them . 
Harold recovered first . 
He was deluged with blood , the blood of her that he had loved -- hadloved ! 
He clung to her , and kissed her , and wept upon her , and staunched her deep wound , with his own mouth ; while the Indians , whose presence of mind never deserted them , ran seeking some well-known and powerful herb . 
Loena lay upon Harold 's arm . 
His regard for Loena , was the devout , awful veneration of a great heart swayed by superstition . 
said Harold , in a faint whisper , as if to assure himself that it was she , whose warm breath he felt upon his heart , as her face was hidden in his bosom , and her hurried palpitations told him that she was notsleeping , however she might pretend to be -- ` Loena , love ! ' 
His mouth sought hers ; their lips touched , and thrilled -- and once more , once more , they breathed their souls into each other , while the tears streamed from their eyes , and the blood of their hearts mingled . 
` Dear , dear Harold ! 
Harold felt something warm trickling down his side . 
Harold recollected the wound , the occasion , and his heart shivered in its socket . 
Another thought ; it lightened through his very heart . 
His brain withered . 
There was a choaking taste of dust and ashes , and bitterness in his mouth . 
he cried , clinging to her -- ` I can not lose thee , now ! 
He arose upon his elbow , and tenderly urged the inquiry with his hand , while she gradually yielded to it . 
His joy , his rapture , may be imagined , when he found her bosom unscarred , untorn -- that the wound in her neck was slight , and that in her side , whence the blood had fallen upon him , like rain , was rather deep , than dangerous , and was completely staunched . 
She leaned upon his bosom : his right arm was under her neck , and her two hands were locked in his , and held to his heart . 
She felt his , slowly relax . 
Loena coldly withdrew the other , and finding no opposition to the movement , while she knew from his breathing that Harold was not asleep , she raised her head , with a feeling of resentment and surprise , which she could not , and would not suppress , from his shoulder , and lay , silent , breathless , and far from him . 
Harold 's breath rattled in his throat . 
Was he choking ? 
Poor Loena , in the sudden terrour of the thought , was on the point of returuing to his bosom , more warmly than ever , when Harold put out his hands , and articulated , with a convulsive , and gasping indistinctness , ` Logan ! ' 
Had a flash of lightning struck , and burnt , and blinded her , at her prayers , she could not have been more amazed . 
O , it was as if her brain had contracted with a sudden spasm . 
She felt -- how it would be difficult to tell -- it was , as if one half of her own heart were dead , struck with the palsy . 
She stared wildly at him , and clasped her forehead , and Harold gazed at her , without speech or motion . 
she uttered , at last , with a tremulous tone , hiding her face , while the tears gushed through her fingers . 
The voice , the action that accompanied it , was death , nay , worse , ten thousand times worse , than anydeath , to Harold . 
It was a confirmation of all his fears -- all ! 
She loved Logan , and who was Logan ? 
said he , just laying his hand coldly upon her arm , ` farewell ! ' 
But why leave her , if she cared so little for him ? 
It would be no punishment to her . 
Her stillness continued . 
His pride might have prevented him , much as he loved her , -LRB- for at such a moment prideis equal to love , exactlyand love is neutralized by the commixture -RRB- had he not heard a trickling upon the dry leaves , which covered the cabin floor . 
Harold leaped to her side , and caught her in his arms . 
She was insensible . 
She had fainted with the loss of blood . 
The bandage -- she had loosened it silently , and secretly , and , perhaps , it was already too late ! 
how he cursed himself , and shrieked , and cursed himself again . 
A word , one single unkind word had fallen from his lips , and his beloved had answered not , moved not , but silently prepared herself to bleed to death ! 
And poor Harold stood , like a condemned spirit , some erring creature , under the ban of the most High , awaiting his final judgment . 
He dwelt upon her mild , full , melancholy eyes , half-shut in the languor of death , but gleaming yet , like dark jewelry through net work ; her most beautiful hair , saturate with blood -- as would a murderer dwell upon his innocent victim , in the first waking of his tranced spirit , when every passion but that of pity , was extinct , and the horrour of his comsummate guilt was ascending , slowly , like cold adders , to his brain . 
She fixed them sadly , but haughtily upon Harold . 
He could not endure it . 
Such a look from Loena was his death-warrant . 
He almost leaped upward , and denounced himself as her murderer , before God Her countenance changed not . 
cried Harold . 
The sweat stood upon his forehead , in the strife of pride , and tenderness , and humiliation -- and he ! 
He would have given the whole world , for never , never had he so passionately desired it before ; Such is man -- he would have given the whole world just to feel her once more , the proud creature , clinging to him , and trembling from head to foot , that hemight , if he could , cast her off , forever , and triumph in his turn . 
Never had he been so humbled , so indignant . 
He resisted no longer . 
` Brothers , ' he said , to the Indians that held him , ` release me . ' 
His tone was of authority . 
He stood erect , and then , carelessly strode out into the open air . 
He went as some majestick creature , moving , and sustained only , by volition , without physical action , irresistible and silent ; and well that he did go thus , for he so rose in his turn , in the heart of the dying girl , that , for a single moment she raised her hands in admiration . 
Harold saw the shadow thereof upon the wall , and his heart leaped within him . 
Over his smoking flanks , trailed the reeking skin of a new slain panther . 
He snorted and stamped impatiently , and the blood arose in a hot steam from his chest . 
He stood instinct with spirit . 
Through his thin , glossy coat , the ridgy veins ran and intertwined in his action , with the movement of life -- from head to foot , the animal was pulse , all pulse ! 
Who does not feel his heart grow big at the sight of these warlike creatures ? 
Harold paused , with a feeling of breathless astonishment , to gaze upon the noble animal -- Surely ! 
His owncolt ! 
-- he leaped upon his back ; the animal reared and neighed , as if instantly recognizing the accomplished horseman , by his firm seat ; who could have resisted the temptation ? 
Harold never stopped to consider whose property the creature nowwas ; enough for him that it had been his , and that he had been wrongfully despoiled of it . 
Harold had not , it was impossible that he could have , the patience to untie it . 
He drew his hanger , and severed it with a blow ; turned his proud head up the mountain ; and the next moment , was leaping upon its very summit , panting , and breathless . 
So steep was the ascent , that his chin rested upon the head of his horse . 
He stood up in his stirrups , and looked about him . 
The world lay all below him . 
He could almost spring upon its roof . 
There too , was she whom he had loved ; he raised his hand to his eyes , and sunk into the saddle . 
Had he seen her ? 
Once he had believed that his passionate heart could not find a home away from hers -- that , alone , it would shiver itself to death in his bosom . 
his lip quivered , and he wondered what withheld him , from leaping , horse and rider , down upon the tent that enshrined her . 
` Did she love him ? 
he asked himself , over and over again . 
His vestment parted with the vehement pulsation of his heart . 
He was startled at the sound . 
The sun flamed behind him . 
He blushed , as he looked upon his own magnificent shadow -- upon a broad , flat rock , opposite , his horse pawing and reaching , under him , tossing his head continually , and waving his shadowy mane -- ` his bits wrangling , ' and he , with his head uncovered -- half-naked -- his panther skin floating away from his shoulders -- ` O , if shewere near me now , ' thought Harold . 
The thought had not passed his lips , when he heard a shout , a call , away below him . 
He heard his name -- menaces , curses , and exclamations , followed . 
If ill , he was too conspicuous . 
He turned to depart , but he was too late , the noise of his trampling charger upon the solid rock , betrayed him . 
He was seen . 
` Surely , I might have expected this , ' thought Harold . 
Harold wondered at his own blindness and infatuation . 
A new sense of life had returned to him , and he shuddered at the danger that he had escaped . 
Weak , and wounded as he was , his weakness and wounds were all forgotten , now . 
In the hour of trial , many are the hearts that fail not ; but who can look upon the battle , or the shipwreck , or the combat of wild beasts , from which he has escaped , and not feel his blood run cold ? 
Every shot , every cry rings through his heart , and every shattered plank strikes him , as it drives to the shore , with a sense of his own worthlessness and insensibility . 
So with Harold . 
Now , he remembered , and he wondered that he had not before suspected their evil purposes ; that the Indians below , had greeted him , after his interview with Loena , in sullenness . 
Now , he remembered , and his blood boiled at the thought , how roughly they had dragged him , upon his knees , from her presence . 
Why did he not smite them to the earth ? 
He had half a mind to ride down upon them , now , from the very top of the mountain , and avenge the indignity , on horseback , and in her very presence ! 
Was his countenance troubled ? 
When the deep places of Harold 's heart were troubled , he showed it . 
His features , always articulate with expression , now grew rigid in his wrath . 
They , for whom he had fought ; -- spilt his blood -- with whom he had passed many wintry campaigns , in heroick adventure ; what did theynot deserve ? 
no , death was too good for them , when , at the bare instigation of their evil nature , their fealty to a capricious girl , they were ready to bind their chosen young warriour , hand and foot , and broil him upon live coals , under her nostrils . 
In the exasperation of the moment , Harold uplifted his hand , and prayed with a loud voice , for the power of overturning the very mountain upon them , and her , and himself , and perishing , like Sampson , in the ruin and dust of his own strength . 
The loud cry of the curs prevented Harold from seeing his danger , until the hinder foot of his charger slid , and he was almost unhorsed , upon the brow of the tremendous cliff , ere the creature answered to his reiterated soothings , by leaping forward at once , upon the foremost dog , and breaking him down with his hoofs , as he stood eyeing the precipice , and shivering . 
Harold drew up the reins -- wheeled -- gave his sure footed horse full scope , and dashed down a ravine -- the dust , the rattling of stones , the baying of dogs , and the continual splash of falling earth and gravel , into the water below , announcing his course . 
His head became giddy -- he reeled in the saddle -- the water is passed -- the descent is over . 
more battle for his arm . 
Another rider was before him . 
Brief salutation was given Harold knew him ; and the whirled tomahawk and the levelled rifle left him no time to doubt that he came as a mortal foe . 
The tomahawk passed him , widely . 
The ball whistled by his face . 
Harold threw himself upon his feet , in the smoke of the shot , plucked the tomahawk from the earth , and hurled it , with a swiftness and precision that was fatal to the horse of his antagonist . 
It cleft his head , as he reared at its approach , or his master would have met with the same fate . 
was Harold 's reply : at the same moment loosening the reins of his horse from his arm , and drawing his sabre , with a whistle from the scabbard . 
Harold was the more wary , the more lightning-like , but the stranger was bolder , and stronger . 
Harold 's sword broke to the hilt . 
He threw himself upon the stranger and bore him to the earth , wrenched his sword from him , and twice , in his blindness and wrath attempted , in vain , to pass it through and through his heart , as they grappled together . 
But twice the Englishman caught the sharp blade in his hands , and twice Harold drew , it by main force , through his clenched fingers , slowly severing sinew , and tendon , and flesh , and grating on the bones , as it passed . 
Harold gasped -- the Englishman held him by the throat -- the blood gushed from his ears and nostrils -- once more ! 
-- he has succeeded ! 
The blood has started through the pores of the brave fellow below him ! 
His arteries are burst -- He is dead -- dead ! 
-- nailed to the earth , and Harold is sitting by him , blinded , and sick . 
Why stands Harold thus , gazing upon the red ruin before him , with such a deadly hatred ? 
his countenance relaxes . 
He speaks , murmurs . 
Surely he relents . 
His face is covered with his reeking hands . 
He kneels ; Almighty God ! 
Harold would fain have plucked it out . 
But he had not the heart to do it , not even the strength . 
He attempted it ; but the sound of the torn flesh , as the rough and battered edge returned through the cleft vitals , was too horrible . 
He sickened , and turned away , in loathing and detestation . 
he cried . 
The horse stood by , rolling his red eyes , not with the calm , haughty contemplation of a proud beast , when murder is going on in his presence , but agitated , like an accomplice , shivering and dismayed . 
He will not let Harold back him ! 
is it the gleam of the plucked sword , for Harold has , at last , torn it forth , with shut eyes , and a desperate hand ? 
The noble brute shakes with the smell , and the spirit of rebellion is aroused within him . 
He had snuffed , and tasted the blood of a man , and he could almost tear his own master , in the raging madness that followed . 
Harold bounded into the saddle . 
The creature stood trembling in all his joints , as if some wild beast had leaped upon him ; -- and then reared . 
For the first time in his life , Harold was unhorsed . 
He had scarcely touched the saddle , when the animal sprang from under him -- toward heaven , too , as if to bear witness against him ! 
Harold arose , in the first transport of his fury ; and was only withheld from cleaving the skull of noble creature upon the spot , by perceiving him stop , at the moment , fling down his head , brace his fore feet , and stare , with rivetted and flaming eyes , through the long tresses , which he shook over them , at the dead body ; as if he saw a spectre rising from the earth ; and then , gradually leaning back , he sat upon his haunches , without stirring his hinder hoofs , as if something very terrible , unseen by aught but himself , were menacing , him . 
Harold 's blood curdled . 
He attempted to sooth the animal , but for a long time , in vain -- the creature 's flesh quivered beneath his touch , as if it were raw , and a burning hand were struck upon it . 
At last , Harold succeeded in mounting him . 
He was completely subdued . 
His unnatural wildness had departed , and he was gentle , even to timidity . 
If a horse couldbe struck with sudden madness , by snuffing the hot vapour of blood ; or if he couldsee a spectre at noon-day , Harold felt persuaded that his horse had been so , and had seen one . 
He left his foe -- the companion of his boyhood -- his rival , his insulter ; him who had spoiled him , he knew not how , of his gallant horse ; and scorned and baited him , whenever they had encountered , presuming on their earlier friendship -- he left him , shuddering , and suffocated in his own black blood . 
Yea , Harold left him on the green earth -- in a holy solitude -- to the Demon of the place , the beasts of the field , and the fowls of the air . 
He left him , forgetting all their former affection , in his hatred ; all their former trials of skill , in this , the last deadly trial ; all their former wrestling and combat , in this , their last mortal struggle . 
And yet , some tears fell upon the loose mane before him , as he combed it with his fingers , and thought how he had once loved the man , with whose blood it was now stiffened and tangled ; how they had hunted together , swum together , fought together , and -- and lovedtogether ! ' 
` Heaven blast him , for his treachery , ' cried Harold , grinding his teeth , and tearing away a handful of matted hair from the neck of his horse , flinging it to the earth , and riding over it ; while his horse , as if full of his master 's wrath , struck , and spurned at it , with his sounding hoof . 
Harold wheeled about , and was almost mad enough to return to the spot , yea , though all his foes were beleaguering the body , and wreak his consummate wrath anew upon the dead man , by hacking , and hewing , and trampling his beautiful limbs to jelly , with the heels of his charger . 
They turn their knives against Harold , now . 
Why does he tremble ? 
It hangs before his path . 
Why shrinks he from encountering it ? 
A peculiarity of shape hath made it familiar to him . 
Once , in his boyhood , he had seen it there , exactly there ! 
and exactly in that shape too , hanging in the bright sunshine , like a spectre , attached to the rock by the skirts of his robe -- a shadow , suspended in the air , by incantation . 
Harold cast his eyes upward , ` And just at this hour ! 
he exclaimed . 
just so had he seen it , sixteen years before -- he trembled at the thought . 
` The same thunder , ' thought Harold . 
But he was mistaken . 
He fell from his horse . 
He was wounded . 
The next moment , he was surrounded , lashed hand and foot , and borne away . 
Every living thing came out to meet him , and curse him . 
The faggots were prepared before his eyes . 
All the alarming paraphernalia of death were exhibited to him . 
Harold never stirred a finger , nor uttered a moan . 
He expected and desired the death , but his heart felt sore , very sore , at the thought of Loena . 
An Indian lay near him . 
He watched the countenance of Harold . 
The unconquerable determination and majesty of his look , awed him . 
He removed farther off , as if to testify his homage . 
They remembered of what a kingly aspect had been his boyhood , and they , yes , they , the children of the forest , trembled , and were afraid . 
Harold soon knew that the hour of his appointed death was at hand . 
In the deep midnight , his soul was to be required of him , in torture -- go up to heaven , in fire and smoke , amid the howling and derision of infernal savages . 
Might he lift his hand against his own life ? 
Was it permitted to him ? 
Surely not he who is beset with evil , and would escape , perhaps by an easy , though surely , by a perilous way . 
Harold had not forgotten all the sweet lessons of his childhood -- His mother , that majestick woman , her royal nature softened and imbued with the rich , warm loveliness , of the loveliest and warmest religion that ever flowed upon the earth , she had often , a brave Indian as she was , wept over her babe , and blessed him with the prayer of the true Christian . 
` Harold ! 
O , Harold , and wouldst thou leave me ? 
Her trembling lips told how passionately she sought the consolation of his presence . 
Again and again , he embraced her , soothed her , pressed her head upon his bosom , his lips to her cheek , her eyelids , her forehead , her neck -- his very heart dissolving in lofty and innocent rapture -- ` oh , mine own beloved one ! ' 
He uplifted the dagger for a moment , gazed upon the blade , upon the dear countenance , that , with lashes cast down , lips quivering and burning , leant over him -- saw it illuminated with an expression , that could not be mistaken , and he flung the weapon from him , with all his strength . 
a self-murderer , Harold ! 
-LRB- Harold shuddered , and pressed her more closely to his heart -RRB- -- thou , a self murderer ! 
O , Harold ! ' 
Harold could not reply . 
His heart was swelling , heaving with gigantick and horrible thought . 
The mystery of his fate became visible before him . 
It arrayed itself , all , in all its darkness , with the gleamy flames coursing it about , like fiery serpents ; and all its cabalistick characters burning , in legible denunciation upon his eye-balls . 
Some awful abiding-place seemed opening before his tranced spirit . 
He remembered the prediction of his great mother -- She sat , and the death sweat was upon her cold hand , while she pressed it against his forehead . 
He felt the wet fingers now ! 
A low groan came from beside him . 
He shuddered , and hid his face . 
` A self-murderer , Harold ! 
` Loena , ' said Harold , choking . 
` O , Harold ! 
No -- no ; thou needst not kiss me , Harold -- no , thy lips are changed -- thy nature ! 
-- thou art not the Harold whom I loved -- ' -LRB- and then , she kissed him with her own lips . -RRB- 
` I have thought a great deal , ' answered Harold , ` on this subject ; read a great deal ; but I am not yet satisfied . ' 
` Harold ! 
` But -- ' ` Nay , Harold , I will not listen to thee . 
And , yet Harold , there seems to me no subject upon which unanswerable objections may not be started on both sides . ' 
` I do not believe this , Loena -- I -- ' ` Nay , Harold , I can not , will not , reason with thee . 
` Harold , I tremble for thee . 
` O , ' cried Harold , in amazement , ` who has taught thee , girl , to speak thus ? 
` Hush , Harold . 
` How thou hast gained and expanded , ' continued he , putting away her hand from his lips , ` under the instruction of my dear , dear , mother -LRB- his eyes overflowed -RRB- and the holy man ! ' 
` Harold ! ' 
cried Loena , tearing herself from his arms , and standing before him , like something suddenly impregnate with divinity , her dark eyes streaming fire , and her pale lips quivering -- ` Harold ! 
-- Harold -- -LRB- her voice thrilled through and through him ; and her solemn and wild gesture , the awful brightness of her uplifted eyes were before him like something ready , if disincumbered of earth , to ascend by its own immateriality -RRB- -- ` Harold ! 
Thou shalt be overcome , Harold , if this feeling abide with me . 
Is not the self-murderer more criminal than he who murders another ? 
` No , indeed , love , he is not . 
The same Harold -- the very same ! 
` Yes , for their country , children , wives , husbands , humanity , Harold . ' 
` Nay , Harold , this is not fair . 
` God hath given it to us , Harold . ' 
` No , Harold , no ! 
He hath not . ' 
If he have not , then we may not risk a hair of our heads , because we please , to save the life of a human creature . 
` Harold ! 
` But then , it is cowardly , rash , selfish , to destroy one 's self , Harold , for any such reason . 
How can one know , when he is about killing himself , in the extremest misery , but that God himself , is just at that moment busied in extricating him ? ' 
` I can not answer thee , Harold . 
O , Harold ! ' 
` O , Harold , I tremble for the consequences of this doctrine . ' 
` Oh , Harold , I can not speak . ' 
-LRB- Her hand fell timidly upon his bosom -- she breathed upon his cheek -- a hurried breathing , humid and faint -- -RRB- ` I have been doubted , Harold -- Shame on my lips for uttering the word ! 
Harold , I can not endure it . 
What I have done for thee Harold , has been done , almost with the feeling of a bride . 
Bear witness for me , mother of Harold ! 
No , no , Harold , I can not forget it . 
We seem to be met now , Harold , as by the appointment of heaven , and now , having told thee how dear , how very dear thou art to me -- Nay , do not interrupt me , I say all this , to prepare thee , the more assuredly , for my resolution . 
` Yea , threaten , Harold ! 
` Nay , Harold , calm thyself : -- to abandon thee forever : Let me finish -- if ever thou tremblest again , for my love . ' 
If I am ever again doubted , be thou where thou wilt -- over the great water -- beyond the stars -- in the bed of the ocean , with the earthquake -- shut up in the subterranean palaces of the earth , I care not where , nor when -- If I be ever again doubted by thee , Harold , then , farewell , forever ! ' 
She fell upon her knees , as she uttered these words , and bowed her head in supplication , upon his hands . 
Harold knelt at her side , and held her convulsively to his heart , which was ready to burst from his side , in the agony of his delight . 
She raised him , pressed her little hand upon his hot forehead , with the devout and inexpressible tenderness of one , who joys to show allher love to a sleeping , or insensible dear one -- ` Harold , dear Harold ! 
He moved and strained her with a delirious expression of horrour and dismay , to his bosom ! 
-- Now , for the first time , did these two creatures discover that he was drenched with his own blood . 
Loena staunched it with her hair her lips -- and held his sick and weary head upon her lap , all the live long night . 
He slept , and she wept over him . 
He awoke , sore , and feverish , but in the full recollection of the past . 
he said , smiling in her face , and pressing her hands to his mouth . 
She smiled too , and a tear fell upon his lip . 
` The great water , Harold ? ' 
` assuredly Harold ? 
O , if thou canst , Harold , thou art , indeed , my chosen one . 
` Harold ! 
Harold ! ' 
whispered Loena , in a tone of delighted eagerness and intensity , that went thrilling to his vitals . 
cried Harold , pressing his lips , doubtfully , to her cheek . 
` Yea , Harold , as did she of the Holy Scripture ; saying , ` thy God shall be my God ; and whither thou goest , I will go . ' 
Her cheek lay against Harold 's . 
` Sit up love , ' she said , fondly , twining her arms around him , and pressing the ligature , that dripped redly yet , with the blood of his veins , ` Sit up love , and let me tell thee all about thy rival -- what ! 
-- breathing quicker at his name only ! 
-- and he 's dead ! 
-- O , Harold , Harold ! ' 
` He was my father . ' 
Harold -- that man of blood -- the faithless , and terrible . 
Hewho slew men as he would drink their veins dry , and doated on their agony . 
He , who stove in the skull of an old man , in full council , and spattered the brains in the faces of his children ? 
` What a being he was , Harold ! 
My very blood curdles at the recollection of him . 
How he stood ! 
His dominion was darkness . 
He was shrouded in impenetrability . 
His collossal attributes had no fellowship with humanity . 
He was sublime , and incomprehensible -- walking the earth , like one born and trained for command . ' 
` Aye , woman , he wastrained for command . 
His adamantine heart was unsoftened , unblessed with one touch of infirmity -- so bloody , so terrible : -- A magnificent creature , in eclipse -- a planet , which , in rebellion , broke away from its orbit , whirling and thundering , darkly , through the region of vacuity ; shattering , consuming , and extinguishing all that it encountered . 
-- Harold -- See a dead man ! 
Dead -- dead -- yea , Loena , dead , almost by the hands of his own child -- but still -- still ' -- -LRB- his voice became inexpressibly solemn , and he laid his hand upon her with steadiness -RRB- -- Still , he walks the earth . ' 
` Mercy , Harold ! 
tell me all of him . 
He wooed thee , thee ! 
` Well then , it were a long story , Harold ; and I can not tell thee all the terrifick deeds he did ; deeds of terrour and blood -- achievements of a nature , so heroick and sublime , and dreadful , that these rocks would fall at their repetition . 
He faced the battle . 
He trampled the breath out of the wild beast . 
He met , and tore asunder , the jaws of the bear , and the catamount . 
He swam torrents , forded rivers , galloped the inaccessible mountain , played his archery above the clouds , bathed himself , over and over again , to drunkenness and delirium , in the blood of the white men -- nay , of the red men , too , in the unsparing bitterness of his wrath -- a creature , born and baptized in hot gore -- whose baby fingers dabbled in the reeking vitals of slain children -- all this he did -- merely -- oh how little he knew of woman 's nature ! 
Harold -- my heart grows sick at the thought -- my head swims -- I can see her now ! 
We heard his horrible mockery above -- and the next moment , as nearer , a faint , desperate cry . 
O , that cry , Harold ! 
Let me lean on thee -- I am giddy , and sick , Harold , with the recollection . ' 
` From that hour , we never met -- Logan and I. Now , Harold , canst thou doubt me ? ' 
` I can not answer thee , ' he replied , straining her to his heart . 
cried Harold ; and along they bounded together , by the green banks of the water , alternately pausing , looking upward , peering for a moment , into each other 's eyes -- catching a hasty and delighted kiss , like a mother playing with her babe . 
What are they to Harold and Loena ? 
The very beast of the field , the wild animal of the forest , the terrible reptile , the rattlesnake that haunted these mountains , and beset their way over the loose rocks , like them that first contemplated our first parents , spared Harold and Loena ; passed by , and left them , unmolested , and slumbering . 
Another day passed -- another -- wearied of plucking wild flowers , and wreathing them round the forehead of the blushing , and delighted girl , Harold now led her forward , her dark eyes languidly shining with excess of love , and her beautiful form gradually yielding to the irresistible power of fatigue ; till , on the evening of the fourth day , he discovered , by the throbbing of her temples , and the quick , broken respiration of the dear , patient creature , that they had already travelled too far , unrefreshed , unsustained , but by the thin , unsubstantial aliment of love alone -- love , almighty love ! 
cried Harold , his rifle dropping from his hand . 
` Indeed , Harold , I am very , very ill . 
-LRB- the extended hand crept timidly , and tremulously to his bosom -- -RRB- are distended and sore . 
Harold cursed himself for his criminal thoughtlessness . 
Why had he led her so far away , alone , unprepared ? 
He knew not . 
He wondered at his own infatuation , blindness , and temerity ; his unworthy , boyish selfishness , to lead such a delicate creature , over such a thorny and precipitous way , depending upon chance for nourishment . 
He sat down ; loosened the fur mantle from his shoulders ; drew her hot forehead to his bosom , and wrapped her about , with his arms and dress . 
Her meek eyes were lifted to his , and she smiled mournfully , but sweetly , as if the thought of dying thus , in hisarms , were no sorrow to her . 
As they lay thus , their hair mingled , and Harold 's hand buried in her luxuriant tresses , as he supported her weary head -- he was startled by a sound above him . 
It was a bird -- the first that he had seen for days . 
He knew it by its flight , and his heart swelled . 
` It is a bird , ' said he , to himself , gently disengaging his arm from the sleepy Loena , whose innocent lips opened and smiled upon him , in her dream , with a delicate whispering of his name -- ` it is a bird that never flies alone . ' 
A convulsive , shivering delight ran through him , as he rivetted his eye , in the intensity of his hope , upon that quarter of the Heaven , whence the bird had first approached . 
He was not deceived . 
Another , and another came , till he could endure it no longer . 
He sprang upon his feet . 
He fired , and a pigeon came fluttering , from mid-heaven , almost to his feet . 
The next , her head was supported upon his knee , the bosom of the bird was laid open , and applied , bleeding , to her lips . 
She shut her eyes , in her loathing , but still , with an unconquerable eagerness , that showed how nearly famished she was , she pressed her mouth to it , and , if her newly opened eyes told true , she drew new life with the red moisture from its heart . 
Harold leant over her with looks of unutterable fondness . 
He was the happiest of human beings ? 
Her eyes shone again -- her bosom heaved -- and she was near him , with her eloquent features newly kindled . 
How could he be other than the happiest of human beings ? 
He fell upon her neck , and wept . 
From the profound repose that followed , while Harold lay , shielding his dear girl from the autumnal chill , he was awakened by the sound of a human voice . 
He snatched his rifle . 
A venerable man , with a youth by his side , stood near him . 
` I am in pursuit of thee , Harold , ' said the old man . 
said Harold , in astonishment , at hearing his name pronounced so familiarly . 
` Tell me , ' said Harold , gasping for breath -- ` how did it look ? 
This was accompanied by a look of such horrour , such unutterable horrour , that Harold 's blood froze . 
Harold was silent . 
Good , without question , for it rebuked him , and the evil onewould not . 
` And how far , by the nearest way , ' said Harold , ` to the great water ? ' 
Thatvoice was not new to Harold ! 
It startled him . 
Where had he heard it ? 
He turned a troubled eye upon the old man , but there were no places for memory in his stern , venerable aspect : and yet , his voice ! 
Harold 's blood began to boil . 
His brow contracted , and his eyes shot fire . 
The old man continued talking , and menacing him with his hand , in a heavy and monotonous repetition -- appalling beyond endurance , to the impatient Harold . 
` We havemet , ' said Harold , ` where was it ? ' 
answered Harold , leaping backward , and levelling his rifle , with the hope of anticipating the tomahawk , which was , in hisimagination , already aimed at him . 
Harold was in the presence of one , the son of whom he had slain ! 
Thisfather was sprinkled with the smoking brains of his own child . 
But why had he spoken ? 
Why , when he had stolen upon him in his sleep , had he not slain him at once ? 
Was he reserved for torture ? 
Harold looked again in the boy 's face , and wondered at himself , that he had not before observed the resemblance between him and the son whom he had slain . 
They were brothers ; and Harold had spared the child , even after his hand was twisted into his hair , solely in mercy to the desolate voice of the aged father , who had shrieked out -- ` O spare my son ! 
Harold looked again . 
` There , said he , at last , with a convulsive effort -- ` there ! 
` What were Harold 's feelings ? 
He could have fallen upon his knees , and wept at the feet of the great old man , who had thus so mightily striven against his habits and passions , and spared the murderer of his son ; not only delaying to strike , when no human help could have saved that murderer , but now guiding him , at the peril of his life , away from the avenger of blood . 
Harold washis murderer . 
He had slain him , unpreparedly , in a holy place ; and his blood had spouted , hot and smoking , upon the calumet of peace , and clotted and polluted the sacred vessels , and the consecrated doves . 
Once , Harold had felt that he did rightly . 
he felt that , before the father , he had no justification , he could have none . 
Harold wept . 
He did weep . 
He told his story . 
The Quebec that Harold saw , with a feeling of giddy and tumultuous delight , and a fullness of heart , inexpressibly strange , was altogether the Quebec , that you , in America , may now see , in all its majectick , amazing strength , and distinctness . 
cried Harold , pressing her deliriously to his heart . 
` Let us on , ' quoth Harold , and he beckoned to the old Indian and his boy , who , feeling no desire to clamber so fatiguing a hill for the satisfaction of looking about them afterward , were quietly stretched out in the grass , and smoking below . 
They wondered , but it was without sign or indication , at the forbearance of Harold and Loena , so near a great city , yet pausing to look back upon what they had been familiar with all their lives ; water and wood , sky and hill . 
Even Harold felt its purifying and ennobling influence more and more , every day , and almost every hour . 
He wondered at himself ; he never was so perfectly happy , so benignant : and never before had he felt so keen a relish for the triumphant exhibitions of nature ; never , no never , such a pure sense of religion in his soul . 
-- O she could have lived and died upon her knees , and wept her heart away , in the delicious silence of her soul , as she looked about over the wide world , the calm sky -- an outcast , a wanderer , a woman , with no arm near her but Harold 's , no heart caring for her , on earth , but his . 
` Theyare not in love , ' said Harold , softly , as he observed the gentle smile of Loena 's eyes , when she looked down , and wondered at the apathy of their Indian guides -- ` they are not in love ; if they were , they would not mind mountains . 
But when Harold and Loena approached , the change was instantly visible in the multitude . 
Harold felt his cheek glow , and even Loena , who understood not one syllable of their reiterated exclamations of -- les voila!les voila ! 
-- or their still more ridiculous , but respectful , and often affectionate salutations , as they kept bowing to Harold and her , with their habitual phrases , mixed with new emphasis however -- of -- Monsieur ! 
As for Harold , he soon recovered himself , and , in the pride of his heart , at having such a creature so near him , walked with a freer and more martial bearing . 
All that he did on this morning , was emphatick . 
His warlike and firm tread was especially regarded by the French peasantry : and the gentle , retiring diffidence of Loena , the beautiful brown girl , as they called her , to her face , bowing at the same time so complaisantly , soon became the theme of rapturous delight . 
` You tremble , ' said Harold , laying his hand upon hers . 
A tear dropped upon his hand , and her breathing became audible . 
She blushed at the effect ; but her heart danced in her bosom , in spite of herself , as she beheld the multitude , young and old , men and women , stop , as Harold passed on , and look upon him with eyes , whose smile was a blessing . 
A bell range ; and the blinds were instantly let down , as it stopped in the square , through which Harold and Loena were passing . 
Harold passed on ; but the gathering crowd prevented him from escaping immediately , and he began to feel disconcerted and distressed -- nay angry ; and had half a mind to unsheath his hanger , and hew his way through the thoughtless and ill-mannerly rabble . 
The carriage steps were let down at this moment ; and a venerable man , tall and graceful , with the air of a constable , or mareschal of ancient France , a courtier of the old school , descended with a brisk action , and stood regarding Harold . 
Harold felt an almost irresistible desire to approach -- that face ! 
-- ` surely , ' thought he , ` I have seen it before . 
Both advanced some steps toward each other ; and Harold , whose education had been consummated among the English , involuntarily advanced his hand . 
The veteran advanced , and addressed Harold in English ; giving him his hand , which he received , and could have kissed , for the benignity and kindness of manner , with which it was tendered . 
She is a spoilt child , ' added the stranger , at the same time directing the carriage to proceed , while he led Harold through the crowd , that made way , on all sides , with symptoms of the profoundest respect , for them to pass . 
Harold stood proudly before him . 
This questioning was not to be brooked -- and yet , what had he to resent ? 
His unconquerable spirit flamed out of his eyes , for a moment , and then waned , as the second thought passed through his mind ; and he replied coldly , while Loena , who had seen the portentous brightning of his aspect , with terrour , clung to him with a look of such beseeching helplessness -- so soothing , so supplicating ! 
that he must have flung heroff , or he could not have resented a direct insult on himself , at the moment -- very coldly , ` I know not , sir . 
As he said this , he bowed , and attempted to pass on . 
Harold appeared troubled . 
His eye was fixed for a moment , upon the fine features before him , and then wandered away , with a peculiar expression of anxiety and restlessness , like one hunting , with inquietude , among the forgotten things of his early life . 
He was startled from his revery , by a tear -- yes , a tear -- it fell upon his own hand , and from his own eye , as he held the locked arm of Loena near his heart . 
Harold was thunderstruck . 
He looked up to the sky , incredulous . 
The drop had fallen from his own eyes . 
She pressed Harold 's arm . 
Several children had now gathered about our travellers , unintimidated , unrebuked by authority ; and Loena was amusing them , by exhibiting what she saw attracted their little hands and eyes unceasingly , the beautiful porcupine work of her moccasin , and the magnificent , rough gold ornaments that she wore , in profusion , upon her beaver skin , and wreathed in her hair , and clasped about her arms and ancles . 
Harold 's countenance expressed no surprise . 
Harold couldnot refuse . 
He felt like a son in the presence of his own father -- obedient , with a mixture of awe and delight . 
He drew Harold 's arm within his , and proceeded , with such gentleness of deportment , that the friendless Harold could not forbear pressing the arm upon which he leaned . 
It was answered by a glance that shot to his heart . 
` Harold . ' 
` Harold ! 
-- Harold ? 
-- it is certainly very extraordinary , ' he added , musing -- ` but thy other name ? ' 
` And whom have we here , ' said he , stooping , and gently laying his hand upon the shoulder of Loena , whose whole heart and soul , at the same moment , were oocupied with the mischievous little wretches about her . 
But at the touch of his hand , -LRB- it was upon her naked shoulder , -RRB- they were instantly rivetted upon the earth , and she clung to Harold , trembling in all her joints , and pale as death . 
He stood , gazing upon her with unaffected delight . 
He took her hand , and the very tears came into hiseyes , as he felt it tremble in his , while she timidly raised her beautiful lids , shook back her abundant hair , which , in her romping with the children , had been turned loose upon her shoulders , and looked up in his face , with such an expression of childish , confiding simplicity ; and yet , with a something of innocence , so awful , that it rebuked the passionate ardour of his countenance , as he retreated , almost in confusion . 
Yes , courtier as he was , such was the effect of her countenance , as she slowly lifted her head , that he went gradually to the length of all his arm , and there stood , just retaining it , with the fullest expression of respect and tenderness . 
said he , at length , recovering -- ` wife , or sister , Harold ? ' 
` Neither , ' said Harold . 
` Harold started as if a thunderbolt had exploded at his feet . 
His dark eyes flashed fire ; and he sternly withdrew his arm , and turned his back , with a haughty , cold self-possession , whose rebuke was not to be mistaken by any man , and least of all men , by De Vaudreuil . 
Harold stood with Loena clinging to him , as if balancing whether to go or stay . 
De Vaudreuil smiled again ; but thiswas not the smile that welcomed Harold -- the smile of benignity -- nor thatwhich shot into his heart , the smile of significance . 
-- but there was a paleness in it , and a quivering of the under lip , which Harold regarded as portentous . 
His hand fell upon the hilt of his sabre . 
But they were now , where matters of this sort were not to be decided , in a way so summary , The governour bit his lip , and added , with calmness and pleasantry -- ` very well , indeed ! 
-- a turn of Harold 's head at the moment , caused an exclamation of astonishment to break from the lips of the governour -- ` By heaven ! 
-- ' Harold was constrained to yield . 
He accepted the proffered hand , but not , till after a severe struggle with his proud , rebellious spirit . 
And now , he began to appreciate some of the difficulties which he was about to encounter . 
These were but the stepping stones ; if his heart shrank at these , what would he suffer by and by ! 
And now , for the first time , came home to him , this question . 
He turned thoughtfully toward the governour , and the distressing question , fell , half articulately , from his lips . 
The governour faced him , and pressed his hand . 
` Cheer up , young man , ' he said . 
` Governour , ' said Harold , with a seriousness that approached to solemnity -- ` we are friendless . 
Harold drew her arm more closely within his own , and with his princely head lifted up , strode along , side by side , with the governour . 
Harold was not conscious of it , but he smiled at the alteration of herpresence . 
The last words of Harold as they entered , were -- ` Loena , thou art my wife -- remember that -- thou art the daughter of Logan -- remember that ! ' 
` The wife of Harold ! 
As she passed , she caught a glimpse of herself in a large mirrour -- -LRB- the largest that she had ever seen , beyond all comparison -RRB- -- with Harold watching her ; his fine eyes and high wrought countenance , reflecting every movement of her form . 
Harold was leaning against a group of statuary , on a high pedestal , and he looked as if he knewthat she was the subject of all eyes and thoughts . 
It soon became exceedingly embarrassing , and Harold found it necessary to apprise the governour , that he understood the language . 
` Monseigneur , ' said he , in a low voice , and colouring to the eyes -- Je vous demand pardon ; mais , il me faut -- ' He was interrupted , by a cry of astonishment and shame , from one of the young ladies ; and De Vaudreuil , himself , appeared thunderstruck . 
Harold 's manners , and language , and name , were so purely English , that it was possible heunderstood French . 
Harold could not forbear ; and the count laughed outright , as he interrupted them , with , ` no , Senora -- entiendo y hablo el Romance . ' 
` Fo umilisscma riverenza , ' said Harold , suddenly recollecting a phrase or two in Italian -- ` alla signora donna Julie . ' 
Just at the conclusion of this ludicrous affair , an old lady , who had then entered the room , deliberately mounted her spectacles , and walked up to Harold , who shrunk back at her approach . 
` N'ayez pas peur , mon enfant , ' said the good creature , with the kind , affectionate manner of a mother , to her own child ; and putting her hand upon his forehead , at the same time -- ` n'ayez pas peur ' -- Harold retreated , covered with confusion . 
The laughing eyes of the young girls grew intolerable to him , while he was undergoing this examination . 
He fancied that they gleamed spitefully their encouragement to his persecutrix , who followed him round the room , with vehement gesture , and incessant exclamation . 
The room was now darkened , by an approaching storm , and he could not distinctly see Harold , until very near him , when a flash of lightning , very bright and lasting , shone through and through him . 
Tell me that thou art the son of the chevalier -- no , the English George of -- ' ` I am not , ' cried Harold ! ' 
I am only Harold , the son of an unknown man . ' 
` No -- not Harold -- Auguste . 
He swore that he would name thee after his friend . 
` Harold started at the sound of that name . 
Was he , himself , once called Auguste , or had he loved one , some playmate , in his infancy , who was so named . ' 
` No , governour -- no ! ' 
At first sight , I took thee for himself , just as I saw him last ; ' -- He stopped ; for the melancholy , agitated face of Harold -- the mournful steadiness of his eye , forbade all further speculation at the time . 
Breakfast was served again , and the constitutional politeness of a Frenchman was almost forgotten , in the intense watchfulness , with which the count regarded every emotion , and every change of Harold 's face . 
Breakfast over , at which Loena sat , with a kind of trembling awkwardness , infinitely amusing to the younger part of the family , the governour beckoned Harold , and withdrew . 
Loena , who had never taken her eyes from Harold for a minute , immediately dropped the untasted goblet of milk , and rose to accompany him . 
Harold passed her , laying his hand for a moment , gently , upon hers -- a gesture too graceful , and too full of tenderness , not to excite a good deal of speculation after his departure . 
They passed away : and when Harold next looked in upon her , he found her beleagued and beset on all sides , with half a dozen children , little and big , all chattering together , and trying to make her comprehend the meaning and intention of all the playthings , bandboxes , jewelry , and dresses , with which the floor and furniture were covered . 
The governour and Harold , and even Loena herself laughed , at the ridiculous figure that she cut , huddled up among such a world of trumpery , the very existence of which she was unconscious of , until she was assured that it was all , soindispensable , that there was no existing without it ; all which she believed , as soon as she understood it . 
In the afternoon , while the governour and Harold were sitting in the hall , and enjoying the magnificent prospect below , the door suddenly opened , and their old Indian guide , whose unceremonious disappearance had caused Harold some little inquietude at first , stalked in , with his son , and two other Indians . 
The governourwas forcibly struck with the difference between them and Harold . 
Their very tread was a signal of submission : his , of defiance . 
Hecarried command in his forehead ; they , subjection . 
Hewalked like a prince ; they , like slaves . 
Not so Harold . 
Hestood erect -- his dark locks lying broadly on his Grecian forehead , and clustering thickly about the back of his head , in short , strong , matted curls -- his neck and shoulders , and chest , partially exposed -- charactered with strength , and breadth , and fullness , as well as beauty -- with a golden laced military undress , of the most brilliant scarlet , made of European materials , but after the Indian manner , under the ample and shining folds of the beaver mantle -- forming , altogether , a noble and spirited picture , as of a young Scythian , clad in his own spoils -- a young barbarian , returning with the habiliments of a slain enemy . 
The governour received him with unaffected cordiality and respect : and the old Indian told him , as well as he could , in a mixture of broken English , French , and his own dialect , that Harold was going to England . 
quoth the governour , shaking his head -- ` No . 
A long conversation ensued ; in which Harold explained all that he thought necessary of his purpose and hope . 
` Yes -- decidedly -- great , ' answered Harold . 
Harold looked this wily politician in the face , steadily , for some moments . 
said he ; ` I accept the pledge . 
Harold continued to explain his views ; and De Vaudreuil listened with astonishment . 
` You are young , brave , resolute , and of a military turn , Harold . 
As he said this , he raised his arms -- and the passionate nature of the boy broke out , all at once , like flame , in his scornful countenance -- a withering and blasting flame . 
The count , carried away by his feelings , embraced him on the spot . 
Harold 's eyes filled . 
All else he could have resisted . 
Of late , he was so unaccustomed to the voice of manly encouragement , that the slightest tone went thrilling to his heart . 
Such was his nature . 
He that could withstand , sternly and forever , the assaults of the unkind -- the wind and the rain of heaven -- encasing himself in adamant , as they beat upon him , and wrapping the protection of his great nature in more impenetrable folds , about and about him , threw it off -- unharnessed -- uncased -- abandoned all his armour , and stood , naked , and trembling from head to foot , when the sunshine of affection shone out upon him . 
said he , at last , nearly suffocated by his emotion -- ` governour -- ' -LRB- the governour was shocked and alarmed at the deeply broken voice -- the suppressed breathing of Harold -- they were indicative of such tremendous inward agitation -RRB- -- ` governour -- I thank you ! ' 
It was all that he couldsay -- all that he dared to say , without weeping . 
The count saw that he was choking ; and Harold felt , at that moment , as if every evil passion of his convulsed , disincumbered heart , had fled forever : as if all its greenness and poison had been neutralized by a few tears , and all its hatred and malignity , risen and passed off , as in distillation . 
Its bitterness was no longer to be tasted , as it had been , burning and acrimonious , as the venom of the rattlesnake , when he thought of hisindignities , and the wrongs of his people . 
And the count , himself , felt , in the protracted utterance of these few simple words , ` I thank you , ' a full assurance that Harold would abide the trial , and live to requite all that had dared to stand by him , when he was unfriended , trampled on , belied , and alone . 
And his heart leaped in his bosom , at the trumpet toned voice of young Harold . 
It was the first neighing of a youthful steed , in his impatience for the trial , when his voice sounds as if his arteries are ruptured with the effort . 
` But what are we to do with her ? ' 
answered Harold , his brow knitting , and his lip writhing , entirely forgetful of his newly proffered allegiance , as he observed the tone of doubtful hesitation and distrust , in which the inquiry , to his anxious hearing , appeared to be made . 
It was essential to all his plans , that Harold should go unincumbered , and that heshould hold some check upon him during his absence ; and he determined to study the character of Loena , thoroughly , before he revived the subject . 
And before another week had passed , it was determined among them , to retain her , educate her , and hold her in the bosom of their own family , until Harold should return . 
With Harold 's assistance , she might be made to effect , what all the missionaries and emissaries , -LRB- terms nearly synonimous , however , at all times , -RRB- of his master had only dared to contemplate ; namely , the ultimate expulsion of the English from their new possessions , and their confinement to the shores of the Atlantic . 
Harold had considered it , with an aching heart , but coolly and dispassionately . 
His head hung upon his bosom , and he finally consented that Loena herself should determine whether to go or stay . 
By her decision , he would abide . 
She was not told that Harold had consented . 
Did he believe it possible that shewould ? 
No ; but he flattered himself that his manly purpose , the result of deliberate reasoning , which had convinced him of the rash impropriety that there would be in taking a helpless Indian girl along with him , into such jeopardy and vicissitude as hemust necessarily encounter , would be entirely overthrown by the first movement of Loena , without any weakness in himself . 
The desire of being with him , he knew to be a constantly active principle with her -- nay , that was vitality to her . 
Thus Harold was content to appearlike a man , and a stoick , because he knew that the Indian maid would not permit him to actlike one . 
-- and this was his only hope ; for he dreaded , even when he testified his submissiveness to her will , a separation , more than death . 
How little he knew her ! 
How widely he mistook his own influence , and the influence of accustomed endearment over her ! 
She had become prouder too of him , for she saw the young Indian walking proudly , before the proudest white men ; men who had been , hitherto , so very terrible to her nation ; and she naturally thought more highly of herself , for being beloved by one so considerable . 
This , with the assistance of his lady , the count soon discovered , to be the character of the princess , as the whole family now persisted in calling her , in spite of her remonstrances , when she found how lofty a title it was . 
One morning , as the count entered the parlour , he discovered his wife employed in trimming the hair of Loena into a thousand fantastick undulations . 
Now she would persist in giving her the picturesque and beautiful aspect of a Greek girl -- and now , she would toss it wildly over her temples and bosom , till she resembled some terrified Bacchante . 
His own daughters sat , laughing and pouting by her side , occasionally interfering , and squabbling about the gracefulness and effect of this cluster , or that waving , luxuriant mass , that flowed , as if it were liquid silk , over her shoulders . 
He laid his parental hand upon Loena 's head , and put his lips to her forehead . 
She coloured , but seized his hand , and blessed him with that fervour , that innocent and natural fervour , which is not to be counterfeited or affected . 
The conversation , so long dreaded , was soon began ; and the countenances of all grew more and more serious , mournful , sad , as he proceeded , until there was not a dry eye in the room . 
A frigate was to sail the same evening for Calais -- Harold was to depart in her . 
` Harold ! ' 
` Harold ! ' 
-- oh yes -- but then hesaid Harold -- Harold only . ' 
` I willgo with him , the wide world over ! 
Harold ! 
They had been watching every movement ; and DeVandreueil now left the room , saying to his wife , significantly , that he left Loena to hercare . 
` Hast thou known Harold long ? ' 
I thought that I had forgotten it -- he wandered -- ' ` Loved another , perhaps ? ' 
-- he -- he ! 
Harold -- helove another ! 
She had traced them to the old Indian , but inadvertently ; and she disdained to ask Harold if they were true ; nay , she almost scorned herself for thinking of them for a moment . ' 
` He is going to England , ' continued the countess . 
` Did shelove Harold ? ' 
I do not love Harold now , as I did . 
I am afraid of him . 
I tremble when I hear his step . 
I know not why it is ; but I can not bear to sport with him now -- not even to touch him -- nay , if he come near me , I am ready to fly from him . 
And yet , I am sounhappy when he is away ; and still , he is dear , very dear to me . ' 
I loved him before . 
I would have laid down my life for him , before . 
But then , I never trembled , never wept before him . 
I could bear to speak to him , and could understand what he said in reply : but nowI can not . 
He talks to me , but I never answer , for I can not understand him . 
I only hear his voice . 
If he speak suddenly now , to me , there is a confused ringing in my ears . 
I am afraid , mother , ' -LRB- she added , in a low whisper -RRB- I am afraid that I do n't love Harold now , as I ought . ' 
` Loena -- look at me -- wouldst thou swim with him , now ? ' 
` Wouldst thou sleep with him , as thou didst in childhood ? ' 
The working of her soul began to betray itself -- ` Mother , ' said she -- a slight tinge of red , the slightest in the world , passing over her forehead , and her fringed lids dropping -- ` Mother , I never thought of thisbefore -- no -- no -- I could notswim with Harold now . 
And never shall lie with him again . ' 
And then , the other day , when I happened to mention how diverted I used to be when Harold talked in his sleep , Louise asked me a very strange question , and when I answered -- ' ` What was it , my dear ? ' 
But she took her throbbing hands , and said , as she pressed them in her own -- ' ` My child -- Harold must leave thee . ' 
-- Harold ! 
Harold is going away . 
Thou art a woman . 
He is a man . 
Brother , husband , father , clansman -- all , all , is Harold to me ! 
I abjure all the world for him . 
To him , and him alone , will I forever cling , in my desperation . 
I am desolate enough now , but I should be dead , dead , in my desolation , were he away . 
No -- I tremble to be with him , but I can not , will not , be separated . 
I can not bear his voice , but I should die , perish , go utterly mad , were I where I couldnot hear it . 
I can not touch him ; but he may be sick -- sick , lady , in a strange land , and who shall nurse him , then ? 
-- who shall hold his hot forehead -- wipe off the sweat , and spread the beaver for his cabin -- who ? 
-- O , I should die if any other touched him . 
If I may not , O withered and accursed be the hand that soothes him -- I should hate her forever and ever . ' 
` The woman that should go to Harold 's cabin when I was away . ' 
Be Harold himself , that hero . 
Try his constancy . 
Let Harold go alone -- alone . 
If he be worthy of thee , and thy heritage , he will return ; and thou , my dear child , wilt be assured of his sincerity and truth . 
-- O , Harold ! 
Harold ! 
` At sunset -- his baggage is already on board . ' 
Another moment , and Harold burst into the room , bearing the triumphant Loena upon his bosom , which was half-buried in her abundant , and disordered tresses ; while herswas half revealed , in its beautiful undulations , through her torn dress . 
Harold began an explanation , but was interrupted by a clamour at the door . 
He anticipated the result . 
He unsheathed his cymetar -- it rang , and whistled , as he drew it forth , with the accustomed flourish , as if impatient for service ; and those who stood near , shrunk back , as it flashed by them ; breathlessly looking upon the fierce and fell , the wrathful and settled composure of his countenance . 
Harold moved toward the door . 
The countess forbade him : but Loena bade him go -- go , and beat back the rabble herd , and not suffer the dwelling of his benefactor to be profaned . 
He obeyed . 
A broken sword , and a rent scarf were ample testimonials of the fierceness of the combatants ; but the leap , to which Harold had compelled the wounded man , from the precipice , was soon found not to have been fatal . 
He had fallen upon the top of a slightly built summer house , in a garden below , and escaped , with only a dislocated shoulder ; a wound in his side ; and a few bruises , for his presumption . 
He was to have gone in the very vessel with Harold , and had ascended the hill for a last look at the picturesque scenery , when his impetuous and headlong folly had well nigh cost him his life . 
His fate was deserved . 
Harold and Loena remained locked in each other 's arms . 
` I am going , Loena , ' said Harold . 
What wouldst thou , Harold , dear Harold , that thine own sister should do , at such an hour ? 
Harold sank upon his knee : held her to his heart ; heard her sobbing above him ; sobbing aloud -- felt her heart beating against his cheek , as if it would burst its cell . 
What did he ? 
Harold was a hero ; but Harold was human : Godlike , he might be , but his true naturewas humanity . 
What did he , in this hour of trial ? 
of that , I can not doubt -- why Harold , love -- how deadly pale thou art . ' 
She remained looking at him , a moment ; and then , coming nearer , added , ` I have been provoked to try a spell upon thee , before thou goest -- nay -- smile -- dosmile -- we shall soon meet again . 
Harold trembled from head to foot . 
it may be -- Harold , look at me -- ' -LRB- She placed her hands upon his shoulders , and looked him intently in the eyes -- his lips were bloodless -- -RRB- ` Elvira ! ' 
she said ; and , at the instantaneous change of his countenance , hers fell -- her hands dropped down , and she stood , as if struck with sudden death . 
once more , Loena , ' cried Harold , approaching her , and extending his arms to her . 
She shook her head in silence . 
His forehead reddened . 
He turned to depart . 
Harold could not bear it . 
` Loena , ' he said , tenderly , and solemnly -- ` Loena . 
At that name , she started and shrieked -- pressed her hands distractedly to her forehead -- came to him , once more -- laid her face upon his bosom -- fell upon her knees , and called upon him ` O , Harold ! 
Harold -- thou , whom I thought so pure -- O , is it true ? ' 
The count here interfered , taking a large pacquet from his bosom , and saying . 
Let me hear thy voice , Harold . 
one word , dear Harold ! ' 
` Harold ! 
Harold shuddered at her calmness . 
said he . 
-- oh , God , yes -- yes -- though all the angels in heaven , swore against thee -- believe thee , Harold ! 
-- my own blood -- ah , speak , speak to me , Harold -- dospeak -- they are but three , poor , simple words -- and they will make thy wretched girl so happy ! 
` Loena , ' said Harold , in a sepulchral voice -- he shut his eyes , and his lips were covered with froth -- ` Loena ! ' 
Harold ran to her , lifted her up , but no sign of life appeared . 
-- he turned deliriously -- lifted up his arms . 
A hollow groan broke from him . 
` Show me to the water , ' he said , sternly , with shining eyes . 
The count took his arm , and they walked , nay , almost ran to the shore . 
The boat was ready -- the sailors gave three cheers -- Harold shook the governour 's hand , muttering continually in a low voice -- ` no , no , notinnocent -- dead -- dead -- very well -- to meet again -- a falsehood would have saved her -- no matter . 
The governour stood and watched him . 
He sat with his arms hanging over in the water -- motionless , and abstracted , as despair -- hearing nothing -- seeing nothing -- doing mechanically , what his preservation required him to do , as the sharp boat , heeled under the weight of the rowers , shipping water at every pull , and splashing the cold spray into his bosom and face , unheeded . 
He saw them arrive -- he saw Harold ascend -- his eyes filled ; and he returned with a heavy heart to his own distracted family . 
couldst thouhave left the dead body of one whom thou hadst loved , as Harold left Loena ? 
But heleft her , nor paused , nor looked behind him , till he stood upon the deck of the vessel . 
His eyes were motionless , and the busy activity of the crew , the parting of friend after friend , over the side of the ship ; the waving of hands , handkerchiefs -- the sound of sobs and farewells , were all unheard , unseen , by Harold . 
There was only one touch that he could feel -- and she that might have given it , in a farewell murmur -- where was she ? 
He shuddered . 
` Oh , I am not forgotten ! ' 
The water flashed , and ere Harold could recover from the surprise of his appearance , the boat in which he came , lay , a dark spot , in the red , rippling glitter of the waves . 
Harold stood , bewildered , and insensible , but watching it , as if his spirit would take its flight , the moment that it ceased to move . 
A throng of white scarfs succeeded , streaming from every window of the house . 
His heart swelled -- his blood flowed again . 
The day light broke , and they were still in sight of the castle ; and yet , Harold did not desire to go on shore again . 
Harold sat by the prow , observing the appearance of the deep green water , not yet sufficiently recovered from the late terrible shock , to know where he was , or what he had lost . 
But this calm was not to be forever . 
He gazed upon the water , from its first faint eddying , and rippling about the prow , till it foamed up , higher and higher , as the proud ship , impelled by the constantly pressing wind , plunged along upon her way ; and finally ran , and roared like a mill race , all white and shining , with commotion in the wake of their ship . 
forward ! 
she thundered through the water , and the green waves washed over her , and lightened in her chariot race . 
Harold kept his place , and ate not , drank not , slept not , until they came to the ocean . 
This seemed to disturb him . 
Many a sorrowing face had approached , and wished him happier , without daring to speak to him -- many ! 
but all had at last retired , shutting up their compassion in their own bosoms , and leaving him to the iron solitude of his own heart . 
He raised his face , and leant upon his hands -- His forehead and locks dripping with the cold spray , and all his garments drenched with it . 
The black horizon was all before him -- the black ocean all around him -- that deep , distinct , and oppressive image of infinity -- his temples ached , and he gasped for breath , as he looked upon it . 
The moon , in its fullness and beauty , shone directly down upon a spot , so preternaturally bright , that Harold put out his hands , mechanically , as he felt the vessel approach it , whether in terrour or not , it was difficult to say . 
They passed through it , and Harold shut his eyes for a moment , as if he expected the vessel to leap down . 
He opened his eyes , and beheld the shadow of the ship , black as death , with all her banners and sails , and lattice work , reaching downward , almost to infinity ! 
and when the last gun was fired , as they broke out , all at once , into the tumultuous ocean , it was difficult for poor Harold to persuade himself , that the amazingly near , and distinct , shattering reverberation , that he heard , was not a second gun , fired from the spectre ship that seemed under his . 
He saw the white smoke roll out below -- the fire , stream -- and then followed the crashing thunder , more loudly than from the gun fired at his side . 
He started at the sound , and shuddered -- and covered his face with his hands . 
A female was near him . 
He shrunk back with the instinctive delicacy of a lover , profaning for the first time , and inadvertently , his allegiance to his dear one . 
She would have fallen , had not Harold heard a faint cry , and caught her , just as her drapery passed him . 
` Her heart beats terribly , ' thought Harold ; ` poor creature ! ' 
and once he stood , petrified before her , as he observed the sweeping outline of her form -- She breathed aloud -- her head fell upon his shoulder . 
Gracious heaven ! 
he has shaken her off , and leaped upon the unsteady railing -- will he ? 
dare he brave the living God , so desperately ? 
What power upholds him there ? 
Will he , the madman , willhe plunge into the roaring abyss ? 
And there stood Harold -- there ! 
-- unstayed by a rope or a finger -- upright , with his arms outstretched -- and the vessel reeling and plunging under him . 
The lady arose to depart ; but beholding him in his perilous situation , became confirmed in the general belief of the passengers , that he was crazed ; she had the presence of mind to speak to him in a tone of authority , and command him to come down . 
Her movement was haughty , dignified , but compassionate ; and Harold was quieted . 
No matter who he had first thought she was , when he shrieked and leaped upon his perilous foot hold ; it was evident that he nowfound her to be some other being . 
She waved her hand , and another female , who had been leaning in the shadow of the foresail , silently and motionless , so entirely motionless , indeed , as not to have been heard or seen , till then , by even the timid and watchful Harold -- she tendered her arm ; the first lady took it , as an accustomed thing , for which no gratitude , no thanks were to be given , and no surprise expressed . 
Harold followed her with his eyes , and at last , although he knew it not , with his steps , for a few paces . 
Not a word was spoken -- and he followed on , he knew not why , nor wherefore . 
There was a rich feeling of communion , loneliness , and sorrow at his heart , that drew him to her , and still he followed her . 
She heard his step -- and turned , and rebuked him . 
He faltered -- bowed -- and could have thrown himself flat upon his face , and put her foot upon his neck , with his own hands , he felt so humbled . 
How came he there ? 
Had he listened ? 
but her rebuke , so calm , so unimpassioned , so awful in its serenity , the rebuke he felt , of a hallowed creature , whose broken-heartedness had been intruded upon ; O ! 
it was death to him . 
but enchantment , that had so wrought upon him . 
But he could not open his lips . 
He fell back , abashed and confounded . 
He had heard voices : but it was as if he had heard them in his sleep , talking unintelligible musick to comfort him . 
He had seen these women pass away , and he had followed them , as he would a retiring vision ; as wild birds will follow wild harmony ; their little hearts giddy with the hope of hearing it once more -- once more , ere it die away , forever , in the air of heaven . 
O , it was an irresistible witchery that touched sosweetly , and sogently on the strings of his heart . 
Poor Harold , even in the hours of his entirest self-possession , could not have disobeyed it . 
But now , it was a spell to him , and to break it off , was to break his heart . 
He could not open his lips ; and the statelier step of the elder female , the look of offended dignity , gradually subsided ; while the younger , -LRB- for she must have been younger , and more innocent , and more beautiful , than the other -RRB- stood beseechingly by , and both appeared convinced , from the manly embarrassment , the imploring , disconsolate eyes of Harold , that if he had sinned against courtesy , and heaven -- for heaven is courtesy -- he had sinned unwittingly . 
Why did not Harold offer his arm ? 
He knew not . 
He dared not . 
Where his other love , the abused and rifled ? 
Away , away -- and no monitory voice near to sound the alarum in his heart -- to tell him , that he was playing treason with his fealty -- sleeping , where the bandages of his allegiance were parting , like untwisted flax in the flame . 
Here was another sleepless night , to wear upon his broken and wearied spirit . 
Alas , for Harold ! 
A continual and confused ringing was about him , all night long . 
Worn , and trembling , and sick at heart , time appeared to stand still , as he turned , again and again , and adjusted his limbs to the rugged cordage , upon which he lay , until he was utterly exhausted . 
If he slumbered for a moment , he would feel himself sinking , and would leap , like a drowning man from the water , with a loud , inarticulate cry , as if his very blood vessels were bursting with horrour ; yet hardly would he shut his aching eyes again , than he would feel that , upon which he lay , gradually yielding , like the loose fragments of a crumbling precipice ; and thatby which he held , instinctively , even in his sleep , lest in the lurching and heaving of the ship , he might be lost , before he could recommend his soul to God ; even that gradually detaching itself , like a ruptured branch , until he would shriek , like a falling man , and start broad awake , with foam upon his lips , and the sweat standing upon his bosom and forehead -- the sweat of his own heart . 
Elvira would pass before his eyes , with swollen lips , and blood-shot eyes , pronouncing his name aloud , with a hollow voice , like one on her death bed -- ` Harold , Harold the destroyer ! 
Again the scene would shift , in the convulsion of his heart -- A sky of clouded gold would be over him , lacquered with every brilliant hue -- inlaid with all the colouring of a Turkish cymeter -- bloody pearl , and blue , with rippling silver and crimson -- all the boundless landscape so still , in such sublime repose ! 
Spirits would go walking by him , arm and arm , in the heavens ; and now and then , one would pause , and lay his hand upon his fellows ' heart , which instantly broke out , like a loud organ , with all manner of echoing harmonies . 
Then , a strange obscurity would arise , like the vapour of charnel houses , offensive and sickening -- and some other violent transition would succeed , alternately -- from heaven to hell , from hell to heaven , would he vibrate , like a pendulum . 
Anon , the magnificent phenomena of heaven would be rolling over him -- his own forest trees would glimmer in the star light ; the river , where he had so often bathed , would sparkle at his feet , and the long grass would dip and float away , and ripple beautifully before him -- and Loena , his own Loena , would trip softly behind him -- he would hear her coming , with her little naked feet , and determine to enjoy her surprise . 
She would lay her hand upon his shoulder -- he would turn ; his eyes running over with heaven and love , to press her beautiful mouth -- he would turn -- and the blue face of a dead woman , with eyeless sockets , and bare teeth , would touch his lips . 
He was full of mortal apprehension , when he looked upon the awful countenance of young Harold . 
He soon became more composed ; and was evidently beginning to recollect some of the incidents attending his departure . 
would he have harmed thine innocence ? 
Where is he now ? 
accursed the light , other than a funeral vapour , which shines upon it , ' said Harold . 
Of storms upon the water , Harold had heard ; that they were very terrible , he believed . 
But he panted to hear the approach of their wings and trumpets . 
who could tell what abominable , slimy creature of this dark element was now busied by the side of poor Harold , drawn by the scent of her prey -- separated from it only by one plank ! 
-- floundering and circling at his side , at his very elbow ! 
the measureless , bottomless solitudes of the ocean upturned -- and all their tenantry rolling about him , and under him , and above him , and over him -- all unwieldly and ravenous monsters , from the four corners of the sea , revelling in their dominion , about the mighty ship , as she thundered upon her pathway , and exulting in the certainty and nearness of their appointed meal . 
Another thrill -- could he be dreaming again ? 
He sat instantly upright ; but his right arm and shoulder to the finger-ends , were numb and lifeless -- a dreadful sensation , heavy , leaden , and lumpish , wanting the dignity of pain , and the activity of torment , followed . 
That , or either he would have borne . 
His Indian nature would have scorned all burning , fiery agonies . 
He could bear to be torn with red hot pincers , but the bravest will strike , and so would Harold , with a gesture of impatience , the moscheto that stung . 
Never was Harold 's proud spirit so quelled . 
He was sick , and labouring under the reproof of his own heart . 
A beleaguring darkness was about him , accompanied with a fearful derangement of his faculties , confounding the past , present , and future . 
` Would sheprove firmer than he had been ? ' 
Was she more accessible ? 
had she more self-command ? 
and did she love more than he , when hefell ? 
The answer was a ten fold agony ; the riotingof his undisciplined spirit . 
But how to occupy himself ? 
Such , at least , was his opinion . 
But Harold knew not then , what he afterwards learnt , that all games are selfish delusions : that all games may elicit evil passion , and that chess of all others , should be the game of the statesman and the soldier -- teaching fortitude , patience , firmness , perseverance , foresight , reflection , strengthening the memory , and exercising the judgment beyond all other studies . 
Days had passed , and nights had followed , and Harold was still the same . 
He seemed to have entirely forgotten the situation in which he left Loena : and the two female strangers avoided him with obvious care , as an unhappy wretch , crazed perhaps , by remorse -- who could not be bettered by their prayers or tears . 
-- Harold was thrown out of his birth -- the water rushed over him , and the knell , as of a drowning multitude , from the very bottom of the ocean , mounted and pealed , and rang , and thundered up the sky . 
she is going ! ' 
Harold leaped upon deck . 
And Harold now recollected , that , as he came up , he saw afar off , by a blaze of lightning , that almost blinded him , something black and shattered , suddenly disappear , in the broad and foaming wake of the ship . 
Harold had been completely roused by this adventure . 
His first thought was of the two women who had so marvellously interested him at first . 
Their images were still upon his mind , burning and distinct : but then , so were many images of his dreaming ; might not these women be apparitions of a troubled sleep ? 
But in peril , he was the first to find them . 
Now they forgot his phrenzy . 
They permitted him to stand by them , and comfort them , not with words , for he spake not , but with looks : looks that were so resolute , so collected , that the poor , helpless creatures clung to him , in consummate confidence , young as he was , and terrible as he had been . 
Harold was still alone . 
Every eye was upon him , and at every pause in the conversation , some low whispers , even from the children , would show how deeply all were interested in his happiness , or , at least , in his appearance . 
His immoveable attitude , his unaffected abstraction , the sublimity of his desolate aspect , were all matters of exceeding curiosity and admiration , for a time . 
clung to him , and , after a few circling gambols , in every one of which , they came nearer and nearer , till they provoked him to put out his hand , mechanically , to arrest one of their number , all , as by one consent , began a riotous assault upon him . 
His countenance brightened , for a moment , in spite of himself , as he participated in their rude merriment . 
Why was his face , so repulsive to man , and attractive to these babes ? 
The children were soon called away , and separated , but Harold was again roused from his revery -- during the latter part of which , there was a growing fierceness in his eyes -- a more difficult breathing , and heaving of the chest -- by the touch of an infant 's hand . 
He looked down , and beheld the sweetest little fellow in the world , slyly thrusting a part of his cake into hishand , as it hung lifelessly over a gun carriage . 
Harold laid his cheek upon the head of the child . 
The little creature looked up in his face , clapped his hands aloud , and called out , ` O , my pa ! 
-- Harold coloured to the eyes . 
Harold was unaccountably affected by the manner of the child . 
Perhaps he was deceived , but the voice , so thrilling passionate , and sweet , sounded half familiar to him . 
Willing to conceal his embarrassment , which increased to a fever , as the boy persisted in caressing him , and even crying to get up in his lap , Harold began questioning him . 
reiterated the child , putting its little hand over his mouth . 
He could hardly pronounce it , and it was not till he had several times repeated it , that Harold could comprehend the sound . 
Harold smiled in spite of himself , at the pertinacity of the child , but repeated his question . 
cried Harold in astonishment , kissing him again and again . 
Harold had no experience in such matters , and would have set this boy down as five , at least ; such was the spirited intelligence of his countenance -- the celestial animation of his clear hazel eye , as he prattled away clapping his hands , and kicking up his heels . 
Indeed , the creature seemed actually transparent -- his skin was soclear , his rosy blood sohasty and rash , that at every pulsation , his face glowed all over , and his eyes sparkled afresh . 
The boy fell asleep in Harold 's bosom , and there slept , until a female servant , who , Harold now recollected , had been near him during the whole of his prattle , approached to take him away . 
But the child awoke , and clung to him , and was permitted to stay . 
Harold felt a delicious melancholy , like the newly comforted , amid this scenery . 
Hischeek rested against the warm cheek of the sweet boy , whose breath , like a continual whisper , went by his ear , while his little fat hands were thrust , cake and all , into Harold 's bosom . 
The fancy of Harold led him back , dancing and singing , to the times of his boyhood , when he was as happy , and as innocent , -LRB- for the innocent are always happy -RRB- as this child . 
He shut his eyes . 
He heard his native winds blowing among the green leaves -- he saw the blossoms flutter and fall like butterflies -- he saw the sparkling of wild birds among the high tree tops , and heard their liquid piping all about him -- one would begin in the silence -- another , another , till the whole air would ring again -- then , one would fall off -- another , and another , till a dead , breathless silence followed -- and there was the blue water too , the same -- rippling at his feet . 
Harold was startled by a strange voice near him ; strange , not so much , for being the voice of a stranger , as for being so calm , steady , and authoritative . 
Harold was delighted with this girl ; and was a long time puzzling himself to determine what had caused her vivacity and emphasis , as she had gone on ; but without success , until he caught her eye glancing at him ; innocently , to be sure . 
Harold looked round . 
Hewas the only man near enough to hear what she said ; and although she affected to be so carried away by her own feelings , as to be insensible of his proximity , still , Harold had experience enough of the human heart to perceive that her vivacity was not natural , and would not have been so extreme , had she really been alone with her cousin . 
Harold turned , and listened . 
such was the purport of his conversation , as it was caught at intervals , in his going and returning before Harold , with suchan air of unlaboured majesty . 
Harold came up , with the boy in his arms : He measured the stranger , inch by inch , with his antagonist . 
` He issmall , ' quoth Harold ; ` but how he stands . 
And yet , look at his countenance . 
I do not ; I never could look like him , at such a moment . 
The very trembling of his voice , this agitation of his -- it is not like that of other men . 
The intruder aimed a blow at Bolton , which Harold received on his arm , and instantly returned with such effect , as to send him reeling against the benches . 
Bolton turned to rebuke Harold , for his interference . 
Harold 's heart beat high . 
At day-light , another squadron appeared , to windward , bearing down , under a press of sail , in a most beautiful style , athwart the wake of his majesty 's 84 . 
-- Harold turned -- the railings were lined with passengers . 
Harold and Bolton were both overboard , headlong , at the cry -- but the vessel -- O ! 
It was some minutes before she could be put about : and when she was , Harold was discovered , battling with the waves , the boy upon his back , and Bolton , apparently exhausted , holding upon a cask , that was incessantly turning . 
His breath was a continual sobbing -- the ship , in returning , ran aside of him . 
Harold , who was an excellent swimmer , was seen to offer him his hand , but the other rejected it , angrily , and pointed to the boy . 
Harold was near him . 
He took the child from his back , and directed him , in admiration of his strength and activity , to pursue Bolton . 
Harold did , and arose , almost out of the water , as he returned from the plunge that he made after the drowning man , as he was sinking for the last time . 
The early experience of Harold had taught him , that there is no moment so perilous to the sufferer , as when his preserver is just within his reach . 
The foremost one approached Harold , with his insensible burden -- but the anxiety of all , and each , had well nigh proved fatal to both ; for they all rushed to the side , and abandoned their oars , before they were near enough ; and the next swell separted them , half a cable 's length . 
Harold himself , grew dizzy with extreme fatigue and disappointment . 
They thought that he never would reappear -- the sailors leant over the boat in an agony of compassion for the brave fellow , not knowing what to do next -- but Providence wasfor them -- a few bubbles appeared -- a darker hue in the water near them , which was transparent to an immeasurable depth ; and anon , Harold appeared , dragging up his fellow , by his black locks -- he had disengaged himself in the depth of the ocean , by violence , and had arisen , as from the grave . 
They were soon on board -- and Harold fainted . 
But the stranger -- where was he ? 
Still of the same imperturbable aspect , sitting by Harold , and chafing his temples . 
The enemy -- -LRB- for she wasan enemy -RRB- it was now recollected , had forborne to open her batteries , although , at one moment , in an admirable position ; and all manoeuvering and seamanship were sacrificed for awhile , by the Briton , for the safety of a child . ' 
It was now discovered ; for she stood toward the ship again , with every man at quarters -- glorious ! 
she too , with her glasses , had seen the struggle in the water ; and although the first broad , side might send a multitude , shattered and bloody , before the throne of heaven , yet she withheld her thunderbolts , lest she might hurt the innocent , and inoffensive ! 
was she afraid ? 
After all this preparation , would ` nt she fight ? 
-- Some ashy faces , and the faces too , of some brave men , looked more cheerful , nevertheless , as she did pass -- but -- What a manuvre ! 
Harold 's heart swelled almost to bursting . 
He was in an agony of delight and terrour . 
Harold had already driven his battle axe through and through a young sailor , and was now wrestling with an officer , upon the bowsprit -- both fell -- their comrades slipped in their gore , and tumbled over them -- their hands were grappled about each other 's throats -- Harold was undermost -- ` mercy ! 
cried a female voice ; and Harold was abandoned . 
His foe leaped over him , and left him , bleeding , and fainting , and suspended in the torn rigging , that lay over the side , and dragged in the discoloured water , unconcious of his situation , his peril , or his escape . 
The thunder and the earthquake still raged above him -- he was almost suffocated with smoke and spray -- but he was awakened by a soft hand reached down , and stealing over his wounded head . 
A strange delirium , delicious , and intoxicating , followed the touch . 
He caught the hand , and pressed it madly and passionately , to his mouth ; bloody as it was -- wildly imagining that it was the hand of Loena , herself . 
said his heart -- ` I am dying , dying ; but what of that ? 
Here is she , my beloved , to weep for me ! 
He lifted his eyes , and had just sense enough to discover a face , and to shriek , as if his heart had been pierced by a thousand knives at the same instant ! 
She was wounded the next moment , and fell by his side -- the hot blood ran through the scuppers , and smoked upon the water about them , in red bubbles . 
By a supernatural effort , Harold arose , took up the wounded woman in his arms -- regained the bend -- slipped , staggered , and fell , amid a heap of wounded and shattered human beings -- sobbing out faint and inarticulate cries for assistance -- unheard -- unperceived ! 
New passengers now appeared upon deck -- some that had been below , from the first hour of Harold 's arrival . 
He was the object of general attention . 
Her pale thin hand was almost transparent , as she pressed it upon Harold 's forehead -- and at every throb of his temples , her blue veins would change colour , and deepen with the volocity of their current . 
Thus lay Harold . 
It was the third day before he recollected aught that occurred ; and the first words which recalled him , were in that peculiar tone of authority which had haunted him perpetually of late . 
Poor Harold 's impatience of restraint became greater and greater , every hour . 
His situation was especially irksome ; but the orders of his surgeon were peremptory , and when they stripped him , and found him scarred and wounded all over , they determined not to hazard one of such experience , in any precipitate operations . 
He slept with him , watched by him , mute as the statue of a blind Cupid , with his little finger on his lip , when Harold slept , and full of playfulness and frolick , when he awoke . 
The stranger too , he learnt afterwards , had been seen to look at him with feeling , until his eyes filled , -- undoubtedly with delight , at the recollection of his own agency in his preservation . 
Harold was anxious to find out more of the stranger , and of the woman , Leopold 's mother . 
Harold was constantly occupied with an unaccountable anxiety about him , and this had arrived at that pitch , at last , that he determined to address him particularly , when he had a chance , and ask him in so many words , who and what he was ! 
and by what mysterious power he held such dominion over the minds of men . 
One morning , while occupied with his purpose , he heard a noise on deck ; the sound of a loud voice . 
Harold was helpless . 
He called again and again , but nobody minded him now . 
`` In port , '' said Harold . 
The stranger appeared for a moment , -- his voice was particularly solemn . 
cried Harold -- `` can these be prisoners of war ? '' 
His companion stared at him a few moments without opening his mouth , and then added -- `` They are Pirates . '' 
echoed Harold -- shuddering . 
He had been taught to believe a Pirate , what he is , the most damnable and dastardly of all the ruffians under heaven , preying upon the defenceless , despoiling him , the poor sailor , whose little pittance is literally wrenched from the elements , at the constant peril of his life : a man that riots in the blood and brains of his fellow men , yes , of the widow and the orphan , and that too , upon the awful solitude of the great deep , with the everlasting God all about him -- and no human creature near -- no hiding place -- no city of refuge , no sanctuary -- none ! 
Harold saw them executed . 
Harold 's blood curdled -- his heart turned sick , cold , cold as ice ; and a clammy dew gathered on it . 
`` I can not bear this , '' said Harold , as they run a poor fellow up like lightning -- a brief struggle , a quick cry , and a loud crack followed ! 
There is such a horrible levity in it -- in the open sunshine , all the business of life going forward under his eyes `` and yet , perhaps , it is best , '' said the stranger . 
Harold heard his voice and turned immediately to look upon his face . 
It was shaded with his hand . 
Harold laid his hand upon his -- `` do you know '' said he , `` that I feel at this moment , precisely , as if I were a witness against these men -- as if I had stood by and seen their souls , arraigned , affrighted , naked , shivering and convulsed , before the judgment seat of God himself . 
-- said he in continuation . 
said Harold smiling . 
Harold smiled at the recollection of hersagacity , whose remarks he had overheard . 
`` No , '' he continued , `` what I said , however it appeared , and I was willing that it should appearhasty , had been deliberately considered before . 
`` Allow me , '' said Harold . 
cried Harold . 
`` No sir -- Harold , if you will allow me to call you so -- '' `` Do , I entreat you , I prefer it . 
He smiled faintly -- but then , while his dark eyes penetrated Harold 's very heart , and shot like dim lightning into it , till he was fain to drop his eyelids -- a thing that he never did before , even in gazing at the meridian sun , -- he laid his hand upon Harold 's shoulder . 
`` Yes , '' answered Harold intrepidly . 
said the stranger , frowning , and compressing his lips , -- `` what may it be ? '' 
-- said Harold , scornfully , and starting upon his feet , `` employed ! 
echoed Harold wildly , `` Oscar ! 
Harold assented , and Oscar continued . 
`` No , Harold , all this paraphernalia is absurd . 
`` Therefore do I press it upon thee , Harold . 
`` No , Harold , No ! 
I have thought much on this subject , Harold , and could I live over again -- -LRB- his voice faltered , and Harold thought that a more deadly paleness followed for a moment -RRB- -- I might do some goodyet . '' 
Harold listened to him with veneration and delight . 
Day after day , held they such conversations together , until Harold 's mind began to feel about , and try her limbs in a new region . 
Harold never forgot his doctrines . 
On every subject there was something peculiar and uncommon in his manifestations ; but the result was always satisfactory , and conclusive . 
Of many examples that occurred during Harold 's brief acquaintance with him , it is in my power , to relate , pretty nearly in his own words , one or two more , just to show the peculiar energy and clearness of his conceptions . 
`` Surely , '' said Harold , -- `` for what force is more irresistible than that of the mind ? 
The divine appeared staggered for a moment , not so much from the strength , as the unexpectedness of the attack . 
He had been too long arguing with people of his own persuasion , whom he found it mighty easy to convince : all his bulwarks and entrenchments were in ruin , and the enemy , a child , had broken in upon him , like an inundation , before he had time to rally his thought . 
He was silent , a good and great man , but one that disdained to talk , unless he were prepared . 
Your arguments , Harold , would be good , and would justify force , racks , and tortures , if force , and racks , and tortures could convert the mind . '' 
said Harold . 
said Harold to Bolton , `` every moment developing newer and higher qualities -- growing wiser and older with the wise and the old ; fighting every man with his own weapons ; and that , not for victory , but truth ; look at his countenance now!what sublime repose ! '' 
Harold felt an irresistible desire to prolong these discussions . 
-- was it not a type of his own warfare in the wilderness -- such coolness , collectedness , composure ? 
The planted foot -- planted against the whole world , as in despite -- and never advancing , nor receding , but with a noble expression of fearlessness , as if surethat the new ground was familiar alike to him , and that every step , no matter which way it was taken , was one step toward the consummation of his purpose . 
It was in a hot latitude , and corpse after corpse was plunged into the warm blue water , as they lay a whole night within hail of her , utterly becalmed , in a moonlight , so holy , and so beautiful , that all the voices on board , even those of lamentation , sounded like prayer in the wind . 
A deeply interesting conversation followed , in which Oscar did not participate , except at intervals , until he was compelled , in a measure to it , by Harold . 
And when he did , it was in a manner , so profound and familiar , at the same time evincing such research , and boldness , that men , who would have trembled and shrunk from any other man that uttered the same snetiments , clung to himwith unaffected sincerity and affection . 
`` On the whole then , you justify slavery , '' said Harold , shuddering . 
This long , long discussion ended -- the company separated for the night , but Harold heard some one , in passing him say , audibly , in his ear , `` Beware of that man ! '' 
He turned -- there was no one whom he could suspect , except the clergyman , and the old man . 
`` The warning wasfriendly ; regard it , Harold . 
Indeed , indeed , Harold , '' he added . 
in a melancholy , wild voice , while he laid Harold 's hand to his heart , -- `` All is not right thereHarold -- no , nor here , -LRB- putting it to his forehead -- Harold 's teeth chattered -- it was as cold as death ! -RRB- 
Harold was so touched by the tone , in which this was said , that he burst into tears ! 
`` Oscar , '' said he , tenderly -- `` would I could comfort thee -- thou most extraordinary man ! 
It were best for thee and me , Harold , that we never met again . 
Harold gazed upon him in astonishment . 
A new expression floated athwart his pale countenance , like the shadow of spirits upon the water , at midnight , -- when the moon shines . 
In one word -- I love thee , Harold , and there was a time when I never meant to say thatto any human being . 
Harold , look at me . 
cried Harold , `` repent of what ! 
`` Yea , even of that , do I repent me Harold -- even of that ! 
I implore thee , Harold , I adjure thee , dear Harold , as I would my brother , or my child , to strive with it , -- wrestle with it , night and day ; else wilt thou be , what I am , a dreaded and avoided man , repulsive and unsocial . 
Harold 's arms , already reached to embrace the sublime creature , in his desolation , dropped powerless at his side , as if struck down by an invisible weapon , at the sound of his voice . 
He stood appalled , quaking . 
At times too , Harold had seen his countenance , by lamp light , instantaneously changed , as it were to a pale bronze ; and over his high white forehead , he had seen the faint crimson rush so suddenly , as to startle him -- like the reflection of a red meteor , in passing , as if some unknown element , etherial as the hue of sunset , had been suddenly let loose in his bosom , and flashed , instantly , through all his extremities . 
And he had seen him too , when he turned deadly pale , while he was alone , and silent ; -- and then the waking up , the shifting of his wild and beautiful eye -- the mournful and expressive tenderness , the immaterial , spiritual solemnity of his manner , as he strove to recover his collectedness , were wonderful things to the observation of poor Harold ; things of inconceivable interest . 
This was what Harold coveted . 
It was wretchedness -- wretchedness , so extreme , and hopeless , that Harold , yea , even Harold himself , who never wept at any corporeal agony of his own , absolutely sobbed as though his heart were breaking , as he saw Oscar , one night , when he awoke by chance , leaning backward in his birth , the whole live-long night , with his eyes shut , and the lamp shining in his face -- his hands locked upon his bosom -- and large drops of sweat standing upon his forehead and temples . 
Harold watched him , after this , night after night . 
He found that he never appeared to sleep . 
He was wasting away , in silence , as by some mortal poison , and Harold could see him fade , while he was talking with him . 
What kept him alive ? 
he knew not . 
He ate not , drank not , and the rigid determination of his countenance , waxed , every hour , more steady , resolute , deadly and sublime . 
Thus many nights had passed , and poor Harold , who had but lately recovered from the agitated and passionate remembrance of his parting with Loena -- would shiver now , as if an ague were upon him , from pure sympathy with the solitary and afflicted stranger . 
Harold 's hair bristled . 
`` Arise , '' repeated the voice . 
The voice appeared to come from a great height above him . 
Where was he ? 
It was the voice of a high wind . 
He endeavoured to recollect himself ; but the horrours of superstition were upon him , and his joints rattled , as he shrunk backward from the cold hand , that still pressed upon him , with supernatural strength . 
For his soul , he could not articulate a sound . 
An unaccountable fear made his flesh creep . 
Was he awake ? 
He was -- for he felt poor little Leopold quaking under the clothes , as if he had been dislocated by some frightful apparition . 
A loud tread upon deck , and the changing of the tiller -- and then the huge flapping of the main sheet , as if it were rent fore and aft , by the movement , followed the voice and shook Harold almost from his birth . 
cried Harold , and fell back , with a loud groan , into his birth . 
It was Oscar , but so worn and ghastly , so frightfully altered , since Harold had seen him , in the morning , before he shut himself up in his room , that Harold could hardly believe his senses . 
He stood before him like a dead man -- his hollow eyes and sunken temples -- O ! 
-- The dew of the sepulchre was upon his limbs . 
The veins on his livid forehead were full and swollen , and dark and agitated , like live worms -- and when the pressure of his fingers was felt upon Harold 's wrist , his pulse stopped ! 
-- the blood retreated , shivering , to his heart -- and even that organ seemed to contract and hide itself with a mortal spasm at the touch . 
Oscar put his hand upon Harold 's forehead -- his very brain grew cold -- and he shuddered , as he put it aside , almost with rudeness -- `` whence art thou to night ? 
cried Harold , his teeth almost chattering with affright . 
cried the voice that he had heard twice before . 
Was it his ? 
-- But Harold obeyed , mechanically . 
`` Come hither , '' said the same melancholy , distant voice -- Harold looked whence the sounds issued , but the lips were motionless -- `` Come hither ! '' 
thought Harold , so sweet , so tender , so plaintive , -- O , I would follow it to the depths of the ocean ! 
-- Harold looked where Oscar pointed , and saw , or fancied that he saw , afar off , a dim shadow , emerging , in the bright wake of the ship . 
cried Harold , gasping for breath . 
Harold shut his eyes . 
Oscar waved his arm . 
`` There is thy ring , love , take it , '' he said , in a low , disconsolate voice . 
`` I will reclaim it , in thy bridal chamber , ere the moon hath set , -- '' plucking somewhat from his hand , and throwing into the water . 
said Harold doubtfully , as he ventured to open his eyes . 
But Harold could see nothing now . 
-- Harold , give me thy hand -- I can not see thee -- where art thou -- farewell -- I would look upon thee , would kiss thee once , ere we part forever , for I love thee -- but -- I can not , dare not take my eyes from her face again . 
-- It was here , Harold -- one moment more -- my heart beats time -- It was herethat I -- I -- I -- slew her -- here!in the middle of the ocean -- and herewe meet -- dear creature ! 
-- '' Before Harold could put out his hand -- Oscar 's night dress brushed by him , and he saw him alight upon the water , at an amazing distance , astern . 
His first impulse was to follow him -- but Leopold , with his head in his bosom , still clung distractedly about his neck -- His next was -- but it was too late , the vessel was sailing like a hawk through the heavens , -- to call for assistance . 
Harold seemed rooted to the spot . 
He suffered the child to be taken from him , without knowing how , or by whom . 
He felt a fearful apprehension that he himself should die in some such terrible manner -- in delirium . 
Was he not like Oscar ? 
For the first time , now , poor Harold began to feel , in its extremest latitude , the doubtfulness and apprehension of love . 
Hitherto , he had been assured and confident ; and while he turned back , with a swelling heart , to the western horizon , and thought , in the deepest devotion of his spirit , with his hands trembling upon his bosom , of his dear Indian girl , the gentlest and kindest of human beings , -- her , who would have laid down life for him , a thousand times over -- the creature of heroick , but untried principle -- and when he so turned , with these holy and uplifting thoughts , he was happy , even under the apprehension that she was -- possibly , no more -- or what was yet worse , possibly alienated from him ! 
-- But now , he was miserable -- yea , the most miserable of God 's creatures . 
Poor Harold ! 
a new and impatient sense of confinement followed the deep revery of his heart . 
He panted to tread back the waters ; and clasp his dear girl once more ! 
to his heart ; and then , if so it should please God , to abandon forever , all his fiery and fierce schemes of ambition , quench all his arrows that were stacked for dominion -- and enter , hand in hand , the untrodden solitude of the grave -- and there be with her -- and alone -- forever and ever ! 
There was a melancholy oppression upon Harold , when he awoke . 
He could have covered his face and wept , in the mere lunacy of passionate tenderness ; and yet , he was less unhappy than usual , notwithstanding the sudden and terrific death of Oscar . 
With thoughts like these crowding upon him , and his poor brain fevered under their importunity , Harold consumed hour after hour in panting , with a sort of sullen impatience , for the arrival of the ship to some land , he cared not where , so that he might tread firmly , once more upon the earth , and feel no longer the everlasting motion , heaving , and giddiness of the sea . 
While lying in this way , one afternoon , with a disposition guardedly contracting from all intercourse with others , he was startled by a hurried movement on deck -- a prolonged cry -- and a general rushing and trampling . 
He listened , and a musquet was fired just over his head . 
Harold arose and went on deck . 
Harold had a faculty , and one which never left him , of making whom he would , his friend , and whom he would , his mortal foe , almost without an effort . 
If he chose , there was no resisting his frank , cordial , vehement manner . 
You would not only feel , as he felt , but look , as he looked . 
And , if he chose , there was in his deep toned melancholy , his inexpressible abstraction , a somewhat of the sullen and discontented , that , now and then , begat a correspondent disquietude in all about him . 
And thus it was with Harold 's temper . 
He , himself , spoke so suddenly and passionately , and his dark eyes flashed so portentously , and his nerves so vibrated , at times , that they , who could not recall a single instance of wickedness in action , still believed that he would act wickedly , on any befitting occasion . 
They overlooked the proofthat he gave out incessantly , to the observing mind , that he resisted where others yielded , and yielded where others resisted , from a natural violence of temper . 
But they wronged him , Harold 's self-denial and forbearance rose with the occasion , and always overtopped it . 
It was his delight to do , what other men could not . 
When his heart was sweltering to suffocation , his forehead was unwrought -- pale , very pale , but immoveable . 
Where others would be clamorous , he was always calm -- so calm , that they who saw and heard him , would think him sick -- sick unto death -- they would never suspect that it was a mortal passion . 
-- and Harold passed before them that should have loved him for this very trait -- them that heloved , throughout his whole life -- as one not to be trusted with the happiness of others . 
Nay , such was their merciless infatuation , that he , even he , who had been the guardian of his own happiness through every peril , temptation and vicissitude , and had risen forever and ever , where other men had sunk , becoming better and wiser every hour , with the bitter and humbling mortifications that beset him , and were poured upon him , with an unsparing hand , by those from whom he had a rightto expect better things -- even hewas classed with the fluctuating and common . 
Alas for Harold ! 
his was no uncommon fate . 
Many a heroic spirit is brought to judgment , and condemned , in the same way , unheard -- undefended -- with no dear one to plead to heaven , or to mourn for him , and no blessed hand to treasure up the good deeds of his day , and no proud heart to interpose , and array such deeds against his arraignment . 
cried Harold . 
These reflections broke from his lips , occasionally , in rapid , but inarticulate exclamations . 
He was suddenly but kindly arrested , as he sat looking down into the water , by a hand put gently upon his shoulder . 
Harold started , trembled , blushed , and endeavoured fully to recover himself , before he looked up . 
What had he been saying ? 
-- his heart rose in his throat with shame and vexation -- and he had half determined to rebuke the intruder , whoever it might be , sternly , for having trespassed upon the secret chamber of his soul ; but he could not -- for his soul he could not . 
It was so warm , and indulgent -- he felt it as if it were pressed upon his naked heart . 
He tried again to look up , but could not -- it was impossible -- he feared to disturb it -- and merely as an excuse for not looking up , he said , carelessly , `` what a delightful blue ! '' 
they , who affected to know Harold , would have looked to see him throw off the hand , in scorn and sarcasm , and smite the officious intruder to the earth -- a faint sound , as of sorrow , was breathed over him -- he placed his hand upon that which rested on his shoulder -- it was a woman 's ! 
Harold soon recovered , but his eyelids were humbled to the earth -- he stretched out his arms , and surrendered up his spirit , and bowed himself down , until his forehead touched the deck , before the severe and lofty presence before him . 
`` Harold -- '' said the female , with a deliberate emphasis , and without emotion -- it was the voice of a judge about to pronounce some irrevocable doom . 
Harold locked his hands , and shook all over , with insupportable anguish . 
She put both of her hands into his -- `` Harold , '' said she , in a tremulous tone , `` my poor boy ! '' 
`` Harold , '' said she , `` be composed -- be wary . 
Harold rushed to the cabin , threw himself upon the floor . 
I thank thee , '' he cried , `` O Father of mercies I bless thee -- she -- the dearest -- the best -- my own , my own -- horrour , mine ! 
-- O Loena , Loena . '' 
He shuddered , arose , and staggered against the pannels of the birthing , as if he had been upon his knees -- blaspheming , deliberately , Jehovah and his angles ! 
His heart waxed damp and desolate . 
He remained a long time in a sort of stupor , and he recovered only at the sound of a female voice , when he found himself clinging to the dark dress of some one that stood before him , as if he were a drowning man . 
He opened his eyes , they were full . 
`` O do not , do not leave me , lady ! '' 
he cried , as the terrified woman appeared well nigh fainting before him . 
where , where ? '' 
His voice was preternaturally loud and shrill -- she plucked her gown from his grasp , and escaped . 
His arms fell , extended and lifeless upon the floor ; and he remained upon his knees , but gazing with a mournful , bewildered , and reproachful air upon her receding form , motionless and breathless . 
His lip trembled a little , with a quick and irregular feebleness , and a few tinges of crimson shot hastily over his temples -- all denoting the fierce and ill subdued agitation of his spirit . 
He strove to rise -- staggered -- and reeled to a seat . 
He became delirious for a moment , and shouted for Elvira and Loena ! 
He recovered , and cursed himself ; and a rooted melancholy appeared to take possession of his whole countenance . 
A vision opened so blissfully before him , inviting his heart to its expansion , and then so cruelly it shut itself up , sullenly and treacherously , just as he leaped toward it ! 
A flowret blossomed at his feet . 
It was tempting and beautiful . 
On the deep solitude of the ocean , holding no fellowship with aught that was instinct with life , poor Harold had started into a rapturous sense of vitality and loveliness , with all his arteries tingling , as he awoke from a feverish and protracted dream , and found herfor whom his heart panted , bowing her transcendant beauty over him , and actually dropping her tears upon his eyelids . 
He should have shut his eyes again , and slept forever , to prolong the innocent and delicious thrilling of that moment . 
hast thou ever , in thine own chamber , while meditating on some beloved one , thought to thyself , and held thy breath as the thought arose in thy heart , how thou wouldst feel , should that beloved one , casting off all that shackled her to the vain customs of the world , holding a sublime confidence in thee , hallowed and protected by the shedding halo of her own purity , appear before thee , beside thy very couch ! 
Judge ye of Harold then . 
Such is love , and Harold found it so -- in the fierce and dreadful aspirations of his spirit , the very indefiniteness of whose movements partook of the sublimity , which characterized it , in the wilderness and the storm . 
A spectre would often pass before him , as he sat in the haunted chambers of memory , -- her garments flying in the wind -- mournful and incessant musick following her tread , like an echo ; and he would recognize the deportment and countenance of dominion and love -- passionate love -- of her who first broke his heart , as with a sceptre of iron . 
In one of these lifted meditations had he been , when he awoke and found her , yea herof his heart , leaning over him ; -- her , the wronged and abused creature of his affections . 
No wonder that his brain rang -- no wonder that his heart leaped . 
Harold shut his eyes -- for he had not the heart to look her in the face -- the rifled and abandoned lady -- the creature of such pale and majestick tenderness . 
-- Why had she never cursed him , O why ? 
O no -- they were unworthy of her . 
He drew her hand to his lips -- still without daring to lift his eyes , -- just put them to it , and articulated `` God bless thee -- O no -- I can not look upon thee , -- thou most injured woman -- -LRB- her tears fell upon his cheek -RRB- -- `` Elvira ! 
She bowed her face upon his forehead . 
my God ! '' 
he cried , and leaped upright in his bed . 
`` Harold , dearHarold -- what ails thee ? 
-- what art thou staring at -- speak to me , dear . '' 
She will not be seen by thee -- hush -- I will tell thee all when she is gone . '' 
He inclined his head as if listening , and Elvira 's haughty forehead trembled for a moment in the pale lamp light -- and she drew her veil over her face with an agitated hand -- a face , still beautiful and meek , beyond expression , but pallid as the young lily that floats upon the blue pond , gleaming in shadow and ripple . 
Harold put out his hands , tenderly , as if to smooth the parted locks of some sick girl -- `` Loena , dear , '' -- said he , tenderly , `` she loves thee -- I am sure she does . 
-- '' He turned and took Elvira 's hand , and fixed his keen dark eyes upon hers , while his lashes glistened with the deep emotion of his heart . 
And all the great resolution of his nature rose , like a giant , at his command . 
He reverentially bowed his head upon the hand that he held , as upon the hallowed relicks of some earlier religion , in which he had been born , and with which , all that was innocent and tender was associated , in his recollections -- until they were scorched and shrivelled , and polluted , in flame and blood , by the spoilers -- and then , would have relinquished them forever . 
The lady understood his emotion , and his purpose . 
`` The governour , '' said she , distinctly , looking him full in the face , -- Harold shuddered , and he leaned toward her with a look so intense , that it showed all at once , all that he felt , or hoped , or feared -- `` is dead . '' 
Harold dropped his head upon his bosom , with a wild , inarticulate laugh . 
His whole face brightened and darkened successively , three or four times , before he could speak . 
It was now deathly -- as his heart smote him for the sinfulness of his thought -- `` O can it be ! 
-- have I lived to rejoice at the death of that benevolent old man , '' said he . 
It was now glowing crimson , as he looked up , and reflected the eloquent blush of hercountenance . 
A silent pressure , faint and trembling , re-assured him . 
`` Harold , '' whispered a voice , more indulgent than his own heart , to his own frailties , `` thou didst rejoice for a moment -- not , I believe , for the death of thy benefactor , but , because , by his death , thou hadst ceased to sin in thy love . '' 
Harold blushed . 
-- The red pain shot over his forehead , and his eyes rolled again , very wildly for a moment , as he endeavoured , with the expression of detected guilt , to interpose his own form between Elvira , and something that he appeared to see : -- but her pale hand allayed the one , by a single touch , and the soft breathing of affection soon subdued the other . 
`` But still -- how in the name of heaven , '' said Harold , thoughtfully , `` How came we here ? 
The lady looked anxiously upon him , as if doubtful whether she heard him aright . 
Harold reddened . 
He lifted his eyes to hers beseechingly -- he laid his hand upon hers -- a strong hand , but the softest in the world . 
-- Who could resist him ? 
`` It is really wonderful , '' he continued , after a short , but expressive silence , `` wonderful indeed , that I should never have gone in pursuit of thee , after that night , nay -- nay -- I am entirely recovered now -- do not alarm thyself -- I am indeed . 
`` Harold ! 
cried Harold , `` not near me , all the night long -- did I not touch , by accident , the hem of thy garment , and did not my heart feel sanctified from that moment -- as if it had been bathed , baptized all over , in some etherial essence , warm and penetrating ? 
`` Harold , I should say that thou wast dreaming , did not thine eyes assure me that thou art awake . 
cried Harold , -- `` it wasthy voice then , that I have so often heard , whispering my name . 
-- go on , '' -- said Harold , eagerly . 
The lady grew thoughtful -- so did Harold . 
-- Harold 's eyes suddenly flashed fire . 
Her tears gushed out , and she laid her face upon his shoulder . 
He was overcome -- he wept with her . 
`` O , Elvira , '' he whispered , `` my heart knew it was thychild -- how it doated on him ! 
`` Harold -- dear Harold -- '' murmured Elvira , hiding her face in his bosom -- `` Leopold is thychild ! '' 
Thou wouldst die in my arms -- and yet -- '' he raised his face drowned in tears , and crimsoned with shame , and joy , and contrition ; and endeavoured , but in vain , to get a glimpse of hers , -- but no -- her long hair , and her hands covered it -- and it was buried in his bosom . 
She pressed his hand in silence ; `` Leopold thychild -- Leopold mychild ! 
-- Harold the father of thychild ! 
Where is he -- where is he ! 
-- I must , I will see him , before I sleep . '' 
The child , who since Harold 's last illness , had been kept away , was soon produced by his mother . 
cried the little fellow again , in the same voice as when Harold first saw him . 
Harold 's heart danced in his bosom , and Elvira 's eyes sparkled through her tears . 
-- said Harold , clasping his hands . 
And when they next met , Harold learnt many interesting particulars of the past . 
For a long while , he had kept the affair a secret , pursuing and watching Harold , until the governour was on his death bed , when he revealed it to Elvira , with many mysterious allusions to her calamity . 
She fell upon her knees , and avowed to her husband that the little boy whom he was then straining to his heart , was not his -- but Harold 's ! 
The governour started as if a viper had suddenly uncoiled about his heart , and shot him through and through ! 
-- He grew calm . 
He forgave her -- nay , he believed her , wept with her , and adopted the child , with his last breath , as his own -- acknowledged it , and left it the bulk of his property . 
He died -- and the last words that he uttered were , `` I did wrong to marry her -- she was too ambitious -- too young -- too beautiful . 
The day following , Harold arose early , and , for the first time , opened a pacquet of baggage , which had been sent on board by De Vaudreuil . 
Many letters , directed to persons of rank -- in Paris -- and letters of credit , which Harold knew not the use of , until long afterward . 
He equipped himself , in a splendid dress of green and gold , with black facings , and was coxcomb enough to walk about , and get up and sit down , a number of times , with some emphasis , before he was entirely composed . 
He felt better -- haughtier ; and he was willing to acknowledge it . 
Harold was intoxicated for a few moments -- a few moments ; but , after a while , his self-complacency began to abate . 
His eye fell upon a suit of citizen 's dress -- and then upon a fashionable frock . 
In the mere listlessness of the moment , he was about trying on another suit , when he observed some linen curiously wrought below . 
This led to a further examination ; and such was the sensibility of his nature , such his gratitude for all this kind-hearted attention , that he pressed article after article to his heart , like some overgrown girl , when first rummaging a new baby house . 
He plucked out his watch . 
-- He stamped with vexation ! 
It wastoo much for mortal patience . 
He sat down , and twirled his thumbs , and twisted and fidgetted about -- put his hands upon his watch chain -- and then forbore to pull it out , a little while longer , with a determination that , he flattered himself , partook of the sublime . 
`` Thank heaven , '' said he , at last , `` one hour at least has passed , since I looked at it . '' 
-- He took it out again . 
The hands appeared motionless -- he feared that it had stopped -- he listened -- but even that consolation was denied him . 
-- he said , as Leopold , newly washed and brightened , jumped into his arms , -- and clambered up in his lap , delighted , beyond expression , at the beautiful buttons , and splendid trimmings of Harold 's dress . 
He kissed Harold , again and again , pinched his cheeks , played with his hair , jumped down , and ran about capering and clapping his hands like a mad creature , shouting -- `` O , my pa ! 
-- Harold 's brown complexion and deeply coloured lips and cheeks -- his flashing eyes -- all grew deeper and brighter at the sound . 
-- Harold put it on , and was struck with his own martial appearance , as reflected in the mirrour . 
It was of a singular fashion , and its fur trimming made it resemble the warriour turban that he had once worn in battle . 
Leopold was half frantick with delight , nor could he be appeased until he had helped his `` pa '' buckle a cimitar upon his thigh : an unfortunate affair for poor Harold , as it led an officer , who happened to pass the door , as he walked to and fro on duty , to look in , and then go to the captain and detail the mysterious transformation that he had seen . 
Harold could not help blushing , but he repelled the insolent look of the intruder , with a glance of such imperial steadiness and fire , that the man shut his eyes as if the hot lightning had fallen , melted , upon his balls . 
A quick feeling of native pride and indignation succeeded in Harold 's heart ; and , in the twinkling of an eye , he was equipped : -- At the electrifying effect of anger , all the thousand petty and provoking awkwardnesses of a new dress were forgotten . 
He forgot his trepidation -- forgot Leopold -- himself , and even Elvira , and was already on deck , before he thought of preparing himself for the interview . 
And lucky indeed for himwas it , that he wasunprepared . 
Preparation would have ruined him . 
Like them he could forget , at the sound of a single word , as it tingled in his ear , all his timidity , and all his embarrassment . 
Before he knew how he had got there , -- Harold stood , face to face , with the present commander , even in the plenitude of his authority , uncovered and undisturbed , with the tread of a soldier , and the look of a young champion , about to enter the tilting ground , against whomsoever it should please heaven . 
`` Sir -- I do not know , '' said Harold sternly . 
Harold now recollected his danger . 
-- Harold laughed outright , at the sudden change of tone and look which accompanied this remark , but he assured the honest sailor that he had nothing to fear ; he was no nobleman . 
Harold returned to his cabin and attempted to repack his clothes , but while thus engaged , a paper that was sewed within the folds of a handkerchief , rustled in his hand . 
Could he be deceived ! 
His eyes glanced at it -- his hands shook -- and he felt a sickness at the heart . 
He opened it . 
His feeling , his truth were not extinct -- he fell upon his knees on the spot . 
The paper dropped from his hand -- it was blank , save one scrawl in the middle . 
The letters of his name were traced hazardously , and without any knowledge of their import , one would have thought . 
But he knew better -- herhand had traced them ! 
Harold 's cheek reddened . 
Harold doubted her power , and was half inclined to try her , as no woman was ever yet tried , feeling , while his own character evolved , like tapestry , in the light and wind of a storm , full of magnificence , beauty and terrour , that he never could marry one who was not capable of undergoing a fiery ordeal -- treading , literally , with naked feet , over heated plough-shares -- yea more , of tearing herself loose from every human being -- every living thing -- in earth and heaven -- except her Maker , if thatwere the penalty of abandoning a loved one , who had acted unworthily . 
They rang in his ear . 
They dwelt upon his memory with a heavy , perturbed , tolling prolongation , like a death bell sounding in a sepulchre , -- for a subterranean funeral . 
A tear dropped upon his hand . 
He started -- he had not the strength , no , nor the heart , to wipe it away . 
There was no aching of his vitals , no scorching of his eye-balls now ; and yet , he wept . 
The tears did not rush like blood to his eyes , as if his heart had burst with the effort -- no ! 
Harold was subdued -- utterly subdued ; to be soloved , sotreasured , so tenderly and so loftily by one , to whom he had been playing falsely . 
-- He clasped his hands , and bowed his head upon them ; and felt , for a moment , as if hisheart were bounding against the heart of his own dear , dearLoena . 
The hair was turned about his fingers . 
The touch recalled him . 
then , was the loveliest of them all ! 
He uncoiled it , drew it through his hand , smoothed it , -- and his fingers thrilled to the bone . 
He remembered it -- that very lock , he was sure , had once parted upon her forehead ; for he once , as they sat together , of a moonshiny night , by a blue fountain that sparkled over its pebbly barrier , and oozed through the abundant moss , like a perspiration of quicksilver ; a feathery and whimsical grouping of light trees playing with the air of heaven , just over their heads , and the dim mountains towering between them and a sky of surpassing brilliancy and distance -- once ! 
on such a night , in such a scene , he had pressed her forehead with his lips , and smoothed her beautiful hair , as it waved , and rose and fell , very slightly , in the fresh air , like satin , rumpled in the wind and dew , and shining in the starlight . 
-- it was the very lock -- that which he had caressed so often and so tenderly . 
An approaching step alarmed him -- with the trepidation of guilt , he attempted eagerly to conceal the hair ; but it was impossible ; it was so entangled with all his fingers : at last he succeeded , and advanced , glittering in his uniform , and blushing to the eyes , with the hair waving in his hand . 
Harold attributed her confusion to hisimposing appearance ! 
a flutter of gratified vanity was the consequence , and he took her hand , sograciously . 
She raised her blue eyes to his -- he dropped her hand , and stood trembling before her . 
His dress was no longer becoming . 
In his warlike Indian garb , so picturesque , so martial , he had no rival -- it seemed made for him -- designed for him -- and hiscarriage , head , and look , seemed made for that ! 
-- and then , how he strode in it ! 
Now -- he would be compared with others , to whom the strange habiliments that he now wore , were familiar . 
How would he stand the comparison ? 
Hitherto his dress had been a standing explanation , and history of his character . 
It was strikingly free and spirited , and accorded admirably , with his swarthy complexion , and eye of unearthly brightness , as if it were the foil , and setting , of some dark jewelry . 
And she -- why stood she thus ? 
-- her queenly aspect overmastering all the woman for awhile : her innate disdain of all puerility , and all the paltry devices of a coxcomb , overtopping for a moment , all her delight and tenderness . 
Harold awoke . 
He would have given his right hand , that he had never seen the detested baubles that encumbered him . 
In his vexation , and disappointment , he could have taken the watch from his pocket , and dashed it upon the floor -- and trampled on it -- and ground it to dust -- as he observed the slight motion of her upper lip , while her eye glanced , scornfully and deliberately , over the chain . 
There she stood ! 
Harold determined to be at ease -- made many desperate efforts , but all were ineffectual . 
He feared to move , lest she might think it a trick for display . 
And he dared not be still , lest she might imagine that he could notmove . 
Did she enjoy his embarrassment ? 
Indeed it were hard to tell ; her , emotions were strangely contradictory . 
He was certainly , even in this uniform , what the ladies would have called an `` elegant fellow , '' but he was not what shehad loved ; the wild Indian boy -- or rather , the Indian prince , whose fierce eye , and untractable spirit , first awakened the lioness in her heart . 
He stood now before her , not in the solitude -- the awful solitude of the wilderness , wrapped in fur , his half naked limbs , full of expression and character , all his sinews quivering with the excess of his natural electricity -- and no matter in what other character he might appear , it seemed to her that he was no longer Harold . 
Elvira addressed a few common-place observations to him -- in a remarkably lady-like , courteous , and unconstrained style -- -LRB- for which , by the way , Harold never forgave her ! -RRB- 
and he gradually sunk upon his seat , stupified and humbled to the earth . 
said he -- `` this woman , this queenly one , can it be that I have strained herto my bosom convulsively -- Can shebe the creature whose warm cheek -- and trembling lips -- and scalding tears , I have heretofore felt upon my own cheeks , for whole minutes -- in one embrace ! 
Harold , troubled and tossed about for weeks and weeks as he thought , now half determined to arise and write to her , -- and now half resolved to buckle on the sternest of his mental panoply -- and forgether -- and scornher . 
Feverish and worried , he at length arose , and at deep midnight , and scrawled a letter to her -- `` Lady ! 
The moment that there was sufficient light to see his way , Harold was upon deck , habited as of old , feeling a new manhood in his frame , a higher and more pervading sense of his own dignity than ever . 
Harold gave him the note , -- and then recalled it . 
It would excite remark , and , with all his habitual indiscretion , there was that innate and delicate sense of propriety , which is always the attendant on pure affection , to restrain him , at such seasons . 
Harold wept ; and who would not weep ? 
O , full well did he know it -- sick , sick at the heart ? 
Every syllable burnt itself into his heart . 
Forgetful of all , of his beloved , yea even of Loena , her who he had loved sotruly , he replied . 
Harold and Elvira stood together , side by side , before she stepped into a magnificent carriage that awaited her , -- about to part for ever . 
She was too thrillingly sensible of his changes -- accustomed always to kindness , and courtesy , the slightest intermission of either was death to her . 
Harold was anxious , yet afraid to touch her hand . 
With much effort , however , he at last stammered out an offer to escort her to her dwelling . 
Harold was in a new world -- he had been compelled , for his own convenience , after all , to adopt the uniform of a French officer , and he was not yet at home in it . 
She leant her head upon his shoulder , and wept . 
Harold took her hand . 
It was motionless and cold . 
`` Elvira , '' said he , as she alighted , `` I can not partso . '' 
Harold -- dearHarold . '' 
and thee , love , '' was his answer , `` for ever and ever ! '' 
Haroldwas on the point of ascending a flight of marble steps , amid all the attendants that were arrayed , by the previous arrangements of a relation , to whom the arrival of Lady Elvira had been made known by the first boat ; -- but he hesitated , he could not -- it was too publick , and all that had passed , seemed whirling , and mingling with the present and future , before his eyes . 
The awful distance to the palace , for so this noble mansion appeared to his inexperienced eyes , and even the throng of busy and happy faces about him , oppressed him with an insupportable feeling of insignificance and melancholy . 
Harold still lingered -- and Elvira , by a significant look , arrested him as he prepared to go , and to a middle aged , handsome man that approached , presented him as colonel De Vandereuil -- Harold started -- `` a French officer , '' -- adding , `` We shall be happy to see you in the evening , colonel -- you will not disappoint us -- the gentleman of the house seconded the invitation with great cordiality . 
-- `` The carriage will convey you whither you order ; '' -- said he , and then entered the house . 
Harold bowed , and sprang down the steps -- but struck by the appearance of a beautiful horse that stood near , with a groom holding it , he flung his arm over the animal 's neck , and began caressing it , with his accustomed ardour . 
Harold blushed , and bowed -- and the creature stood , under his loose rein , and firm seat , stamping , with affected petulance , flinging the thick foam over the servants , and arching his bold neck in the sunshine , as if conscious that he was the admiration of all that stood around , and waiting the signal only , to charge , in thunder and lightning , upon the rabble . 
Another window was raised : -- the sound started the horse , and he plunged headlong down the street , his iron hoofs striking incessant sparkles from the pavement -- while Harold , conscious that he was observed , for he heard a faint , suppressed cry above him , gave him his way without any restraint -- dashed through the crowd , and narrowly escaped collision , with a magnificent equipage that came thundering round the corner of a narrow street ; before his rider , who felt that he had been longer out of practice than he had at first believed , and was still giddy with the motion of the ship -- had recollected himself fully . 
One of his earliest maxims had been , to ride always as if he expected to be thrown -- to be always on his guard ; and he acted upon it , long after it was forgotten , from habit . 
It was but a moment , however , that he was dispossessed of his habitual self-mastery . 
The next , by the sudden compressure of his thighs , he arrested the animal , as instantaneously , as if he had been shot through the heart . 
He reared upright once , and stood stock still , quivering all over ; -- his red nostrils , red as raw flesh , shivering as the hot smoke streamed out , and his heart and lungs sounding in his chest . 
cried a person joining him , with an expression of hearty delight in his honest , broad face , `` you have mastered a colt that never was mastered before . 
I never saw that rascal , '' he continued , endeavouring to get near the horse , and soothe him , but in vain , for he appeared to disdain all caressing , and wheedling -- `` I never saw him in his tantrums , that he did ` nt unhorse -- crack ! '' 
As he uttered this , he slapped his hands together smartly , and Csar leaped upright at the sound . 
Harold , however , though somewhat electrified at this new evidence of rebellion , from a creature that he thought utterly subdued , instantly brought him to his bearings . 
He had no fear of being unhorsed , thatwas an event , not within his experience . 
He had ridden the untrained colt of the desert , without saddle or bridle , whip or thong , and never had he been thrown , never had he fallen , but when the animal tumbled with him . 
Harold heard a good deal of speculation about him . 
Harold wheeled his charger abruptly round , and felt for the hilt of his sword . 
Luckily for him , it was left behind , or the speaker would have been made a head shorter , in the twinkling of an eye . 
Harold moved on , amid a crowd of ragged boys , perpetually augmenting on his way , dodging , and running in an out , among the coal carts , wheelbarrows , and carriages , and shouting `` Hourra for the prince ! '' 
said the irritated Harold , turning short upon him , wearied to death with his importunity and gabble . 
said Harold , in unaffected astonishment . 
`` Certainly -- certainly , my dear fellow -- colonel -- a -- a -- '' Harold could forbear no longer . 
spunging upon him , so unaffectedly -- so unceremoniously ! 
And you shall lead me whither you will , '' said Harold , as soon as he could breathe . 
Harold 's appetite for observation began to revive , as they strolled along the broad and beautiful streets , glittering with equipages , and encumbered , as hethought , with all the magnificent lumber of earth and ocean . 
He was stunned and wearied too , with the perpetual movement about him , the giddy whirl of faces , the infernal clattering , and all his bones ached , with the incessant effort of his muscles to restrain the mettlesome colt . 
This increased , until the throbbing of his temples , and the rattling of his feet in the stirrups , apprised him of his danger . 
He threw himself off -- staggered , and well nigh fainted . 
His limbs were useless -- nor was he aware what desperate muscular action he had used , until it was necessary to use them a little in another way . 
`` You look very pale , '' said his conductor , the Rev. Tom Senclare ; `` What will you drink ? 
said Harold , `` has a duke no humanity ? 
The clergyman looked dreadfully blank . 
`` I suppose , '' said he , playing with his glass , which dangled at the button hole of his waistcoat , that was literally buttonless , with the air of united foppery and nastiness -- `` I supposeyou are not without money . '' 
`` My good fellow , '' said Senclare , becoming every moment more familiar , as he found him more and more helpless , and losing his awe , altogether , in a burst of humanity , `` Come , come , go with me . 
Harold understood nothing of the plan ; but , as he held on the bridle of his horse , he pressed his hand gratefully , and walked on , saying , `` I can not endure this noise . 
And when he saw Harold managing the unconquerable colt , as if he were a part of the animal , it created a sudden and extraordinary emotion in him . 
From that moment , he attached himself to him . 
Here was another case in confirmation of Harold 's characteristick -- he loved to be unexpected . 
Whatever he did , he seemed to do well ; and he knew that thatseeming would be exceedingly enhanced , could his display appear the effect of unquestioned accident . 
Thus , he danced , and walked , and rode , and wrestled , and fenced , remarkably well , and yet no one could charge him with having sought any opportunity for mere display . 
It had been insufferably amusing to Harold , to witness the clumsy attempts of the chaplain at horsemanship , and yet more irresistibly so , to see his round , honest face , shining with such perpetual self-complacency , as he would lean over the bony neck of his pitching and ricketty charger , whose joints rattled like some crazy enginery over a rough pavement , pat him , and caress him , and comb out his grizzly and tangled mane with his fingers , and cry `` woa ! 
as if soothing some unmanageable charger : and this too , while the whip and spur might have been applied to him in vain , after he had been flayed alive . 
Soon after this arrangement , Harold renewed his rambles , merely to kill time , until evening ; but his feet were soon sore with the pavements . 
`` A few months since , '' said he , to himself , `` a savage -- roving the woods of America -- a lover ! 
-- and of whom ? '' 
His reflections became insupportable ; he rambled , he knew not whither ; palaces and churches past before him , and many nations , peoples , and tongues , but they passed as before a sleeping man , in indistinctness and confusion , leaving no vestige behind . 
Harold ascended the steps in silence . 
His heart misgave him , as the light burst upon him , with the sound of many voices : but it was too late , -- he was expected , and the doors were flung wide open before his approach -- and he entered the first of a superb suit , of rooms , all of which were crowded , in a dead silence . 
Was he to be oppressed , dazzled and blinded at once ? 
Harold bowed , and coloured . 
That was nothis name ; and yet , what other name had he ? 
-- Harold scarcely dared to lift his eyes to her face . 
She was glittering in pearl and black -- her dark hair was parted in simplicity , upon her pale forehead , and interlaced with broad bands of threaded pearl , that passed aslant over her temples : her sweeping drapery , her perfect waist , the beautiful dropping of her shoulders , and her look of encouraging frankness , as she promptly extended her hand to him , took poor Harold almost off his feet . 
Harold instantly recovered himself . 
His dark eyes lighted up , and he threw a glance over the faces about him , with all the deliberate leisure and nonchalanceof high fashion . 
They shrunk , however , from his inquisitive look , but admired his composure . 
This was an experiment to him , but he made it the essential rule of his future conduct , never to doubt , never to hesitate -- It being better to offend , by disregarding custom , than by being ignorant of it , particularly of fashionable custom . 
A new face , apparently seeking an opportunity of studying his , without being seen , soon attracted his eye . 
It was , as he caught a glimpse of it , the countenance of one profoundly acquainted with man -- another passed -- It was full of fiery impetuosity -- their eyes met -- an unequivocal expression of pleasure passed over the lips of each . 
All eyes were upon Harold . 
From the first moment that Harold opened his lips , he had fixed his eyes upon him , and kept them there . 
` Astonishing , ' said he , at last , reluctantly withdrawing his eyes -- ` De Vaudreuil ! 
astonishing ! ' 
He moved , and shook his venerable head , with the aspect of royalty , repeatedly , as he renewed his gaze , from time to time . 
The old man touched his elbow , and when he turned and saw Harold , a sudden exclamation of surprise broke from hislips . 
Harold was exceedingly embarrassed . 
How strange it was ; go where he would , he was forever thus watched and assailed . 
No ; for he saw that other strangers were overlooked . 
Turn which way he would , he found himself exposed to the most painful scrutiny -- a perpetual attention too , respectful , it was true , but nevertheless , of a nature terribly irksome to him . 
He felt as if there was henceforth , to be no quiet for him ; no solitude , on this earth . 
He could not be alone . 
He felt as if he were haunted ! 
Some one touched him , in the crowd that passed him , and as he turned , whispered , ` be surprised at nothing ! ' 
He instantly awoke , and pressed a hand convulsively -- ` merciful heaven ! ' 
She passed on , and Harold followed her , and found her occupied by , and occupying , a whole room of really intelligent people . 
Never had he seen her so fascinating , so full of spirit , and grace , and promptitude ; her tone thrilled through and through him , at times . 
He heard voices in low conversation , near him . 
He turned , but there was nobody near him , so occupied . 
Could it be his fancy ? 
Then a pause followed , and after a few moments , the same voice continued , in a whisper , that , had his eyes been shut , Harold would have believed to be within reach of his arm -- ` resemblance ! ' 
it is he , himself -- the whole family . ' 
Harold 's uneasiness at length , became downright irritation . 
To be thus examined , even in kindness , by one who could not brook any examination , seemed to be carrying matters a little too far . 
His face soon showed what was passing in his mind , and the whispers instantly ceased . 
But others , at a distance , were still talking about him , and they paid no regard to his agitation . 
It seemed to give excitement to their remarks ; for as he became more and more impatient , they became more and more earnest and emphatick , in their gesticulation and glances . 
Harold 's patience was now gone . 
He threw up his front , with that lofty and intrepid manner , which was so peculiarly his own , when all his character was about to break out at once -- what was his surprise and mortification ? 
-- there was a general and unqualified burst of recognition , and Elvira looked at him , as if , at that moment , he were actinga part , and had exactly touched out with terrible distinctness , some point , hitherto held inaccessible , of his original . 
` Remember your lesson , Harold ! ' 
said she , coming near him . 
Harold heard her ; and while he wondered the more , at what she said , stood trebly braced for the conflict , as her eyes shone upon him . 
-- and he took her hand , and conducted her to the group , into which , he immediately penetrated , and began a conversation , with three or four , at the same time , partly in French , to a lady , who so addressed him , partly in Spanish , to an officer that was present , and partly in English , of such raciness , energy , and poignancy , that lady Elvira was overpowered , and overwhelmed , with the display . 
Harold was amazed at himself . 
There was a startling energy , a promptitude and readiness in all his thought , that astonished him . 
It was inspiration to him . 
His abruptness of look and language was set off , by an adaptedness of muscle and action , that made him appear to think all over . 
It was a new study to them that were about him ; and his deep , musical voice , without tone or affectation -- the strong emphasis of his unqualified , and apparently unchosen language , full of vigour and power , were absolutely thrilling . 
Whence came these new faculties ? 
True , he had often felt in the war council , the loud prompting of a spirit , anxious alike for distinction in the senate , and the field ; and twice or thrice , had he , under the sudden and ungovernable excitement , produced by wrong or violence , broke out , in their presence , with what they , the men of the woods , the elder of whom had listened , for half a century , unmoved as their own oaks , to the thundering of their mightiest orators -- with what theyconsidered the voice of denunciation and prophecy . 
Their hair rose , and their eyes lightened , as he stood planted before them ; his naked arm outstretched , with every muscle quivering , as he pointed to the track of the depredating white men . 
But then , thatwas at home -- without preparation ; for if he had one moment to prepare , his heart withered , and he shrunk appalled , from the fearful undertaking of Eloquence . 
True , he could debate , and after he had debated with irresistible effect , where no formality or preparation had unsettled or disturbed him , he would quake at the recollection of his own temerity : but then , it was the rashness of a vindictive spirit -- now , he was no longer in an Indian council , but standing under a blue canopy , glittering with other lights than those of heaven -- in a vast apartment , swarming with beautiful apparitions , and peopled with creatures so heavenly fair , that their very thought seemed transparent . 
here , even here , unaccustomed as he was , to the blaze and luxury of fashion and beauty , he was speaking , before he knew it , with such rapidity and effect , in his strong , poetical , and awakening manner , that the priesthood of fashion stood still before him ; and he was soon completely environed by eager and palpitating listeners . 
Was Harold aware of their presence , and accumulation ? 
He did not appear to be -- but , having once mounted his chariot , he couldnot descend , till he had thundered and lightened to his heart 's content . 
He finished , and he started , as from a trance , and the whole room appeared to swim before his eyes -- and the tapestry to be all alive with parting lips , as he recovered , and saw how entirely he was the speakerof the assembly . 
He blushed -- faltered -- attempted an apology -- and his character was instantly established forever ! 
One only thing , Harold then wanted , for consummate happiness . 
The wish was feebly , faintly articulated , but it passed over his fevered heart , like the shadow of something green and cool . 
It was , that his Indian girl were near ! 
The lights burnt dim ; he heard only a confused ringing , and he put his hand to his forehead , and covered his eyes . 
said he , to himself , ` why comes she to my remembrance , now , amid intoxication , and delirium ? 
Harold turned deadly pale , for he heard an echo , as he thought , to his own suppressed groaning . 
She put her hand upon his forehead : and when he lifted his dark , mournful eyes to hers , she fell upon his neck , and wept there . 
He thanked her , pressed her hand , and arose , with lips strongly compressed , and quivering with convulsion , as if he felt , and would stifle , a mortal agony . 
His brain whirled . 
He had been eloquent -- but the spell was broken , his subjects scattered , and his dominion gone . 
He recalled a part of the drama -- he saw himself , distinctly , like a disembodied spirit , pass before him ! 
-- he shuddered -- turned to Elvira , and pointed with his hand . 
-- the same stately , cold silence -- the deep musing of his step -- the folded arms , the haughty lip , rebuking , with an inward scorn , the childish hilarity and revelry about him . 
They stood awe-struck , before a black shadow that declaimed before them , with a simple and strange motion . 
He felt , the next moment , something like a cold serpent , sliding over his heart . 
He was now fronting a group of dancers -- he paused , and lifted his foot , as if he had set it , unshod , naked , upon a coiled adder ! 
` Who can he be ? 
-- curse his familiar impudence ! ' 
-- he cried -- ` let me but reach him , and I will strangle him before her eyes ! 
Gracious heaven ! 
he has taken her hand -- nay , I will abide here -- he holds it too : holds Elvira 's hand , before an assembled multitude ! ' 
This spectacle brought him to his senses at once . 
A tenfold state and solemnity sat upon his brow . 
thathe did , to the extremity of mortal sufferance ; but he was too proud to let any one suspect it -- no ! 
though his heart were dissolving in its own agitation . 
He approached , and attempted to renew the conversation -- but his very voice had changed . 
It was mournful , and deep , and thrilling -- but unsustained -- he was absent , distressed , and his countenance was ashy pale -- but his words were even more composed and steady , than ever . 
no ! 
he could not conceal his agony . 
Harold was a bad player . 
His distress was visible , immediately , where he least wished it to be , to Elvira , herself . 
Others sawit , too , but they attributed it to sudden illness -- She , alone , of all that were near him , felt and knew the real cause . 
As he said this , he extended his hand , as if to feel Harold 's pulse . 
Harold bared his wrist , and stretched his arm over the chair , with a smile ; but the effort to be cheerful , at such a moment , was worse than all . 
His eyes filled , in spite of himself : and he was unable to speak for an instant ; but it was only foran instant -- his soul rose like an abused monarch , and he was himself again ! 
-- master of his feelings , his looks , his tones , and his speech ; but still , above the affectation of appearing cheerful . 
The evening had been , O , how unlike what he had expected -- a time of weariness and pain . 
said Harold , at last , rising abruptly , as if he dared not trust his mind to linger on the thought , and speaking in a low voice to his host , while he bowed to the circle around , without once lifting his eyes to her , the object of all his inquietude . 
His host pressed his hands in silence . 
Harold bowed , and was soon in his own apartment -- ignorant almost by what magick , the removal had been made so quickly and silently , for he had heard nothing , seen nothing , as they thundered along the streets . 
BeholdHarold now in his room -- his head resting upon his hands -- a tear ! 
-- a tear trickling through his fingers . 
that is the pulsation of his heart -- and that -- listen ! 
thatis his breathing , so almost articulate , as if he were suffocating in his sleep . 
` Where am I ? ' 
he cries , striking the table with his hand -- ` what have I done ? 
Yes , I am -- mad , mad , beyond the reach of palliation , or excuse . 
He could not have been a lover -- he isnot -- by heaven , he is not ! 
woe to him , if he be ! 
And yet , damn it , he can not be a relation ; relations do not yearn for such familiarities -- her hand heldin his , unresistingly -- pshaw ! 
who cares for her hand now ? 
Once , it was distinction , to touch it -- shame , shame , on her ! 
Who is he ? 
Harold was now firm of heart . 
Nothing could shake him . 
Once determined , he was forever immovable . 
Composed by this resolution , self-sustained , and self-restored , He slept this night a more refreshing sleep than he had , since he met lady Elvira on board the vessel . 
And this night , for his reward , he dreamt that he held her whom he didlove , though for a while he had forgotten , in the drunken exhilaration of his spirit , her and himself , to his heart ; and felt her bosom throb against his , in purity and love , in timidity and passion , of purity in its perfection , and love in its sublimity . 
He was awakened , in broad day , from a blissful dream , in which he had recapitulated all , allof his transgressions to her , and been forgiven , and blessed -- by a servant , who handed him a note . 
And Harold , of course , was again by the side of Elvira . 
Not , however , the feeble and irresolute creature that he may seem for awhile ; but he was there . 
Her blandishments were , what few could resist , but yet , Harold , whose spirit was now in armour , didresist them . 
He had been told , and he delighted to repeat it -- Beware of precipitate promises , beware of rash resolutions -- Be slow to resolve , but speedy to execute . 
But having once made a resolution , -LRB- as he nowhad to overcome his attachment to Elvira , for Loena 's sake , -RRB- whatever it be , keep it -- keep it , for life and death . 
Such was Harold 's reasoning , and , therefore , it was his way , nay it was his religion , to keep hispromises , good or bad . 
Harold had persuaded himself that it was . 
But he was asked , ` Suppose you had promised to kill a man , would you kill him ? ' 
` Assuredly , ' was his reply . 
They , that heard him , shuddered . 
They forgot to ask , if he would ever promiseto kill a man . 
Because , experience had made him wary . 
He was careful notto promise , because , he knew that he mustpay the penalty of his wickedness and folly , by performance . 
Others might commit murder in their hearts , threaten , and lie , and repent . 
They were contemptible . 
` I have much to communicate to you , ' said lady Elvira , in an impressive tone , as she seated herself by his side . 
` Yes , ' said Harold proudly , ` a Logan . ' 
` Tant pis , ' said Harold , half smiling in scorn , and mockery . 
` Harold , ' said Elvira , reproachfully , ` Harold , you do not wish to hurt myfeelings , I hope . ' 
said he , laying his hand upon her shoulder , and looking her full in the face , ` Yes , Elvira , he was , but in appearance only , not in heart . ' 
` Do you know that he was an Englishman ? ' 
I care not who , or what he was . 
` Patience , Harold , patience . 
cried Harold , leaping upon his feet , and seizing her hand , with the most impassioned earnestness -- ` Lady ! 
` No Harold , believe me . 
You are bewildered ; but , there are the papers , -LRB- as she said this , she opened a secretary , and handed him a bundle ; and Harold fancied , that she turned deadly pale , as she touched them , and that she approached them , with a strange reluctance , nay even with terrour . -RRB- 
` The governour knew the whole , as I have before told thee , and when he died , he gave me a part of these papers , with his own hand , bidding me interest my friends , who are powerful here , in your behalf . 
Nay , do not interrupt me -- I have obeyed him . 
You must prepare yourself , Harold , for playing no second part in the great drama of life . 
Harold tore open the bundle , and soon discovered the miniatures , and pressed the first , without looking at it , to his lips -- his eyes filled -- he wiped them and looked at it -- he wiped them again -- ` My sister ! 
thatmy sister ! ' 
he cried , in a tone of unutterable horrour . 
He groaned aloud : the picture fell from his hand , and he sat staring at Elvira , his noble countenance full of preternatural vacancy and terrour . 
She shrieked aloud , at his aspect . 
His eyes were motionless , and , as her hand approached him , he shuddered , and shrank from her , and his knees smote together . 
what ails thee Harold , dear Harold ? ' 
she said ; but he gave no answer ; he only covered his ears with his hands , as if he had gone raving mad , at the sound of her voice . 
` There , Harold , there ! 
Harold ! 
Harold ! 
She held the miniature to his eyes -- they shut involuntarily ; she shook him ; and , at last , a deep sigh burst from his labouring heart ; he attempted to rise , and walk , but he did not appear to feel the floor ; his joints yielded , and he fell . 
said he , putting his hand faintly to his forehead , upon which the thick clammy moisture of death was standing , ` where am I ? 
cried Harold , poring devoutly over the beautiful picture , ` such serene dark eyes ? 
` What do you laugh at , Harold ? 
Harold . 
While he was speaking , he took the other miniature from the hand of Elvira , who appeared unable either to look at it or relinquish it . 
He turned his eyes to it -- he appeared bewildered for a moment -- he put his hand to his forehead -- he held the picture at different lengths , now afar off , and now near , with a continually increasing astonishment , now shutting his eyes , and now turning them off , as if unwilling to believe his senses -- ` By heaven , and all its angels ! ' 
he cried , at last , in a loud voice , springing from his seat , ` it is he ! ' 
-- -LRB- the picture dropped from his hands into her lap , -RRB- is thatthe picture of mybrother ? 
` Again , Harold ! 
cried Harold , plucking down her agitated hands . 
Harold told her when , and where , he had met the original of the picture . 
She could not believe him . 
Harold , by my hope of salvation , I do tell thee that it couldnot be ; I should have felt Oscar 's presence thrilling my very blood , had he been so near me . ' 
` Stay , ' said Harold , ` perhaps thiswill assure thee . ' 
` I found these , ' said he , ` upon the deck , after he left me ; I saw him throw away a handful of paper , but the wind blew a part of them back to us . 
it is true , true , ' she answered , in a broken voice , ` but stay , ' -LRB- she began to read here , and the colour came and went , with terrifying rapidity over her face , -RRB- ` O yes ! 
yes ! ' 
she cried , clasping and lifting her blue eyes to heaven -- Father ! 
Harold attempted to read them again , and succeeded in decyphering a few legible sentences . 
-- -- The tears fell fast from the beautiful eyes of Elvira , as she assisted , in assembling the fragments , and decyphering them , which she did , with an avidity and readiness , that Harold afterwards thought extraordinary . 
` That was thybrother , Harold , ' said she , as he deposited them again in his pocket-book , ` thine own brother ; and never walked there , upon this earth , a more god-like spirit . 
Thou art fashioned like him , Harold , and the lesson should sink deep , very deep , into thy soul . ' 
Harold was chilled to the heart . 
The hand of Elvira was upon Harold 's arm ; and already had he learnt somewhat of the feelings that are fraternal -- his passionate , tumultuous , overwrought sensations were chiefly allayed , or assuaged ; and now , he was doubly thankful that he had thus anticipated , as it seemed , the resolution of Elvira , -- and taught his heart a new lesson of constancy , while it was yet apparently in his power to be inconstant . 
Harold understood the silent pressure of her hand upon his arm -- but he , too , could not utter a word ; his heart was too full . 
Harold , who had begun to endure the scrutiny of his eyes with tolerable composure , bowed in silence . 
It was irksome to be interrupted at such a moment , with the matters of the world -- and insufferably so , if not impious , he thought , to touch upon lighter affairs , in a season of such religious beauty . 
The fine countenance of the old man was illuminated with a most benignant smile , as he observed the imploring of Harold 's eye , when he bowed his assent ; and still more was he pleased , when Harold , as he began , threw himself back in his seat , pulled his hat over his eyes , as if to hide his emotion , and sat , with his arms folded , listening to what affected him so thrillingly . 
-- If you choose to retain your commission , which seems to be a somewhat questionable one , to say nothing of its danger -- you will be colonel Cumberland ; or , if you will indulge usso far , we will delight to recognize you as Harold of Salisbury . 
Harold feltthe rebuke . 
His heart rose in his throat . 
-- There is -- and Harold felt it . 
Harold was constituted of such materials as martyrs are compounded from . 
But , like others , his visitations were forgotten . 
Whatever kindness came unexpectedly to him , he was grateful for : but his gratitude diminished , as the cause increased . 
He seemed thankful for nothing that was habitual and familiar to him ; to grow insensible of aught but special favours , and to become weary , even of acknowledgment . 
Nay worse -- even the cold , lifeless , habitual exercise of devotion , became inexpressibly irksome , and dissatisfactory to him , -LRB- for while he felt it so , his heart reproached him for it ;-RRB- if heaven were indulgent , for any continued time , to his infirmities and wants . 
From his very boyhood , any unexpected incident , seeming like kindness , in Him who is habitually kind , in things where we are most insensible -- good fortune , no matter of what nature -- an escape from a precipice , or a wild beast -- the meeting of one that he loved , would prostrate him upon his face , in the dim solitude , and he would pray , as the children of nature always do pray , in breathless and awful silence , pouring out his very heart in thankfulness . 
But , in adversity -- in calamity , Harold was apt to forget his God ; to rely upon himself alone . 
To pray then , seemed to him , in his strange language , like coaxinghis Maker . 
` He knows what is best for me -- is unchangeable , and why need I importune him ? ' 
Harold was young yet -- thoughtless , and obstinate . 
He knew not then , for he had never asked himself the question , that a father may appoint some mode of application , for his child to pursue in his petitioning , even when he knows every of its wants , and has already resolved upon his course . 
Harold was none of those that suffer their conscience to repeattheir condemnation , over and over again . 
On this occasion he felt that he had been forgetful of his kindest benefactor , his truest friend , and he determined , on the spot , no longer to stifle the natural gushings of an affectionate spirit , toward that good and great Being . 
Here began the reformation , the radical and thorough reformation of Harold . 
His heart was sore with its own effort to purify itself , and had been so , for a long while ; but never had he seriously and solemnly undertaken to cleanse it of all impurity and wickedness till now . 
His first step was his self-denial respecting Elvira ; thataccomplished , all others were easy in comparison . 
He appears to be strongly attached to you , Harold -- but I must apprise you that he has been delirious at times , and that he prophecies much evil against you . 
You smile -- but he says that you shalldie a violent and sudden death ; and bids you be prepared for it , declaring that heis commissioned to tell you so . 
` He iscommissioned , ' said Harold , solemnly . 
Harold had kept his eye upon it for some time , watching it , as the carriage gradually rose and sunk , in the undulating and circuitous road , by which they wound up the beautiful hill upon which it was built . 
A thunder shower had just passed off , and there was a transparency in all the green things about , surpassing all that Harold had ever seen . 
The foliage looked , or at least so Harold loved to conceit , as if it were thankful for having been newly washed from the dust , and gave out its beauty and freshness , as an offering to Him , who had just purified the air and earth . 
Harold had the eye of a painter , although he could not paint ; the heart and soul of a poet , although he held , to his dying day , that it was no proof of ardent , pure , or natural feeling , nay , nor of religious feeling , to talk over your raptures , at such a moment , either in verse or prose . 
Harold was startled from hisreverie , by the stopping of the carriage . 
Reader , let us stop with him . 
The old man 's eyes were yet upon his countenance , with a smile of complacency , as if he understood and approved his meditations . 
Harold offered to assist Elvira -- she was deadly pale , spoke not , but gave him her cold hand , and alighted . 
Elvira whispered something to her , and then gently led her to Harold . 
Caroline raised her sweet , clear , timid , innocent eyes ; and Harold dropped upon his knees before her . 
Some , with sidelong look and averted faces , were adjusting the vines , at the long window shutters , directly fronting Harold , although theywere in the nicest order , because next the road -- while others , which were behind him , were utterly neglected , although in need of all their attention . 
Harold observed all this , and felt an innocent gratification in detecting the artifice . 
Every face looked kindly upon him ; but he was more especially gratified , when a decrepid old woman , of amazing vivacity and almost blind , stood before him . 
She trembled all over at the touch of his hand , and when he spoke , she uttered a faint cry . 
-- aye , go where ye will , the world over , ye would know one of the blood , by his voice . 
Were I blind and deaf , I could tell him -- yes , that I could , -LRB- running as she said this , her trembling , withered , little hand , over his high forehead , and peering closely in his face -RRB- -- by the touch alone . 
` Young man , ' said she , ` my master -- Salisbury -- Cumberland -- Harold , or whatever may be thy name , God is good . 
` Sir , ' cried Harold , respectfully -- ` Spare me . 
Her terrour , -- a feeling that Harold was very apt to excite at first , by his stern expression , and erect , imperious carriage , was fast melting away , before the thought of the affectionate girl . 
He put his lips to her white forehead ; and it crimsoned all over , like a flash of red fire -- her very neck and bosom grew ruddy too . 
Harold 's eyes sparkled with pleasure . 
said he , and solovely . 
Mr. Hammond turned a look of approbation upon him , and was silent ; not , it was evident , that he was intimidated by Harold 's reply , or sorry , or exhausted , but merely because he had said all that the occasion seemed to require . 
He never lost an opportunity of thissort . 
yet , she was repeating the attempt , when a harp suddenly sounded in the apartment above , like the snapping of a chord -- she started from her seat , and an involuntary exclamation of terrour broke from her lips -- and even Caroline , Harold thought , looked paler than usual ; but , unacquainted as he was , with the delicate proprieties of life , he had an instinctive and quick perception of what is proper on such occasions , and therefore took no notice of the sound , nor of the emotion and dismay that it seemed to have caused . 
In exclamations like these , so fervent , and unpremeditated , Harold , who knew little and cared less , for all the artificial distinctions of men , could mingle all the immortality of his nature . 
His bible he had read , but not as a critick -- not as a theologian -- not as a votary of science -- no , but , as one who was affected by its simplicity , and uplifted by the sublime walking of its spirit . 
Therefore did Harold , in the first yearning of his heart for higher attainments , learn to abhor and reject whatever was inscrutable and mysterious as either unnecessary or pernicious , in morals and religion , just as in the commonest affairs of life . 
-- thatwas his favourite . 
It was his religion in so many words ; a religion too , from which , if he departed under some fierce and unexpected excitement , his heart never let him rest , until he had returned to it again . 
echoed Harold -- long , and long after his companion had forgotten his own voice . 
Harold was not trying how well he could express the thought of his nature at such a moment , but rather he spoke as if the thought would have way , as if it had fashioned itself in the solitudes of his heart , associated itself with a resemblance , like a chosen and natural companion , and then burst , spontaneously , into being . 
responded Harold , devoutly . 
There was an energy in his manner , too convincing to be doubted . 
I can now look back upon allmy disappointments , and trace them step by step , to their consequences and causes , said Harold , ` until I can see them end in something beneficial . 
Yes , I do believe , that I am , at this moment , the better and happier , for what I once thought would break my heart , or had broken it -- events , which I did not wish to survive , ' said Harold . 
` My own experience , sir , short as it is , ' answered Harold , ` has taught me this ; to look with distrust upon all events . 
` I am amazed at thy simplicity , Harold . 
Harold stood leaning over the gate , under a huge oak , and listening , with all his soul , to the calm , honest speculations of his companion , respecting lotteries , and gambling , and monuments . 
cried Harold , at length ; ` but what respect can men have for such laws ? 
` A debtor is not deterred from adventuring desperately in a lottery ; on the contrary , just in proportion to his emergencies will be his spirit of adventure . 
He will invest his funds , as a sure resource , in lottery tickets , reasoning thus : ` What I win is mine ; what I lose is my creditors ' . 
In the former case , he goes on , and flourishes away , till new distresses drive him to a repetition of the same adventure ; in the latter , he becomes a bankrupt . 
It is no reproach to have grown rich by a prize ; hence , he is not to be deterred from the lottery office , though he be from the gaming table . 
generally , from the poor and needy ; them that are not his equals , and can not afford to lose . 
Nay , from men who have starved their families to raise the money , which he has won . 
he repeated again , laying his hand affectionately upon Harold 's uncovered head . 
` I have seen that very star in daylight , ' said Harold -- it is an old acquaintance of mine ; at least , so it appears , even in this hemisphere . ' 
Harold trembled -- ` It is very mournful , ' said he -- ` gracious heaven ! 
Harold quaked as if he were communing with some spiritual one , and saw all the mystery and terrour of the charnel house , laid slowly open before his eyes . 
said Harold , ` but I could almost believe that my own dear mother , to whom I am sure , my father , when he was happy , taught that song , was visiting me . 
and Harold heard it for the first time . 
There was nothing artificial , nothing difficult , even to his ear , in the serene and thrilling modulations . 
It died away , and he stood like one entranced , waiting on tip toe , to catch the first sound of something heavenly in its approach . 
A momentary intermission , and then followed a recitative so expressive , so sweet , and so passionate withal , that he clasped his hands involuntarily , and the tears stood in his eyes -- the voice rang in his very heart , like the note of a silver bugle , blown at midnight , over the dim water . 
` Let us go in , Harold -- the night dews are heavy , ' said the old man , taking his arm . 
They entered , and Caroline timidly gave her hand to Harold , who , scarcely daring to believe that a form so frail , a countenance so delicate and meek , could have poured out such a profusion of sound , with such compass , and power , and yet with such exquisite and feeling modulation , threw his arm around her beautiful waist , and said in a low , agitated voice , ` wasit thy voice , Caroline ? ' 
Harold 's ` rapt soul was sitting in his eyes ; ' he dwelt upon hers , and their intensely deep expression of tenderness : their hue had changed , they were almost black , and when her long sweet toning , which appeared so natural , and so endless , as if her breath would never fail her , growing louder and clearer , without effort or suspension ; -- with her forehead elevated , her eyes uplifted , and her lashes glistening -- when all this awoke before him , Harold could have thrown himself upon her bosom , sobbing with delight , and called her his own , his only sister . 
It was now time to separate -- Harold pressed her pure forehead , and turned to depart . 
` O , no , Harold -- no ! ' 
cried Harold , inaudibly -- the sound was sodelightful to him -- to be at home , at last , when he had looked for it only in the green earth . 
Here was his sister -- a creature sprung up , all at once before him , as if by enchantment ; a flower found in a desolate place , by running water -- Their friends had gone , gone in silence , and Caroline and Harold sat , holding each other 's hands , and watching their carriage , as it rolled away through the dim avenue , the harness here and there glittering , for a brief moment , in the moonlight , and the wheels alternately rattling over the stone bridge , or cutting with a dull , heavy sound , their path through the fine wet sand . 
Caroline was leaning , with a mingled sensation of love and shame , delight and modesty , upon his shoulder , -- her sweet face lifted to heaven , with the dewy traces of recent weeping yet to be seen , about her smooth eyes . 
said Harold , softly pressing her to his bosom . 
Harold was thoughtful -- ` why , how is this ? ' 
said he , ` do you recollect our father ? ' 
` No , I never saw him , ' answered Caroline , trembling . 
` The last time my mother met him , it was unexpectedly . 
He had been in the east , as she then supposed -- and he departed immediately after I was born . 
We have never heard of him , or from him , since . ' 
Harold knew not that his father had ever returned , even for an hour , from America ; but now he recollected that there was a story among his enemies that he had died , and was buried ; and that two or three autumns afterward he reappeared ; and was found , sitting upon his own grave , by some hunters , who had wandered and tracked him in the frost and leaves . 
Harold , dear , dearHarold -- -LRB- she kissed him with a convulsive lip -RRB- beware of his example . 
O , he was too like thee , I fear -- and thou art too like him , I am told . ' 
So , good night , Harold ! ' 
Saying this , she arose , and , Harold reluctantly prepared to obey , as she touched the bell ; but she arrested him , adding with a serious countenance , ` stay , dear brother -- there are some old habits , notions , repugnances to be overcome in this family -- and the sooner we begin to overcome them , the better . 
` Thank you , thank you , Harold ! 
Every thing within it , every thing , I believe , is exactly as he left it . 
You will sleep in the same bed -- read the same books -- by the same lamp -- and , ' she added , cheerfully patting his arm , ` by and by , we will sit and sing together , as he and I used to -- poor Oscar ! 
do you sing , Harold ? ' 
O , Harold ! 
cried Harold , raising his arm , ` and what did Oscar then ? ' 
-- O , Harold ! 
-- Harold -- I could not bear to lose thee ! 
-- I loved him with all his faults , and he was very stern and awful to me at times . 
But I loved him , when all else had ceased to love him ; and I will love thee , my brother , wert thou more terrible than was ever Oscar -- redder -- aye , redder with the blood of mine own heart -- of him I so loved ! 
Harold caught her in his arms -- bore her to the window , where she soon recovered . 
She then rang the bell , and , with her own hand , lighted him to his apartment . 
Her tread faltered as she entered -- and she leant more heavily upon his arm , and trembled , as he thought . 
A table , with musick open , lay before it ; a candle partly burnt down ; a flute ; a dirk ; from which Mary turned her eyes with a quick shudder , as Harold laid his hands upon it . 
Harold paused . 
Harold could not forbear looking up to it , and dwelling upon the deep composure of its countenance , the far thought that seemed impatiently working itself upward from the depth of a mighty heart , and the yearning eagerness of look , as of one intent upon wonderful things . 
` How like his attitude and bearing in life , ' exclaimed Harold , locking his hands , ` so stern , so high , so cold ! 
rebuking all around him into silence and awe . ' 
Harold . ' 
Harold threw himself upon a couch ; but it was in vain to think of sleeping . 
He arose , and set his lamp in the niche , and his thoughts took a course , in which they had long been familiar , over the wide Atlantic , to his Indian girl . 
` O , Loena ! ' 
that thou couldst write to me , or I to thee ! ' 
He arose and walked the room , waxing feverish , as he reflected on the time that must elapse , in a season of war , before he could know aught of her destiny . 
-- E. ' This was sufficient for Harold ; he shrank from a further examination of the words , satisfied that they were the language of love . 
He next observed the green cloth that covered the desk ; that too , was stiff and dark , as if saturated with -- he shuddered -- his brain grew dark -- perhaps this was the very room where the murder was perpetrated -- it was -- it must be so -- and thatwas the very dagger ! 
said he . 
cried Harold , convulsively retreating from it , fearing even to set his foot upon the floor , as if it were yet slippery , -- to lay his hand upon a chair , lest he might find it adhesive , when he would pluck it away . 
It came , like a blessing , to his forehead and lips ; but , as he threw aside the heavy white curtains , to obtain a freer view of the prospect , he observed a deep shadow upon them , a shadow which remained after he had separated the folds ; he laid his hand upon it , it was harsh and unpleasant to the touch ; he revolted , as his hand came in contact with it , and then , like one maddening in delirium , impatient to know the worst at once , he ran to the bed and threw down the sheets , expecting to find a body bleeding and wounded in his very bed -- he was beside himself , indeed , with fear ; but he was disappointed . 
` But why are they left thus ? ' 
Harold attempted to speak , but he could utter no sound . 
Could he have been deceived ? 
Was it not the very form and attitude of his dead brother ? 
The light again shone out , and the spectre reappeared in the same place -- he approached it with a leap , and as hethought , passed through it ! 
His blood curdled , and his knees smote together at first ; nor was it until he had uncovered his eyes , and changed his position , that he discovered the truth -- it was his own shadow upon the wall ! 
The hot blood rushed over his cheeks , as he made the discovery -- ` accursed effects of education , ' he cried , ` how terribly have I been unmanned , again and again , with some such delusion as this ; and yet I have no more command of myself now , than I had in my childhood , when I used to hear of spectres , and devils . ' 
it is no wonder that he shook . 
It was his own destiny . 
The hand writing was new to him . 
It was a bold , strong , uniform character ; and Harold , who had long observed that all our habits are but an epitome of our character , felt instantly convinced that the writer was alike , intellectually bold , and uniform . 
It was a letter of advice , and opinion , and related , Harold soon found reason for believing , to Oscar . 
It described some young man , as compounded of the most contradictory and heroick qualities ; -- suspicious , yet full of unexampled confidence at times ; generous , and magnanimous , yet revengeful to an excess ; unsparing and deadly in his hostilities , yet risking his life and soul for the benefit of his mortal enemy ; courting danger and difficulty ; delighting in contradiction and paradox in all sciences , and on all subjects ; eloquent , passionate , persevering ; superstitious to the last degree , and subject to such tremendous transports of rage , that they had finally destroyed him . 
Allusions were darkly made to some mysterious crime -- but as if it were perpetrated in delirium . 
A word was here very carefully obliterated , but still Harold was able to discover that it was a name , and if he were not led wildly astray , it was the name of Elvira . 
Shewas living . 
His agitation prevented him , for some minutes , from continuing the inquiry ; and when he did , he fell upon the following , in another hand : ` A part is here omitted , my dear , it remains in my possession , however , and , when necessary , shall be put into your hands . 
For myself , I am satisfied that he thinks her dead -- and it would be well to suffer the room to remain exactly as it is -- precisely -- with all its terrible array of furniture and blood -- even to the spots and stains , where it spouted upon the window curtains . 
Harold was amazed at many resemblances between the feelings of Oscar , as described , and his own . 
The next in order , was a short letter , so very hurried , and broken , that Harold was barely able to decypher the following : -- -- O , what a trial ! 
There were still many letters and billets and fragments of manuscript behind , which Harold carefully collected and laid aside for future perusal ; but in tumbling them over , to find some connected detail , of the melancholy transaction , which , in its indistinctness was so thrilling , he fell upon a little note , literally glued to the fragment of another , written with a lead pencil , evidently in the extremest agitation , upon the leaf of some book , and soaked with blood -- and marked at the edge with the print of bloody fingers . 
the characters are clotted -- no matter -- if we must have miracles -- why , the more the -- ' The paper was torn here ; and Harold , drowsy and yet unable to compose his agitated mind to sleep , threw himself back in the sopha , and fell to ruminating . 
A strange terrour , like a wintry chill , stole slowly over him ; a something , as if a sea of cold water were rising , like a tide about him , higher and higher , as he shivered , to the region of his heart . 
Harold let his hand fall from his forehead -- it struck the handle of the dagger . 
He started , as if it had fallen upon a coiled serpent , and , as he did , whether it was the jar of his sudden motion , or what , he knew not , there awoke a deep , thrilling , and spontaneous vibration of the harp strings , followed by a loud crash , as if a heavy hand had that instant been taken from them . 
He turned aside with a feeling of horrour , that he was unable to suppress , holding the dagger in his hand -- his eye rested on it -- and , in the momentary delirium that followed , he strove , as he afterwards , said , to disengage his fingers from it , but he could not , for some moments ! 
-- at length , with a convulsive , desperate effort , he hurled it from him , and with such force , that it stood quivering in the wall -- the light hastily flashed in the action of his arm -- it struck , point first , as a murderer 's knife always will , and glimmered , with a convulsive tremulous motion , in the moonlight . 
Could he be dreaming ! 
was hemad too ? 
He knew not -- but , as he stood , overwhelmed with horrour and dismay , the figure of a man emerged from the solid wall , walked sternly and leisurely athwart the chamber , plucked the dagger out , and disappeared ! 
just as Harold uttered a shriek , leaped forward , and fell senseless upon his face , as he put his hand upon the wall , probably to determine if his sight had not deceived him . 
Caroline , it seemed , had been awakened by the noise of the harp , and the shriek -- and Harold could not bring himself to alarm her with the rest , until he was satisfied in his own mind . 
As soon as he was able , therefore , he went to the room , and examined the wall . 
Desperate with ten thousand wild and fantastick apprehensions , and ashamed to betray the weakness that shook him , even to the eye of Caroline , he ordered his baggage to be removed to the room for a permanent residence . 
Night approached , and with it , a preternatural coldness . 
Could it have been by the touch of the spectre that he had seen ? 
A force more than mortal was certainly required , and he remembered the deep sullen reverberation that startled him , when no human being was near the instrument , for he had hardly taken his eye off of it , in his abstraction , for a moment . 
In the feelings that followed -- so awful and yet so active , that they were remembered with a singular mixture of pleasure -- like danger from which we have miraculously escaped , Harold flew for relief to the remaining letters , that he had left in the desk -- He opened it , but they were gone ! 
-- This was another inscrutable mystery ; for he knew that no servant would have dared to enter the apartment , and his sister had accidentally mentioned but an hour before , that she had not the courage to come into it alone . 
Harold sat down upon the sopha ; and as he did , his hand fell upon a bundle -- he took it to the light , in the sudden hope that it was what he had lost , but it was not . 
It was well secured , and appeared to have been preserved with great care , for it was bound up in leather that was literally worn through , and chafed away at the corners , like a pocket-book that has been long used . 
Among them , three , in hand writings that were new to him , lay folded together . 
cried Harold , as he finished . 
There was a strange , indefinable interest awakened in Harold 's mind by these letters , and he hurried to the third , with a tremulous hand , in the hope of understanding more fully the event alluded to , which seemed so to have tried the love and respect of Oscar 's friends . 
-- said Harold , aloud -- `` then was she mine -- `` Dear Caroline -- would I might know thy fate before I sleep : -- I am impatient for morning . '' 
-- Saying this , he threw himself upon the couch , but the state of his mind prohibited all repose . 
He was fain to arise , and rifle the bundle of letters , which had hitherto lain untouched , at his side . 
-- The first one that he opened -- and the first upon the bundle , began thus -- `` I have seen him , dear Mary , and am exceedingly disappointed . 
These are almost his very words . 
You see how direct and unshrinking he is . 
But I like him the better for that . 
I am very anxious to hear him read -- if his voice and manner be what you say they are , thenwe must endeavour to make him sing . 
But no -- we shall not succeed -- one of his last remarks , I recollect , was on this subject -- and you will smile when you know to whom it was addressed , and when -- Mr. -- had just finished his admirable song , your favourite -- Salisbury looked him in the face -- and told him , in a deliberate voice , that it was a reproach to him to sing so well . 
And all that I say is this -- a humble prayer -- that if I amto be a mother -- our Father , who is in heaven , will qualify me to discharge the ample obligations of one -- The next letter that Harold found -- was sealed with black -- his hand shook as he opened it . 
Harold could read no further . 
He was blinded by his tears . 
The mystery was solved -- he shut his eyes -- and contemplated the whole anew . 
How like his own fate ! 
Alas , Harold knew not how potent is the rebuke of heaven to the imperious and lofty of heart . 
Harold saw it , and read , with trembling joints , like the Babylonish monarch , a preternatural warning , on the solid wall , before him -- It was the fate of himself -- the history of his brother . 
Every limb of his frame shook : he arose , and attempted to fortify himself by recalling the past -- and stretching toward the future . 
There was no past -- to him . 
There was no present -- for while he lifted his foot to take possession of it -- it had vanished ! 
But Harold slept at last ; and a sweet , refreshing sleep it was to him ; the first for many nights . 
Nay , he slept so long , that the sun stood , curbing his red steeds , upon the very keystone of the zenith -- that is , it was about noon , when Harold arose . 
A gentle tap at the door awoke him . 
He had dreamed , but a moment before , of the rattling of carriage wheels . 
He was terrified -- and , when he looked at his watch , stared , much as one of the seven sleepers probably would , in looking at an almanack when heawoke . 
He found Caroline expecting him in the parlour -- `` My dear brother ! '' 
said she , the tears starting into her beautiful eyes , as he caught her hands , and held the dear little fingers again and again to his lips . 
She was pale -- very pale -- and had slept little -- Harold was speaking of it when Mr. Hammond himself entered -- followed by a man , with whose carriage Harold was exceedingly struck . 
He was a tail thin man -- with a very dark , melancholy eye , thick lashes , and black , strong brows -- with something severe , yet not forbidding , in his countenance , and , on the whole , a physiognomy -- particularly when he talked , for his voice was musick , and his smile warmth -- singularly interesting . 
`` It is Oxford , '' said Caroline , softly , -- watching the direction of Harold 's eyes . 
cried Harold -- `` Well , he is the very man that I most wished to see , and exactly what I expected to see . '' 
Saying this , he immediately addressed himself to him , but was thunderstruck at the emotion that Oxford betrayed , the moment that he distinctly heard his voice . 
His dark eyes filled -- his lip trembled -- and he arose and walked to the window , in silence . 
said Harold , emphatically . 
as Harold , laying his hand lightly on the mane of his horse , threw himself into the seat , without touching the stirrup ; and galloped off , down the green slope , yielding and swaying to the motion of the animal , as if the two , horse and rider , were one body , governed by one will ; while the creature struck his iron-bound hoofs into the flint walk , till the fire flew out as thickly , as from a blacksmith 's forge , and his glistening and beautiful tail flourished , like a banner of white combed silk , behind . 
`` Tell me , I pray you , then , '' said Harold , with eagerness and solemnity , `` tell me of Oscar . 
`` Harold ! '' 
Harold was silent with admiration and respect . 
At times nothing could move him -- he would sit , moping , for days and days , under that old tree , where we turned off '' -- Harold remembered it -- it was very grand and beautiful -- `` at others , nothing could daunt or intimidate him -- or quell his activity . 
And then followed the time , Harold -- when thy brother was a more dangerous man to hiscountry -- than was ever Csar or Cataline to his . 
you are pale -- are you ill , Harold ? '' 
I knew it not for some time . 
He was deeply involved in a litigation , which threatened to deprive him of his patrimony . 
To this , I attributed his melancholy . 
Harold -- old as I am -- I could weep like a child , at the recollection . 
The horses were standing stock still , and Harold , grasping the hand of Mr. Hammond , was listening with the most breathless attention . 
Harold struck his spurs home -- and his horse leaped off , like an old hunter at the cry of hounds . 
-- `` Surely , I have as littleas you could desire , '' answered Harold , as soon as he could get his breath -- `` and yet , I could listen forever , to you , on this theme . '' 
said Harold . 
Harold looked at the old man , whose dark blue eyes were lighted up -- and the pupils seemed enlarging , while he raised his trembling hands to heaven , in the earnestness of his asseveration . 
articulated Harold , `` would that I resembled thee entirely ! '' 
I can not proceed -- wait a moment -- let me recall the distressing prelude -- '' As he said this , the old man turned aside his horse , for a moment , and passed the back of his hand over his eyes -- and affected to be disturbed by the dust -- and his voice quavered when he renewed the tale -- `` She loved him , passionately -- passionately , I am sure . 
But his countenance -- O , Harold ! 
-- `` Pray Sir -- let me interrupt you one moment , '' said Harold , here -- `` I have met that Lady , I am sure -- your description reminds me of her , most forcibly -- but her name , if I remember , was not Octavia . 
`` An explanation followed , and Harold found that Octavia was the sister of that wild , careless creature , whom he had been so delighted with , on board the ship . 
We found the door fastened within , and I ordered it to be burst open -- Harold ! 
-- O , Harold , the desolation , the convulsive blackness that descended upon me , as I thought of it , is inconceivable . 
`` Harold -- I have been in many trying situations -- many of peril and death ; but never was I so completely overcome , so utterly dismayed and prostrate , as at that moment ; nothing could have affected me more , I am sure -- except my own arraignment , at the last day . 
My lords , I have been closeted every night -- in imagination -- with the dead body -- but I am getting unintelligible -- ' `` The Court shed tears -- '' The attention of Harold was here suddenly arrested by a shot , which wounded Mr. Hammond 's horse -- and , the next moment , three ruffians dashed through the hedge , and planted themselves before Harold -- but Mr. Hammond , carried off by the wounded horse , which he was unable to arrest , was instantly beyond their reach . 
A blunderbuss was levelled , and discharged after him -- but Harold had the satisfaction to see that it was without any effect -- The foremost presented a pistol -- `` Deliver ! 
Sir , '' said he , and the others prepared to second his demand . 
said Harold : and put his hand very leisurely into his bosom . 
One of the robbers saw the motion , and would have brought him down with his pistol on the spot , had not his companion , struck with the singular steadiness of Harold 's youthful countenance , interfered at the instant . 
`` Young men , '' he continued , `` your object is money . 
Harold continued , unmoved -- ready to dismount , at a moment 's warning , and preparing for a mortal conflict , as he went on -- `` If you rob me , you must kill me -- and I will promise you to take , at least , one of your number along with me -- do your best . 
As he uttered these words -- he stood suddenly upon his feet , before them ! 
with a pistol in his hand -- and his horse was thundering along the high road . 
Harold smiled . 
`` You see , '' said he , `` in what an unprofitable affair you have engaged . 
`` My honest fellow '' -- said the first , amazed at Harold 's composure , `` you must be damned poor -- will a few guineas be of any service to you ? 
said Harold -- sternly . 
`` Do -- if you are disposed , '' -- was Harold 's reply . 
cried his companion -- `` damn the fellow -- he is some poet -- come along -- and leave him to his rehearsals ! '' 
The man stared -- `` By the Lord , you are right , Billy , '' said he , `` I never thought of that ! 
Harold could not , for his soul , help laughing : there was somewhat so irresistibly droll in the profound bow , with which the fellow , after staring at him for a second or two , took his leave . 
They disappeared across the country , and Harold pursued his way with his pistol in his hand , till , in the mere listlessness of his mind , he happened to look into the pan -- there was no powder in it ! 
He looked about , and had the pleasure of seeing his own , with a peasant upon it , armed ; -- as he approached , he presented his pistol to Harold -- and it was some minutes before each was satisfied that the other was not a highwayman . 
At last , however , they succeeded in explaining themselves ; and Harold mounted , and continued walking on until they heard the quick report of fire arms , at a great distance , in the direction which Mr. Hammond had fledin , as Harold thought , with much joy , yet some little indignation , for he did not then know that the horse was wounded . 
Harold threw away his pistol -- caught that of the farmer out of his hand , and put his horse to full speed , telling him to follow as he could . 
At the very next turn he encountered a carriage and four -- but one of the leaders was wounded , and fell just as Harold appeared : -- he heard a continual shriek , and seeing a man , at a distance , engaged with two others , he rode to his relief . 
As he approached , he was recognised -- and all hands turned upon him -- he brought one man down -- but his horse fell -- and had he not caught the sword that was raised to thrust him through , while he was entangled in the stirrups -- and the ruffian was afraid to approach too near the struggling horse -- with his hand , at the expense of being cut through sinew and bone almost -- he would have been killed upon the spot . 
-- he tore it away , and giving the wretches no time to load their pistols , he dealt about his blows , with such effect , that he stretched a second at his feet , in the twinkling of an eye -- the other flung his broken rapier at Harold 's head , with a hearty curse , for a poet , and scampered over the fields . 
Harold attempted to pursue him -- but he was too weak -- he was wounded -- and yet he had never felt the weapon , nor knew when or how it happened . 
He fainted -- and when he came to his senses , all traces of the past were obliterated . 
He was in a strange room -- and the voice of a child only was heard , whispering its musick , in a tone that thrilled into his heart , on the far side of the room . 
Harold drew the curtains , gently , and just so as to peep through . 
Where was he ? 
said some female in a faint voice -- as if in prayer . 
She arose , and he fell back upon his pillow , and shut his eyes , willing to enjoy a little longer , the luxury of his situation . 
She approached -- drew the curtain -- and leaned over him . 
He felt her gentle breath stirring his hair -- her patient , soft , delicate hand , touching , quietly and tenderly , along his brow -- socaressingly -- soaffectionately -- that he caught it to his lips ! 
She saw his eyes -- he opened them with a smile -- `` Dear , dearCaroline '' -- said Harold ; and Caroline , already overcome with her emotion , then lost all command of herself , and fell upon his bosom , and sobbed aloud . 
This was the second time that Harold had been called upon , for all that was touching and thankful in his nature -- the second time , that his hot forehead , and dry lips had been ministered to , by that creature , so tenderly fashioned and fitted by our Father , in mercy to our infirmities , for our consolation in a cold world : -- the second time , that gentle eyes and affectionate lips had been near him , when he was alone ; -- so patiently waiting on him -- so affectionately soothing him ; -- that the very touch of her dear hand was a relief to his aching temples -- and her tears , when they fell , like the dew from an angel 's wing upon a sore and agitated heart , were soothing and healthful to him . 
`` And do you know me , Harold -- my brother ! '' 
Harold faintly articulated , as he put out his then wasted arms to embrace him -- `` my child ! '' 
Leopold leaped into them -- and Harold , hearing some movement near , had just turned his eyes in the direction , when the boy whispered softly in his ear -- `` You are Mr. Salisbury now , you know -- I must not call you pa -- no more -- no more -- I dont love it -- do you ? 
-- '' A presence that he knew , here put forth her hand , with a melancholy smile and sore confusion -- the deep concern of her eyes trembling , in their depth , as to arrest the prattler -- but he eluded her touch , and crept under the bed clothes , laughing aloud -- and talking as fast as he could talk , all the while . 
Harold was obliged to interfere -- `` Leopold ! '' 
-- But nothing would do -- He was not to be trusted ; and the amazing resemblance between Harold and the boy was becoming every day more and more alarming . 
Lady Elvira was like a guilty thing , and had , till the sickness of Harold was extreme , kept the child away , and only then took him with her , as she came herself to reside with Caroline , because she apprehended no indiscretion in Harold , and was known to be so passionately fond of the boy , that if she left him behind , it would appear more extraordinary than if she brought him . 
It was fatal to him -- he pined and wasted -- and when Harold next saw him , he was so pale , so thin , and his innocent eyes were so hidden , under their meek waxen lids , that he shuddered , and the tears fell upon his little mouth , while he clung to him , as if his heart were breaking . 
He was upon his mother 's lap -- and as Harold leaned down to embrace him , his cheek touched her hand . 
The touch was like electricity : he lifted his eyes , and saw hers so deeply , passionately , darkly expressive of her thought , that he blushed and trembled like a young girl . 
Harold loved the boy -- doated on it . 
Harold approached , softly , a moment after , that he might be near the helpless , endearing little creature ; but was shocked at the change in his countenance . 
Harold staggered to her assistance -- but he had only the strength to raise her drooping head upon his knees -- while the hoarse breathing of the child , became every moment , more distressingly audible . 
-- died before his eyes ! 
-- I can not go on -- I can not ! 
Harold turned pale -- `` A French nobleman , the lover of the lady whom you so gallantly protected the other day -LRB- alluding to the robbery -RRB- is going to France immediately and will undertake to deliver any thing you please , into the hands of the Count himself . '' 
-- said Harold , shivering from head to foot -- `` It is solong -- Gracious Heaven -- I know not what to think or say -- yes -- I will write . 
-- '' His eyes filled -- he embraced Mr. Hammond -- he wrung his hand -- he appeared for a moment delirious -- to the utter astonishment of the good man -- with the effect of this intelligence . 
This letter completed , Harold descended to the parlour , where he found the young nobleman himself ; his features were uncommonly expressive and handsome , and Harold could not forbear disclosing the ground of his anxiety . 
The Frenchman embraced him , and , with tears of thankfulness , poured out his gratitude to Harold , for having saved the life of his dear , dear miss Anna . 
It was some minutes before Harold was able to comprehend the meaning of these transports ; but , at length , with the assistance of Mr. Hammond , he discovered that he had , in the late affair with the highwaymen , probably , saved the life of a very beautiful and intelligent girl , whose friends were ready to die for him in return . 
This young Frenchman , with that readiness , so characteristick of his age and country , seemed instantly to comprehend the subject of Harold 's distress ; and after half an hour 's conversation , privately with him , departed . 
That day three weeks he returned . 
And the sum of his information was this -- that De Vaudreuil was dead -- his family scattered -- some dead , some married , some in Quebec , he having encountered the displeasure of his sovereign , and fallen in a duel at the same time . 
cried Harold , when he heard his name , ` by the living God , I will never rest till I find him ! 
I will hunt him to the ends of the earth ! 
-- See if he escape me again ! 
Why did I spare him before ? 
Why not pursue him , and rend his heart out ? 
And Harold , poor Harold , was desolate , heartbroken indeed . 
This wasa calamity , so unforeseen , so unintelligible , that sheshould have been seduced by one so utterly worthless ; one too who had wrestled with her , even at noon day , for her innocence . 
could it ! 
that she could be won , or violated by him ! 
Enough ; there was only one route now for Harold -- through the storm and darkness forever . 
Wehave now come to a new and trying period in the life of poor Harold . 
Two whole years have passed away , since we left him , plunged amid the foam and darkness of life 's ocean , without one star to shine upon him , as , shipwrecked and shattered in heart , he drifted upon his tempestuous way . 
Two years have gone , since we left him , leaning upon his hands , the blood of his whole body rushing to his brain -- the atmosphere darkening about him , and within him , and his broad eyelids shivering and shutting incessantly , over his mournful eyes , with the excess of his passion . 
He went abroad , after the shock , but it was like an enchanter ; the world was a blank to him , covering the mysterious and hidden dominions where his spirit revelled . 
He breathed upon it , and it was , as if he had breathed upon a white canvass , and straightway the colour and shape of beauty had arisen , in the vapour of his breath , and passed away again , when that vapour passed away . 
Many lovely and sweet things , with music , and lustre , and fragrance about them , hovered over the void into which he looked , and haunted him , at a distance . 
But they would never permit him to approach . 
Harold is in America ! 
The wide Atlantick is rolling between him , and all his family , and kindred . 
He is a sceptred hermit . 
He hath arrived , buckled anew his sword upon his thigh , and gone out to battle , as the Lord 's anointed , for the red men of America . 
cried Harold , kneeling down , as he stood , barefooted , and bareheaded , where he had first met her -- ` once more ! 
Harold threw himself upon the rock , and slept , for the overwatching of his heart could not be appeased by prayer . 
But still , he was in the wilderness -- naked feet were forever passing about him , and dim eyes incessantly glancing under his lashes . 
And when he stirred , there were voices about him -- the wind was harmonious , and pleasant to his lips . 
A rapt abstraction of the spirit stole over him . 
He plunged into the mysterious depths of his own heart , and put all the elements thereof in commotion , and brought up the sunken and dimmed pearls and precious things , that Memory had thrown overboard , in the shipwreck of his senses . 
He was astonished and confounded at their aspect ; the inexhaustible and wasted riches of his own nature , upon which Imagination and Enchantment had engraven the sweetest incidents of his life . 
He attempted to read the characters , but straightway they turned to weeping eyes , and parting lips , and trembling white eyelids , coming , and going , with sweet musical cadence , and pauses of enraptured solemnity , and tenderness -- Then brake out upon him , all at once , like a troop of naked , and rejoicing children , all the forbidden and delicate recollections of his love -- revisiting the haunted chambers of his imagination -- and then , O , the thrilling and delirious fever of such dreams ! 
a sweet face would float by him , in the blue air -- wane , and reappear , her meek eyes changing their colour , as they passed him -- her soft breath , and rapturous pulsation , so audible ! 
These were his dreams ! 
what wonder if he were wasted to a skeleton ? 
An august spirit sat enthroned within his heart , and when her dominions were too fiercely agitated by the rebellion of his thought , she arose , and waved her arm , and all again was peaceful . 
Out of these trials , there grew an undissembling and obedient submission to his Maker , and Harold took counsel of his meditations , and chose a new faith . 
In that faith he trod . 
No obstacle could daunt him ; no force could move him ; no calamity , no humiliation , no suffering , no menace , could intimidate , or dishearten him . 
Only one thing could disturb him , now . 
It was the name of Loena : at that name , his heart shook in his bosom . 
said Harold , as he awoke , on that very spot where he had first loved -- a spot , that he had now visited , as something hallowed , and religious . 
His hands were locked , and the sweat stood upon his lip -- ` O , woman , ' he continued , ` even in the solitude , the silent place , yea , even at the home of the altar , the purity of your hearts may be violated , polluted , by the breathing of man ! ' 
Harold shivered , with dismay . 
The apparition raised her head , and Harold covered his face with his hands . 
` What art thou ? ' 
O , Harold , Harold , wilt thou not look upon me ? ' 
` Merciful heaven ! ' 
Harold -- barefooted and alone , Harold -- my master , and my lord ! 
Thou didst scorn me , and yet Harold , behold me at thy feet ! 
Harold , thou wilt not spurn me again ! 
O , Harold , thou art very dear to me ; wilt thou not let me die at thy feet ! ' 
Harold was bewildered -- but his prayer -- the first that had ever come truly from the deepest place of his heart , had been answered on the spot ! 
it was at his side . 
He had wished for one that loved him . 
Here was that one -- and O , with what truth and sublimity of devotion , did she love him ! 
She had listened to his delirium and marvelled not -- to his chiding , and murmured not ; to her , he was all in all , and she , the proudest woman of England , casting aside her rank and authority , lay prostrate , timid , breathless , bowed down , unconditionally , upon the bosom of the Indian boy , under the awful influence of love ! 
Harold knew not that she was there , and in his wandering he had never heard her name pronounced , thinking of her only as he last saw her , broken hearted , and majestick in her mournful sweetness . 
And now , to find her here , at his side , so suddenly , so unexpectedly ! 
O , for the ruptured heart , how melancholy , yet how sweet , to travel o'er again , the green road of its first love , to sit again where shesat , to lean where sheleant , and listen where shefirst learnt to throw down her timid eyelids -- Harold the idolater , the profoundest too , of Love , almighty Love , had been lingering awhile , about all this precious scenery , with ten thousand wild , thrilling , mournful emotions ; treading , at midnight , the high hill where he had first met Elvira , even while thinking only of Loena , so strangely capricious and unaccountable is the loyalty of the heart . 
So felt Harold , so Elvira . 
But the surprise was altogether his . 
Shehad seen him before , heard of him , and ordered her presence to be scrupulously kept a secret in America . 
But at last , in the distracted and sublime veneration of her heart , the unspeakable confidence of a haughty and loving woman , hunting her love even in the solitary place , without fear , or doubt , or apprehension , she had trodden in his footsteps , overtaken him , knelt , wept , and prayed to him . 
cried Harold . 
They were close together ; no living soul near them , in the very room , too , where Harold had stolen upon her slumbers ; where -- oh shame on him ! 
-- ` Nay , my beloved , ' he continued , as she sat by him , and leant upon his shoulder , ` nay , nay , do not tremble ; I can not bear thy tears , they make me doubt thy forgiveness , love . 
` I can not ; ah , Harold , ' murmured Elvira , in a voice scarcely audible . 
Harold pressed her beautiful hand to his lips , wrung out the rain from her redundant tresses , and drew her , cold and shivering as she was , to his heart , as her home , her fire side , forever and ever . 
` And can it be , Horold , ' she whispered , or rather murmured in his bosom , ` that thou too , hast loved another -- that -- oh , I can not speak it . ' 
There was a thrilling , tender plaintiveness , something so desolate , mournful , and beseeching in the sweet cadence of her voice , so melancholy , so faint , that Harold put his lips to her forehead , in silence , and let their tears mingle on their cheeks . 
He could not answer ; how could he ? 
The truth , and nought but the truth could he tell ; it would be death , he was sure , to the broken in heart , whose dear , dear , voice he had just heard , like one that whispers in her sleep , while her arteries are palpitating . 
Should he deceive her ? 
no ! ' 
he cried , aloud , ` I will perish first , myself , yea , see her perish first . ' 
He held her yet closer to his bosom , she scarcely breathed , and he was like one suffocating , in the bitter and terrible trial . 
Her heart had never doubted , never , except for a moment , and thathad been forgotten , that Harold 's love for herwas his first love . 
And as she thought whatthat first love , in such a nature mustbe , so passionate , so unreserved , so delicate , yet so enduring ; it had been the keenest luxury of consolation to her afflicted and broken spirit , in her bereavement and desolation , to have inspired it -- But -- Harold held her hands pressed convulsively to his heart ; this was the very room ; that , the very window through which he , the spoiler , came -- that perhaps the -- ` Oh , Elvira , ' said he , in a voice inarticulate with emotion , the dim moonlight about them , her wet hair parted upon her pale forehead , and her cold cheek resting , like marble , against his mouth , ` oh speak to me , banish me , trample on me , kill me , but speak to me , Elvira , mother of Leopold . ' 
At the touch , Harold shivered from head to foot , with delight . 
All the earthiness of his heart was instantly precipitated , and the purer part went up to heaven , sublimated , and etherealised , in prayer . 
He sat down , and , with his arm around her waist , her head upon his shoulder , and her hands in his , recapitulated all the adventures of his boyhood . 
Was there a more glowing distinctness of passion in his manner , when he spoke of the Indian girl , than when he addressed himself to her?What shook her so ? 
She would have known something more than Harold had told , yet she dared not ask him . 
Whence was that delicate perception , which , like another sense , looked through all his looks and words , and ached over a more mysterious meaning . 
He had loved another . 
But how had he profited of his love ? 
Oh Harold , where was the holiness of thy flame , when thou didst quench it in passion ? 
` Had he -- it might be -- the rifler ' -- but no , no , she would not think of it . 
The palpitation of hers had subsided , and , by her breathing , Harold thought that shewas asleep . 
What a moment for the devout and loving ! 
He feared to move or breathe , and when her gentle hand , as he unwillingly released it , fell down , in its sweet lifelessness , and she raised her head and murmured , poor Harold was really the happiest creature on earth . 
Harold dear ! 
` I could sleep there forever , worthy or unworthy , I had almost said , dear Harold -- but no , only while thou wast what thou art . ' 
They had watched so long of late , and Elvira was so full of purity and confidence , being too , in her own house now , of which she was the undisputed mistress -- this chamber so communicating with that , where Harold had formerly slept , that he could escape at any moment ; and he , too , was so happy , and so weary withhis happiness , that before they knew it , they were sleeping again , both together , in the moonlight folded in each other 's arms -- it was but for a moment , with Elvira ; for the instinctive delicacy of her mind forsook her not , even in slumber , and she gently disengaged her arm , and was on the point of pressing her lips to his forehead , and leaving him , while he slept , when , just as they approached , she was struck with a ghastly paleness in his face , and a quick convulsion of his features , as they darkened with the agitation of his thought ; and she paused , and her eyes filled , as he continued talking in a low , deep , passionate voice , as to some loved one -- ` Yes , yes , ' said he , ` believe me , I do forgive thee . 
No , my still beloved one , I am not angry with thee ; by these tears , these kisses , I do forgive and bless thee -- ' Here Harold awoke , and seeing a woman , meekly leaning over him , it seemed that he took her for the creature of whom he had been dreaming , for he continued his incoherent murmuring , until she broke from his grasp , at the sound of a name -- it was not hers , it was Loena 's ! 
He outreached his arms to her , as she fled -- ` what , art thou not Loena ? 
Elvira returned , listened to his disturbed dream , blessed him with her gentle lips , and departed . 
said lady Elvira , to Harold , as they sat , leaning in the starlight , against an old , and decayed oak , that outspread its wilderness of branches over a bed of spotted rocks , that glittered in the thin water , as it rattled by them , and sprinkled the rich and variegated moss with a profusion of fine drops , like seed pearl , or crystal dust . 
From it , they were now accustomed to see the lordly sun descend from his chariot , and trample over the hills , while the whole concave of heaven was flashing and changing with the irradiation that issued from his garniture . 
-- Ah , do not look so sadly , Harold . 
said Harold , pressing his hands to his heart , with strong emphasis -- ` But our Ambition -- no , not ours , but mine , has been a wasting , and discontented spirit . 
` So should I , Harold . 
A world is opening before us : and might I be permitted to avail myself of its mysterious and wonderful resources -- then , Elvira , then -LRB- his eyes lighted , and he stood suddenly upon his feet -RRB- then ! 
Elvira caught the lustre of his eyes , and reflected it , like a panoply of steel -- she turned , and gazed upon him with rapturous astonishment . 
His fine face was all on fire -- his broad forehead , so spacious , so sublime -- and his parted lips were full of gallant intensity . 
` What wouldst thou , Harold ? ' 
asked she , tremblingly , with her beautiful arm reposing on his shoulder , and her hand locked in his , and holding back her luxuriant brown hair , her eyes shining in their moisture , the moisture of an overflowing heart , sending up its exhalations to heaven -- and eyelids quivering , like white blossom-leaves , in the starlight -- ` what wouldst thou , Harold ? ' 
` They love , oh , Harold , Harold , I can not bear it . 
said Harold , in dismay -- ` what ails thee ? ' 
She bowed her head upon his hands , kissed them , and wept upon them . 
Harold was the first to break it . 
Harold gasped for breath . 
` Elvira , ' said he , pressing the hand , which had hung coldly in his , for many minutes -- ` can it be ? 
She trembled , attempted to reply ; but her voice failed her for she was as proud as he , and felt as sensibly , the peril of such a silence , at such a moment , and she leant a little more heavily , for a single moment , upon his arm . 
involuntary , as it seemed , for what will not the heart that truly loves , understand ? 
` Heaven bless thee , ' he cried , and fell upon her neck , and gently touched it with his lips . 
` One moment , dear Elvira , ' he added , detaining her near the entrance , ` let us beware -- there are some themes , some ! 
-- She checked herself suddenly , as she said this , but Harold did not appear to observe it , or if he did , the troubled shadow upon his forehead , probably arose at the mention of her name . ' 
Harold paused , and looked down . 
` Yes , it istrue , ' he added , ` I shall feel a vital tenderness for her , to my last hour -- so helpless , so impassioned , so dependent as she was on me , for her whole happiness . 
Why , Harold , at the very sound of thy voice , thy tread , I could fall flat upon my face , and weep for joy , sometimes -- a delicious and strange languor comes over my heart -- a kind of -- a something , that I can not express , makes me so humble , so thankful , when I am near thee ! 
` It is wise , Elvira , ' said Harold , tenderly , ` we must expect it -- be prepared for it -- change -- suffering -- death ! ' 
Such was the nature of all their conversation , evening , after evening , until Harold , who had been sending his emissaries all over the continent of America , to obtain accurate information respecting the number , disposition , and resources of the red men , received enough to authorise his revisiting some of the deep solitudes that he had haunted in his youth . 
` I can not rest , ' said he , one morning to Elvira , as he sat with her hands held to his heart , ` I can not rest . 
A few tears , a few expostulations , a parting kiss , and Harold slung his rifle , selected his dogs , the fiercest and strongest of the breed , and with one servant successively visited the Canadian Indians , the Penobscots , the Five Nations , and the southern Creeks and Cherokees . 
Wherever he went , he was hailed with enthusiasm ; he sought for the vestiges of his kindred . 
Everywhere -- yes , everywhere , he found the Indian trampled upon , derided , mocked at , scorned , and cheated . 
His great heart arose within him . 
Should he build up a coalition , a confederacy ? 
Might he not erect an empire of his own , and roll back , upon the whites , the flood of encroachment , with which they had swept away the red nations of America ? 
Night and day he fevered with this thought . 
Night and day , was he haunted by wild beasts , and spectres , with crowns upon their heads . 
He could not sleep ; he had no appetite , and was wasted to a shadow , before he brought his menacing and ambitious spirit to confess that war was no longer a profession worthy of the good man ; and least of all , such a war . 
Harold put his hand to his forehead , ` he did not understand her , ' he said , -- ` not from thee , love -- not from thee . ' 
` To England!Aye , woman of my heart , to England , brave old England , ' pressing his lip to her snowy forehead , while the scarlet flew over it , like a flash of fire . 
Harold was rapid in resolve , but more rapid in execution . 
In two weeks from that day , he was under sail , with Elvira , from America -- preparing his proofs to confound the ministry . 
He soon arrived , and strong in the consciousness of his power and honesty , he carried his remonstrances directly to the Premier , -LRB- the greatest that Britain ever saw in her cabinet . -RRB- 
The momentous day came , and after a desultory debate , a formal motion was made to appoint a committee from the house to inquire into , and report upon the manner of treating and trading with the North American Indians , by the British colonial governments , & c. & c. & c. Harold was in a fever . 
The house of lords had been two days vehemently occupied , when Harold , who had regularly taken his seat in the gallery , began to be pointed out , and talked of with eagerness , enthusiasm , and extravagance . 
On the third evening he had scarcely taken his seat , when he was called out by the serjeant at arms to attend the house , in a committee of the whole . 
He trembled from head to foot ; all eyes were upon him ; and when he descended , it was with a desperate courage , that blinded and stupified him for some minutes . 
Behold him now . 
Harold trembled the more , for as he turned the flash of his eye in the direction whence the voice proceeded , he was unable to detect the speaker . 
There was a mist , a darkness before him , and the ermine that he saw was like a white vapour , moving in the wind ; the very atmosphere appeared full of faces . 
` Harold ! 
Harold ! 
Harold ! 
was distinctly breathed in his ear again . 
He turned , and the wildness of his eye , and fixedness of his look , in the mortal silence of the place , as it wandered over the countenances near him , and then turned away , sicker , and sicker at heart , gave a more noble and interesting , though deathlike expression to his countenance . 
cried Harold , his great spirit breaking out , all at once , at the sound , as if he were suddenly transported to the wilderness -- as if , at that instant , he stood before , no ermine and coronets , but naked men , under no dome but the dome of heaven , lighted by stars and council fires . 
Harold 's arms were folded . 
the sound of his own voice would have frightened him the moment before , or even a moment later -- he spoke ! 
exactly at the extremest moment of his power and self-possession . 
` Englishmen , ' said he , ` my lords , why am I summoned to your bar ? 
They who , for half a century , had been familiar with all the sublimity and power of a British senate , in all its beautiful and majestick proportions ; they , who had been accustomed to having their passions assailed , for half a century , by wisdom , eloquence , and address , without effect , without excitement , without emotion ; they , even they , their eyes were flashing , and their lips quivering , when Harold sank down , like men that are contemplating a great battle , between giants , within the solitude of a continent . 
Harold fainted -- and whole years afterward , he would turn deadly pale , when he thought of what he had encountered , on this occasion . 
A thousand officious hands were thrust forward to his support ; a thousand eyes glanced encouragement and delight upon him . 
But one countenance -- one , the first that he saw when he awoke , one that he never forgot , it haunted him to his last moment , its awful front , so high , so full of composure and solemnity , so steadfast , so dignified , a face for Michael Angelo to dream of , so mild , and old , and resolute , and august , oh , I can not describe it -- thatcountenance was nearest to him . 
Harold bowed , he could not speak , there was such an air of royalty about the retiring presence , that he could have sworn it to be of the blood of kings . 
Harold was mistaken . 
The princely stranger was not even of the nobility . 
But he was more . 
Harold followed his conductor . 
They arrived at a magnificent old-fashioned pile , so retired and built round about by trees and walls , that , but for the court yard , thronged with splendid equipages , Harold would have believed himself approaching some battered fortress of gone-by days , that had withstood the tempestuous visitation of battle and earthquake , wind , age , and thunder . 
His guide passed on , looking neither to the right nor the left , through a long antichamber , crowded with well dressed people ; and Harold followed him , breathing with difficulty , and feeling an awe that he would have blushed to confess , at the presence of so much parade and ceremony . 
His guide too , youthful and kind as he was , appeared to move with more stateliness , and tread with a less vascillating emphasis , as he passed through the throng of anxious eyes and throbbing hearts , and approached the abiding place of the great man . 
One more step , only one more , and Harold stood before the stranger . 
His presence was unexpected , it seemed , for the latter appeared to thrust something into his bosom , with a little trepidation , as he looked round . 
Harold bowed ; he was unused to such majestick kindness and frankness . 
He told his story , however , distinctly , bravely , with all that natural and burning energy , so eminently his own . 
The other 's eyes darkened with pleasure . 
It was a colloquial power , of such direct , downright , intrepid promptitude , that it amazed him . 
Harold was naturally modest , very graceful , and full of energy . 
` It is very remarkable , ' said the truly great man , as in a revery , when Harold had finished , ` there is one thing that you have omitted . 
` I will withhold nothing from you sir , ' said Harold . 
` Well then -- your family name , birth ? ' 
as he said this , his eagle eye glanced upon Harold , with a peculiar and mysterious earnestness of expression . 
Harold replied distinctly to both questions , watching his countenance the while . 
No emotion was visible , none ! 
in his great forehead ; but his noble chest heaved slightly , at long intervals , as with some deep and ancient recollection . 
Harold could have fallen upon his knees before the august creature , but he waved him off . 
` Leave me awhile , ' he said , ` the time has expired . 
Harold obeyed , and the next day , precisely at the moment , stood again , at the door of the chamber . 
` Harold , ' said the mysterious man , after a distressing silence of some minutes , during which he sat leaning upon a table , with his face buried in his hands , and his dark hair moving of itself , over his wrought and agitated brow . 
` Harold , come nearer to me . 
` Harold followed him thither , and they were seated . 
` We were school fellows , ' said he . 
` He had the elements of a disorderly but great nature within him . 
Harold was amazed -- such perturbation in such a countenance ! 
He still continued walking about , in great disorder , but at length stopped , abruptly , before Harold , saying , as to himself , ` boy , boy , how like his father . 
Yes Harold , Harold is thy name , I think , -LRB- Harold bowed , -RRB- thou artlike thy father . 
Harold , I could have come down from my seat and embraced thee , yea , knelt with thee , upon the floor of parliament , had not this apprehension disheartened me . 
I feel , Harold , just as I felt , when we last parted , in Andalusia , of a starlight evening . 
Harold , I confess that I am weak , very weak , but I love thee ; I feel as if thou wert my son for thou art his , and he was her husband . 
Harold replied , modestly and firmly ; thanked him , and declined all assistance , all countenance . 
` Your reasons , Harold ? ' 
Harold gave them , in his temperate , assured way ; and the minister embraced him , and wept upon his neck . 
` Boy ! ' 
he cried , with enthusiasm , his old eyes sparkling through their lashes , like lamps abruptly kindled ; ` thou art an honour to thy name and house . 
Harold turned to depart , when the great man embraced him a third time , and buckled upon his thigh a magnificent sword . 
` Wear that , ' said he , ` in memory of me . ' 
Harold had withstood , resisted , derided all temptation , in the presence of a monarch , for the power of him that he had left , was that of a monarch . 
Royalty was upon his forehead , command in his tread , and greatness in his hands . 
While there , there , in the very abiding place of Ambition , whom he had so long idolized , there , he had resisted her dominion , and taught her to cower before him . 
With this feeling , he had descended , and trod through all the glittering retinue of the audience chamber , and court , with the stately , free step of a native Indian ; but , as he approached his own home , a deep sigh escaped him , it is in vain to deny it , and a half articulate wish that he had taken a little time for consideration . 
` But perhaps , perhaps , he will repeat his offer , ' said he . 
Harold detested the shameful fashion of marrying before a mob , but still more , the indecent practice of exhibiting your wife to strangers the day after marriage , that day of all others , which ought to be most exclusively given up to love and tenderness ; when each is most eager to be near the other , to give and impart consolation , which , to the loving and beloved , who see omens in everything , while the heart is too full for company , and too happy and too distressed for parade or compliment , is so apt to be taken for an epitome of their new life . 
Harold was sitting in his room , the room that Oscar had occupied . 
It was delicious , and Harold indulged the feeling , like one that listens to a low , inward , mournful musick , till it operates upon the heart , and his very breathing is an echo . 
` Elvira , ' cried Harold , leaping from his chair , and catching her delicate hands , and he would have touched her forehead , perhaps her lips , as usual -- but why paused she ? 
what withheld him ? 
Her manner was kind , very kind , and her countenance but slightly altered ; yet Harold , as he looked upon it , shivered all over , and was unable to speak . 
A distressing silence followed ; her eyelids were thrown down , and he knew not what to say , or think . 
Not an hour had passed , since they parted , and she , all light , and love , and tenderness . 
He was silent , first , from inability to speak ; and he continued so , because he was wounded , his affection and dignity were wounded . 
Harold breathed not , moved not , he felt as if some tremendous evil was about to overwhelm him , but of what nature , or whence , he had no conception . 
` Harold , ' said Elvira ; ` dearHarold . ' 
` Part , Elvira , ' cried Harold , ' seizing her hands with a wild cry -- a shriek ! 
-- another answered him ! 
He had heard it before . 
All his sufferings broke in lightning , over his brain ! 
He covered his face . 
He knelt to her ! 
-- he pressed her cold hands to his lip -- kissed them over and over again , and wept upon them . 
` O , Elvira , ' he sobbed out at last , ` O , Elvira , O , it can not be ! ' 
Your first love , she whom you have wept as dead , dishonoured -- Loena -- nay , nay , dear Harold , not sowildly , pray be more composed , do not look so wildly upon me , nay , nay , let me soothe thee , she is alive . ' 
cried Harold ! ' 
` Yes , Harold , thou canst , and shalt . 
Harold fell senseless upon his face , and when he recovered , his head was upon Elvira 's knees , and she was chafing his temples ; he opened his dark eyes , but shut them again instantly , and his brow darkened with some mournful thought , or some deep , deep , pain . ' 
` She is still devotedly thine -- ' -LRB- Harold pressed her hand , and her tears fell like rain upon his face -RRB- -- ` She was your first love , your only love . 
You have never loved but one , Harold , as you are capable of loving , I mean . ' 
` O , my dear Harold , ' said Elvira , bashfully leaning over him , while her delicate lids quivered with excess of tenderness over her lamping blue eyes , ` how I have loved thee , God only knows ! 
Harold hath haunted me , forever . 
Nay , nay , Harold , I entreat thee not to interrupt me . 
-- Thou wilt go to thy duty -- I -- I -- to mine -- I. ' ` And , now , O , Harold , now , that we are about to part , for I have determined , and nothing on earth can move me -- now I am at libertyto speak , and my heart , swollen to bursting with the fountains of its tenderness for thee , will no longer bear this darkness and concealment -- behold ! 
O , Harold , Harold , how I have loved thee ! 
O , Harold , thou dear one , may she love thee , as I have loved thee ' -- poor Elvira 's passionate emotion had gradually increased , until she sobbed aloud , as she concluded . 
Harold knelt to her , and threw his arms about her , in wonder and consternation , dreading it as a dream , yet dreading to awake , and shivering all over , while her temples throbbed against his , and her hot tears fell into his bosom . 
` It is too much , too much , by heaven ! ' 
` Calm thyself , dear Harold , ' said Elvira , raising her sweet face , amid her dishevelled tresses . 
O , think Harold , what a wretch , what a vile and execrable wretch , thou wouldst have had for a companion , for a sharer of thy glory and heart , if I had usurped wittingly , a heart like thine , while its lawful and abused tenant was ready , after the exile of many a year , to re-inhabit it . 
It will be a comfort to thee , in thy dying hour , and Harold , O , believe me , even thy great heart will have need of comfort , in that hour ! 
Harold , I have told thee that I did love thee ; and I now tell thee that I love thee now , to adoration -- that I never have loved any other human being as I love thee , that I had hoped to live here , and hereafter , within the circle of thy arms . 
said Harold . 
` Judge then , Harold , of the sacrifice that I make , in parting with thee , to my rival too . 
And now , Harold , now , am I not worthy of thee ? ' 
Harold bowed down before her , bowed down , in the profoundest adoration . 
It was the homage of all that was lofty in his nature , so deep , so awful , that his blood forgot to flow , as he put his forehead to the earth before her , with the movement and veneration of one , who , prostrate in the lonely solitude , hears musick in the wind . 
` Heroick woman , ' said he , rising and standing majestically before her , with his dark eyes flashing rivulets of light , ` I never knew thee till this hour ! 
` Oh , Harold , my heart cleaves to thine yet , ' said Elvira , still weeping , and they embraced , again and again , treacherous as it was , and then separated , in the delirium of their spirits . 
the deep , dark , passionate languishing of her eyes , the sweet and beautiful solemnity of her countenance , oh surely -- She extended her hands , they shook slightly , and Harold , blinded and dizzy with her overpowering presence , caught at it , with shut eyes , and staggered to her arms . 
` Can it be , ' cried the bewildered Harold , gasping and choking . 
` Well , Harold , ' said Loena , timidly , as their cheeks touched and thrilled . 
the same , the same ! ' 
` And can it be , ' he repeated , over and over again , holding her beautiful hands in his , and standing off from her with an expression of awe and rapture , till his eyes danced in their sockets , ` ah can it be ? ' 
For his soul , he could not utter another word , he sobbed , and laughed , and clapped his hands , and shouted , hysterically , as all the past , like a tempest of mingled cloud and light , came driving over his memory -- like the cold rain , falling heavily from a thunder cloud , in a blue sky -- mingling terrour , and beauty , and chilliness . 
His countenance changed rapidly , his joints shook , as with the palsy , and Loena was obliged to lead himto a seat . 
And she -- ah then , her composure had passed . 
She had been prepared for this , he had not . 
She knew all , and was on her guard for all , that could happen ; but even she was now overcome . 
She covered her face , and leant , could it be otherwise ? 
upon the bosom of her lord . 
For a moment , a prompt feeling of fidelity to Elvira , caused Harold to repel her approach , for he had been , and would have been hers , and hers alone , but for Loena ; but the next , they were locked anew , anew , after years of agony , and trial , and separation , in each other 's arms . 
` Oh , Harold , ' said Loena , after several attempts to articulate her joy , ` but no , no , I can not speak . 
I am still , still the Indian girl , my heart is too full ; and yet , it is a pity but thou shouldst know , what I might never have told thee , but for our separation , that Harold I dolove thee , wicked as thou art , I doindeed . ' 
Thuspassed , hour after hour , between Harold and Loena , while Elvira was weeping in her room . 
But Harold , himself , entered , and put a stop to these meditations . 
Loena was hanging on his arm , so fondly , so modestly , yet with such an assured expression of comfort and repose , that Elvira , though she smiled faintly at her approach , could not bear to look upon her , and turned away , in tears . 
said Harold , gently detaching Loena 's arm from his , ` there ! 
Her eyes , too , they that were wont to glitter , like revolving sapphire , theywere now of a dim wintry blue ; and her fresh lips were languid ; her -- ` How changed , ' sighed Harold , putting his hand , softly , upon her head ; but the smile , and the tearful , gentle upbraiding of her lifted eyes , as she put up her hand and pressed his , as it lay there , were almost fatal to his resolution . 
Harold proceeded ; but Elvira , who saw , or suspected something of his purpose , would have prevented him . 
` No , no , ' said he , ` she shall know all , all , even at the peril of losing her . ' 
His brow darkened in terrour , as he said this , for he remembered the words of Loena . 
Were they portentous ? 
he faltered ; but , after a momentary struggle , continued thus , with a solemnity that alternately chilled poor Loena to the very heart , and sent her blood , like flashes of scorching fire , over her temples -- ` Know , my beloved , ' said he , ` my firstlove , thou who hast come to take possession of thy lawful inheritance , my whole heart -- that -- know that , that -- but for this noble creature , this!thou wouldst have found it in the possession of another , yea , even of herself . 
my brain , dear Harold ! 
But how passed Harold these hours of absence and trial ? 
O , ask him not . 
All about him was black as death . 
The earth itself , felt unsteady to his tread , and the sky was a tremulous vault , seeming about to pass away , as he looked upon it . 
The thick sweat , like that of the charnel house , oozed out of his flesh . 
All her sounds and sights . 
His heart grew cold within him , and his pulse was sudden and fitful , like an artery discharging its thickest and hottest blood . 
What a fate was his ! 
Where was he to find rest ? 
Where a companion , a friend , who could understand , and glory in his character ? 
Where , that unwearied one , whose dear eyes would be always seeking his -- whose bosom would , forever and ever , be his abiding place , aching only when he , its lord , was not leaning upon it -- O , where , where , was he nowto turn ? 
And Harold too , discharged as he was in his allegiance to Elvira , while his eyes wandered alternately , from one to the other , as in search of some kind greeting , felt a strange uneasiness in betraying his affection for the newly found , and a deeper disquietude and unwillingness , to be near the newly lost . 
Every movement was an effort now , and there were moments when Harold was sure that she could not open her lips , without a sob . 
` Harold , ' said she , at last , when they were alone , -LRB- putting her hand affectionately into his -RRB- I can not yet inform thee of my determination ; and before we renew thatsubject , it is my duty to deal as sincerely as thou hast , and relate all that has happened to me . 
A quick carnation flashed over her whole face and neck , as she said this , and her eyes , although cast down , shot forth ten thousand expressions , that Harold felt in his very brain . 
Harold nodded in silence ; but his heart beat hurriedly , and he averted his face . 
yes , Harold , and what is dearer than life , they saved me , or rather the count himself , old as he was , at the peril of his life , saved me , from -- from dishonour . ' 
Harold leaped into the middle of the floor , and the blood started from his nostrils , but he said nothing , nothing , although his breathing could have been heard in the next house . 
` Harold , I tremble for thee ; these bursts of passion will be the death of thee . 
She taught the Indian girl to be meek and humble -- Harold , let me pray thee to be so , too . 
We suffered cruelly at your silence ; but , at length , we learnt the capture of the vessel ; and just about the same time , the count was recalled , in displeasure , by his king , and , I was left , dependent almost upon the charity of a noble , destitute , and desolate family . 
said Harold . 
` Hast thou a brother , Harold ? 
cried Harold , awakening all at once , as from a trance ; ' ` what is is the meaning of all this ? 
What Oscar?Who is he ? 
Didst thou know him ? 
O , I would follow him the wide world over , barefooted , and alone -- I -- ' Harold 's arm , which , till this moment had encircled her waist and supported her , here fell lifelessly at his side ! 
said Harold , faintly . 
` Love him ! 
O , yes , with all my heart and soul -- yet stay , Harold , stay , now I bethink myself , not as I have loved thee -- O , no ! 
but -- where is he ? 
Thy voice now , thy very eyes remind me of him -- tears ! 
what has befallen him ? 
` In his grave -- the ocean , ' answered Harold , convulsively . 
` Whereis he ? 
Shudder , woman ; he is standing at the judgment seat of the Eternal -- suicide ! ' 
Harold rushed in , and found Elvira utterly senseless , but just opening her eyes , through her dishevelled and encompassing tresses , like one suddenly struck with delirium , by some unearthly cry . 
said the Indian girl , looking up to Harold , while she held the poor blinded , desolate Elvira 's head upon her bosom . 
` Yes , and destroyed himself , ' answered Harold , solemnly . 
I know him too well for that . 
He would never forget his first attempt ; his miraculous preservation -- his -- ' ` What meaning is there in thy words ? 
I tell thee , Loena , that I saw him ; I , with my own eyes , leap overboard at midnight , among the white foam of our ship 's track , and vanish , forever and ever ! ' 
said Loena , with a perplexed and bewildered look , which instantly cleared up , as she asked him eagerly , ` whenthis was ? 
Harold told her , to the very moment ; the year , and day . 
cried the Indian girl , with a look of rapturous acknowledgment -- ` kneel down with me this moment , Harold ! 
cried Harold . 
cried Harold , putting his hands , terrified and trembling , upon Loena 's brow . 
` Harold , ' said Loena , catching the awful spirit that illuminated the countenance of Elvira , ` the man Oscar is living -- the assured resemblance of thee , older , by many years , scarred too , and -- ' ` Scarred ! ' 
Harold interrupted her here , for a moment , and explained that fact ; -LRB- and the reader will recollect that they were not known to each other at the time when they met . -RRB- 
` It was -- just before -- and afterward -- ` said Harold . 
` Well -- the spirit passed before him , he says , and beckoned to him , and he followed it , walking awhile on the water , as it appeared to him . 
The vessel ploughed away upon her course ; but whether it was , that the sudden shock of the cold water , as he plunged into it , or that the loss of blood , which followed from a severe blow on the temples , which he received from some floating wood that passed him , -LRB- probably thrown over from the vessel , in the alarm that followed , -RRB- restored him to his senses , he knew not , but he could not have been in the water long , a few minutes at most , when the spectre vanished , and flashes of fire went over his face , hot and scorching , as if the surges themselves were lava . 
A preternatural terrour of death arose , at the same moment , and he gasped , and gasped , in horrour and distraction , until he found that he was sustained by something , which he had grappled at , in his delirium . 
The ship was still in sight ; but the clouds fell down , like a curtain , between her and him ; and he floated about , until , immediately after daylight , the next morning , when he discovered a vessel , lying to , at no great distance , with several boats out , fishing . 
He was discovered , taken on board , and carried into Dunkirk . ' 
` He has often described his feelings to me , until the sweat stood upon my own forehead , as I listened to him . 
At one time , he says , that he distinctly felt the weight of a heavy , great hand , pressing upon his head , and others plucking at his feet , in the water . 
only because the emotions which arose in hisheart , the noblest -- bless me , Harold , how pale you look -- surely no -- I will not believe it -- but thy brother hadthe noblest heart , except thine , there ! 
I saw him -- it was a singular adventure , and , some day or other , I will relate it -- but -- ' ` Nay , Loena , nowif you please , there never can be a better time , ' said Harold , with a little seriousness . 
The count was with me . 
Harold smiled . 
` The other ladies fainted , but I looked on . 
He arose deliberately , followed the young man out , and , as we heard the next day , disarmed him , broke his sword , and sent him home , for the second time , humbled to the earth . 
` What mean you , ' said Harold , ` by the secondtime ? ' 
` Nothing more than this -- that he is subject , or was , until within the last two years , to fits of derangement , in one of which , he says that he has reason to believe that he visited the home of his childhood , for , when he recovered , he found a dagger in his possession which he distinctly recollected having left upon his table -- and -- ' ` By heaven , ' cried Harold , kissing her red lips , in a transport , ` thatwas the only thing that troubled me on earth : to have thatexplained , I would have gone through fire and water ; I was sure that my senses could not deceive me ; oh , I amrejoiced , indeed I am . 
Threeweeks after this , Harold had good reason to believe that Oscar really was in England . 
` Do not go , ' said the latter , as Harold prepared to go again , where he had reason to expect intelligence of Oscar , ` do not go , at least , not yet -- I know not what I say , but , thy brother and I are strangers , forever -- must continue so , unless -- ' ` Well , ' said Harold , ` unlesswhat ? ' 
Harold caught her thin , weak hands and pressed them to his lips , while his tears fell upon them , like a shower of cold rain ; and his Indian girl wiped them off as they fell , with her beautiful thick hair , and kissed her again and again , on the forehead , lips , and eyes , sobbing herself , all the while , like a distracted creature . 
But Harold , heedless of aught but the majestick presence before him , leaped forward , and extended his arms . 
Here Harold broke in upon them again , his heart leaping from his fine eyes , and Loena clinging to him . 
he said , as he gazed upon Harold , who stood awestruck and abashed before him -- ` at first , I embraced thee , I know not why . 
And Harold , too , stood still , still as death ; not a muscle moved at this adjuration , not a nerve trembled . 
` Harold , ' answered Loena , quickly , her countenance flashing with vivid and intense delight . 
` Harold , ' said Oscar , ` why that seems strange . 
Harold interrupted him , and told him where it was , and how it terminated ; and his brother 's face clouded , as he went on , till his eyes shot lightning . 
he added , firmly grasping Harold , who , incapable of resistance , from the suddenness and unexpectedness of the attack , shook in all his joints , as if he were in the paws of a lion , ` speak ! 
Here Loena interfered and , with a manner , that showed her to have been familiar with these moods , laid her soft hand upon Oscar 's brow , until he gradually relaxed his iron hold of Harold . 
The fiery and impatient spirit of Harold too , is curbed and subdued . 
-- ` Brother , ' said Oscar to Harold , as they sat together one evening , after a day of uncommon activity -- ` I have a great mind to pay a visit , myself , to America . 
and mine , and mine , ' answered Harold , and Elvira , and Loena , all in a breath together -- ` nothing would be pleasanter , ' said Harold , than to retread the haunts of my -- my -- ' ` Of your love -- I know -- out with it , brother . ' 
` Yes , ' answered Harold , stammering , ` I will go . 
` Harold , ' said Oscar , after describing a strange , and terrifick dream that he had , the night before , to which Harold had listened , with an attention that was very alarming , ` Harold I think that I could sketch the place . ' 
` Do , ' said Harold , reaching him a piece of paper ; and after working a few moments , he reached it back to Harold , who , the moment that his eye glanced upon it , uttered an exclamation of astonishment -- ` That tree ! 
Harold , do not smile , I pray thee . 
About a week after this conversation , Harold and Loena , and Oscar and Elvira , were strolling in the moonlight , at some distance from the house , and Elvira was pointing out the places of most interest to her . 
But she hurried on ; and Oscar observed that Harold 's voice became suddenly mute , as hepassed it . 
And so , thou didst love Harold . ' 
Why did I love him ? 
But it was the unconquered , unconquerable fidelity of my heart to thee!In Harold , it renewed its allegiance to thine image -- thine ! 
In loving Harold , I loved thee -- and there , on that shadowed turf , by that rock , so high above all the earth , I most suffered , and therefore did I tremble , when I approached it . ' 
Oscar turned and saw that Harold too , lingered , and that the dark eyes of Loena , radiant with tears , and spirituality , were lifted to the moon -- her forehead glittered , and her parted lips , her smooth neck , and her swelling bosom , heaving with the exercise , and the night air of her own country , were all before him . 
At this moment Elvira turned , and begged Harold to lead homeward , ` for the night was far advanced , and she was weary . ' 
Harold obeyed , but in the intensity of his occupation , he walked forward , through a tangled and unfrequented path , without looking up , till he heard an exclamation of horrour from Oscar . 
One glance was sufficient , and Harold turned to fly from a spot , so terrible to hismemory , when a loud groan from his brother arrested him -- he was leaning upon the bosom of Elvira . 
cried Harold , with a shout , as loud and distinct , as if there were the beleaguering of entwined adders about his heart , all striking their fangs into it , at the same moment . 
answered the rocks above , in an unearthly shriek -- like a line of challenging sentinels . 
-- even there , had he lifted his hand against his own father -- therehad his angry blood bubbled upon the wood -- and therehad he left him ! 
-- stripped , torn and prostrate upon the shattered rock , like some one , that had been shivered in a tempest , or destroyed by the thunder , plucked down upon his own head . 
` It was there , that our father fell , ' repeated Harold ; and Loena , who knew all the circumstances , shook through all the pulses of her frame , at the mention of his name . 
It was the look of mortal apprehension and dismay ; and Harold , as he gazed upon the blasted tree , felt his knees knock together . 
` Yes , yes ! ' 
` How like thatnight , ' said Harold to himself , as they approached the tree . 
It waslike that night ; and he who had been there in both , would have forgotten , as Harold did , for a moment , all that had intervened , all ! 
There was the same water , too , the same wintry blue -- he paused to dwell upon it -- there , too , the undulating outline of the opposite shore , so darkly and dimly seen , on that night of horrour , and there , too , the very shadow , out of which , the wounded horse emerged , snorting and plunging , when he swam to the shore -- and there , too , the tangled branches , weighed down , and heavy with their load of matted wild flowers , perishing in their autumnal beauty -- nay , was not thatthe sound of the young horse plunging through the wood ! 
They stood together , and Elvira and Loena were with them , all trembling and gasping for the result -- Harold and Loena were prepared -- it was the voice of some wild beast , they thought -- but hiscountenance was full of terrour nevertheless , for they were unarmed . 
The path was narrow here , and Harold stood upon the rock alone , for a moment , looking about . 
Harold , do not -- ' Elvira was prevented from finishing her sentence , by the sound of a shot . 
The ball whistled past her , and struck the tree -- but as the bark flew , Harold put his hand to his side , and staggered . 
The ball had gone through and through him . 
He reeled , raised his arm , uttered a faint cry of horrour , and pointed , with a convulsive hand , that dropped , the next moment , lifeless at his side , to the top of the cliff . 
There stood a gigantick figure , that clapped its hands deliriously , and shouted , in the voice that they had just mistaken for a panther 's , with unutterable joy , as Harold fell upon the rock , the very rock , beneath the tree . 
` One more , only one more , ' -- and he levelled his rifle again -- but in vain , in vain , for Oscar , with the wrath and power of the waked lioness , smote his way through the wood , unarmed as he was , up the precipice , where the spectre stood , laughing , to receive him , grappled with him , and hurled him headlong down to the earth . 
And there they lay , rolling on the earth , bloody and gasping , while Loena , who had stripped off her garments , was kneeling and staunching the wound of Harold , with her hair , shedding no tear , uttering no word , heeding nought of the terrible work that was going on at her side -- and poor Elvira , she was senseless and motionless . 
Harold had just life enough to open his eyes upon Loena , with one look of dying tenderness and worship , when , by a glance of his eye , he beheld Oscar panting , with one knee upon the chest of his horrible enemy -- he gazed a moment -- rose , with a preternatural force , and shrieked out , as with his last breath , forbear ! 
Here Loena stretched herself out upon poor , dead Harold ; put her lips to his , once more , and never breathed again . 
` Who is she ? 
speak to me ? ' 
He lifted her up , and she fell lifeless at his feet ; and then he turned over the body , and began to gaze upon the face of Harold , gradually sinking down , nearer and nearer to it , until , with a convulsion , and a cry , like some wild beast , strangling in his own blood , he gave up the ghost . 
And so Harold died ; died on the very spot , where so many years before , he had wrestled in blood , with his own father . 
Yea , he died , and was buried beneath the very stone , upon which he had once offered up the sacrifice of two immortal souls , hot and smoking in blood , to the unstained midnight sky ; before the very throne , and in the very presence-chamber of Jehovah . 
And the Indian girl -- she was buried by his side -- heart to heart ; and her people , for all that knew her ancestry were her people , came and wept upon her grave , and their beautiful superstition taught them to see her , often and often , with a star in her hand , moving amid the clouds , arm in arm , with another , whose face was always turned to hers . 
Nine different persons had he slain there , and one of them was his own child ; on whom , in the vivid , brief intervals of his reason , he had called , until the name of Harold was familiar to all the solitary places of the wilderness , and the tradition went abroad among the nations , that the destroying spirit who inhabited the place , was named Harold . 
No one ever knew how he had been preserved , or by whom ; but he haunted the place and made it a desert ; for ever and anon , some passenger , who chose the river path , was heard of no more ; and when sought for , would be found dead upon that rock , unrifled , but pierced through and through , with bullets , under the shadow of the blasted tree , and near the sweet , bubbling fountain , that had tempted him aside , for a moment . 
Yea , such was the terrour of the place , that the very skeleton of the last , that had fallen beneath the accursed tree , lay there yet , undisturbed , just as it fell , with the flesh dropping off from it , piece by piece ; and had not Harold been sentenced and doomed at an unexpected moment , the bony tenement , wherein a spirit like his own had once dwelt , would have rattled at the next tread of his foot ! 
