Conscious of the decay which beset him , and fully convinced that his days were few and numbered , the seaman , who called himself Tom Daggett , had felt a desire to close his eyes in the place where they had first been opened to the light of day . 
Daggett was poor , as he admitted , as well as friendless and unknown . 
He had with him , nevertheless , a substantial sea-chest , one of those that the sailors of that day uniformly used in merchant-vessels , a man-of-war compelling them to carry their clothes in bags , for the convenience of compact stowage . 
The chest of Daggett , however , was a regular inmate of the forecastle , and , from its appearance , had made almost as many voyages as its owner . 
At first , Daggett kept about , and was much in the open air . 
While able to walk , he met the deacon , and singular , nay , unaccountable as it seemed to the niece , the uncle soon contracted a species of friendship for , not to say intimacy with , this stranger . 
By the agency of Mr. Gar ` ner , as the young mate was then termed , sundry palms , sets of sail-needles , a fid or two , and various other similar articles , that obviously could no longer be of any use to Daggett , were sent across to the ` Harbour , ' and disposed of there , to advantage , among the many seamen of the port . 
When , therefore , Daggett became really necessitous , in the way of comforts that even money could not command beneath the roof of the Widow White , the young man let the fact be known to the deacon 's niece , who immediately provided sundry delicacies that were acceptable to the palate of even disease . 
Although his intimacy with Daggett went on increasing , and they were daily more and more together , in long and secret conference , not a suggestion was ever made by the deacon in the way of contributing to his new friend 's comforts . 
He now spent nearly half his time in private communications with Daggett ; and , on more than one occasion , when the niece had taken some light article of food over for the use of the last , she found him and her uncle examining one or two dirty and well-worn charts of the ocean . 
To tell the truth , he was exceedingly distrustful of any one 's being admitted to a communication with Daggett , who had revealed to him matters that he deemed to be of great importance , but who still retained the key to his most material mystery . 
Nevertheless , decency , to say nothing of the influence of what `` folks would say , '' the Archimedean lever of all society of puritanical origin , exhorted him to consent to his niece 's proposal . 
`` Still , I think it our duty to try to serve a fellow-creature that is in distress ; and Daggett , I fear , will not go through the week , if indeed he go through the night . '' 
`` I should be sorry to have him die ! '' 
`` Right sorry should I be , to have him die -- just yet . '' 
`` Die he will , I fear , uncle , '' returned Mary , after a short pause ; `` and sorry should I be to have it so without our feeling the consolation of knowing we had done all in our power to save him , or to serve him . '' 
I will say this for Gar ` ner , that he is as reasonable a young man , when he does an odd job , as any one I know . 
I like to employ him . '' 
`` Well , sir , '' the niece resumed , after another brief pause , `` we can send for Roswell , if you think it best , and ask him to do the poor man this act of kindness . '' 
I dare say Daggett 's effects will pay the bill for attendance , since they have answered , as yet , to meet the Widow White 's charges . 
This is ` doing as we would be done by , ' and is all right , considering that Daggett is sick and among strangers . 
The disease of Daggett was a general decay that was not attended with much suffering . 
He was now seated in a homely arm-chair , and was able to converse . 
He was not aware , indeed , of the real danger of his case , and still had hopes of surviving many years . 
`` I only hope I shall have the means to pay for all this expense and trouble , deacon , '' returned Daggett , in a sort of doubting way , that , for a moment , rendered his friend exceedingly uncomfortable . 
Among the other tales of Daggett , was one which said that he had never yet received his share of his father 's property ; an account that was true enough , though the truth might have shown that the old man had left nothing worth dividing . 
`` Have you thought of the chart , Daggett , '' asked the deacon , `` and given an eye to that journal ? '' 
`` Yes , I can imagine that , easy enough , from your accounts , Daggett -- but , how am I to be certain that some other vessel will not get the start of me ? '' 
`` There is another hold upon Jack , '' continued Daggett , after reflecting a moment . 
asked Daggett , in some surprise . 
Daggett , finding himself sick , poor , and friendless , among strangers , had early cast about him for the means of obtaining an interest with those who might serve him . 
He had soon got an insight into the character of Deacon Pratt , from the passing remarks of the Widow White , who was induced to allude to the uncle , in consequence of the charitable visits of the niece . 
The request had been reluctantly granted ; but , during the visit , Daggett had managed so well to whet his visiter 's appetite for gain , that henceforth there was no trouble in procuring the deacon 's company . 
Little by little had Daggett let out his facts , always keeping enough in reserve to render himself necessary , until he had got his new acquaintance in the highest state of feverish excitement . 
The schooner was purchased , and all the arrangements necessary to her outfit were pressed forward as fast as prudence would at all allow . 
The chart , and the latitude and longitude , were the circumstances over which Daggett retained the control . 
These he kept to himself , though he averred that he had laid down on the charts that were in his chest the two important points which had been the subjects of his communications . 
Although this man had been wily in making his revelations ; and had chosen his confidant with caution and sagacity , most of that which he related was true . 
He had belonged to a sealer that had been in a very high southern latitude , where it had made some very important discoveries , touching the animals that formed the objects of its search . 
It was possible to fill a vessel in those islands in a few weeks ; and the master of the sealer , Daggett having been his mate , had made all his people swear on their `` bible oaths '' not to reveal the facts , except under prescribed circumstances . 
His own vessel was full when he made the discoveries , but misfortune befel her on her homeward-bound passage , until she was herself totally lost in the West Indies , and that in a part of the ocean where she had no business to be . 
In consequence of these several calamities , Daggett and one more man were the sole living depositories of the important information . 
These men separated , and , as stated , Daggett had reason to think that his former shipmate had been recently killed by a whale . 
After the loss of the sealing-vessel , Daggett remained in the West Indies and on the Spanish Main for some time , until falling into evil company he was imprisoned on a charge of piracy , in company with one who better deserved the imputation . 
While in the same cell , the pirate had made a relation to Daggett of all the incidents of a very eventful life . 
Among other things revealed was the fact that , on a certain occasion , he and two others had deposited a very considerable amount of treasure on a key that he described very minutely , and which he now bestowed on Daggett as some compensation for his present unmerited sufferings , his companions having both been drowned by the upsetting of their boat on the return from the key in question . 
Subsequently , this pirate had been executed , and Daggett liberated . 
He was not able to get to the key without making friends and confidants on whom he could rely , and he was actually making the best of his way to Martha 's Vineyard with that intent , when put ashore on Oyster Pond . 
Daggett had rendered him certain services , too , and gratitude might have had some influence . 
Daggett rolled the tobacco over his tongue , and his eyes twinkled with a sort of leer , which indicated that the fellow was not without some humour . 
From the nature of this discourse , it will not be easy for the reader to imagine the real condition of Daggett . 
At the very moment he was thus conversing of money , and incidentally manifesting his expectations of accompanying Roswell Gardiner in the expedition that was about to sail , the man had not actually four-and-twenty hours of life in him . 
Perhaps his mind was so much occupied with the subject of his discussions with Daggett , that it did not sufficiently advert to the real condition of the man . 
At this sight the deacon hurried off to the cottage again , having something to say to Daggett that could no longer be delayed . 
`` The whale-boat will soon be in , '' he observed , as soon as he had taken his seat , `` and we shall shortly have the doctor here . 
`` There 's one thing I wish to say to you , Daggett , before Dr. Sage comes in . 
Talking too much may excite you , especially talking of matters that are of interest ; and you may give him a false impression of your state , should you get the pulse up , and the cheek flushed , by over-talking . '' 
Daggett was not so in the least , however ; for he had taken the measure of his new confidant 's conscience , and had lived long enough to know how marked was the difference between professions and practice . 
As for the deacon , he really thought it would be unseemly , and of evil example , for Daggett to converse with Dr. Sage , touching these doubloons , of the Lord 's day ; while he had felt no scruples himself , a short hour before , to make them the theme of a long and interesting discussion , in his own person . 
`` It 's a grateful thing to meet with one of your temperament , doctor -- but Daggett -- '' `` Is this man named Daggett ? '' 
`` I believethat is what he calls himself , though a body never is certain of what such people say . '' 
But if this man 's name is really Daggett , he must come from the Vineyard . 
There are Daggetts there in scores ; yes , he must be a Vineyard man . '' 
As the doctor was a little of a wag , deacon Pratt did not deem it necessary religiously to believe all that now escaped him ; but he was glad to keep him in this vein , in order to prevent his getting again on the track of Daggett 's early life . 
All our craft get into that Hole , or into Tarpaulin Cove , before they venture across the Shoals ; and a letter addressed to any person of the name of Daggett might find the right man . 
Poor Daggett was wearied with the subject ; but Dr. Sage 's predictions of an early termination of the case , and the possibility that kinsmen might cross over from the ` Vineyard , ' in order to learn what the long absent man had in his possession , acted on him as keen incentives . 
By learning the most material facts now , the Sea Lion might get so far ahead of all competitors as to secure the prizes , even should Daggett let others into the secret , and start another vessel on the same expedition . 
His own schooner was nearly ready for sea , whereas time would be needed in order to make an entire outfit . 
But Daggett did not appear to be disposed to be more communicative than heretofore . 
He went over the narrative of the discovery of the sealing-island , and gave a graphic account of the number and tame condition of the animals who frequented it . 
The pirate 's tale , which was also recapitulated with much gusto , scarce excited him as much as Daggett 's glowing account of the number , condition , and size of the seals . 
No art of the deacon 's , and he practised many , could extort from the mariner these most material facts , without which all the rest were useless ; and the old man worked himself into a fever almost as high as that which soon came over Daggett , in the effort to come at these facts -- but all in vain . 
A talking man is that Daggett , I can tell you , Mary ! '' 
`` He 'll never talk ag ` in , deacon ! '' 
It appeared that Daggett died in the night , the widow having found him stiff and cold on visiting his bed-side a few minutes before . 
As there was nothing unusual in the death of Daggett , the investigations of the coroner were not required . 
The chest of Daggett was removed to his house for safe-keeping , the key having been taken from the pocket of his vest , and the necessary orders were given for the final disposition of the body . 
Had all the gold of the Indies lain within his reach , the arm of Daggett was now powerless to touch it . 
His eye could no longer gloat upon treasure , nor any part of his corporeal system profit by its possession . 
Such was the state of feeling among some of the principal actors of our tale , when the sudden death of Daggett occurred . 
He had the charts in his possession , and no more revelations could pass the lips of Daggett . 
Should the friends of the deceased sailor hear of his death , and come to look after his effects , there was very little probability of their finding anything among them to furnish a clue to either the new sealing-ground , or to the buried treasure of the pirate . 
It was not his , certainly ; but he put such a construction on the nature of the revelations of Daggett , as he thought would fully justify him in proceeding . 
He had purchased the schooner expressly to go in quest of the seals and the treasure . 
This he had done with Daggett 's knowledge and acquiescence ; nor did he conceive that his own rights were lessened by the mariner 's decease . 
Certainly , nothing like treasure presented itself to his eyes , when all that Daggett had left behind him lay exposed to view . 
The chest of a common sailor is usually but ill-furnished , unless it may be just after his return from a long and well-paid voyage , and before he has had time to fall back on his purchases of clothes , as a fund to supply his cravings for personal gratification . 
This of Daggett 's formed no exception to the rule . 
Charts purchased for the schooner were lying on a table in his own room , and he projected on one of them , as well as his skill would allow , the sealing-islands he had just removed from the chart left by Daggett . 
There he also wrote , in pencil , the important figures that we are commanded not to reveal . 
Having marked the proper key , on his own chart of the West Indies , he replaced the charts of Daggett in the chest , and locked all up again . 
The verbal accounts of the sick mariner he had already transferred to paper , and he now believed himself secure of all the information that was necessary to render him the richest man in Suffolk ! 
He had a lightened heart , however ; for after leading him on , step by step , until he had gone so far as to purchase and fit out the schooner , Daggett had pertinaciously refused to enter into those minute particulars which it is even now forbidden us to state , and a want of which would have rendered his previous expenditures useless . 
`` No ; we have none of the name of Daggett here , which is a tribe on the Vineyard . 
It happened that on only one occasion Daggett was explicit and connected in his narrative . 
At all other times his discourse was broken , consisting more in allusions to what had been previously said than in direct and clear revelations . 
Perhaps I ought to have introduced myself a little more particularily -- I come from Martha 's Vineyard , and my name is Daggett . '' 
`` Daggett '' and the `` Vineyard '' sounded ominously . 
`` The Daggetts are pretty numerous on the Vineyard , '' continued the stranger , `` and when you name one of them it is not always easy to tell just what family he belongs to . 
One of our coasters came into the Hull -LRB- Holmes ' Hole was meant -RRB- a few weeks since , and reported that she spoke an inward-bound brig , off New Haven , from which she heard that the people of that craft had put ashore , at Oyster Pond , a seafaring man , who belonged to the Vineyard , and who was bound home , arter an absence of fifty years , and whose name was Thomas Daggett . 
After casting about , and talking with all the old folks , it has been concluded that this Thomas Daggett must be a brother of my father 's , who went to sea about fifty years since , and has never been seen or heard of since . 
He 's the only person of the name for whom we ca n't account , and the family have got me to come across to look him up . '' 
After a discourse of some fifteen minutes , in which the history of the chest , in its outlines , was fully given , and during which the stranger produced written evidence of his right to interfere , it was determined to make an inventory , on the spot , of the property left by Daggett , for the benefit of all who might have any interest in it . 
That pee-jacket is the best article in the chest , and , sent across to the Harbour , about the time the ships are going out , it would bring enough to maintain Daggett a month ! '' 
`` I dare say it will be found to fit , for I remember to have seen Daggett use it once or twice myself . '' 
You 'll hardly think it worth while , captain Daggett , to take this dunnage across to the Vineyard . '' 
Nor was this feeling at all lessened by the earnest , not to say eager , manner in which Daggett , as we shall now call this member of the family , spread the chart on the bed , and began to pry into its records . 
`` This is an old chart , and of the date of 1802 , '' observed Daggett , raising himself erect , as a man who has long been bent takes the creaks out of his back . 
It was so natural for a man like Daggett to boast of what his charts were worth , that he saw the extreme probability that a difficulty might arise from this source . 
It was his cue , however , to remain silent , and let the truth develop itself in due course . 
His attention was not likely to be drawn aside by the shirts and old clothes , for the stranger began a second time to examine the chart , and what was more , in the high latitudes at no great distance from the very spot where the sealing-islands had been placed , and from which they had been so carefully erased . 
According to reports , the time has been when a craft had only to get an offing to fall in with something that was worth putting a harpoon into ; but those days are gone , captain Daggett ; and whales are to be looked after , out at sea , much as money is to be looked for ashore here . '' 
He was now convinced that , by means of the masters of the brig and the sloop , such information had been sent to the relatives of Daggett as had prepared them to expect the very revelations on which he hoped to establish his own fortunes . 
To what extent these revelations had been made , of course he could only conjecture ; but there must have been a good deal of particularity to induce the individual who had come over to Oyster Pond to look into the two charts so closely . 
Captain Daggett drew forth his wallet and discharged the obligation on the spot . 
He then replaced the charts , and , without opening the till of the chest , he shut down the lid , locked it , and put the key in his pocket , saying that he would cause the whole to be removed , much as if he felt anxious to relieve the deacon of an incumbrance . 
This done , he asked a direction to the dwelling of the Widow White , with whom he wished to converse , ere he left the Point . 
`` That he was , captain Daggett ; and when the deacon had not been over to perplex him , and wake up the worldly spirit in him , he was as well inclined to preparation as any sick person I ever waited on . 
Captain Daggett was fully assured that the deacon knew of the existence of the sealing-island , at least ; though he was in doubt whether the rumour that had been brought to him , touching the buried treasure , had also been imparted to this person . 
The purchase and equipment of the Sea Lion , taken in connection with the widow 's account , were enough , of themselves , to convince one of his experience and foresight , that an expedition after seal was then fitting out , on the information derived from his deceased relative . 
Of this much he had no doubt ; but he was not able to assure himself , quite so satisfactorily , that the key was to be looked at by the way . 
The interview between Captain Daggett and the Widow White lasted more than an hour . 
That afternoon , Captain Daggett found means to remove the chest of his late kinsman , across the bays , to Sag Harbour , whither he proceeded himself by the same conveyance . 
There , he passed an hour or two in making inquiries touching the state of equipment , and the probable time of the departure of the Sea Lion . 
On the whole , however , he arrived at the conclusion that the Sea Lion would sail within the next ten days ; that her voyage was to be distant ; that her absence was expected to exceed a twelvemonth ; and that it was thought she had some other scheme in view , in addition to that of sealing . 
That night , this hardy mariner -- half agriculturist as he was -- got into his whale-boat , and sailed for the Vineyard , all alone , taking the chest with him . 
This was nothing , however ; for quite often , before , had he been off at sea , in his boat , alone , looking out for inward-bound vessels to pilot . 
Thevisit of Captain Daggett , taken in connection with all that he had said and done , while on Oyster Pond , and at Sag Harbour , had the effect greatly to hasten the equipments of the Sea Lion . 
Gardiner understood that the schooner was to go after seals , sea-lions , sea-elephants , and all animals of the genus phoca ; but he had been told nothing concerning the revelations of Daggett , or of the real motives that had induced him to go so far out of his usual course , in the pursuit of gain . 
This great point secured , the deacon laid aside the sacred volume , opened a drawer , and produced the two allimportant charts , to which he had transferred the notes of Daggett . 
`` Daggett has told you this , Deacon Pratt '' -- said Gardiner , in his off-hand way . 
`` Admitting it to be so , why not Daggett as well as any other man ? '' 
`` Daggett was near his end , and can not be classed with those who talk idly in the pride of their health and strength -- men who are ever ready to say -- ` Tush , God has forgotten . '' ' 
But Daggett made me his confidant because Providence put me in his way , and because he trusted to being well enough to go in the schooner , and to turn the expedition to some account in his own behalf . '' 
Daggett was never a pirate himself , but accident placed him in the same prison and same room as that in which a real pirate was confined . 
There the men became friends , and the condemned prisoner , for such he was in the end , gave this secret to Daggett as the last service he could do him . '' 
The deacon then went into all the particulars of the revelations made by the pirate to his fellow-prisoner , much as they had been given by Daggett to himself . 
So deep had been the impression made on the mind of the old man by Daggett 's account , and so intense the expectations thereby awakened , that he omitted nothing , observed the most minute accuracy in all his details , and conveyed just as distinct impressions to his listener , as had been conveyed to himself , when the story was first told to him . 
Did this Daggett name the amount of the sum that he supposed the pirates may have left on that key ? '' 
`` He did , '' returned the deacon , the whole of his narrow and craving soul seeming to gleam in his two sunken eyes as he answered . 
It would seem that Daggett had been sufficiently clear in his directions for finding the hidden treasure , provided always that his confidant the pirate had been as clear with him , and had not been indulging in a mystification . 
The probability of the last had early suggested itself to one of Deacon Pratt 's cautious temperament ; but Daggett had succeeded in removing the impression by his forcible statements of his friend 's sincerity . 
It consisted principally of sayings of Daggett , uttered during his homeward-bound passage , and transmitted by the master of the brig to him of the sloop in the course of conferences that wore away a long summer 's afternoon , as the two vessels lay becalmed within a hundred fathoms of each other . 
All men like to deal in that which makes them of importance ; and the possession of his secrets had just the effect on Daggett 's mind that was necessary to render him boastful . 
Under such impulses his tongue had not been very guarded ; and facts leaked out which , when transmitted to his native island , through the medium of half a dozen tongues and as many fancies , amounted to statements sufficient to fire the imaginations of a people much duller than those of Martha 's Vineyard . 
In addition to these significant proofs that the reports brought through the two masters were not without a foundation , there was an unfinished letter , written by the deceased , and addressed as a sort of legacy , `` to any , or all of Martha 's Vineyard , of the name of Daggett . '' 
`` Captain Jason Daggett , '' showing himself more plainly , by moving out of the line of the main-rigging . 
`` Not at all , not at all , Captain Daggett ; though I had no idea , then , that you intended to make a voyage to the southward so soon . 
`` I have observed that , Captain Daggett ; and you might say the same of the figure-heads . '' 
In point of fact , Watson was engaged as Daggett 's second mate beforehe had ever laid eyes on Roswell Gardiner , and had been sent to watch the progress of the work on Oyster Pond , as has been previously stated . 
Still , the young man had his suspicions on the subject of the equipment of the other schooner , and suspicions that were now active and keen , and which led him directly to fancy that Daggett had also some clue to the very objects he was after himself . 
Until now , he had thought it well enough to let the deacon have his fancies , relying on his own ability to obtain a cargo for the schooner , by visiting sealing stations where he had been before ; but , now , he determined to steer at once for Daggett 's Islands , as he and his owner named the land revealed to them , and ascertain what could be done there . 
He thought it probable the other Sea Lion might wish to keep him company ; but the distance was so great , that a hundred occasions must occur when it would be in his power to shake off such a consort , should be deem it necessary . 
Captain Daggett received his guest with marked civility , though in a quiet , eastern way . 
Thus it was that his `` good evening '' at parting , to Watson , was just as frank and sincere as that he bestowed on Captain Daggett himself . 
But , Roswell Gardiner became satisfied that Captain Daggett stuck by him intentionally ; for on all such occasions if hisschooner happened to be out of the way , he managed to close again , ere the danger of separating became too great to be overcome . 
`` I wish I knew where Daggett makes himself out , '' said the young master , just as the day closed on a most stormy and dirty-looking night . 
Little did Gardiner imagine that the reason why Daggett had thus stood on , was solely the wish to keep him company ; for , that person , in consequence of Gardiner 's running so close in towards the coast , had taken up the notion that the Sea Lion of Oyster Pond meant to pass through the West Indies , visiting the key , which was thought to contain treasure , and of which he had some accounts that had aroused all his thirst for gold , without giving him the clue necessary to obtain it . 
At first , it seemed to Gardiner that Daggett would pass just ahead of him , and he trembled for his cables , which occasionally appeared above water , stretched like bars of iron , for the distance of thirty or forty fathoms . 
But , the leeward set of the vessel under way was too fast to give her any chance of bringing this new danger on her consort . 
When a cable 's length distant , the Sea Lion , of the Vineyard , didseem as if she might weather her consort ; but , ere that short space was passed over , it was found that she fell off so fast , by means of her drift , as to carry her fairly clear of her stern . 
The two masters , holding with one hand to some permanent object by which to steady themselves , and each pressing his tarpaulin firmly down on his head with the other , had a minute 's conversation when the schooners were nearest together . 
demanded Daggett , who was the first to speak , and who put his question as if he thought his own fate depended on the answer . 
No sooner was the head of the Sea Lion , of the Vineyard , fairly up with the stern of the Sea Lion , of Oyster Pond , than Gardiner perceived that she went off diagonally , moving quite as fast to leeward as she went ahead . 
This was so very obvious that a line drawn from the quarter of Roswell 's craft , in a quartering direction , would almost have kept the other schooner in its range from the moment that her bow hove heavily past . 
Sure enough , Daggett appeared more disposed to trust to his canvass , than to his ground-tackle . 
In a very brief space of time he had his craft under whole sail , and was struggling , in the puffs , to claw off the land . 
The schooner 's head was instantly brought to meet the seas , and the lead dropped at her side showed that she was moving in the right direction . 
Gardiner expected to see his consort stand out to sea , and gain an offing ; but , instead of this , Captain Daggett brought his schooner quite near to the disabled vessel , and anchored . 
As soon as it would do to put his boats in the water , or at daylight next morning , Captain Daggett came alongside of his consort . 
He was received with a seaman 's welcome , and his offers of services were accepted , just as frankly , as under reversed circumstances , they would have been made . 
In point of fact , Daggett had a double motive in now offering his services to Gardiner ; the one being the discharge of his moral obligations , and the other a desire to remain near the Sea Lion of Oyster Pond , lest she should visit the key , of which he had some very interesting memorandums , without having enough to find the place unless led there by those who were better informed on the subject of its precise locality than he was himself . 
The boats of Daggett assisted in getting the wreck alongside , and in securing the sails and rigging . 
Then , his people aided in fitting jury-masts ; and , by noon , both vessels got under way , and stood along the coast , to the southward and westward . 
Off the entrance of Beaufort , a very perfect and beautiful haven , if it had a greater depth of water , the schooners hove-to , in waiting for the tide to rise a little ; and Roswell Gardiner took that occasion to go on board the sister craft , and express to Daggett a sense of the obligations he felt for the services the other had rendered . 
`` Of course , you will not think of going in , Captain Daggett , '' continued our hero , in dwelling on the subject , `` after having put yourself , already , to so much unnecessary trouble . 
`` I 'll tell you what it is , Gar ` ner , '' returned the Vineyard mariner , pushing the rum towards his brother master , `` I 'm a plain sort of a fellow , and do n't make much talk when I do a thing , but I like good-fellowship . 
`` It 's a right feeling , as between you and me , Captain Daggett , as I can answer for . 
`` I 'm afraid , Captain Daggett , that we have both of us turned our backs on our true course , when we suffered ourselves to get jammed away down here , on Hatteras . 
`` For which purpose , or that of going straight to your port , Captain Daggett , you 've come down here , on your way to the Pacific ; or , about five hundred miles out of your way ! '' 
`` It seems like doing injustice to yourowners , as well as to my own , keeping you here , Captain Daggett , '' returned Roswell , innocently , for he had not the smallest suspicion of the true motive of all this apparent good-fellowship , `` and I really wish you would now quit me . '' 
`` Which is the reason why there are so many old maids there , I suppose , Daggett , '' cried Roswell Gardiner , laughing . 
Here 's a lucky voyage to us both , Captain Daggett , and a happy return to sweet-hearts and wives . '' 
Daggett tossed off his glass to this toast , and the two then went on deck . 
It follows that Captain Daggett and his crew were actually putting their hands into their own pockets , when they lost time in remaining with the crippled craft . 
Of the Sea Lion of Holmes ' Hole he wrote at large , giving it as his opinion that Captain Daggett really possessed some clue -- what he did not know -- to the existence of the sealing islands , though he rather thought that he was not very accurately informed of their precise position . 
As respected the key , Roswell was silent , for it did not at all occur to him that Daggett knew anything of that part of his own mission . 
In consequence of this opinion , not the least suspicion of the motive of the Vineyard-man , in sticking by him , presented itself to Gardiner 's mind ; and nothing on the subject was communicated in the letter . 
On the contrary , our young master was quite eloquent in expressing his gratitude to Daggett and his crew , for the assistance they had volunteered , and without which he could not have been ready to go to sea again in less than a week . 
`` Roswell tells us that Captain Daggett did , uncle , '' answered Mary , `` and that it is understood between them he is to make no charge for his going into Beaufort , or for anything he did while there . 
See , sir ; it is an acknowledgment , signed by Captain Daggett and all his crew , admitting that they went into Beaufort with Roswell out of good feeling , and allowing that they have no claims to salvage . 
As for Daggett , he supposed him to have been similarly influenced ; though he did not withhold his expressions of gratitude for the generous manner in which that seaman had stuck to him to the last . 
There had been some variance of opinion between Daggett and Gardiner , touching the course they ought to steer . 
Gardiner felt impatient to repair his blunder , and make the shortest cut he could ; whereas Daggett reasoned more coolly , and took the winds into the account , keeping in view the main results of the voyage . 
Perhaps the last wished to keep his consort away from all the keys , until he was compelled to alter his course in a way that would leave no doubt of his intentions . 
Of one thing the last was now certain ; he knew by a long trial that the Sea Lion of Oyster Pond could not very easily run away from the Sea Lion of Holmes ' Hole , and he was fully resolved that she should not escape from him in the night , or in squalls . 
Roswell Gardiner and Daggett had several discussions touching the manner in which they ought to pass those islands . 
While this uncertainty as to the course prevailed , the low land appeared directly ahead , when Daggett consented to pass it to the southward , keeping the cluster in sight , however , as they went steadily on towards the southward and eastward . 
Roswell Gardinerfelt as if he could breathe more freely when they had run the Summers Group fairly out of sight , and the last hummock had sunk into the waves of the west . 
Daggett was at the steering-oar of one , as was Roswell at that of another . 
It was Daggett 's wish to establish a sort of partnership , which , taken in connection with the good feeling created by the affair at Beaufort , would be very apt to lead on to further and more important association . 
In a few minutes , Gardiner and Daggett became a little more separated , each looking eagerly for the spouts , which had not been seen by either since quitting his vessel . 
Had not Roswell and Daggett , previously to leaving their respective vessels , seen the signs of whales with their own eyes , it is probable that they would now have both been disposed to return , calling in their mates . 
But , being certain that the creatures they sought were not far distant , they continued slowly to separate , each straining his eyes in quest of his game , as his boat rose on the summit of the rolling and tossing waves . 
Twenty times did each fancy that he saw the dark back , or head , of the object he sought ; but as often did it prove to be no more than a lipper of water , rolling up into a hummock ere it broke , or melted away again into the general mass of the unquiet ocean . 
It was the flukes , or extremity of the tail of an enormous whale , distant from him less than a quarter of a mile , and in such a position as to place the animal at about the same breadth of water from Daggett . 
There came Daggett fast to a small bull , which was running directly in the wind 's eye with great speed , dragging the boat after him , which was towing astern at a distance of something like two hundred fathoms . 
At first , Roswell thought he should be compelled to cut from his whale , so directly towards his own boat did the other animal direct his course . 
But , intimidated , most probably , by the tremendous blows with which the larger bull continued to belabour the ocean , the smaller animal sheered away in time to avoid a collision , though he now began to circle the spot where his dreaded monarch lay . 
If the smaller bull should continue to encircle the larger , there was great reason to believe that the line of Daggett might get entangled with the boat of Gardiner , and produce a collision that might prove fatal to all there . 
It was not known what might have been the consequence of this circular movement as respects the two boats ; for , before they could come together , Daggett 's line actually passed into the mouth of Gardiner 's whale , and drawing up tight into the angle of his jaws , set the monster in motion with a momentum and power that caused the iron to draw from the smaller whale , which by this time had more than half encircled the animal . 
Daggett did the same , unwilling to cut as long as he could hold on to his line . 
At the expiration of five minutes the large bull came up again for breath , with both lines still fast to him ; the one in the regular way , or attached to the harpoon , and the other jammed in the jaws of the animal by means of the harpoon and staff , which formed a sort of toggle at the angle of his enormous mouth . 
As both boats had let run line freely while the whale was sounding , they now found themselves near a quarter of a mile astern of him , towing along , side by side , and not fifty feet asunder . 
`` You know , of course , Captain Daggett , that this is my whale , '' said Gardiner . 
`` I was fast to him regularly , and was only waiting for him to become a little quiet to lance him , when your whale crossed his course , fouled your line , and has got you fast in an unaccountable way , but not according to whaling law . '' 
Daggett 's crew did the same , and a warm contest existed between the two boats , as to which should now first close with the fish and kill it . 
A very few minutes sufficed to bring the parties quite in a line with the flukes , Gardiner 's boat coming up on the larboard or left-hand side of the animal , where its iron was fast , and Daggett 's on the opposite , its line leading out of the jaws of the fish in that direction . 
The two masters stood erect on their respective clumsy cleets , each poising his lance , waiting only to get near enough to strike . 
Daggett , perhaps , was the coolest and most calculating at that moment , but Roswell was the most nervous , and the boldest . 
At the same instant Daggett threw his lance with consummate skill , and went to the quick . 
The sea was in a foam , the fish going into his `` flurry '' almost as soon as struck , and both crews were delighted to see the red of the blood mingling its deep hues with the white of the troubled water . 
Once or twice the animal spouted , but it was a fluid dyed in his gore . 
Gardinerand Daggett met , face to face , on the carcase of the whale . 
Each struck his lance into the blubber , steadying himself by its handle ; and each eyed the other in a way that betokened feelings awakened to a keen desire to defend his rights . 
`` Captain Daggett , '' said Roswell , sharply , `` you are too old a whaler not to know whaling law . 
Daggett reflected ; and it is probable that , as he cooled off from the excitement created by his late exertions , he fully recognised the justice of the other 's remarks , and the injustice of his own claims . 
Still , it seemed to him un-American , un-Vineyard , if the reader please , to `` give up ; '' and he clung to his error with as much pertinacity as if he had been right . 
It had the effect , notwithstanding , a good deal to mollify his feelings , since it induced him to believe that Daggett was manœuvring to get at his great secret , rather than to assail his rights . 
`` You are part owner of your schooner , Captain Daggett , '' our hero answered , `` while I have no other interest in mine than my lay , as her master . 
There was prudence , as well as art , in this decision of Daggett 's . 
Notwithstanding his ingenious pretensions to a claim in the whale , he knew perfectly well that no law would sustain it , and that , in addition to the chances of being beaten on the spot , which were at least equal , he would certainly be beaten in the courts at home , should he really attempt to carry out his declared design . 
Then , he really deferred to the expectation that his future good fortune might be influenced by his present forbearance . 
Captain Daggett set up some claims to this fish , in consequence of his line 's getting foul of the creature 's jaws , but he changed his mind in good season , and clapped on to help tow the whale down to the vessel . 
His irons drew from a young bull , and a good deal of dissatisfaction existed among the other crew , until , fortunately , the school of young bulls came round quite near us , when Captain Daggett and his people succeeded in securing no less than three of the fish , and Mr. Hazard got a very fine one for us . 
`` I am happy to say that we had very pleasant weather to cut in , and secured every gallon of the oil of both our whales , as did Captain Daggett all of his . 
Daggett got one hundred and thirty-three barrels from his three fish , a very fair proportion of head , though not as large as our own . 
I dare say he lost his spars off Cape Hatteras in trying to outsail that Daggett ; but I overlook all that now . 
He 's a capital youth to work upon a whale or a sea-elephant ! 
There is n't his equal , as I 'll engage , in all Ameriky , if you 'll only let him know where to find the creatur 's . 
I knew his character before I engaged him ; for no man but a real skinner shall ever command a craft of mine . '' 
`` I have been much at a loss how to act in regard to Captain Daggett , '' said Roswell , in his letter . 
`` He stood by me so manfully and generously off Cape Hatteras , that I did not like to part company in the night , or in a squall , which would have seemed ungrateful , as well as wearing a sort of runaway look . 
I am afraid he has some knowledge of the existence of our islands , though I doubt whether he has their latitude and longitude exactly . 
Something there is of this nature on board the other schooner , her people often dropping hints to my officers and men , when they have been gamming . 
I have sometimes fancied Daggett sticks so close to us , that he may get the advantage of our reckoning to help him to what he wants to find . 
He is no great navigator anywhere , running more by signs and currents , in my judgment , than by the use of his instruments . 
Still , he could find his way to any part of the world . '' 
In what manner I am to get rid of Daggett , I do not yet know . 
He outsails me a little on all tacks , unless it be in very heavy weather , when I have a trifling advantage over him . 
It will be in my power to quit him any dark night ; but if I let him go ahead , and he should really have any right notions about the position of the islands , he might get there first , and make havoc among the seals . '' 
If Gar ` ner lets that Daggett get the start of him , he never need come home again . 
`` Next to this one great concern of my life , comes that which this man Daggett gives me , '' -- the letter went on to say . 
Keep in his company much longer I can not , without violating my duty to the deacon . 
It stated that all was well ; that the schooner of Daggett was still in company ; and that Gardiner intended to get `` shut '' of her , as the deacon expressed it , on the very first occasion . 
The manner in which Daggett had stuck by him , ever since the two vessels took their departure from Block Island , is known to the reader . 
It would seem that Daggett was exceedingly averse to passing through the Straits of le Maire . 
As Daggett urged his reasons for keeping off and passing outside of Staten Land , a circuit of considerable extent , besides bringing a vessel far to leeward with the prevalent winds of that region , which usually blow from northwest round to southwest , Roswell was reflecting on the opportunity the circumstances afforded of giving his consort the slip . 
After discussing the matter for some time , he desired Daggett to lead on , and he would follow . 
Without committing himself by any promise , therefore , he told Daggett to lead on , and for some time he followed , the course being one that did not take him much out of the way . 
Daggett , being about half a mile ahead , felt the full power of one particular squall that came out of the ravines with greater force than common , and he kept away to increase his distance from the land . 
This latter fact had been one of Daggett 's arguments for going outside . 
He knew from the smoothness of the water that an ebb-tide was running , and trusted to its force to carry him through the Straits . 
He saw no more of the Sea Lion of the Vineyard . 
She continued shut in by the mist until night closed around both vessels . 
When he got about mid-channel , Roswell tacked again . 
Such was Daggett 's position ; who , in consequence of having gone outside of Staten Land , was now necessarily a long distance to leeward , and who could not hope to beat up abreast of the Hermits , even did the wind and sea favour him , in less than twenty-four hours . 
Roswell 's motive , however , for listening to such advice , was less to find a shelter for his schooner than to get rid of Daggett . 
For the gale he cared but little , since he was a long way from the ice , and could stretch off the land to the southward into a waste of waters that seems interminable . 
Roswell would now have gone out , had it not been for the apprehension of falling in with Daggett again . 
It was possible that Daggett might not suppose he had been left intentionally , in which case , he would be very apt to look for his lost consort in the vicinity of the cape . 
As for the gale , it might , or it might not , have blown him to leeward . 
A good deal would depend on the currents , and his distance to the southward . 
Near the land , Gardidiner believed the currents favoured a vessel doubling it , going west ; and if Daggett was also aware of this fact , it might induce him to keep as near the spot as possible . 
Could it be possible that Daggett suspected his manœuvre , and was coming in search of him , at the precise spot in which he had taken shelter ? 
But Daggett had no intention of doing anything of the sort . 
He was looking for his consort , which he had hoped to find somewhere near the cape . 
Disappointed in this expectation , after standing far enough west to make certain nothing was in sight in that quarter , he hauled up on an easy bowline , and stood to the southward . 
Roswell was right glad to see this , inasmuch as it denoted ignorance of the position of the islands he sought . 
They lay much farther to the westward ; and no sooner was he sure of the course steered by the other schooner , than he hastened down to the boat , in order to get his own vessel under way , to profit by the breeze . 
Gardiner saw many signs of the proximity of land , and began to hope he should yet actually discover the islands laid down on his chart , as their position had been given by Daggett . 
If there was any truth in Daggett , however , that mariner had been there ; and the instructions of the owner rendered it incumbent on our young man to attempt to follow him . 
Daggett had said that one island , high , mountainous , ragged and bleak , but of some size , lay the most westerly in the group , while several others were within a few miles of it . 
One of these last , however , he insisted on it , was a volcano in activity , and that , at intervals , it emitted flames as well as a fierce heat . 
By his account , however , the party to which he belonged had never actually visited that volcanic cauldron , being satisfied with admiring its terrors from a distance . 
Our young man , however , remembered that Daggett had given the anchorage as on the north-eastern side of the island , where , according to his statements , a little haven would be found , in which a dozen craft might he in security . 
To render ` assurance doubly sure , ' as to the information of Daggett , the smoke of a volcano arose from a rock to the eastward , that appeared to be some three or four miles in circumference , and which stood on the eastern side of the great basin , or some four leagues from Sealer 's Land , as Daggett had at once named the principal island . 
Everything turned out as it had been described by Daggett , and great was our young man 's satisfaction when he rowed into a cove that was little more than two hundred yards in diameter , and which was so completely land-locked as not to feel the influence of any sea outside . 
As all this merely corresponded with Daggett 's account of the place , Roswell felt no surprise ; on the contrary , he saw in it a confirmation of all that Daggett had stated , and as furnishing so much the more reason to hope for a successful termination to the voyage in all its parts . 
While on the rocks , Roswell took such a survey of the localities as might enable him to issue his orders hereafter with discretion and intelligence . 
Before the captain had descended from the summit of the northern barrier , the vessel came in under her jib , the wind being nearly aft , and she dropped two anchors in suitable spots , making another flying moor of it . 
It was , in itself , a great point gained to get the schooner into a perfectly safe haven , where her people could take their natural rest at night , or during their watches below , without feeling any apprehension of being crushed in the ice ; but here was not only security , but the source of that wealth of which they were in quest , and which had induced them all to encounter so many privations and so much danger . 
He felt convinced it was his late consort , the Sea Lion of the Vineyard , which had found her way to the group by means of some hints that had fallen into Daggett 's hands , if not by a positive nautical instinct . 
So great had been his own success , however , and so certain did he now feel of filling up in due season , that he cared much less for this invasion on his privacy than he would have done a fortnight earlier . 
On the contrary , it might be a good thing to have a consort in the event of any accident occurring to his own vessel . 
He was on the point of springing forward in order to join Daggett , when a call from the boat arrested his steps . 
Sure enough , a single glance behind him sufficed to assure the young master of the truth of this statement . 
The field he was on was slowly swinging , bringing its western margin in closer contact with the eastern edge of the floe that lay within it . 
Daggett was a man of fertile resources , and great decision of character . 
Perceiving that escape was impossible , all means of getting clear being rendered useless by the floes soon touching , both before and behind him , he set about adopting the means most likely to save his vessel . 
Selecting a spot where a curve , in the margin of the field to leeward , promised temporary security , at least , he got his vessel into it , anchored fast to the floe . 
Then he commenced cutting away the ice , by means of axes first , and of saws afterwards , in the hope that he might make such a cavity as , by its size and shape , would receive the schooner 's hull , and prevent her destruction . 
For several hours had he and his people been at this work , when , to their joy , as well as to their great astonishment , they were suddenly joined by Roswell and his party . 
The fact was , that so intently had every one of the Vineyard men 's faculties been absorbed by their own danger , and so much was each individual occupied by his own duty , that not a man among them had seen the boat , or even any of the crew , until Gardiner called out to Daggett as he approached , announcing his presence by his voice . 
`` This is good fortune , truly , Captain Gar ` ner , '' said Daggett , shaking his brother master most cordially by the hand ; `` good fortune , do I call it ! 
Come , Captain Daggett , let me see your spare spars and plank . '' 
The task of Roswell Gardiner was in-board , while that of Daggett and his men continued to be on the ice . 
In little more than an hour , Roswell had his task accomplished , while Daggett did not see that he could achieve much more himself . 
Open spaces , however , still existed , owing to irregularities in the outlines of the two floes ; and Daggett hoped that the little bay into which he had got his schooner might not be entirely closed , ere a shift of wind , or a change in the tides , might carry away the causes of the tremendous pressure that menaced his security . 
`` Have you set that nearest island by compass , Daggett ? '' 
`` In which case we may still hope to drift clear , '' returned Daggett , springing on board the schooner , and running aft to the binnacle , Roswell keeping close at his side . 
Daggett , at first , was inclined to believe it was a sound produced by some of the internal convulsions of the earth , which within , as if in mockery of the chill scene that prevailed without , was a raging volcano , the fierce heats of which found vent at the natural chimneys produced by its own efforts . 
This opinion , however , did not last long , and he gave expression to his new thoughts in his answer . 
`` ' T is the ice , '' he said . 
`` We shall get you clear , Daggett ! 
The reader will remember that all which Daggett now said , was uttered by a man who saw his vessel lying on the ice , with a list that rendered it somewhat difficult to move about on her deck , and still in circumstances that would have caused half the navigators of this world to despair . 
Such was not the fact with Daggett , however . 
Seven thousand miles from home , alone , in an unknown sea , and uncertain of ever finding the place he sought , this man had picked his way among mountains and fields of ice , with perhaps less hesitation and reluctance than a dandy would encounter the perils of a crossing , when the streets were a little moistened by rain . 
You know how it is in our calling , Daggett ; first come , first served . 
Daggett 's eyes fairly snapped at this announcement , which aroused all his professional ambition , to say nothing of that propensity to the `` root of all evil , '' which had become pretty thoroughly incorporated with his moral being , by dint of example , theory , and association . 
`` That 's luck , indeed , for a craft so early in the season , '' returned Daggett , when his eyes had done snapping . 
`` I will winter here , but I get a full craft , '' said Daggett , with a resolute manner , if not absolutely serious in what he said . 
`` I suppose a body might expect to see you back again , another season , '' observed Daggett , glancing meaningly towards his companion , as if he had seriously revolved so desperate a plan in his mind . 
`` I may be back or I may not '' -- said Roswell , just then remembering Mary , and wondering if she would continue to keep him any longer in suspense , should he return successful from his present adventure -- `` That will depend on others more than on myself . 
`` Ay , ay , '' returned Roswell , smiling -- `` in one sense you are right enough ; but Captain Daggett and myself were speaking of human affairs , as human affairs are carried on . 
-- Is not this inner field drifting fast away from the outer , Daggett ? 
Captain Daggett , it is high time to look after the safety of your schooner . 
`` If a body could get the craft offas easily as she was got on , '' observed Daggett , as he and Roswell Gardiner stood looking at the schooner 's situation , `` it would be but a light job . 
`` We know it is not quite as hard as that , Daggett , '' was Roswell 's reply ; `` for our saws and axes make great havoc in it , when we can fairly get at it . '' 
Thevery day succeeding the arrival of the Sea Lion of the Vineyard , even while his mate was clearing the vessel , Daggett had a gang on the north shore , killing and skinning . 
Daggett had taken to pieces and brought with him the running part of a common country wagon , which was soon found of vast service in transporting the skins and blubber across the rocks . 
Just one month , or four weeks to a day , after the second schooner got in , it being Sunday of course , Gardiner and Daggett met on the platform of a perfectly even rock that lay stretched for two hundred yards directly beneath the house . 
`` To-morrow will be the first day of February , '' said Daggett , when the salutations of the morning were passed , `` and I was calculating my chances of getting full this season . 
returned Daggett quickly . 
`` I shall do no such thing , Captain Daggett , '' was the answer . 
`` I do not fancy the idea of leaving a fellow-creature , a countryman -- nay , I might say , a neighbour , on this lone spot , with the uncertainty of his ever getting out of it . 
`` Never fear for me , Daggett . 
And now , Daggett , what say you to climbing yonder mountain to-day , by way of getting a good survey of our territories , as well as to take a look at the state of the ice ? '' 
Daggett assented very cheerfully , his mind being greatly relieved by this assurance of standing by him , on the part of Roswell ; for he had been undecided whether to remain after the departure of the other schooner or not . 
All was now clear to him , however , and the two masters made their preparations to ascend the mountain as soon as they had breakfasted . 
For the first two hours after quitting the house , Gardiner , Daggett , and the boat-steerer , were busily employed in working their way across the broken surface of the island , to the base of the cone-like pinnacle that formed the apex of all . 
This is the antarctic dog-days , Gar ` ner , '' answered Daggett , laughing , `` and we must make the most of them . 
Gardiner and Daggett both thought , as they gazed in that direction , that it would be easy enough to take a vessel through the difficulties of the navigation , and that a good run of eight-and-forty hours would carry her quite beyond the crowded ice . 
`` I am almost sorry that we have made a holiday of the Sunday , '' said Daggett , seating himself on a point of rock , to get a little rest after so fatiguing an ascent . 
`` Every minute of time is precious to all men , Captain Daggett , in another and a still more important sense , if they did but know it , '' put in Stimson , with a zealous freedom , and a Christian 's earnestness . 
Neither Captain Daggett nor myself will be disposed to dispute either of these two propositions , I think , when we come to reflect on them . 
`` A poor man must work , '' answered Daggett , dropping his eyes from the more distant and gorgeous views of the drifting ice-mountains , to the rocky shore , that was still frequented by thousands of seals , some of the largest of which might be seen , even from that elevation , waddling about ; `` ay , a poor man must work , Sundays or no Sundays ; and he who would make his hay , must do it while the sun shines . 
But his words were thrown away on Daggett . 
The lust of gold was strong within him ; and while that has full dominion over the heart , it is vain to expect that any purely spiritual fruits will ripen there . 
Daggett was an instance of what , we fear , many thousands resembling him might be found , up and down the land , of a man energetic by temperament , industrious by habit , and even moderate in his views , but whose whole existence is concentrated in the accumulation of property . 
Notwithstanding this seeming moderation , Daggett was an intensely covetous man ; but his wishes were limited by his habits . 
He followed Daggett , therefore , though reluctantly , and with due caution . 
Daggett , however , was a bold and hot-blooded man when in motion , and he preceded the party some little distance , calling out to those behind him to come on without fear . 
Daggett , however , insisted that he knew the spot ; that they had passed up it . 
All remembered the shelf and the ravine ; the question was merely whether the first lay beneath them , and as near as Daggett supposed . 
A mistaken confidence beset the last , and he carried this feeling so far as to decline taking an end of a line which Roswell threw to him , but seated himself on the snow and slid downward , passing almost immediately out of sight . 
demanded Roswell , endeavouring to pierce the air by straining his eye-balls . 
It being obviously the most hazardous to remain to the last , and descend without the support of one above him , Roswell acquiesced in this proposal , lowering the boat-steerer down the rock , until he too was hid from his sight . 
`` And what has become of Captain Daggett ? '' 
`` I fear he has shot off the rock , sir , '' was the answer . 
Living or dead , Daggett must be somewhere on his present level ; and he began to grope his way among the fragments of rock , eager and solicitous . 
The roaring of the wind almost prevented his hearing other sounds ; though once or twice he heard , or fancied that he heard , the shouts of Stimson from above . 
Daggett had been carried over the narrow shelf on which Stimson landed , in consequence of his having no support , or any means of arresting his momentum . 
`` Give yourself no concern about your craft , Daggett -- I will look to her , and to your voyage . '' 
Daggett was obviously relieved by Roswell 's pledges ; for , amid the anguish and apprehensions of his unexpected state , his thoughts had most keenly adverted to his vessel and her fortunes . 
Now that his mind was somewhat relieved on this score , the pains of his body became more sensibly felt . 
The leg of Daggett was certainly broken , a little distance above his ancle ; and various bruises in other places , gave notice of the existence of other injuries . 
Daggett was raised between Roswell and Stimson in a sitting attitude , and supporting himself by putting an arm around the neck of each . 
While dangling in this manner the bone got into its place , and Daggett instantly became aware of that important fact , which was immediately communicated to Roswell . 
Daggett was now seated on a rock at the base of the mountain , with his legs still hanging down , and his back supported by another rock . 
No sooner was he thus placed , than Stimson was despatched , post-haste , for assistance . 
Daggett aided with his counsel , and a little by his personal exertions ; for a seaman does not lie down passively , when anything can be done , even in his own case . 
It was , perhaps , a little characteristic that Daggett took out his knife , and aided in shaving down these splints to the necessary form and thickness . 
On this barrow Daggett was now carefully placed , when four men lifted him up , and walked away with him for a few hundred yards . 
Daggett 's presence on the island was no longer of any moment to himself or his owner , but there remained the secret of the Key , and of the buried treasure . 
The chief mate of Daggett 's craft , though a good sealer , was an impetuous and reckless man , and had more than once found fault with the great precautions used , by the orders of Roswell . 
He was a young commander , and this was his first voyage in that capacity , as all well knew ; then , there had been rivalry and competition between the two crafts , which was a feeling not so easily removed ; next , Macy felt , and even intimated , that he was the lawful commander of his own schooner , in cases in which Daggett was disabled , and that the latter had no power to transfer him and his people to the authority of any other individual . 
`` I have no commander but Captain Daggett ; -- and , by the way , if you see him , Hazard , just tell him we have made a glorious morning 's work of it . '' 
I will tell Captain Daggett what you wish me to say , however , and we will hear his opinion on the subject . 
Nor was he much mistaken in what he expected from Daggett 's anger . 
In the mean time , or fully three weeks after the occurrence of the accident to Daggett , the injuries received by the wounded man were fast healing . 
`` Yes , the Sabbath isa great privilege , especially to such as are on shore , '' returned Daggett . 
`` Depend on it , the same account is kept of the day , Captain Daggett , in the great log-book above , whether a man is on or off soundings , '' put in Stephen , who was privileged ever to deliver his sentiments on such subjects . 
`` I wish to converse with you , Captain Daggett , about our prospects and chances , '' he said . 
`` I 'll tell you what it is , Daggett , '' said our hero , `` good-fellowship is good-fellowship , and the flag is the flag . 
Roswell had never liked the idea of leaving Daggett behind him , at that season , and in that latitude ; and he relished it still less , now that he saw a false reason might be attributed to his conduct . 
`` You certainly do not dream of wintering here , Captain Daggett ? '' 
`` I will do this with you , Daggett , '' he said , speaking like one who had fully decided on his course . 
`` You 'll gain no great help from that Providence you just spoke of , Captain Daggett , by forgetting to keep ` Holy the Sabbath , ' said Stimson , earnestly . 
All this time our hero was fully aware that he was befriending a competitor ; and he was not without his suspicions that Daggett wished to keep him within his view until the visit had been paid to the Key . 
He would remain the twenty days , and do all he could in that time to help along the voyage of the Vineyarders . 
Each night , on his return to the house , Gardiner had a good report to make ; and that peculiar snapping of the eye , that denoted Daggett 's interest in his calling , was to be again traced in the expression of the Vineyarder 's features ; a certain proof that he was fast falling into his old train of thought and feeling . 
Daggett was never happier than when listening to some account of the manner in which an old elephant or lion had been taken , or a number of fur-seals had been made to pay their tribute to the enterprise and address of his people . 
As for Roswell , though he complied with his promise , and carried on the duty with industry and success , his eye was constantly turned on those signs that denote the advance of the seasons . 
Now he scanned the ocean to the northward , and noted the diminished number as well as lessened size of the floating bergs ; proofs that the summer and the waves had been at work on their sides . 
Next , his look was on the sun , which was making his daily course , lower and lower , each time that he appeared , settling rapidly away towards the north , as if in haste to quit a hemisphere that was so little congenial to his character . 
It is true , that of vegetation there was so little , and that little so meagre and of so hardy a nature , that in this respect the progress of the seasons was not to be particularly noted ; but in all others , Roswell saw with growing uneasiness that the latest hour of his departure was fast drawing near . 
The Vineyard craft was not full , nor was Daggett yet able to walk without a crutch ; but orders were issued by Gardiner , on the evening of the last day , for his own crew to `` knock off sealing , '' and to prepare to get under way for home . 
`` Your mind is made up , Gar ` ner , '' said Daggett , in a deprecating sort of way , as if he still had latent hopes of persuading his brother-master to remain a little longer . 
If you will take my advice , Captain Daggett , you will do the same thing . 
`` All true enough , Gar ` ner ; all quite true -- but it has such a look to take a craft home , and she not full ! '' 
There 's a hundred leagues of ocean thereaway , Daggett , that I care for more just now , than for all the seal that are left on these islands . 
Daggett well knew it would be useless to remain without the aid of Roswell 's counsel , and that of his crew 's hands ; for Macy was not to be trusted any more as the leader of a gang of sealers . 
Daggett was on deck , in full command , though still careful of his limb , while Roswell appeared to be everywhere . 
Mary Pratt was before his mind 's eye all that morning ; nor did he even once think how pleasant it would be to meet her uncle , with a `` There , deacon , is your schooner , with a good cargo of elephant-oil , well chucked off with fur-seal skins . '' 
In a quarter of an hour , Daggett got within hail . 
Daggett soon found that he could spare his consort a good deal of canvass , a consequence of his not being full , and he took in his topsail , though , running nearly before the wind , his spar would have stood even a more severe strain . 
As the oldest mariner , it had been agreed between the two masters that Daggett should lead the way . 
This he did for an hour , when both vessels were fairly out of the great bay , clear of the group altogether , and running off north-easterly , at a rate of-nearly ten knots in the hour . 
For a considerable space around the vessels , the water was clear , not even a cake of any sort being to be seen ; and the question arose in Daggett 's mind , whether he ought to stand on , or to heave-to and pass the night well to windward of the bergs . 
Nevertheless , Daggett did it ; and Roswell Gardiner followed the movement , at the distance of about a cable 's length . 
Those two hours must be passed in darkness ; and Daggett shortened sail in order not to reach the ice before the moon rose . 
He had endeavoured to profit by the light as long as it remained , to find a place at which he might venture to enter among the bergs , but had met with no great success . 
The opening first seen now appeared to be closed , either by means of the drift or by means of the change in the position of the vessels ; and he no longer thought of that . 
Fortune must be trusted to , in some measure ; and on he went , Roswell always closely following . 
Nevertheless , Daggett stood down towards the icy range , using no other precautions than shortening sail and keeping a sharp look-out . 
Every five minutes the call from the quarter-deck of each schooner to `` keep a bright look-out '' was heard , unless , indeed , Daggett or Roswell was on his own forecastle , thus occupied in person . 
Both Daggett and Gardiner grew more and more uneasy as the time for the moon to rise drew near , without the orb of night making its appearance . 
This rendered Daggett doubly cautious , and he actually hauled up close to the wind , heading off well to the westward , in order to avoid running in among the bergs , in greater uncertainty than the circumstances would seem to require . 
It was soon quite apparent that Daggett had been too bold , and had led down towards the ice without sufficient caution and foresight . 
When Daggett got this first good look at the enormous masses of the field-ice , that , stirred by the unquiet ocean , were grinding each other , and raising an unceasing rushing sound like that the surf produces on a beach , though far louder , and with a harshness in it that denoted the collision of substances harder than water , he almost instinctively ordered every sheet to be flattened down , and the schooner 's head brought as near the wind as her construction permitted . 
It was obvious that the vessels were setting down upon the ice , and that Daggett did not haul his wind a moment too soon . 
Without waiting longer than to assure himself of the facts , Daggett ordered his helm put up and the main gaff lowered . 
It was not possible to haul up on the other tack ere the schooners would be surrounded by the floes ; and seeing a comparatively open passage a short distance ahead , Daggett stood in boldly , followed closely by Roswell . 
The manœ \ uvre of Daggett was begun under circumstances that scarcely admitted of any alternative , though it might be questioned if it were not the best expedient that offered . 
These changes of course were necessarily frequent ; but , by dint of boldness , perseverance and skill , Daggett worked his way into the comparatively open passage already mentioned . 
Without stopping to ascertain more , Daggett stood on , Roswell keeping close on his quarter . 
`` You 're a bold fellow , Daggett , and one I should not like to follow in a voyage round the world , '' commenced Roswell . 
Daggett meant ` home , ' therefore , by his ` Ameriky , ' in which he saw no other than the east end of Long Island , Gardiner 's Island , and Martha 's Vineyard . 
Not that I expect to be in a wilderness of it , as we are to-night ; but after such a summer , you may rely on it , Daggett , that the ice will get as far north as 45 ° , if not a few degrees further . '' 
exclaimed Daggett . 
`` No , sir , '' answered Stimson , from the forecastle of his own schooner , `` it 's not that , Captain Daggett . 
Both Daggett and Gardiner were of opinion that the fall of a berg of equal size within a cable 's length of the schooners might seriously endanger the vessels by dashing them against some wall of ice , if in no other manner . 
The passage into which Daggett barely succeeded in carrying his schooner was fearfully narrow , and appeared to be fast closing ; though it was much wider further ahead , could the schooners but get through the first dangerous strait . 
Roswell remonstrated ere the leading vessel entered , and pointed out to Daggett the fact that the bergs were evidently closing , each instant increasing their movement , most probably through the force of attraction . 
Scarcely was Daggett within the channel , when an enormous mass fell from the summit of one of the bergs , literally closing the passage in his wake , while it compelled Gardiner to put his helm down , and to tack ship , standing off from the tottering berg . 
The cries on board the leading craft denoted her peril , but it was not possible for Roswell to penetrate to her with his vessel . 
All he could do was to heave-to his own schooner , lower a boat , and pull back towards the point of danger . 
This he did at once , manfully , but with an anxious mind and throbbing heart . 
He actually urged his boat into the chasm beneath an arch in the fallen fragment , and made his way to the very side of Daggett 's vessel . 
The falling fragment from the berg alone prevented her and all in her from being ground into powder . 
`` I am sorry to say , sir , that no news has been heard from Captain Daggett , or any of his people , '' was the sad reply to this silent interrogatory . 
There is the same uneasiness felt among Captain Daggett 's friends , as we feel for poor Roswell . 
If Gar ` ner has let that Daggett keep in his company an hour longer than was necessary , he has deserved to meet with shipwreck , though the loss always falls heaviest on the owners . '' 
`` Gar ` ner has gone a ` ter seal to some islands that the Daggett who died here , about a year and a half ago , told me of ; islands of which nobody know 'd anything , according to his account , but himself . 
His shipmates , that saw the place when he saw it , were all dead , afore he let me into the secret . '' 
`` I have long suspected something of the sort , sir , and have also supposed that the people on Martha 's Vineyard had got some news of this place , by the manner in which Captain Daggett has acted . '' 
This Daggett -- not the one who is out in another schooner , another Sea Lion , as it might be , but his uncle , who died down here at the Widow White 's -- well , thatDaggett told more than the latitude and longitude of the sealing islands -- he told me of a buried treasure ! '' 
Consisting principally , accordin ' to Daggett 's account , of heavy doubloons ; though there was a lot of old English guineas among 'em . 
Yes , I remember that he spoke of them guineas -- three thousand and odd , and nearly as many doubloons ! '' 
`` Was Daggett , then , a pirate , sir ? 
`` No ; not he , himself . 
He got this secret from one who wasa pirate , however , and who was a prisoner in a gaol where he was himself confined for smuggling . 
Yes ; that man told him all about the buried treasure , in return for some acts of kindness shown him by Daggett . 
It may be that Gar ` ner is a digging about , and has difficulty in finding the place ; for Daggett 's account had some weak spots in it . '' 
It is a sad commentary on the greediness for gain , manifested by this person , that ere the adventure he had undertaken on the strength of Daggett 's reluctant communications was brought to any apparent result , he himself was nearly in the condition of that diseased seaman , with as little prospect of being benefited by his secrets as was the man himself who first communicated their existence . 
This very necessary duty was in the act of performance by Daggett , in person , even while the boats of Roswell Gardiner were towing his strained and roughly treated craft into the open water . 
Daggett stood on the top of the pump himself , while Gardiner and Macy were at its side . 
Daggett demanded , a little impatiently . 
`` There must be near three feet of water in your hold , '' answered Roswell , shaking his head . 
`` If this goes on , Captain Daggett , it will be hard work to keep your schooner afloat ! '' 
`` I do believe that the wind has got round here to the north-east , '' said Roswell , as he paced the quarter-deck with Daggett , still holding in his hand the well wiped and dried sounding-rod , in readiness for another trial . 
`` Not in our teeth , Gar ` ner ; no , not in myteeth , '' answered Daggett , `` whatever it may be in your ` n. I shall try to get back to the island , where I shall endeavour to beach the schooner , and get a look at her leaks . 
`` That will cause a great delay , Captain Daggett , '' said Roswell , doubtingly . 
This was touching Roswell on a point of honour , and Daggett knew it very well . 
demanded Daggett , leaning down , in a vain endeavour to perceive the almost imperceptible marks that distinguished the wet part of the rod from that which was dry . 
`` It is He alone , Captain Daggett , who could do this much to seamen in distress . '' 
`` I think it may be done , Daggett , '' added Roswell . 
cried Daggett . 
Daggett 's vessel led , and Hazard followed ; Roswell still remaining on board the injured craft . 
As Roswell ascertained the facts more clearly , he became better satisfied with a decision that , in a degree , had been forced on him . 
He was passively content to return with Daggett , convinced that taking the injured vessel to Rio was out of the question , until some attention had been paid to her damages . 
From some cause unknown to the men , all of these animals had disappeared , thereby defeating one of Daggett 's secret calculations ; this provident master having determined , in his own mind , to profit by his accident , and seize the occasion to fill up . 
Hazard was wanted to help secure the schooner of Daggett in the berth in which she was now placed . 
This fact our navigators had noted ; and Daggett had , at once , carried his schooner on the only thing like a beach that was to be found on any part of that wild coast . 
His craft was snug within the cove , and quite handy for discharging and taking in . 
Into this berth Daggett took his schooner , while the other vessel anchored . 
As fast as the vessel was lightened , she was hove further and further on the rock , until she was got so high as to be perfectly safe from sinking , or from injuring anything on board her ; when the pumps were abandoned . 
Before night came , however , the schooner was so secured by means of shores , and purchases aloft that were carried out to the rocks , as to stand perfectly upright on her keel . 
She was thus protected when the tide left her . 
At low water it was found that she wanted eight feet of being high and dry , having already been lightened four feet . 
A good deal of cargo was still in , on this the first night after her return . 
The crew of Daggett 's vessel carried their mattresses ashore , took possession of the bunks , lighted a fire in the stove , and made their preparations to get the camboose ashore next day , and do their cooking in the house , as had been practised previously to quitting the island . 
Roswell , and all his people , remained on board their own vessel . 
The succeeding day the injured schooner was cleared of everything , even to her spars , the lower masts and bowsprit excepted . 
Empty casks were got under her , and at the top of the tide she was floated quite up to the small beach that was composed of the débrisof rock , already mentioned . 
As the water left her , she fell over a little , of course ; and at half-tide her keel lay high and dry . 
As might have been expected , none were found near the garboard streak , a fact that was clearly enough proved by a quantity of the water remaining in the vessel after she lay , entirely bare , nearly on her bilge . 
`` Her seams have opened a few streaks below the bends , '' said Roswell , as he and Daggett went under the vessel 's bottom , looking out for injuries ; `` and you had better set about getting off the copper at once . 
`` In which case we shall have to lay the craft ashore again , and go to work anew , '' answered Daggett . 
Was Daggett sincere in these professions ? 
To a certain point he was ; while he was only artful on others . 
He wished to appear just and magnanimous ; while , in secret , it was his aim to work on the better feelings , as well as on the pride of Gardiner , and thus secure his services in getting his own schooner ready , as well as keep him in sight until a certain key had been examined , in the proceeds of which he conceived he had a share , as well as in those of Sealer 's Land . 
Of this school was Daggett , whom no dangers , no toil , no thoughts of a future , could divert from a purpose that was coloured by gold . 
Roswell was deeply reluctant to protract his stay in the group ; but professional pride would have prevented him from deserting a consort under such circumstances , had not a better feeling inclined him to remain and assist Daggett . 
It is true the last had , in a manner , thrust himself on him , and the connection had been strangely continued down to that moment ; but this he viewed as a dispensation of Providence , to which he was bound to submit . 
The result was a declaration of a design to stand by his companion as long as there was any hope of getting the injured craft home . 
`` She 's as tight as a bottle with a sealed cork , Gar ` ner , '' cried Daggett , a few hours after his craft was at her anchor , meeting his brother-master at his own gangway , and shaking hands with him cordially . 
`` I am rejoiced that it turns out so , Captain Daggett , '' was Roswell 's reply ; `` for to own the truth to you , the fortnight we have lost , or shall lose , before we get you stowed and ready to sail again , has made a great change in our weather . 
Daggett cheered his companion by a good deal of confident talk ; but Roswell was heartily rejoiced when , at the end of four-and-twenty hours more , the Vineyard craft was pronounced entirely ready . 
It was near the close of the day , and Gardiner was for sailing , or moving at once ; but Daggett offered several very reasonable objections . 
Roswell , however , did not like the appearances of things ; and he determined to take his own craft outside ; let Daggett do as he might . 
After discussing the matter in vain , therefore , and finding that the people of the other schooner had eaten their suppers and turned in , he called all hands , and made a short address to his own crew , leaving it to their discretion whether to man the boats or not . 
As Roswell had pointed out the perfect absence of wind , the smoothness of the water , and the appearances of a severe frost , or cold , for frost there was now , almost at mid-day , the men came reluctantly over to his view of the matter , and consented to work instead of sleeping . 
All that Roswell aimed at was to get his schooner about a league from the cove ; which would be taking her without a line drawn from cape to cape , the greatest danger of new ice being within the curvature of the crescent . 
This he thought might easily be done in the course of a few hours ; and , should there come any wind , much sooner . 
As the vessel passed that of Daggett , the last was on deck ; the only person visible in the Vineyard craft . 
He wished his brother-master a good night , promising to be out as soon as there was any light next morning . 
Of what use would it be for his vessel to be beyond the ice , if that of Daggett should be shut in the succeeding day ? 
So sensible did he become to the importance of this idea , that he called in his boat , and pulled back into the cove , in order to make one more effort to persuade Daggett to follow him out . 
The fatigue they had lately undergone , united to the cold , rendered the berths very agreeable ; and even Daggett begged his visiter would excuse him for not rising to receive his guest . 
After remaining a short time with Daggett , Roswell returned to his own schooner . 
This caused him great uneasiness ; and he waited with the greatest anxiety for the return of light , in order to observe the condition of Daggett . 
Daggett and his people were already at work on it , using the saw . 
Gardiner watched the movements of Daggett and his crew with a glass for a short time , when he ordered all hands called . 
It was perhaps fortunate for Daggett that it soon began to blow fresh from the northward , sending into the bay a considerable sea , which soon broke up the ice , and enabled the Vineyard craft to force her way through the fragments , and join her consort about noon . 
Glad enough was Roswell to regain his own vessel ; and he made sail on a wind , determined to beat out of the narrow waters at every hazard , the experience of that night having told him that they had remained in the cove too long . 
Daggett followed willingly , but not like a man who had escaped by the skin of his teeth , from wintering near the antarctic circle . 
Daggett kept close in his wake , a proof that this experienced navigator in such waters saw no means to turn farther to windward . 
asked Daggett , who had now drawn close up on the lee-quarter of his consort , Hazard having brailed his foresail and laid his topsail sharp aback , to enable him to do so -- `` If he is n't , I 'd advise you to give him a call at once . '' 
Roswell announced his presence on deck just as the other vessel cleared his bows . 
`` There 's no time to consult , Gar ` ner , '' answered Daggett . 
One glance let Roswell into the secret of his situation . 
He liked it little , but he did not hesitate . 
`` Fill the topsail , and haul aft the foresheet , '' were the quiet orders that proclaimed what he intended to do . 
On the other hand , Daggett kept a rap full , and stood on . 
He was now far enough from the cape to beat to windward ; and , by going nearer to the enemy , he might always run along its southern boundary , profit by any opening , and would be by as much as he could thus gain , to windward of the coast . 
Daggett had one advantage . 
By standing on , in the event of a return becoming necessary , he would gain in time . 
Captain Daggett is already out of sight in the western board , and we may do well to stand on after him . '' 
All this time Daggett was as busy as a bee . 
He rounded the headland , and flattered himself that he was about to slip past all the rocks , and get out into open water , when the vast fields of which the blink had been seen even by those in the other vessel , suddenly stretched themselves across his course in a way that set at defiance all attempts to go any further in that direction . 
Daggett wore round , and endeavoured to return . 
This was by no means as easy as it was to go down before the wind , and his bows were also much encumbered with ice ; more so , indeed , than those of the other schooner . 
Once or twice his craft missed stays in consequence of getting so much by the head , and it was deemed necessary to heave-to , and take to the axes . 
By the time Daggett was ready to make sail again , he found his return round the headland was entirely cut off , by the field 's having come in absolute contact with the rocks ! 
Without concert , therefore , Roswell and Daggett came to the same general conclusions , and waited patiently . 
Then the two schooners became visible from each other , and Roswell saw the jeopardy of Daggett , and Daggett saw the jeopardy of Roswell . 
As soon as Roswell saw the manner in which his consort was surrounded , and the very threatening aspect of the danger that pressed upon him , his first impulse was to hasten to him , with a party of his own people , to offer any assistance he could give . 
After looking at the ice immediately around his own craft , where all seemed to be right , he called over the names of six of his men , ordered them to eat a warm breakfast , and to prepare to accompany him . 
In twenty minutes Roswell was leading his little party across the ice , each man carrying an axe , or some other implement that it was supposed might be of use . 
`` The water between the ice and the rocks is a much narrower strip than I had thought , '' said Roswell , to his constant attendant , Stimson . 
Daggett coolly observed , as he stood regarding the scene with eyes as intently riveted on the wreck as human organs were ever fixed on any object . 
A few of Daggett 's people , with Daggett himself , remained to see what might yet be saved from the wreck ; but all the rest of the men started for the cape , towards which the Oyster Pond craft was now directly setting . 
Daggett reached the house about an hour before sunset . 
He had succeeded in cutting a passage through the ice as far as the cabin-door of his unfortunate schooner , when there was no difficulty in descending into the interior parts of the vessel . 
She was steadily setting in , when Daggett rejoined him . 
Melancholy was the meeting between Roswell and Daggett that morning . 
The former was too manly and generous to indulge in reproaches , else might he well have told the last that all this was owing to him . 
But Roswell did not see this quite as distinctly as he saw the fact that Daggett 's detentions and indirect appeals to his better feelings had involved him in all these difficulties . 
This Daggett admitted in the conversation he held with Roswell , as soon as the latter joined him on the rocky terrace beneath the house . 
`` Quite true -- very much as you say , certainly , '' answered Daggett , musing . 
`` Captain Daggett , it is by yielding so much to your skins that we have got into all this trouble . '' 
Daggett appearing very earnest on the subject of removing his skins before the snows came to impede the path , Roswell could urge no objection that would be likely to prevail ; but his acquiescence was obtained by means of a hint from Stimson , who by this time had gained his officer 's ear . 
`` Let him do it , Captain Gar ` ner , '' said the boat-steerer , in an aside , speaking respectfully , but earnestly . 
Daggett , he well knew , would not consent to the mutilation of his schooner , wreck as it was , so long as the most remote hope existed of getting her again into the water . 
Nevertheless , necessity is a hard master ; and if the question were narrowed down to one of burning the materials of a vessel that was in the water , and in good condition , and of burning those of one that was out of the water , with holes cut through her bottom in several places , and otherwise so situated as to render repairs extremely difficult , if not impossible , even Daggett would be compelled to submit to circumstances . 
Most of these articles were transported from the wreck to the house , in the course of the few days that succeeded , though Daggett insisted on a certain portion of the supplies being left in his stranded craft . 
Not until this was done would Roswell listen to any proposal of Daggett 's to transfer the skins . 
`` Were every cake of this ice melted into water , Daggett , '' Roswell continued , `` it would not float off your schooner . 
`` I do n't know that , '' answered Daggett , stoutly . 
`` That is plain enough , Captain Daggett , '' returned Roswell , smiling . 
put in Daggett , inquiringly . 
Daggett gave a quick , inquisitive glance at his companion , and Roswell 's colour mounted to his cheeks ; for , while he really thought the plan just mentioned quite feasible , he was conscious of foreseeing that it might be made the means of throwing off his troublesome companion , as he himself drew near to the West Indies and their keys . 
asked Daggett , who had been an attentive listener . 
There was a little controversy about the use of the skins , Daggett continuing to regard them as cargo . 
It was not necessary to cut these sails -- Daggett would not have suffered it -- but they were suspended , and crammed into openings , and otherwise so arranged as completely to conceal and shelter every side , as well as the ceilings of both rooms . 
Daggett had not , by any means , abandoned his craft , as much as he had permitted her to be dismantled . 
Every day or two he had some new expedient for getting the schooner off in the spring ; though all who heard them were perfectly convinced of their impracticableness . 
This feeling induced him to cause his own men to keep open the communication ; and scarce a day passed in which he did not visit the poor unfortunate craft . 
The last was got into the cabin , and Daggett , attended by two or three of his hands , would pass a good deal of his time there . 
Daggett paced his quarter-deck hour after hour , almost deluding himself with the expectation of sailing for home as soon as the return of summer would permit him to depart . 
What you say about breaking up the other schooner , however , is worthy of consideration ; and I will speak to Captain Daggett about it . '' 
Never were our two masters so near a serious misunderstanding , as when Roswell suggested to Daggett the expediency of breaking up the wreck , now that the weather was endurarable , and the men could work with reasonable comfort and tolerable advantage . 
`` The man who puts an axe or a saw into that unfortunate craft , '' said Daggett , firmly , `` I shall regard as an enemy . 
This was the strange spirit in which Daggett continued to look at the condition of the wreck ! 
It was true that the ice prevented his actually seeing the impossibility of his ever getting his schooner into the water again ; but no man at all acquainted with mechanics , and who knew the paucity of means that existed on the island , could for a moment entertain the idle expectation that seemed to have got into the Vineyard-master 's mind , unless subject to a species of one-idea infatuation . 
This infatuation , however , existed not only in Daggett 's mind , but in some degree in those of his men . 
In this spirit did Daggett and his crew now feel and act . 
Daggett had permitted his people to aid in transporting most of the stores to the house ; though a considerable supply had been left in the wreck . 
With a view to encourage this disposition , as well as to ascertain how those fared who chose that abode , he paid Daggett a visit , and passed a night or two himself in the cabin of the craft . 
The cabin was small , and a very moderate fire in the camboose served to keep it reasonably warm ; though Daggett , at all times a reasonable and reasoning man , when the `` root of all evil '' did not sorely beset him , came fully into his own views as to the necessity of husbanding the fuel , and of hardening the men . 
Daggett saw the prudence of Roswell 's , or rather of Stimson 's system , and fell into it freely , and with hearty good-will . 
`` I am now sorry that we took over to the house so many of our supplies , '' Daggett continued , after a short pause . 
`` That would hardly quit cost , Daggett ; it would be better to come over and pass the heel of the winter with us , when the supplies get to be short here . 
`` We still think the schooner may be got off , '' Daggett said , regarding his companion inquiringly . 
While the Vineyard-man had a certain distrust of his brother-master , he had also a high respect for his fair-dealing propensities , and a strong disposition to put confidence in his good faith . 
The look that he now gave was , if possible , to read the real opinion of the other , in a countenance that seldom deceived . 
`` I shall be grateful to God , Captain Daggett , '' returned Roswell , after a short pause , `` if we get through the long winter of this latitude , without burning too much of bothcraft , than will be for our good . 
But there is a very important fact that you overlook , Daggett , which it may be as well to mention here , as to delay it . 
Roswell wondered at this pertinacity ; but he trusted to the pressure of the coming season , and changed the subject . 
Certainly the thought of breaking up his own craft did not cross his mind ; though he could see no sufficient objection to the other side of the proposition . 
As discussion was useless , however , he continued to converse with Daggett on various practical subjects , on which his companion was rational and disposed to learn . 
Daggett dissented , and invited his companion to take a walk in his caverns . 
As the season advanced , the idea of preserving more than the lives of his men was gradually abandoned by Gardiner ; though Daggett still clung to his wreck , and actually had wood transported back to it , that he might stay as much as possible near his property . 
Unless Captain Daggett gives up the wreck , we shall certainly be out long before the mild season returns . '' 
There was much generosity and charitable feeling displayed in this act ; for , owing to the obstinate adherence of Daggett and his people to what they deemed their rights , Roswell had finally been compelled to cut to pieces the upper works of his own schooner to obtain fuel that might prevent his own party from freezing to death . 
The position of the Sea Lion of Oyster Pond was to be traced only by a high mound of snow , which had been arrested by the obstacle she presented to its drift ; but her bulwarks , planks , deck , top-timbers , stern-frame -- in short , nearly all of the vessel above water , had actually been taken to pieces , and carried within the covering of the verandah mentioned , in readiness for the stoves ! 
To render the obstinacy of the other crew more apparent , Daggett had been obliged to do the same ! 
Much of his beloved craft had already disappeared in the camboose , and more was likely to follow . 
This compelled destruction , however , rather increased than lessened his pertinacity . 
He clung to the last chip ; and no terms of compromise would he now listen to at all . 
The stranded wreck was his , and his people 's ; while the other wreck belonged to the men from Oyster Pond . 
Such were his expressed opinions , and on them he acted . 
Then I would saw away the top-timbers , beams , decks , transoms , and everything down within a foot of the water ; but I would n't touch anything below the copper , for this here reason : unless Captain Daggett sets to work on his craft and burns her up altogether , we may find mater ` als enough in the spring to deck over ag ` in the poor thing down there in the cove , and fit her out a ` ter a fashion , and make much better weather of it in her than in our boats . 
About a month previously to the precise time to which it is our intention now to advance the more regular action of the legend , Macy had come over to the house , attended by one man , with a proposal on the part of Daggett for the two crews to occupy his craft , as he still persisted in calling the wreck , and of using the house as fuel . 
As to the proposal of Daggett , there were many objections to it . 
Macy remained a night with the Oyster Ponders , and left the house after breakfast next morning ; knowing that Daggett only waited for his return with a negative , to commence breaking up the wreck . 
Two days later ; there having been a slight yielding of the snow under the warmth of the noon-day sun ; and a consequent hardening of its crust in the succeeding night , Roswell and Stimson undertook to return this visit , with a view to make a last effort to persuade Daggett to quit the wreck and come over to the house altogether . 
A quarter of a mile further on , the reckless Macy , who it was supposed greatly sustained Daggett in his obstinacy , was found in precisely the same state . 
It was not without difficulty that Roswell reached the wreck , and reported what he had seen . 
Even this terrible admonition did not change Daggett 's purpose . 
He had begun to burn his vessel , for there was now no alternative ; but he was doing it on a system which , as he explained it to Roswell , was not only to leave him materials with which to construct a smaller craft in the spring , but which would allow of his inhabiting the steerage and cabin as long as he pleased . 
It was the voice of the nigger , Joe ; him that Captain Daggett has for a cook . '' 
`` I have heard this before , Stephen ; and it has surprised me that Captain Daggett 's cook should be the only one of that party who seems to have had any voice to-night . '' 
`` I think Captain Daggett would have come himself , or have sent one of his best men , '' he observed , `` in preference to trusting a negro with a duty so important . '' 
It would seem that , during the terrible month which had just passed , Daggett had compelled his crew to use more exercise than had been their practice of late . 
Some new apprehension had come over him on the subject of fuel , and his orders to be saving in that article were most stringent , and very rigidly enforced . 
But the picture of Daggett 's situation that occurred to his mind , urged him on , and he proceeded . 
At the place mentioned by the black , the body of one of Daggett 's best men , a boat-steerer , was found . 
This was Daggett , the long-tried sealer ; the man of iron nerves and golden longings ; he who had so lately concentrated within himself all that was necessary to form a pertinacious , resolute , and grasping seeker after gain . 
Two or three swallows of this grateful fluid were given to Daggett , and his voice almost instantaneously showed the effect they produced . 
`` How many of your people still remain , Daggett ? 
On applying a similar process to Daggett , Roswell was startled at the discovery he made . 
Whenthe bodies had been removed from the cabin , and the limbs of Daggett were covered with snow , Roswell Gardiner took another look at the thermometer . 
We have little pleasure in exhibiting pictures of human suffering ; and shall say but little of the groans and pains that Daggett uttered and endured , while undergoing that most agonizing process of having the frost taken out of his system by cold applications . 
It was the only safe way of treating his case , however , and as he knew it , he bore his sufferings as well as man could bear them . 
Long ere the return of day he was released from his agony , and was put back into his berth , which had been comfortably arranged for him , having the almost unheard-of luxury of sheets , with an additional mattress . 
In one respect the party now on the island had been gainers by the terrible losses it had sustained in Daggett 's crew . 
The provisions of the two vessels might now , virtually , be appropriated to the crew of one ; and Roswell , when he came to reflect on the circumstances , saw that a Providential interference had probably saved the survivors from great privations , if not from absolute want . 
At one time Roswell thought of setting the storm at defiance , and of carrying Daggett across to the house by means of the hand-barrow ; but when he came to look at the torrents of water that were crossing the rocks , so many raging rivulets , the idea was abandoned as impracticable . 
Daggett was brought over to the house , on a handbarrow , for the second time , and made as comfortable as circumstances would allow . 
From the first , Roswell saw that his state was very precarious , the frozen legs , in particular , being threatened with mortification . 
In preparing the materials for use , again , a good deal of embarrassment was experienced in consequence of the portions of the two vessels that were left being respectively their lower bodies , all the upper works of each having been burned , with the exception of the after part of Daggett 's craft , which had been preserved on account of the cabin . 
Roswell had no idea of rebuilding his schooner strictly in her old form and proportions ; he did not , indeed , possess the materials for such a reconstruction . 
His plan was , simply , to raise on the hulk as much as was necessary to render her safe and convenient , and then to get as good and secure a deck over all as circumstances would allow . 
Materials were gleaned from different parts of the two vessels , until a reasonably convenient , and a perfectly safe deck was laid over the whole craft , the coamings for the hatches being taken from Daggett 's schooner , which had not been broken up in those parts . 
As for Daggett , he had finally given up his hold on the wreck , and it seemed no longer to fill his thoughts . 
When he was told that the seals had come back , his eye brightened , and his nature betrayed some of its ardent longings . 
`` We have other matters on our hands , Captain Daggett , '' was the answer ; `` they must be looked to first . 
Roswell thought that the poor man would be left , whether he wished to remain or not , for the symptoms that are known to be so fatal in cases like that of Daggett 's , were making themselves so apparent as to leave little doubt of the result . 
Stimson had frequently prayed with Daggett , and Roswell had often read particular chapters of the bible to him , at his own request , creating an impression that the Vineyarder was thinking more of his end than of any interests connected with this life . 
All this Roswell saw and noted , and the reflections produced by his own perilous condition , the certain loss of , so many companions , the probable death of Daggett , and the humble but impressive example and sympathy of Stimson , were such as would have delighted the tender spirit of Mary Pratt , could she have known of their existence . 
Perhaps the spectacle of Daggett , dying from the effects of frost before their eyes , served to increase the uneasiness of the people , and to cause them to be less sparing of the fuel than persons in their situation ought to have been . 
It was during the height of this tempest that the soul of Daggett took its flight towards the place of departed spirits , in preparation for the hour when it was to be summoned before the judgment-seat of God . 
Daggett now remained silent for some time , though his lips moved , most probably in prayer . 
The body of Daggett had disappeared , with the snow-bank in which it had been buried ; and all the carcases of the seals had been washed away . 
`` No , none -- Daggett behaved what I call liberalin that affair , '' -- half the critics of the day would use the adjective instead of the adverb here , and why should Deacon Pratt 's English be any better than his neighbours ? 
-- `` and so I 've admitted to his friends over on the Vineyard . 
Do you wish to have the room cleared before you speak of that -- shall we turn the keyon all these folks , and then settle accounts -- he ! 
he ! 
he ! '' 
There was a look in the glazed and sunken eyes of the old man , that reminded him unpleasantly of that snapping of the eyes which he had so often seen in Daggett . 
And so you found the very key that was described by Daggett ? '' 
`` We did , sir ; and just where he described it to be . '' 
Its amount was a little more than 2000 dollars , the pirate who made the revelation to Daggett having , in all probability , been ignorant himself of the real sum that had been thus secreted . 
