How I loved to sit in the holy hush of those brown old monastic aisles , thinking of Harry the Eighth , and the Reformation ! 
Itwas the day following my Sunday stroll into the country , and when I had been in England four weeks or more , that I made the acquaintance of a handsome , accomplished , but unfortunate youth , young Harry Bolton . 
He was one of those small , but perfectly formed beings , with curling hair , and silken muscles , who seem to have been born in cocoons . 
His complexion was a mantling brunette , feminine as a girl 's ; his feet were small ; his hands were white ; and his eyes were large , black , and womanly ; and , poetry aside , his voice was as the sound of a harp . 
According to his own account , Harry Bolton was a native of Bury St. Edmunds , a borough in Suffolk , not very far from London , where he was early left an orphan , under the charge of an only aunt . 
Between his aunt and himself , his mother had divided her fortune ; and young Harry thus fell heir to a portion of about five thousand pounds . 
Being of a roving mind , as he approached his majority he grew restless of the retirement of a country place ; especially as he had no profession or business of any kind to engage his attention . 
In vain did Bury , with all its fine old monastic attractions , lure him to abide on the beautiful banks of her Larke , and under the shadow of her stately and storied old Saxon tower . 
By all my rare old historic associations , breathed Bury ; by my Abbey-gate , that bears to this day the arms of Edward the Confessor ; by my carved roof of the old church of St. Mary 's , which escaped the low rage of the bigoted Puritans ; by the royal ashes of Mary Tudor , that sleep in my midst ; by my Norman ruins , and by all the old abbots of Bury , do not , oh Harry ! 
Or if , oh Harry ! 
Bury was no place for the adventurous Harry , who must needs hie to London , where in one winter , in the company of gambling sportsmen and dandies , he lost his last sovereign . 
His friends made interest for him in the requisite quarters , and Harry was soon embarked for Bombay , as a midshipman in the East India service ; in which office he was known as a `` guinea-pig , '' a humorous appellation then bestowed upon the middies of the Company . 
And considering the perversity of his behavior , his delicate form , and soft complexion , and that gold guineas had been his bane , this appellation was not altogether , in poor Harry 's case , inapplicable . 
He made one voyage , and returned ; another , and returned ; and then threw up his warrant in disgust . 
A few weeks ' dissipation in London , and again his purse was almost drained ; when , like many prodigals , scorning to return home to his aunt , and amend -- though she had often written him the kindest of letters to that effect -- Harry resolved to precipitate himself upon the New World , and there carve out a fresh fortune . 
With this object in view , he packed his trunks , and took the first train for Liverpool . 
Arrived in that town , he at once betook himself to the docks , to examine the American shipping , when a new crotchet entered his brain , born of his old sea reminiscences . 
After making his acquaintance , and learning his intentions , I was all anxiety that Harry should accompany me home in the Highlander , a desire to which he warmly responded . 
Nor was I without strong hopes that he would succeed in an application to the captain ; inasmuch as during our stay in the docks , three of our crew had left us , and their places would remain unsupplied till just upon the eve of our departure . 
Therefore , as it was agreed between Harry and me , that he should offer to ship as a `` boy , '' at the same rate of compensation with myself , I made no doubt that , incited by the cheapness of the bargain , Captain Riga would gladly close with him ; and thus , instead of paying sixteen dollars a month to a thorough-going tar , who would consume all his rations , buy up my young blade of Bury , at the rate of half a dollar a week ; with the cheering prospect , that by the end of the voyage , his fastidious palate would be the means of leaving a handsome balance of salt beef and pork in the harness-cask . 
With part of the money obtained by the sale of a few of his velvet vests , Harry , by my advice , now rigged himself in a Guernsey frock and man-of-war trowsers ; and thus equipped , he made his appearance , one fine morning , on the quarter-deck of the Highlander , gallantly doffing his virgin tarpaulin before the redoubtable Riga . 
Alas , Harry ! 
At this interesting interview the captain expressed a sympathetic concern touching the sad necessities , which he took upon himself to presume must have driven Harry to sea ; he confessed to a warm interest in his future welfare ; and did not hesitate to declare that , in going to America , under such circumstances , to seek his fortune , he was acting a manly and spirited part ; and that the voyage thither , as a sailor , would be an invigorating preparative to the landing upon a shore , where he must battle out his fortune with Fate . 
`` Harry , '' said I , `` be not deceived by the fascinating Riga -- that gay Lothario of all inexperienced , sea-going youths , from the capital or the country ; he has a Janusface , Harry ; and you will not know him when he gets you out of sight of land , and mounts his cast-off coats and trowsers . 
For thenhe is another personage altogether , and adjusts his character to the shabbiness of his integuments . 
No more condolings and sympathy then ; no more blarney ; he will hold you a little better than his boots , and would no more think of addressing you than of invoking wooden Donald , the figure-head on our bows . '' 
And I played the inquisitor , in cross-questioning Harry respecting the precise degree in which he was a practical sailor ; -- whether he had a giddy head ; whether his arms could bear the weight of his body ; whether , with but one hand on a shroud , a hundred feet aloft in a tempest , he felt he could look right to windward and beard it . 
To all this , and much more , Harry rejoined with the most off-hand and confident air ; saying that in his `` guinea-pig '' days , he had often climbed the masts and handled the sails in a gentlemanly and amateur way ; so he made no doubt that he would very soon prove an expert tumbler in the Highlander 's rigging . 
Still , I suggested to Harry , whether he had not best cross the sea as a steerage passenger , since he could procure enough money for that ; but no , he was bent upon going as a sailor . 
I now had a comrade in my afternoon strolls , and Sunday excursions ; and as Harry was a generous fellow , he shared with me his purse and his heart . 
He sold off several more of his fine vests and trowsers , his silver-keyed flute and enameled guitar ; and a portion of the money thus furnished was pleasantly spent in refreshing ourselves at the road-side inns in the vicinity of the town . 
Harry enlarged upon the fascinations of a London life ; described the curricle he used to drive in Hyde Park ; gave me the measurement of Madame Vestris ' ankle ; alluded to his first introduction at a club to the madcap Marquis of Waterford ; told over the sums he had lost upon the turf on a Derby day ; and made various but enigmatical allusions to a certain Lady Georgiana Theresa , the noble daughter of an anonymous earl . 
Even in conversation , Harry was a prodigal ; squandering his aristocratic narrations with a careless hand ; and , perhaps , sometimes spending funds of reminiscences not his own . 
As for me , I had only my poor old uncle the senator to fall back upon ; and I used him upon all emergencies , like the knight in the game of chess ; making him hop about , and stand stifly up to the encounter , against all my fine comrade 's array of dukes , lords , curricles , and countesses . 
To this , Harry rejoined , that nothing would delight him more , than to show me the capital ; and he even meaningly but mysteriously hinted at the possibility of his doing so , before many days had passed . 
The thing was preposterous ; and I began to think , that Harry , after all , was a little bit disposed to impose upon my Yankee credulity . 
`` Who was he , Harry ? '' 
said I. `` My old chum , Lord Lovely , '' said Harry , with a careless air , `` and Heaven only knows what brings Lovely from London . '' 
However , he and I being mutual friends of Harry 's , I thought something of accosting him , and taking counsel concerning what was best to be done for the young prodigal 's welfare ; but upon second thoughts I thought best not to intrude ; especially , as just then my lord Lovely stepped to the open window of a flashing carriage which drew up ; and throwing himself into an interesting posture , with the sole of one boot vertically exposed , so as to show the stamp on it -- a coronet -- fell into a sparkling conversation with a magnificent white satin hat , surmounted by a regal marabout feather , inside . 
But , as upon further consideration , I imagined that the peeress might decline the honor of my company , since I had no formal card of introduction ; I marched on , and rejoined my companion , whom I at once endeavored to draw out , touching Lord Lovely ; but he only made mysterious answers ; and turned off the conversation , by allusions to his visits to Ickworth in Suffolk , the magnificent seat of the Most Noble Marquis of Bristol , who had repeatedly assured Harry that he might consider Ickworth his home . 
Now , all these accounts of marquises and Ickworths , and Harry 's having been hand in glove with so many lords and ladies , began to breed some suspicions concerning the rigid morality of my friend , as a teller of the truth . 
But , after all , thought I to myself , who can prove that Harry has fibbed ? 
Certainly , his manners are polished , he has a mighty easy address ; and there is nothing altogether impossible about his having consorted with the master of Ickworth , and the daughter of the anonymous earl . 
But though I drowned all my suspicions as well as I could , and ever cherished toward Harry a heart , loving and true ; yet , spite of all this , I never could entirely digest some of his imperial reminiscences of high life . 
I was very sorry for this ; as at times it made me feel ill at ease in his company ; and made me hold back my whole soul from him ; when , in its loneliness , it was yearning to throw itself into the unbounded bosom of some immaculate friend . 
Itmight have been a week after our glimpse of Lord Lovely , that Harry , who had been expecting a letter , which , he told me , might possibly alter his plans ; one afternoon came bounding on board the ship , and sprang down the hatchway into the between-decks , where , in perfect solitude , I was engaged picking oakum ; at which business the mate had set me , for want of any thing better . 
-- and Harry -- how kind of him ! 
he was then indeed what he seemed . 
`` But how am I to leave the ship , Harry ? ' 
my Yankee bantam , '' said Harry ; `` look here ! '' 
and he showed me a handful of gold . 
`` But they are yours , and not mine , Harry , '' said I. `` Yours andmine , my sweet fellow , '' exclaimed Harry . 
So , without further thought of the matter , I told Harry to wait a few moments , till the ship 's bell struck four ; at which time I used to go to supper , and be free for the rest of the day . 
As we hurried across the quay , and along the dock walls , I asked Harry all about his intentions . 
He said , that go to London he must , and to Bury St. Edmund 's ; but that whether he should for any time remain at either place , he could not now tell ; and it was by no means impossible , that in less than a week 's time we would be back again in Liverpool , and ready for sea . 
Arrived at the Golden Anchor , where Harry put up , he at once led me to his room , and began turning over the contents of his chest , to see what clothing he might have , that would fit me . 
Though he was some years my senior , we were about the same size -- if any thing , I was larger than he ; so , with a little stretching , a shirt , vest , and pantaloons were soon found to suit . 
As for a coat and hat , those Harry ran out and bought without delay ; returning with a loose , stylish sack-coat , and a sort of foraging cap , very neat , genteel , and unpretending . 
Till quite dark , we sat talking together ; when , locking his chest , and charging his landlady to look after it well , till he called , or sent for it ; Harry seized my arm , and we sallied into the street . 
There , under the shadow of the colonnade , Harry told me to stop , while he left me , and went to finish his toilet . 
Wondering what he meant , I stood to one side ; and presently was joined by a stranger in whiskers and mustache . 
`` It 's me , '' said the stranger ; and who was mebut Harry , who had thus metamorphosed himself ? 
I asked him the reason ; and in a faltering voice , which I tried to make humorous , expressed a hope that he was not going to turn gentleman forger . 
He laughed , and assured me that it was only a precaution against being recognized by his own particular friends in London , that he had adopted this mode of disguising himself . 
`` No time to lose , '' said Harry , `` come along . '' 
He called a cab : in an under tone mentioned the number of a house in some street to the driver ; we jumped in , and were off . 
`` Stop , '' cried Harry , after a long while , putting his head out of the window , all at once -- `` stop ! 
The cabman being paid , Harry adjusting his whiskers and mustache , and bidding me assume a lounging look , pushed his hat a little to one side , and then locking arms , we sauntered into the house ; myself feeling not a little abashed ; it was so long since I had been in any courtly society . 
We seated ourselves apart from this group , and Harry , rapping on the table , called for wine ; mentioning some curious foreign name . 
And in the delirium of the moment , I began to indulge in foolish golden visions of the counts and countesses to whom Harry might introduce me ; and every instant I expected to hear the waiters addressing some gentleman as `` My Lord , '' or `` Your Grace . '' 
And I even longed for Harry 's return , that we might immediately sally out into the street , and see some of the sights , before the shops were all closed for the night . 
While I thus sat alone , I observed one of the waiters eying me a little impertinently , as I thought , and as if he saw something queer about me . 
At last Harry came back , his face rather flushed . 
`` Come along , Redburn , '' said he . 
So making no doubt we were off for a ramble , perhaps to Apsley House , in the Park , to get a sly peep at the old Duke before he retired for the night , for Harry had told me the Duke always went to bed early , I sprang up to follow him ; but what was my disappointment and surprise , when he only led me into the passage , toward a staircase lighted by three marble Graces , unitedly holding a broad candelabra , like an elk 's antlers , over the landing . 
We rambled up the long , winding slope of those aristocratic stairs , every step of which , covered with Turkey rugs , looked gorgeous as the hammer-cloth of the Lord Mayor 's coach ; and Harry hied straight to a rosewood door , which , on magical hinges , sprang softly open to his touch . 
`` Sit down , Wellingborough , '' said Harry ; `` do n't be frightened , we are at home . 
But stop ; '' -- and advancing to the mysterious bust , he whispered something in its ear . 
`` He 's a knowing mute , Wellingborough , '' said he ; `` who stays in this one place all the time , while he is yet running of errands . 
`` Cigars , '' said Harry . 
When they came , he drew up a small table into the middle of the room , and lighting his cigar , bade me follow his example , and make myself happy . 
But I strove to dispel them ; and turning to my companion , exclaimed , `` And pray , do you live here , Harry , in this Palace of Aladdin ? '' 
`` I am afraid , Harry , '' said I , `` that when you left me just now , you must have been drinking something stronger than wine . '' 
`` Hear him now , '' said Harry , turning round , as if addressing the bald-headed bust on the bracket , -- `` a parson ` pon honor ! 
said I. `` Be still , '' he cried , `` hear me , I know the old duke here , and -- '' `` Who ? 
not the Duke of Wellington , '' said I , wondering whether Harry was really going to include himtoo , in his long list of confidential friends and acquaintances . 
cried Harry , `` I mean the white-whiskered old man you saw below ; they call him the Duke : -- hekeeps the house . 
Well ; we have arranged every thing about you ; you are to stay in this room , and sleep here to-night , and -- and -- '' continued he , speaking low -- `` you must guard this letter -- '' slipping a sealed one into my hand -- `` and , if I am not back by morning , you must post right on to Bury , and leave the letter there ; -- here , take this paper -- it 's all set down here in black and white -- where you are to go , and what you are to do . 
I thought Harry was crazy . 
I held the purse in my motionless hand , and stared at him , till the tears almost started from my eyes . 
he cried , with a wild sort of laugh -- `` you are not afraid of me , are you ? 
at last I exclaimed , `` you do n't really intend to desert me in this strange place , do you , Harry ? '' 
and I snatched him by the hand . 
`` Pooh , pooh , '' he cried , `` let me go . 
-- no , no , '' he added , vehemently , as I conjured him to tell me more -- `` no , I wo n't : I have nothing more to tell you -- not a word . 
`` But one sentence more for your own sake , Harry : hear me ! '' 
then here , give me that purse : -- there -- there -- take that -- and that -- and that ; -- that will pay your fare back to Liverpool ; good-by to you : you are not my friend , '' and he wheeled round his back . 
I know not what flashed through my mind , but something suddenly impelled me ; and grasping his hand , I swore to him what he demanded . 
Immediately he ran to the bust , whispered a word , and the white-whiskered old man appeared : whom he clapped on the shoulder , and then introduced me as his friend -- young Lord Stormont ; and bade the almond tree look well to the comforts of his lordship , while he -- Harry -- was gone . 
Harry then shook my hand heartily , and without giving me a chance to say one word , seized his cap , and darted out of the room , saying , `` Leave not this room to-night ; and remember the letter , and Bury ! '' 
And all the while , Harry ran through my soul -- in and out , at every door , that burst open to his vehement rush . 
At that moment my whole acquaintance with him passed like lightning through my mind , till I asked myself why he had come here , to London , to do this thing ? 
and what did he want of me ? 
But , every way , his conduct was unaccountable . 
From the hour he had accosted me on board the ship , his manner seemed gradually changed ; and from the moment we had sprung into the cab , he had seemed almost another person from what he had seemed before . 
He was gone , that was certain ; -- would he ever come back ? 
But he might still be somewhere in the house ; and with a shudder , I thought of that ivory rattling , and was almost ready to dart forth , search every room , and save him . 
There seemed nothing left , but to await his return . 
Yet , if he did not return , what then ? 
But after I had looked at them attentively , and considered that Harry could have no conceivable object in deceiving me , I thought to myself , Yes , he 's in earnest ; and here I am -- yes , even in London ! 
I will implicitly follow his directions , and so see out the last of this thing . 
Every few moments , spite of my oath , I was upon the point of starting up , and rushing into the street , to inquire where I was ; but remembering Harry 's injunctions , and my own ignorance of the town , and that it was now so late , I again tried to be composed . 
At last , I fell asleep , dreaming about Harry fighting a duel of dice-boxes with the military-looking man below ; and the next thing I knew , was the glare of a light before my eyes , and Harry himself , very pale , stood before me . 
`` The letter and paper , '' he cried . 
I fumbled in my pockets , and handed them to him . 
he cried , wrenching the letter to pieces with both hands like a madman , and stamping upon the fragments . 
`` Tell me , Harry , what is it ? 
`` Ha , ha , '' he deliriously laughed . 
he ground out between his teeth -- `` what two devilish , stiletto-sounding syllables they are ! '' 
`` Wellingborough , '' he added , marching up to me slowly , but with his eyes blazing into mine -- `` Wellingborough '' -- and fumbling in his breast-pocket , he drew forth a dirk -- `` Here , Wellingborough , take it -- take it , I say -- are you stupid ? 
-- there , there '' -- and he pushed it into my hands . 
By Heaven , it 's an invitation to hang myself '' -- and seizing it by the gilded handle at the end , he twitched it down from the wall . 
`` Nothing , oh nothing , '' said Harry , now assuming a treacherous , tropical calmness -- `` nothing , Redburn ; nothing in the world . 
`` But give me that dirk , '' he suddenly cried -- `` let me have it , I say . 
I do n't mean to murder myself -- I 'm past that now -- give it me '' -- and snatching it from my hand , he flung down an empty purse , and with a terrific stab , nailed it fast with the dirk to the table . 
`` There now , '' he cried , `` there 's something for the old duke to see to-morrow morning ; that 's about all that 's left of me -- that 's my skeleton , Wellingborough . 
Do n't stare so , my boy ; we shall be in Liverpool to-morrow night ; we start in the morning '' -- and turning his back , he began to whistle very fiercely . 
`` And this , then , '' said I , `` is your showing me London , is it , Harry ? 
He turned round upon me like lightning , and cried , `` Redburn ! 
he shouted , with the foam at his lips -- `` never to breathe it ! 
`` I certainly shall not trouble you , Harry , with questions , if you do not desire it , '' said I , `` but there 's no need of swearing . '' 
`` Swear it , I say , as you love me , Redburn , '' he added , imploringly . 
cried Harry ; `` but pardon me , Redburn , I did not mean to offend ; if you knew all -- but no , no ! 
And he ran to the bust , and whispered in its ear . 
`` Brandy , '' whispered Harry , with clenched teeth . 
said I , more and more alarmed at his wildness , and fearful of the effects of his drinking still more , in such a mood . 
Seeing that Harry was not to be moved , I once more threw myself on the lounge . 
I did not sleep ; but , like a somnambulist , only dozed now and then ; starting from my dreams ; while Harry sat , with his hat on , at the table ; the brandy before him ; from which he occasionally poured into his glass . 
Instead of exciting him , however , to my amazement , the spirits seemed to soothe him down ; and , ere long , he was comparatively calm . 
At last , just as I had fallen into a deep sleep , I was wakened by his shaking me , and saying our cab was at the door . 
it is broad day , '' said he , brushing aside the heavy hangings of the window . 
So unforeseen had been our departure in the first place ; so rapid our journey ; so unaccountable the conduct of Harry ; and so sudden our return ; that all united to overwhelm me . 
I looked hard at Harry as he walked in silence at my side ; I stared at the houses we passed ; I thought of the cab , the gas-lighted hall in the Palace of Aladdin , the pictures , the letter , the oath , the dirk ; the mysterious place where all these mysteries had occurred ; and then , was almost ready to conclude , that the pale yellow wine had been drugged . 
As for Harry , stuffing his false whiskers and mustache into his pocket , he now led the way to the boarding-house ; and saluting the landlady , was shown to his room ; where we immediately shifted our clothes , appearing once more in our sailor habiliments . 
`` Well , what do you propose to do now , Harry ? '' 
asked I. `` That 's as it may turn out , '' said Harry ; `` but I have now more than ever resolved upon the sea . 
exclaimed Harry ; and I was glad enough myself . 
The captain coming on board soon after , looked very benevolently at Harry ; but , as usual , pretended not to take the slightest notice of myself . 
It was not an eye like Harry 's , tho ' Harry 's was large and womanly . 
From the first , Harry took to the boy . 
`` Carlo , '' said Harry , `` how did you succeed in England ? '' 
He was reclining upon an old sail spread on the long-boat ; and throwing back his soiled but tasseled cap , and caressing one leg like a child , he looked up , and said in his broken English -- that seemed like mixing the potent wine of Oporto with some delicious syrup : -- said he , `` Ah ! 
`` But do you not sometimes meet with cross and crabbed old men , '' said Harry , `` who would much rather have your room than your music ? '' 
`` No , Carlo ; no music like yours , perhaps , '' said Harry , with a laugh . 
As yet I have said nothing about how my friend , Harry , got along as a sailor . 
Poor Harry ! 
But Harry ! 
Is he , then , dead , of whom this may be said ? 
But Harry ! 
But Harry ! 
And indeed , in his striped Guernsey frock , dark glossy skin and hair , Harry Bolton , mingling with the Highlander 's crew , looked not unlike the soft , silken quadruped-creole , that , pursued by wild Bushmen , bounds through Caffrarian woods . 
How they hunted you , Harry , my zebra ! 
Accordingly , they cast upon him many a critical glance ; but were not long in concluding that Harry would prove no very great accession to their strength ; that the hoist of so tender an arm would not tell many hundred-weight on the maintop-sail halyards . 
Therefore they disliked him before they became acquainted with him ; and such dislikes , as every one knows , are the most inveterate , and liable to increase . 
As for Harry , at first the novelty of the scene filled up his mind ; and the thought of being bound for a distant land , carried with it , as with every one , a buoyant feeling of undefinable expectation . 
And though his money was now gone again , all but a sovereign or two , yet that troubled him but little , in the first flush of being at sea . 
But I was surprised , that one who had certainly seen much of life , should evince such an incredible ignorance of what was wholly inadmissible in a person situated as he was . 
But perhaps his familiarity with lofty life , only the less qualified him for understanding the other extreme . 
Will you believe me , this Bury blade once came on deck in a brocaded dressing-gown , embroidered slippers , and tasseled smoking-cap , to stand his morning watch . 
As soon as I beheld him thus arrayed , a suspicion , which had previously crossed my mind , again recurred , and I almost vowed to myself that , spite his protestations , Harry Bolton never could have been at sea before , even as a Guinea-pigin an Indiaman ; for the slightest acquaintance with the sea-life and sailors , should have prevented him , it would seem , from enacting this folly . 
said Harry , starting back . 
exclaimed Harry to me ; `` I meant to lounge away the watch in that gown until coffee time ; -- and I suppose your Hottentot of a mate wo n't permit a gentleman to smoke his Turkish pipe of a morning ; but by gad , I 'll wear straps to my pantaloons to spite him ! '' 
that was the rock on which you split , poor Harry ! 
Incensed at the want of polite refinement in the mates and crew , Harry , in a pet and pique , only determined to provoke them the more ; and the storm of indignation he raised very soon overwhelmed him . 
The sailors took a special spite to his chest , a large mahogany one , which he had had made to order at a furniture warehouse . 
It was ornamented with brass screw-heads , and other devices ; and was well filled with those articles of the wardrobe in which Harry had sported through a London season ; for the various vests and pantaloons he had sold in Liverpool , when in want of money , had not materially lessened his extensive stock . 
I do not know exactly what they thought Harry had been ; but they seemed unanimous in believing that , by abandoning his country , Harry had left more room for the gamblers . 
Cogent and conclusive this ; and thus Harry , from the very beginning , was put down for a very equivocal character . 
Sometimes , however , they only made sport of his appearance ; especially one evening , when his monkey jacket being wet through , he was obliged to mount one of his swallowtailed coats . 
They said he carried two mizen-peaks at his stern ; declared he was a broken-down quill-driver , or a foot-man to a Portuguese running barber , or some old maid 's tobacco-boy . 
As for the captain , it had become all the same to Harry as if there were no gentlemanly and complaisant Captain Riga on board . 
For to his no small astonishment , -- but just as I had predicted , -- Captain Riga never noticed him now , but left the business of indoctrinating him into the little experiences of a greenhorn 's career solely in the hands of his officers and crew . 
For the first few days , whenever there was any running aloft to be done , I noticed that Harry was indefatigable in coiling away the slack of the rigging about decks ; ignoring the fact that his shipmates were springing into the shrouds . 
And when all hands of the watch would be engaged clewing up a t ' - gallant-sail , that is , pulling the proper ropes on deck that wrapped the sail up on the yard aloft , Harry would always manage to get near the belaying-pin , so that when the time came for two of us to spring into the rigging , he would be inordinately fidgety in making fast the clew-lines , and would be so absorbed in that occupation , and would so elaborate the hitchings round the pin , that it was quite impossible for him , after doing so much , to mount over the bulwarks before his comrades had got there . 
However , after securing the clew-lines beyond a possibility of their getting loose , Harry would always make a feint of starting in a prodigious hurry for the shrouds ; but suddenly looking up , and seeing others in advance , would retreat , apparently quite chagrined that he had been cut off from the opportunity of signalizing his activity . 
`` Then , Harry , '' said I , `` better you had never been born . 
Harry , you were mad to ship . 
said Harry , aghast . 
screamed Harry , drawing himself up . 
`` Take that , and along with you , '' cried the mate , laying the rope once across his back , but lightly . 
cried Harry , wincing -- not with the blow , but the insult : and then making a dash at the mate , who , holding out his long arm , kept him lazily at bay , and laughed at him , till , had I not feared a broken head , I should infallibly have pitched my boy 's bulk into the officer . 
cried Harry . 
Harry looked round among the grinning tars with a glance of terrible indignation and agony ; and then settling his eye on me , and seeing there no hope , but even an admonition of obedience , as his only resource , he made one bound into the rigging , and was up at the main-top in a trice . 
I thought a few more springs would take him to the truck , and was a little fearful that in his desperation he might then jump overboard ; for I had heard of delirious greenhorns doing such things at sea , and being lost forever . 
But no ; he stopped short , and looked down from the top . 
it unstrung his every fiber ; and I saw him reel , and clutch the shrouds , till the mate shouted out for him not to squeeze the tar out of the ropes . 
But Harry said nothing . 
Max went up the rigging hand over hand , and brought his red head with a bump against the base of Harry 's back . 
I saw Harry 's arm stretched out -- his legs seemed shaking in the rigging , even to us , down on deck ; and at last , thank heaven ! 
He came down pale as death , with bloodshot eyes , and every limb quivering . 
From that moment he never put foot in rattlin ; never mounted above the bulwarks ; and for the residue of the voyage , at least , became an altered person . 
At the time , he went to the mate -- since he could not get speech of the captain -- and conjured him to intercede with Riga , that his name might be stricken off from the list of the ship 's company , so that he might make the voyage as a steerage passenger ; for which privilege , he bound himself to pay , as soon as he could dispose of some things of his in New York , over and above the ordinary passage-money . 
Harry then told the mate solemnly , that he might do what he pleased , but go aloft again he couldnot , and wouldnot . 
He would do any thing else but that . 
This affair sealed Harry 's fate on board of the Highlander ; the crew now reckoned him fair play for their worst jibes and jeers , and he led a miserable life indeed . 
In more than one instance I have seen the truth of this ; and Harry , poor Harry , proved no exception . 
But how was it that Harry Bolton , who spite of his effeminacy of appearance , had evinced , in our London trip , such unmistakable flashes of a spirit not easily tamed -- how was it , that he could now yield himself up to the almost passive reception of contumely and contempt ? 
Perhaps his spirit , for the time , had been broken . 
Harry was incensed at these criticisms ; and yet these cabin-people were all ready enough to dance to poor Carlo 's music . 
And poor Harry was as the Hebrews . 
He , too , had been carried away captive , though his chief captor and foe was himself ; and he , too , many a night , was called upon to sing for those who through the day had insulted and derided him . 
His voice was just the voice to proceed from a small , silken person like his ; it was gentle and liquid , and meandered and tinkled through the words of a song , like a musical brook that winds and wantons by pied and pansied margins . 
`` I ca n't sing to-night '' -- sadly said Harry to the Dutchman , who with his watchmates requested him to while away the middle watch with his melody -- `` I ca n't sing to-night . 
Poor , poor Harry ! 
But he sang , and sang , as I watched the waves , and peopled them all with sprites , and cried `` chassez ! '' 
For so delighted , even with the rudest minstrelsy , are sailors , that I well knew Harry possessed a spell over them , which , for the time at least , they could not resist ; and it might induce them to treat with more deference the being who was capable of yielding them such delight . 
Hushed , and more hushed they grew , till at last Harry sat among them like Orpheus among the charmed leopards and tigers . 
Now , during the voyage , the treatment of the crew threw Harry more and more upon myself for companionship ; and few can keep constant company with another , without revealing some , at least , of their secrets ; for all of us yearn for sympathy , even if we do not for love ; and to be intellectually alone is a thing only tolerable to genius , whose cherisher and inspirer is solitude . 
However , as it was , Harry made many very interesting disclosures ; and if he did not gratify me more in that respect , he atoned for it in a measure , by dwelling upon the future , and the prospects , such as they were , which the future held out to him . 
He confessed that he had no money but a few shillings left from the expenses of our return from London ; that only by selling some more of his clothing , could he pay for his first week 's board in New York ; and that he was altogether without any regular profession or business , upon which , by his own exertions , he could securely rely for support . 
And yet , he told me that he was determined never again to return to England ; and that somewhere in America he must work out his temporal felicity . 
`` I have forgotten England , '' he said , `` and never more mean to think of it ; so tell me , Wellingborough , what am I to do in America ? '' 
So Harry and I , two friendless wanderers , beguiled many a long watch by talking over our common affairs . 
Now , seeing that Harry was so brave a songster , and could sing such bewitching airs : I suggested whether his musical talents could not be turned to account . 
The thought struck him most favorably -- `` Gad , my boy , you have hit it , you have , '' and then he went on to mention , that in some places in England , it was customary for two or three young men of highly respectable families , of undoubted antiquity , but unfortunately in lamentably decayed circumstances , and thread-bare coats ; -- it was customary for two or three young gentlemen , so situated , to obtain their livelihood by their voices : coining their silvery songs into silvery shillings . 
said Harry , `` or are there no parlors with ladies in them , there ? '' 
he anxiously added . 
Again I assured him , as I had often done before , that New York was a civilized and enlightened town ; with a large population , fine streets , fine houses , nay , plenty of omnibuses ; and that for the most part , he would almost think himself in England ; so similar to England , in essentials , was this outlandish America that haunted him . 
I could not but be struck -- and had I not been , from my birth , as it were , a cosmopolite -- I had been amazed at his skepticism with regard to the civilization of my native land . 
A greater patriot than myself might have resented his insinuations . 
He seemed to think that we Yankees lived in wigwams , and wore bear-skins . 
After all , Harry was a spice of a Cockney , and had shut up his Christendom in London . 
Having then assured him , that I could see no reason , why he should not play the troubadour in New York , as well as elsewhere ; he suddenly popped upon me the question , whether I would not join him in the enterprise ; as it would be quite out of the question to go alone on such a business . 
So that plan was quashed ; and by-and-by Harry began to give up the idea of singing himself into a livelihood . 
`` No , I wo n't sing for my mutton , '' said he -- `` what would Lady Georgiana say ? '' 
`` If I could see her ladyship once , I might tell you , Harry , '' returned I , who did not exactly doubt him , but felt ill at ease for my bosom friend 's conscience , when he alluded to his various noble and right honorable friends and relations . 
But though Harry 's hand was lady-like looking , and had once been white as the queen 's cambric handkerchief , and free from a stain as the reputation of Diana ; yet , his late pulling and hauling of halyards and clew-lines , and his occasional dabbling in tar-pots and slush-shoes , had somewhat subtracted from its original daintiness . 
Often he ruefully eyed it . 
thought Harry , ah , hand ! 
After many long conversations , it was at last pretty well decided , that upon our arrival at New York , some means should be taken among my few friends there , to get Harry a place in a mercantile house , where he might flourish his pen , and gently exercise his delicate digits , by traversing some soft foolscap ; in the same way that slim , pallid ladies are gently drawn through a park for an airing . 
In the first morning-watch , I sat with Harry on the windlass , watching the billows ; which , seen in the night , seemed real hills , upon which fortresses might have been built ; and real valleys , in which villages , and groves , and gardens , might have nestled . 
In a way that I never could fully account for , the sailors , in my hearing at least , and Harry 's , never made the slightest allusion to the departed Jackson . 
But leaning over , in a reverie , against the side , my Carlo gazed down into the calm , violet sea , as if it were an eye that answered his own ; and turning to Harry , said , `` This America 's skies must be down in the sea ; for , looking down in this water , I behold what , in Italy , we also behold overhead . 
Harry and I passed the greater part of the night walking the deck , and gazing at the thousand lights of the city . 
But in silent gratitude at the end of a voyage , almost equally uncongenial to both of us , and so bitter to one , Harry and I sat on a chest in the forecastle . 
At last , Harry went to his chest , and drawing out a few shillings , proposed that we should go ashore , and return with a supper , to eat in the forecastle . 
think of that , Harry , my friend ! '' 
`` I shall never get these confounded tar-stains out of my fingers , '' cried Harry , rubbing them hard with a bit of oakum , steeped in strong suds . 
`` Never mind , Harry , '' said I -- `` You know the ladies of the east steep the tips of their fingers in some golden dye . '' 
`` And by Plutus , '' cried Harry -- `` I 'd steep mine up to the arm-pits in gold ; since you talk about that . 
We now arrayed ourselves in our best , and sallied ashore ; and , at once , I piloted Harry to the sign of a Turkey Cock in Fulton-street , kept by one Sweeny , a place famous for cheap Souchong , and capital buckwheat cakes . 
whispered Harry to me -- `` gentlemen ! 
`` Harry , did you ever taste such butter as this before ? '' 
`` Do n't say a word , '' -- said Harry , spreading his tenth slice of toast . 
`` Now , '' said Harry , `` lead on ; and let 's see something of these United States of yours . 
Such was the miraculous change , that had now come over him . 
It reminded me of his manner , when we had started for London , from the sign of the Golden Anchor , in Liverpool . 
Their purport compelled my departure homeward ; and I at once sought out Harry to inform him . 
Strange , but even the few hours ' absence which had intervened ; during which , Harry had been left to himself , to stare at strange streets , and strange faces , had wrought a marked change in his countenance . 
He was a creature of the suddenest impulses . 
Left to himself , the strange streets seemed now to have reminded him of his friendless condition ; and I found him with a very sad eye ; and his right hand groping in his pocket . 
-- he slowly said . 
And when I told him that the next afternoon I must leave him ; he looked downhearted enough . 
But I cheered him as well as I could ; though needing a little cheering myself ; even though I hadgot home again . 
Now , there was a young man of my acquaintance in the city , much my senior , by the name of Goodwell ; and a good natured fellow he was ; who had of late been engaged as a clerk in a large forwarding house in South-street ; and it occurred to me , that he was just the man to befriend Harry , and procure him a place . 
That evening , Goodwell , Harry , and I , perambulated the streets , three abreast : -- Goodwell spending his money freely at the oyster-saloons ; Harry full of allusions to the London Club-houses : and myself contributing a small quota to the general entertainment . 
Therefore , as the second morning after our arrival , had been set apart for paying off the crew , Harry and I made our appearance on ship-board , with the rest . 
The other sailors , after counting their cash very carefully , and seeing all was right , and not a bank-note was dog-eared , in which case they would have demanded another : for they are not to be taken in and cheated , your sailors , and they know their rights , too ; at least , when they are at liberty , after the voyage is concluded : -- the sailors also salaamed , and withdrew , leaving Harry and me face to face with the Paymaster-general of the Forces . 
I looked at Harry , and he looked at me ; and then we both looked at this incomprehensible captain . 
At last Harry hemmed , and I scraped my foot to increase the disturbance . 
`` I want my money , '' said Harry . 
he was exceedingly merry ; and taking a long inspiration of smoke , removed his cigar , and sat sideways looking at us , letting the vapor slowly wriggle and spiralize out of his mouth . 
cried Harry , enraged at his impudence -- `` I tell you what it is , Captain Riga ; this wo n't do -- where 's the rhino ? '' 
whispered Harry . 
`` I was thunderstruck at this most unforeseen announcement of the state of my account with Captain Riga ; and I began to understand why it was that he had till now ignored my absence from the ship , when Harry and I were in London . 
But a single minute 's consideration showed that I could not help myself ; so , telling him that he was at liberty to begin his suit , for I was a bankrupt , and could not pay him , I turned to go . 
`` Mr. Bolton , I believe , '' said the captain , now blandly bowing toward Harry . 
`` Mr. Bolton , youalso shipped for three dollars per month : and you had one month 's advance in Liverpool ; and from dock to dock we have been about a month and a half ; so I owe you just one dollar and a half , Mr. Bolton ; and here it is ; '' handing him six two-shilling pieces . 
`` And this , '' said Harry , throwing himself into a tragical attitude , `` thisis the reward of my long and faithful services ! '' 
Then , disdainfully flinging the silver on the desk , he exclaimed , `` There , Captain Riga , you may keep your tin ! 
Quitting the cabin , I remonstrated with Harry upon his recklessness in disdaining his wages , small though they were ; I begged to remind him of his situation ; and hinted that every penny he could get might prove precious to him . 
But he only cried Pshaw!and that was the last of it . 
Wishing to see the last movements of this remarkable crew , who were so clever ashore and so craven afloat , Harry and I followed them along the wharf , till they stopped at a sailor retreat , poetically denominated `` The Flashes . '' 
As , after shaking our hands , our shipmates departed , Harry and I stood on the corner awhile , till we saw the last man disappear . 
said Harry . 
`` I have no doubt , Goodwell will take care of you , Harry , '' said I , `` he 's a fine , good-hearted fellow ; and will do his best for you , I know . '' 
`` No doubt of it , '' said Harry , looking hopeless . 
`` And I need not tell you , Harry , how sorry I am to leave you so soon . '' 
`` And I am sorry enough myself , '' said Harry , looking very sincere . 
`` But I will be soon back again , I doubt not , '' said I. `` Perhaps so , '' said Harry , shaking his head . 
said Harry , drawing the words out like an endless ribbon . 
But notwithstanding all I could say to encourage him , Harry felt so bad , that nothing would do , but a rush to a neighboring bar , where we both gulped down a glass of ginger-pop ; after which we felt better . 
He accompanied me to the steamboat , that was to carry me homeward ; he stuck close to my side , till she was about to put off ; then , standing on the wharf , he shook me by the hand , till we almost counteracted the play of the paddles ; and at last , with a mutual jerk at the arm-pits , we parted . 
I never saw Harry again . 
I pass over the reception I met with at home ; how I plunged into embraces , long and loving : -- I pass over this ; and will conclude my first voyageby relating all I know of what overtook Harry Bolton . 
`` Dear Redburn : -- Your poor friend , Harry , I can not find any where . 
After you left , he called upon me several times , and we walked out together ; and my interest in him increased every day . 
I did my best ; but could not get Harry a place . 
To relieve my anxiety , Goodwell endeavored to assure me , that Harry must indeed have departed on a whaling voyage . 
But remembering his bitter experience on board of the Highlander , and more than all , his nervousness about going aloft , it seemed next to impossible . 
At last I was forced to give him up . 
`` Harry Bolton was not your brother ? '' 
Harry Bolton!it was even he ! 
