What the almanac directed its readers to look out for about this time -- what his mother told Richard of , as she tied the muffler on his neck in the morning -- what the men in the bar-rooms , where he stopped to warm himself , seemed to be rubbing out of their hands into the fire -- what the cattle , crouching on the windward side of barn-yards , rapped to each other with their slim , white horns -- what sleigh-bells , rapidly passing and repassing , jingled to the air -- what the old snow , that lay crisp and hard on the ground , and the hushed atmosphere , seemed to be expecting -- what a `` snow-bank , '' a dense , bluish cloud in the south , gradually creeping along the horizon , and looming midheavens , unequivocally presaged , -- a snow-storm , came good at last . 
Richard had watched that cloud , as it slowly unfurled itself to the winds , and little by little let out its canvas , till it seemed to be the mainsail of the huge earth , and would bear everything movable and immovable along with it . 
He saw the first flakes that skurry forwards so gingerly and fool-happy through the valleys , as if they had nothing to do but dance and be merry , and were not threatened by a howling pack behind . 
He rejoiced in the feeling of these herald drops on his cheeks , and caught at them with his lips , refreshing himself in the dainty moisture ; for he had walked a long distance , and , though it was mid winter , his blood was warm , and his throat dry . 
The regular brush commenced , -- a right earnest one it was ; and he had something else to do than dally with it ; -- he must brave the storm , and cleave his way through it . 
He had some miles to go yet , and night was at hand . 
The pack he bore grew heavier on his shoulders , his feet labored in the newfallen snow , and what with frequent slips on the concealed ice , his endurance was sore taxed . 
But he was cheerful without , and strove to be quiet within ; and made as if he were independent of circumstance , and free from anxiety . 
This was too much for Richard . 
If his blood was hot before , it boiled now ; and flinging down his bundle , he sprang to the rescue . 
He raised the woman , refitted her wardrobe , and sent her on her way with many thanks . 
It smote Richard violently in the face , snatched away his morsels of breath , and would have sunk him , by sheer weight , in the White Sea that surrounded him . 
Richard was deeply religious ; and he knew God said to the snow , Be thou on the earth ; and he felt that the Divine Providence cared for the lilies of the field as well in their decay as in their bloom ; and that a ceaseless Benignity was covering the beds where they lay with the lovely raiment of the season , and cherishing in the cold ground the juices that should , after a brief interval , spring forth again , and create a gladsome resurrection of nature . 
`` One truth to-day , '' said Richard to himself , `` is something , though it is towards night . '' 
He relapsed into musing and philosophizing on the world and life , the day and hour , and on himself and his objects , and on the City in which truth was so scarce . 
Of a sudden , the Factories burst upon him , or their windows did , -- hundreds of bright windows , illuminated every night in honor of Toil , -- and which neither the darkness of the night , nor the wildness of the storm , could obscure , and which never bent or blinked before the rage and violence around . 
The Factories , and factory life , -- how it glowed at that moment to his eye ! 
and even his own ideal notions thereof were more than transfigured before him , and he envied the girls , some of whom he knew , who , through that troubled winter night , were tending their looms as in the warmth , beauty , and quietness of a summer-day . 
The Factories appeared like an abode of enchantment ; and the sight revived his heart , and gave him a pleasant impression of the City , as much as a splendid church , or a sunny park of trees , or fine gardens , would have done . 
He was too much occupied to notice a spread umbrella that approached him , moving slantwise abreast the storm , now criss-crossing , now plunging forward , as it were intoxicated . 
It struck him , and in his insecure footing , threw him . 
`` It is nothing , '' replied Richard , who could hardly be distinguished from the snow in which he rolled . 
`` Let me help you , '' said Richard . 
asked Richard , sympathetically , thinking of the many miles he had fared that day . 
rejoined Richard , despairingly . 
Richard , delighted at the near end of his journey , did not conceal his pleasure . 
asked Richard . 
`` Then I am secure , '' added Richard . 
Richard grew thoughtful ; but he repelled the phantom of discouragement , and clung closer to the good angel of common sense and rational hope , that ever attended him . 
He was coming to Woodylin to find employment . 
Many young men were attracted thither , and among these was Richard Edney . 
He came from a farm , in a small interior village , and brought with him considerable mechanical expertness ; and now , just turned of age , on the evening of the day in which he set out to seek his fortune , or , more strictly , to find a snug operative 's berth , he appears before the reader . 
He had a married sister in town , whose house he would make his home . 
He came to the covered bridge , and entering by the narrow turn-stile , found a breathing-place from the storm in that labyrinth of timbers . 
He stamped the snow from his feet , and , unbuttoning his over-coat , seized the lappels with his two hands , and shook them heartily , as if they were old friends whom he had not seen for a long time , and then folded them carefully to his breast . 
The readers of this story would like to know how Richard felt . 
To speak more in detail , there are two popular impressions anent the Bridge , one of which Richard avoided , and into the other he fell . 
For instance , you will hear men say they could afford to keep a horse , if it were not for the Bridge ; some , that they should ride a great deal more , if it were not for the Bridge ; one , that while his business is on one side of the water , he should like to live on the other , but can not because of the Bridge ; ladies , visiting on the opposite side of the river , are always in haste to return before sunset , on account of the Bridge . 
This feeling , of course , Richard had not been long enough in the neighborhood to understand or to share . 
But the other popular impression , which indeed is connected with the first , he did , in some degree , though perhaps unconsciously , entertain ; this , -- that the Bridge is useful as a shelter from storms , from cold , and from the intense heat of summer . 
How fine a refuge it was from the hurtling snow , how admirably it was adapted to protect one in this extremity of the season , how dry and warm it was , what a convenient place to take breath in ; -- this Richard felt . 
He had this feeling even deeper than most folk . 
Blinded as he was by the storm , tired by his long journey , lonely in feeling , knowing no one , harrowed a little by the dark intimations that had accosted him just as he got into the City , even the small lamp that glimmered aloft had a friendly eye ; and he overflowed with gratitude to the little twinkler that worked so patiently and so hopefully in the deathlike , skeleton ribs of the edifice ; and as he seated himself on a sill , since he did not know anybody in particular , and had not participated in those feelings to which we have referred , he thanked God for the Bridge . 
The tramping of horse-feet , grating of sleigh-runners , and buzz of lively voices , were heard in the darkness ; and immediately there passed near him an empty sleigh , driven by a man on foot , and four or five men and women , likewise walking . 
`` I had rather face it out there , '' added a third , jerking his head towards the gate , `` than have my shins barked here . '' 
`` You are mistaken , '' said Richard , calmly , but a grain piqued . 
His tone and manner recalled the young folk to their senses , and not the least to a sense of injustice toward a stranger ; and they all stopped and looked towards him . 
The light of the lamp revealed brotherly faces of young men , and gentle faces of young women , and Richard spoke freely . 
`` I am very tired , '' he said ; `` I have walked forty miles since breakfast , and I was glad to sit here . 
`` I do not mean that , '' answered Richard , `` but all through here -- what is about you here -- this neighborhood ? '' 
`` I did not see them , '' replied Richard . 
`` I was warned of evil hereabouts , '' responded Richard . 
`` I have been misunderstood , '' said Richard , laughing in turn . 
`` You will not say , '' answered Richard , `` that religious sentiment is fantastic ! '' 
This was seriously said , and the company became silent when he spoke . 
`` I mean , '' he added , `` may not religious feeling be as pure in this place , at this hour , as in any place at any hour ? '' 
`` I am Richard Edney , '' said our friend . 
`` I fear this isa bad place , '' said Richard . 
`` Farewell to you all , gentle ladies , '' he added , and went on his way . 
rejoined Melicent Dennington , sending her voice after him . 
Richard crossed the Bridge , and by dint of information plucked from the few people abroad at that time , he made his way to a story-and-a-half white house , with doric pilasters , that stood near the bank of the River , just above the first dam . 
He went in at the front door without ringing , traversed with a quiet step the narrow , dark entry , and let himself into the kitchen , where he knew he should find his friends . 
He was evidently looked for , and warmly welcomed ; his sister embraced him affectionately , and his brother-in-law shook his hand very cordially . 
His sister was mending a child 's garment ; his brother was smoking , and reading a newspaper . 
These people were about thirty years of age ; his sister had dark eyes and hair , and a face that had once been handsome , but it now wore a sallow and anxious expression ; she was neatly dressed in dark-sprigged calico . 
Richard laid off his pack and over-coat . 
`` Do not shake off the snow here , brother , '' said his sister ; `` let Asa take the things into the shed . '' 
Richard took off his boots , and sank into the rocking-chair his sister drew up for him , with his feet bolstered on the clean and bright stove-hearth . 
As he has now got out of the storm and his storm-gear , and looks like himself , our readers would like to know how he looks . 
He , like his sister , had dark eyes and hair ; his features were comely , his forehead was fairly proportioned , his eyebrows were distinct and well placed , his mouth was small , and his teeth white . 
His predominant expression was cheerfulness , frankness , earnestness . 
He had what some would call an intellectual look ; and , judging from the contour of his head , one would see that he possessed a modicum of moral qualities . 
His cheeks were browned by the weather , but his forehead preserved a belt of skin of remarkable whiteness . 
He was of medium height , and his body was strongly built , and in all its members very regularly disposed . 
He wore a red shirt , and a roundabout , sometimes called a monkey-jacket . 
His coat , vest and pantaloons , were of a dark , stout cloth , which his mother had evidently manufactured , as she possibly had been the tailoress of her son . 
The supper was abundant , and freely eaten , but it was not satisfying ; an uneasiness remained -- so much so , that , although Richard resumed his chair by the stove , he could not sit in it . 
He looked from side to side of the kitchen , and at last thrust his head into a partly-opened door , that led into the bed-room . 
`` Not to-night , '' whispered his sister , earnestly . 
`` I must , '' said Richard . 
`` I must see them , '' said Richard . 
`` You will wake them , '' replied his sister . 
`` I will not wake them , '' added Richard , pushing himself still further into the room . 
exclaimed his sister . 
But he seized a lamp , which his brother , despite the remonstrances of Roxy , handed him , and shading it with his fingers , went into the room . 
`` I mean to kiss them , '' responded Richard . 
`` I will not do that , '' added Richard ; and , making an effort , he did not ; but hovered about the faces of the children , put his mouth towards one , and then the other , and kissed the air between , as if that was sweet enough ; experimented with the light on this side and on that , to get every possible view of them ; with his thumb and finger took hold of the little velvety hands , that lay over the quilt . 
he asked . 
`` They have talked about nothing else all day , '' replied his brother ; `` Memmy asks about Uncle Richard ; Bebby ca n't articulate , but she mows and winks , and knows all about it . '' 
`` They have the promise of seeing you in the morning , '' said his sister , `` and went quietly to sleep on that . '' 
But Richard got the apples , large and rosy , which he held insinuatingly before the closed eyes of the children ; pleased himself with imagining how they would like to eat them ; put them close to their cheeks , as it were comparing colors ; and , when he had finished this pantomime , laid them on the coverlid in front of their mouths ; and they left the room . 
Roxy took her sewing ; Munk leaned back against the wall , with his feet on a round of his wife 's chair , and continued to smoke ; and Richard , by the warmth of his heart , as well as that of the fire , tried to subdue the chills with which a long walk in the open air had infused his system . 
`` I do not doubt , '' said Roxy , `` that Richard loves the children , and that their father does ; but you are very injudicious . '' 
`` Perhaps I was hasty , '' said Richard . 
Richard went to bed . 
His chamber -- such as a story-and-a-half house affords -- was small and low , with sloped ceiling , but plastered , papered , and quite convenient . 
The bed was soft and warm ; and , after offering his evening thanksgiving to the Giver of all good , exhausted and weary , our young friend sank into a sound sleep . 
What should happen , at this instant , but that all these persons were thinking of different things ; Benjamin of California gold , Eunice of her music , Barbara of Richard Edney , Mrs. Melbourne of the horse , Madam of the poor , and Roscoe of the effect of the cold on peach-trees . 
Their thoughts , secretly controlled by the real harmony of their feelings , fell into groups and circles , and a sort of wild polka gallopade ; but Barbara 's thought , being the newest and strongest , got the upper hand , and led off , with all the others following it ; and Barbara 's thought was Richard Edney . 
I dare say many of our readers have been having the same thought ; and since Richard Edney 's name is so near the Governor 's Family , on the title-page , they are glad to have it get in there at last , and perhaps wonder how it will be treated . 
How exhilarating for the dear creatures , in loose , flowing costume , with this volume in hand , to stroll into the valley of the Sogd , where , says the old geographer , Ibn Haukal , `` we may travel for eight days , and not be out of one delicious garden ; '' read to each other about their cousins , Richard and Melicent , and Memmy and Bebby , under the shade of the glorious plane-trees , and cool their transports in an atmosphere of musk , which is exhaled indigenously from the soil ! 
Thenext day Munk went with Richard to the Saw-mills . 
Busy , busy ; so busy , as Richard looked into one and another , his first thought was , they must want assistance ; but he soon found they all wanted work . 
Richard took the rule and chalk , and in a few minutes reported an accurate and very neat account . 
The head-stock was the controlling and responsible end of a stick of timber on the works , and the head-stock man superintended the whole operation of sawing ; so that Richard was put to a critical task . 
Richard stood in perspiration and trepidation . 
Richard took an axe , and very neatly proceeded to `` butt '' a log ; that is , cut the end of it square off . 
Richard took breath and courage . 
The men in the mill were looking at him , and he did not know but he should be degraded before them ; but these encouraging words of the Captain revived him . 
asked Richard , quite hopefully . 
`` Then you do not want me , '' added Richard . 
Richard , armed with a picaroon , descended the slip , some thirty feet , to the basin , where the logs lay in the water ready to be drawn in , and by aid of the tooth of the mill-chain dog , to be hauled to the bed of the mill . 
Richard , standing on one log , and aiming a blow at another , lost his balance and slipped into the water . 
Recovering himself , he pushed still more energetically the experiment on which he was sent . 
Meanwhile Richard was doing up his job very handsomely ; and his brother called the Captain 's attention to the fact . 
Richard reäppeared on the mill-bed , with a look of suspense . 
`` I had better return home , '' said Richard . 
`` You have no opening here , '' said Richard , decisively . 
`` I can do anything , '' replied Richard . 
inquired Richard . 
Richard shook his head . 
`` I will go by the month , '' said Richard . 
So he found employment for a few weeks , at least ; he would work nine hours every night ; and have fifteen out of the twenty-four , wherein to sleep , and do what else he liked . 
At any rate , it was cold enough ; and Richard felt it , when he left the house , after supper . 
Richard was in a strange place , and among strange men , though he was at home in the business . 
Of the persons with whom Richard was associated , one , Mr. Gouch , the boss of the gang , was a middle-aged , middlesized man , with a heavy face and a dull eye . 
Richard saw this farce , and was curious about it . 
During an interval when Silver was taking away the boards on one side of the carriage , and Mr. Gouch and Richard were at work with a cross-cut saw on the other , Mr. Gouch said , `` He 'll get it ! 
asked Richard . 
As he said this , he pushed the saw forwards , and leaned forwards himself , as if he were earnest that the communication should reach Richard . 
he said ; `` youare not concerned ; you have just come ; you need n't be frightened . '' 
Now , Richard could not conveniently help starting , since he held one end of the saw , and must needs retreat as the other advanced . 
Still Mr. Gouch kept operating the instrument , and endeavoring to impress certain truths on Richard . 
The first he did mechanically and skilfully ; as to the last , he was in an absent state of mind , and continually blundered in the attempt to reconcile the ideal with the actual . 
`` Do n't be frightened , '' he said , as he again inclined towards Richard , who was again obliged to fall back . 
replied Richard , laughing . 
`` He may be sick , and die too , '' observed Richard . 
Richard sprang between them , and Mr. Gouch fell backward over a log . 
Mr. Gouch laughed , and Silver snapped his lips together in a way that was intended to imply humor ; and Richard , seeing that the demonstration was only a merry one , very quietly went to wooding up the stove . 
`` There will be family ways and family doings , '' continued Mr. Gouch , addressing Richard , who was quietly consuming his midnight meal ; `` and fires kindled where it is now bleak cold , and tables set for people that never ate together , and doors opening on new scenes and new operations . 
`` Shall I have the honor of introducing to you , Richard , Mr. Helskill , the Friend of the People ? '' 
Richard leisurely hacked the end of a log . 
`` The honor is Silver 's to-night , '' said Philemon to Richard , holding a glass in his hand . 
`` I must have declined the honor , '' replied Richard to Philemon ; `` and I think Silver has no satisfaction in doing it . '' 
`` I think I will not , '' said Richard . 
`` The laws of the mill forbid drinking , and the law of conscience forbids it , '' added Richard . 
`` I am not afraid of Clover , and Clover shall not hurt you , '' said Richard . 
Silver grew more quiet , and sat down to his pipe , saying , `` Drink , Richard , only drink ! '' 
`` There is mischief here , '' said Richard , `` and I do not understand it . 
`` You need n't hope anything about it , '' said Richard . 
`` There is no time to be slower , '' answered Richard . 
`` Not a drop , friends , not a drop , '' replied Richard . 
said Richard . 
`` I can not drink , '' answered Richard . 
`` I am no skulker , '' said Richard ; `` I am open-placed , and open-tongued . 
He inclined the bottle towards the person whose name he called . 
replied Richard . 
Richard , quite aroused , with a handspike , dashed the bottle to atoms . 
Carried forward by the impulse , he descended upon the other bottle , and treated it to the same end ; and then , seizing the basket in which these things had been borne , he hurled it towards the door . 
whispered earnestly Silver to Richard , as he saw the Captain approaching ; `` for my sake , do n't sayyou did n't ! '' 
`` I threw it , '' answered Richard ; `` but I did not intend to hit any one ; I did not see you . '' 
`` I can not explain , '' said Richard . 
Not many minutes after , approaching the door , he called to Richard , and pointing to an angle of the road in front of the mill , he said , `` I see something stirring yonder . 
Richard , approaching the mysterious object , found it to be a man filling a basket with waste bits of wood . 
He trod catlike , and seized the man firmly by the collar . 
The latter dropped a stick he had in his hand , and fell back passively on Richard 's knees . 
`` I would let him go , '' said Richard . 
`` You will do it , Richard , '' said the Captain , `` and I may think better of you . '' 
`` I will , '' replied Richard . 
`` Watch him close , '' enjoined the Captain , hooking Richard 's arm in that of the old man . 
`` He will be called for about ten o'clock in the morning . '' 
The old man shook on Richard 's arm . 
`` You are cold , '' said Richard . 
continued Richard . 
`` They shall have it , '' said Richard , with emphasis . 
`` I will pay for it , '' said Richard . 
He went to the spot where the basket lay , which he filled ; and giving the old man one handle , and taking the other himself , he suffered his attendant to lead the way whither he would go . 
Richard inquired after the necessity of the fuel he was so unseasonably supplying , as a clue to the crime over which he was so strangely made sentry . 
He gathered from the old man that two girls , his grandchildren , had come to work in the Factories , and he had accompanied them ; that one of them was sick , and the other lay exhausted at the bedside ; that their means were short , and while the girls slept , he had slipped away for the wood . 
Richard explained ; -- the Captain was not propitiated . 
Richard offered to deduct the value of the wood from his wages . 
How little did he understand Captain Creamer ! 
Richard followed his guide up stairs to a chamber under the roof , in the third story . 
Weariness had folded the well one , and an opiate the sick one , in deep slumber ; and they were not aroused at the entrance of Richard and his guide . 
`` We had better not try to make a fire , '' said Richard ; `` the room is not very cold , and the hearth is warm . '' 
Richard drew some shavings from the basket , and soon had them lighted . 
Then turning to Richard , with a playful , but sad infatuation , he pointed to the sleepers , and whispered , `` That one , the sick one , the one with morning hair , -- her child 's hair , -- is Violet . 
There was too much tenderness in the old man , too many cherished though bitter and confused reminiscences , too much vague but corroding sorrow , for Richard not to be touched . 
He was silent and reflective ; and his whole spirit was concentrated on the beauty and the sadness that slumbered before him , and the unwearied , tottering affection that stood by the side of it . 
`` I have no business here , '' said Richard . 
`` Let me make more fire , '' rejoined Richard . 
`` He brought it , '' replied her Grandfather , pointing to Richard . 
asked Richard . 
`` I helped him , '' said Richard , who wished to change that subject . 
`` We will have a nice fire ; '' and he put on more chips and butts . 
He felt that his presence must be embarrassing ; he knew that the matter of the wood was so ; and he said , rising from his chair , `` If there is anything I can do for you , I shall be glad to do it . '' 
Richard advanced towards the door ; but the old man laid hands upon him , led him to his chair , adding that he must stay . 
Richard was bound to Capt. Creamer , and to the law , and to his own promise , to stay ; and since he could not explain the real cause of his coming and staying , he said nothing . 
`` Nothing , '' said Richard , `` nothing to speak of now . 
`` He will , '' answered Richard , solemnly ; `` and to God let us trust all things . '' 
Richard 's manner was so kind , and his words so soothing , that Junia , even if her heart had begun to work with some inexplicable evil , regained her composure , and said `` I will , '' and went to the bedside . 
`` His name is Richard . '' 
asked Richard . 
Richard felt another singular , strong twinge . 
The mention of the wood troubled Richard , as he knew it did the Grandfather . 
He would have rushed out doors ; but that would not help matters within . 
He struggled with himself , arresting the natural train of association , and repressing all sense of the strange complexity that surrounded him , and became calm . 
asked Richard . 
`` Yes , '' replied Richard . 
Richard read the twenty-third Psalm , in its motion so full of spiritual and halcyon-like wafture , in its feeling so fervid , trustful and joyous ; -- and prayed . 
He collected into one earnest , sympathetic utterance , before God , the hopes and the fears , the anguish and the aspirations , of the hour . 
She cast her eyes over her glasses twice at Richard , -- once as she passed him towards the bed , and next when she had reached the bed . 
Did she intend , thought Richard , they should take their meal from the tray ? 
Both Junia and the old man said they did not wish for breakfast ; and certainly that was the last thing Richard thought of . 
Junia took charge of what had been brought for Violet , and the landlady remained in the room only long enough to reconnoitre the person and purpose of Richard . 
`` A friend , '' answered Richard . 
Richard , who wished to communicate with the head of the house touching his rather equivocal and very unexpected entry into it , followed as she left the room . 
He found her descending the stairs , and combining with each step a nod of the head , and an ejaculation of the numerals , as if the three things timed each other . 
She beheld Richard watching her from above . 
Richard replied that he had never seen them before that night . 
Richard observed it was not strange she should . 
Richard said there was truth in that remark . 
Richard was silent . 
He did not know it , and he could not say so . 
It would have helped Richard to be put in possession of certain particulars relating to this woman . 
And , what was most remote from Richard 's thoughts at the moment , she was anxious about her property . 
But Richard , who was simply solicitous to be disencumbered of his confused feelings , and to unfold to the landlady the nature of his position , and why he was in the house , disgusted at her manner , returned to the chamber . 
The officers would soon be there ; the secret would be forthcoming , do what he might . 
The more he saw of Junia , the more he was assured of her true womanliness , and her capability of encountering evil ; he stifled his repugnance to giving her pain , and resolved to acquaint her with the simple state of the case . 
Taking her one side , he related what had befallen in the night ; how her grandfather was detected in theft , and he was appointed to watch him . 
He said this with a violent glance at Richard , which he meant to be ungracious and stinging , and which should sever the young man in twain . 
Richard made no reply . 
She wiped her face with her apron , and leered at Richard . 
Her manner betokened great intimacy with Richard , great understanding of his humor , great insight into what she knew would be his feelings on the occasion . 
This must be Miss Plumy Alicia Eyre , thought Richard ; and he turned to look at her ; and having looked once , he looked again . 
So Richard found himself looking at her . 
Plumy Alicia , -- we call her by the only species of titular abridgment she tolerated , -- Plumy Alicia had no previous designs on Richard ; but when he looked so earnestly at her , when he seemed so deeply interested in her , when she saw his handsome figure , and his intelligent face , some design took root in her . 
But she had no time to pursue her arts , for the attention and person of Richard were called to other things . 
Richard , a leading witness , must of course go too . 
He fell in with the crowd that dogged the steps of Justice . 
Richard spoke of some things that the Captain did not know . 
Richard was again questioned . 
He not only answered what was put to him ; he enlarged on the subject ; he glowed in depicting the extenuating circumstances ; he was even eloquent in his enumeration of the several points of interest . 
Richard Edneywas born of worthy parents , in an interior town of the state . 
Besides , Richard enjoyed the ministrations of an excellent clergyman , a man of refined culture and earnest piety . 
Richard was thus introduced to Nature . 
He conversed with the phenomena of creation ; he learned the distinctions and varieties of the animate and inanimate world ; his sense of the beautiful was heightened , and his love of being in general , to quote a phrase of the Schools , was developed . 
These meetings were of service to Richard ; he gained thereby much valuable information , and was led to a clearer understanding , and a more vital impression , of his duties and responsibilities . 
He had access to his Pastor 's library , and in some sense to his heart ; so that in many forms he shared largely in that renovating , spiritualizing , and exalting influence , which this good man , from the pulpit , the fields , the evening meeting , and his study , shed over the town . 
Richard had spent one winter amongst the head-waters of the River , lumbering . 
Suretyship , or loss of crops , or whatever it might be , excepting that it was no vice of his own , troubled his father in lifting the mortgage that had lain many years on his farm . 
One or two instalments were still due ; -- they were due the Governor , of whom the original purchase was made ; and Richard came to Woodylin partly for the purpose of earning the requisite sum . 
He came , also , with the desire , not uncommon in the youthful breast , of seeing more of the world . 
He came with good principles and good feelings ; he was willing to meet the world on fair grounds ; he neither expected too much , nor did he bid too freely . 
He sought to glorify God , and benefit man ; yet was he ignorant , practically ignorant , of the many arts by which selfishness , vanity , and the false systems of society , disintegrate character , and undermine virtue . 
Yes , Richard loved these children ; and loved to be with them , and to amuse them , and to be amused by them . 
After his nap , -- for he had had no sleep since the night before , and many things had happened , in the mean time , to excite and tire him , -- after his nap , he came down into the kitchen , and sat by the stove . 
They could not stop at that , but went clear over to Uncle Richard 's knee , and rebounding thence , they fetched up with the other side of the room . 
It was cold work , and Bebby 's fingers were red ; but she was persevering ; and when Memmy called to Uncle Richard to look at what she had done , Bebby did so too . 
Memmy laid down to it , as we say , and applied her face to the window , and she produced chin , lips , nose , eye-brows thereon ; and turning to Uncle Richard , to show him what she had done , there glared , from the great ice-mountains which the frost creates on windows , this hideous ice-mask ; and did n't Uncle pretend to be frightened ? 
We say this , that the children may have full justice ; and we say it for Richard 's sake , who took Memmy 's side in the controversy , and always defended the ground that Bebby could talk . 
Uncle Richard was reading a newspaper , but -- the selfish imps ! 
-- they would not tolerate that ; they would have no interference with theirrights ; they were news enough for him ; accident and incident ; hair-breadth escapes ; wonderful discoveries ; they were foreign news and domestic news ; they had their poet 's corner , and their page of romance . 
`` Richard , '' she screamed , `` how could you let them do so ? '' 
Richard had done nothing about the matter , except to look on . 
Seizing Bebby by the shoulders , she held the child square round , for Richard to look at . 
`` It is nothing very bad , I hope , '' said Richard . 
asked Richard . 
`` The children are not disagreeable to me , '' said Richard . 
`` They are not to me , '' rejoined his sister ; `` but they are to other people . '' 
`` It seems to me , '' added Richard , `` I would not trouble myself much about other people , if I was satisfied myself . 
If Mrs. Mellow should call , -- oh Richard ! 
Richard went on this errand , and the children followed him . 
The room , into which Richard had not been before , acquired all at once a singular consequence to his eye . 
He looked carefully around it ; he walked softly over it , as if some rare mystery lurked in the midst of it . 
Richard inspected the contents of the table . 
He found the books were gifts , gilded and embossed , -- most of them old ones , and such as his sister received before her marriage . 
`` Well , '' thought Richard , `` nothing very terrible in this . '' 
Now , our friend was naturally of a serious turn of mind ; but somehow , at this time , lighter feelings came over him , and he might have gone as far as a certain Methodist young man did , who was obliged to confess to his class-leader the sin of perpetrating a joke . 
Richard 's humor had not so far evaporated but he enjoyed the sight of Bebby , and particularly when she thrust her hands through the cloak , with the thumbs on the off-side , and the fingers looking as if they would be glad to accommodate the little usurper , but had laughed themselves to death in the attempt , and had no strength left . 
`` It troubles you , Roxy , '' said Richard . 
asked Richard . 
Richard began to think there was some fact in what he had regarded as fiction , and that there was danger to the children in the parlor . 
The street-bell rang , and Richard was desired to go to the door . 
He found there two ladies , one of whom surprised him a little in the person of Miss Plumy Alicia Eyre . 
They were shown to the parlor , where his sister introduced them . 
The one whom he had never seen was Mrs. Cyphers . 
Now , Mrs. Munk began to be in her element ; now she would triumph ; now she would show Richard the advantage of keeping children neat . 
But Uncle Richard , -- hard-hearted man ! 
His sister would have gone into hysterics ; but Miss Eyre and Mrs. Cyphers said the children were beautiful , -- would take them into their laps , and would kiss them , and all that ; and Uncle Richard would not take them away ; nay , he seemed determined that Memmy should go into Miss Eyre 's lap , and Bebby into Mrs. Cyphers ' . 
`` They are not little things , '' rejoined Richard ; `` and I do mind them . '' 
`` You are joking , Mr. Edney , '' said Plumy Alicia , who sat next to Richard , on the sofa , and turned her face towards him engagingly . 
`` He dotes on the children , '' observed his sister , who began to think they would account her brother a dunce ; `` and he has some strange notions about them . '' 
Yet Richard was not in a state to discriminate on these points ; or , rather , so far as he was curious at all , he attended not so much the manner as the hidden force and character of the lady . 
It had been rumored that Captain Creamer was a rejected suitor of Miss Eyre 's ; indeed , so much as this had been intimated in Richard 's hearing at the Mill , -- a circumstance that shed fresh interest on what sat near him . 
But what were these things to Richard ? 
Nothing , nothing at all ; and he would probably have never thought of them except , -- what we foreboded , -- except for the swan 's - down victorine , and that piercing , flattering eye . 
Richard answered that he was there . 
He replied that the Captain obliged him to keep guard over the old man . 
`` They are sadly in trouble , '' replied Richard . 
Richard dropped the victorine as if it had been a cold toad , and walked towards the stove . 
he asked . 
Richard was again touched , but he did not resume his seat on the sofa . 
`` They are poor , '' he said . 
pursued Richard . 
`` I do not know these people , '' replied Richard , `` nor do I appreciate the distinctions to which you refer . '' 
asked Richard . 
observed Richard . 
`` There would seem to be aristocracy among the boarding-houses , '' said Richard . 
said Richard . 
replied Miss Eyre , casting a searching , but rather equivocal , glance at Richard . 
But Richard did not notice it ; he was thinking of the Orphans . 
She added this in a way that she meant to be playful ; but Richard took it quite seriously . 
`` You are unjust to them , '' said Richard ; -- he said this sternly . 
Richard added nothing . 
But Richard was not moved . 
Having discovered where the Orphans were wont to worship , he would go and see the minister of the church . 
He found the reverend gentleman at home . 
The Doctor replied to Richard that two girls , with an old man , had been seen at his church , and partaken of his communion ; that he had endeavored to see them , but could not trace them , and would be glad to be conducted to their room . 
They went to Whichcomb 's , where Richard parted with the minister , and returned home . 
At these times Richard went out more during the day . 
He had , indeed , turned night into day , and was obliged to sleep partly by sunlight ; but he could secure what rest he required , and still have some hours to spare . 
These were his perquisites , and he employed them as he chose . 
One day , as he entered the mill , he encountered Mr. Gouch , Silver , and Philemon , his fellow night 's men , and he saw another person , whom he had not seen before , striding a log . 
But Richard could not be easy when he knew Clover was near ; at least , he could not keep his eyes or his thoughts still . 
Well , Richard must look at him all the more , -- only he did it furtively , and by snatches . 
What did he behold ? 
His face was one that could be easily identified . 
His lower lip rowdyishly protruded ; it was a pouch containing a quid of tobacco as large as a pullet 's egg . 
His upper lip was deeply indented at each corner , making two niches , where scorn and derision were seated . 
He held a cant-dog , with which he amused himself , drawing frightful figures in the saw-dust on the floor ; then he teazed a butter with it , making as if he would thrust it under his axe . 
He had on a Shakspeare hat , with the rim turned up at the sides , and a silver buckle in front ; and the hat was tilted so much on his head , it seemed as if it would fall off . 
His dress consisted of a blue-striped shirt with a large collar , a doublebreasted vest , and a mottled Guernsey jacket . 
The butter took all this patiently , either from indifference to Clover , or out of terror of him -- Richard could not tell which . 
Richard was inquisitive as to the secret of the man 's power -- whether it lay in his manner , or his character . 
Nor was his interest cooled by observing that Clover flung several significant glances at himself , and did some feats of fist , which he evidently meant Richard should give a personal interpretation to . 
He asked Mr. Gouch to introduce him ; but the timorous head-stock man declined the service . 
When Richard persisted , and said he would speak with Clover , Silver sprang at his throat , as if he would choke him , and told him to keep still . 
Philemon made as if Silver was in earnest , and said he had Richard within an inch of his life , and it was his duty to stop so dangerous an affray . 
`` It is all play , '' said Richard ; `` do not be alarmed . '' 
Richard , going towards Clover , replied , `` Silver was in sport . '' 
`` I believe I have your place in the mill , '' said Richard ; `` possibly you would like to take it again . '' 
he retorted ; `` I am able when I please to be able . 
asked Richard . 
He echoed the word with a very sharp sarcasm playing about his upper lip , which Richard did not see any necessity for . 
Richard asked . 
`` I am ready to go on again , '' replied Richard , waggishly . 
`` Do you mean to insult me , Edney ? '' 
asked Clover , his eyes flashing fire . 
replied Richard . 
`` I can give myself to you in one word , Edney ; I can convey the whole in a single phrase ; I am a man of honor ; I wish to be honorable . 
`` I will , '' replied Richard ; `` and then I must ask you how you can call such conduct honorable . '' 
We would do him typographical justice . 
observed Richard . 
`` It is lying , '' remarked Richard . 
In saying this , he gored the air , with his tense , vice-like fist , in the vicinity of Richard , and even extended it almost to Richard 's nose . 
Richard shook his head , not violently , not disdainfully , but rather abstractedly , as a man who is reading does when a fly alights on his face . 
He snapped it at Richard , who moved a little in his seat . 
`` I can not say that I do , '' replied Richard . 
`` Very likely , '' he added ; `` and the taste of it would be still more disagreeable . 
`` I think you trespass on neighbors ' rights a little , '' observed Richard . 
`` I know I am , '' he rejoined ; `` I know I am ; and where was Resaca de la Palma ? 
The fist continued to exhibit its feats , and to extend its familiarities a little too near Richard 's sense of dignity . 
He laid his hand on the fist , -- his open hand , -- softly and modestly . 
He found it a hard and horny fist ; and in other respects it had a bovine suggestion ; for , like the horn of an ox , no matter how softly and modestly you grasp it , it is sure to toss , and wrench , and tear from your hand ; -- so this fist resisted the gentlest pressure ; it grew more stiff , it hunched violently upwards , grazing Richard 's nose , and hitting the forepiece of his cap , knocked it off . '' 
`` I would rather you should not do that , '' said Richard ; `` I should very much prefer that you would not repeat it . 
Richard would not go to the Arbor . 
Richard declined . 
`` I will , '' said Richard . 
`` I am ready , '' replied Richard . 
`` This is the butt , '' replied Richard . 
`` All right , '' said Richard , `` if you will take hold as far in from the other end as to make the balance good . '' 
`` You take the butt , '' said Richard , `` and I will lift where the trial shall be a fair one . '' 
Richard stated the case to them , and then repeated his offer to Clover . 
asked Richard . 
`` Then I brand you , '' said Richard , `` for a cheat , a brute , and a coward ; -- put a pin in there ! 
Mr. Gouch hopped from log to log , as if they were in the water , and he was afraid of sinking . 
Silver , in a paroxysm of astonishment and delight , let his pipe fall from his mouth . 
Some were amused ; others manifested a disposition to rally for the defence of Richard , if Clover should attack him . 
`` I applaud your spirit , Edney , '' said he , `` though you misjudge me . 
Richard might have foregone further intimacy with the man ; but the others , desirous that he should not carry matters too far , hoped he would play . 
Perhaps he wished to know more of Clover , -- for he had a good deal of humanitarian curiosity . 
He consented to the proposal . 
Clover was an experienced player , and so was Richard ; but it soon appeared the minds of both were too much occupied for that deliberation which is needful either for the display of skill or the attainment of success . 
said Richard . 
Richard nursed some questions that he wanted to put to Clover . 
And , as the loungers had left the mill , and he was sitting confidentially near him , he could not resist the opportunity of broaching what lay on his mind . 
he asked . 
asked Richard . 
I see you have a noble nature , Edney ; a nature that is not insensible even to what Silver may endure . 
Edney , you do n't know the dear , lovely , charming sense of power . '' 
I am fated to spread , -- I am fated to spread , Edney ! 
`` I may prove a Sullivan , '' replied Richard ; `` I may chase you . '' 
`` That is my look-out , '' returned Richard . 
`` I am obliged to you for this information , '' said Richard , `` and I will make good use of it . '' 
`` That is well uttered , Edney . 
He said this in a hardbreathed undertone . 
Richard brushed off the fist , and rising from his seat , said , `` No symbols are needed ; we dounderstand each other , '' and left the mill . 
Richard , we have said , had leisure during the day . 
This leisure he would turn to account ; he would look about the city . 
Richard , we need not say , loved to read ; he had read not a little for a simple , agricultural lad , and he was always glad to get new books . 
Pity he should not have them , when there is such an abundance . 
Richard had been over the world at some length , in his geographies and histories ; he had travelled with attention and with profit ; yet with his own feet and walking-stick he had measured but a few leagues of human affairs , -- the merest crumb of the great ball . 
He had never been in the business streets of Woodylin , nor in its fashionable squares . 
So he sallied forth , one sunny morning , to reconnoitre . 
The Beauty side afforded less to engage the curiosity of a country youth , like Richard , than the other . 
So he crossed the stream . 
In a rambling way , he paused to look into a precinct , known as Knuckle Lane ; -- a dismal region , the sewer of poverty , filth and wretchedness , -- a sort of Jews ' quarter , where the cast-off clothes of the city -- its old houses , old garments , old furniture , old horses -- were collected , and if not exposed for sale , were certainly exposed to everything else . 
Now , Richard 's teacher at the Village High School inculcated this doctrine among his scholars , -- that they should use in after life the knowledge they acquired at school ; and to the Geography class he particularly addressed himself , and told them that when they saw new objects , they should associate them with the places whence they came ; that if at any time they were abroad , they should recall , not only the origin , but the history and use , of what they saw . 
`` For instance , '' -- and thus he illustrated his meaning , -- `` this penknife is from England , -- you know where England is ; this silk cravat is from France . 
The tea your mother uses is from China ; vain and extravagant dressing is from a wicked heart ; '' -- he would laugh when he said this ; -- `` rum is from the Devil . '' 
So he instructed them on various points , especially holding to the main one , that they should keep their eyes open , -- ever be seeing , ever be learners , and have their minds always alive and active . 
Recollecting this principle , Richard had a great many things to think of , as he looked up Knuckle Lane . 
Thus he questioned within himself . 
Faithful to the principle just named , the first thought of Richard , when he saw the wood , was his own home . 
The oxen looked so like his own oxen , -- the wood looked so like wood he had handled , every stick of it ; -- he knew the best kinds , and all kinds . 
But the oxen ; -- there came with them , to his mind , his own barn-yard , and stable , and hay-mow ; he could have shaken the cattle heartily by the hand , every one of them . 
Then he knew their best signs , -- the broad breast , the bright color , -- and he could tell that there was a sprinkling of Durham in them , and he knew where Durham was . 
And with the barn-yard was connected , in fact , and in his mind , a little path , and then an apple-tree , and then a well-sweep , a shed , and a kitchen ; and so he crept along , till he came pat upon his old Father and Mother ; -- but he could stay there long . 
Here , Captain , '' he called to Richard ; `` you have seen cord-wood , I should say , from your looks ; you can tell what a load is , and when it 's loaded . 
`` I should think it was , '' replied Richard . 
`` I have handled wood , '' added Richard , `` and I call that well stowed . '' 
Richard was called to apply his education in a way his school-master had not provided for ; yet , after all , it was only an amplification of the general rule . 
Richard took the hint , and went on . 
He turned , without method in his route , into Lafayette-street , -- a broad street , with fine trees , fine houses , fine churches . 
With all his philosophy , it would have been difficult to pierce the mystery that lay about him now . 
He could , indeed , with his eye comprise the magnificence of the place , -- count the stories of the houses , enumerate the successive blocks ; but even to his eye , there was an inexplicable richness . 
-- that he knew . 
But the people , -- the parlors , -- the wardrobes , -- the feelings ; -- he might as well be looking at the Moon . 
He entered St. Agnes-street , where the Governor resided , and came to a halt in front of the Family mansion . 
There were the ornamented fence , the arched gateway , the deep yard planted with trees and shrubbery , the long piazza with its corinthian columns , the windows with rich caps , the heavy cornice , and the high walls of the building itself , that arrested his eye . 
Did he know what was inside ? 
He did not -- nor even who lived there . 
He saw what went in there ; he saw two ladies , with stone-marten muffs , garnet velvet sacks , and one with a blue satin hat and bird of paradise feathers . 
They turned as they mounted the steps , and cast a leisure glance around , that alighted upon Richard , and passed to other objects . 
What account should he give of these to his teacher ? 
What a distance between his home-spun and their French velvets ! 
He drew back a little , as they looked towards him , and interposing between him and them a fir-tree , made good his escape . 
He came into a quarter of uneven pavements ; he passed houses that had their basements new-furbished , and new-windowed , and let for grocery stores , while the upper stories remained dingy , brown , and dark ; the improvement of the city being rapid and great , and flinging itself in haste into such parts of a building as it could most conveniently reach . 
What life , what animation , began to spread itself before him , in the long vistas of the business streets ! 
People complained of tight times , a dull season ; -- there was no dulness , no tightness , to Richard 's eye . 
Four elegant horses , attached to an elegant van , with seats for twenty , and having a dasher as high as a barn-door , on which danced an Hungarian girl , under an arch of gilded flowers and vines , attracted his gaze . 
He saw men in buffalo coats , and scarlet leggins , and very red faces , moving to and fro rather heavily , with the chin sunk , as if in deep thought . 
There were oranges and lemons in the Fruiterer 's windows , that brought to Richard 's memory what he had learned of Sicily , Cuba , and the evergreen Tropics . 
There were golden watches and bracelets , diamond rings , pearl brooches , in the Jeweller 's , spread out in full view , on terraces of black velvet ; and Potosi came to his mind , Golconda and the Arabian Nights . 
At the Confectioner 's , glass globes of candies and lozenges , and all kinds of colored sugars , stood a-row , and there were sugar dogs , and sugar houses , and sugar everything , -- a whole microcosm of pretty ideas in sugar ; and what should he think of , -- what did he think of , but Memmy and Bebby ? 
Richard was a parvenu ; he was fresh from the country , -- this everybody saw ; the way he stared at things showed it , even if his red shirt , and snuff-colored monkey-jacket , and striped mittens , did not . 
But Richard knew where everybody came from , and he had no inquiries to make about them . 
But he did not understand the mystery of all the things he saw in the windows , and he wished the friend of his youth was there to tell him . 
At the Jeweller 's , he longed to ask the artist some questions ; but there the man sat , right behind this beautiful display of work , brushing a bit of brass , and never looking at what was before him , -- never looking at Richard , -- but very vacantly laughing and joking with an idle fellow that stood near by , with his thumbs in his breeches pockets . 
Richard was almost bursting with philosophical admiration and inquisitiveness , and the man was so stupid ! 
Richard attempted to compose them . 
One beast , frantic and fiery , broke his halter , and plunged backwards , dragging Richard after him . 
Richard was thrown to the ground , but without relinquishing his hold . 
The horse turned to run ; Richard , by a strong jerk of the rein , and a dextrous application of one foot to the flank of the animal , cast him , and had him lying quietly on his side , before the people , who rushed to his assistance , had time to be of much service . 
The daughter overflowed with thankfulness ; the Governor took , with his thumb and finger , from his vest-pocket , it might be a cent , or a dime , it was a gold piece , which he quietly dropped into one of the flaring pockets of Richard 's jacket . 
The crowd dispersed , and Richard resumed his studies . 
He reached the Booksellers ' quarter . 
An immense wooden book , suspended at the corner of the street , over the walk , caught his eye , and large pictorial advertisements on the door-posts held it fast . 
He read the advertisements ; he went from door to door , reading what was emblazoned at each , -- reading the posts from top to bottom . 
There were books by authors familiar to him , and more by those of whom he had not heard ; there were titles of books that conveyed no meaning , and some that aroused all his curiosity to know what they meant ; and others still , so full of meaning he could hardly keep from clutching the bills and running home . 
These doors of the Booksellers ' Shops , with their typographical enigmas , were mystic entrances to the enchanted palace of youthful hope and intellectual idealism , and to what he had wished to know , and to what he thought some time he might know , and to those visions his Teacher unconsciously kindled in his mind , and to things of which his Pastor spoke . 
If he could not enter this palace , he could look into it through the windows ; so he ranged along from window to window , up and down the street . 
Richard did not feel that he was denied anything , though he stood outside , and though it was cold weather ; he thought he had a feast . 
He was thankful to the kind people that put these things in the windows . 
It seemed to him that the panes of glass were very large , and very accommodating . 
He saw the backs of many beautiful books , and the inside of one great landscape book . 
He saw many more things , the nature of some of which he understood , while others puzzled him . 
On the broad shelf of one shop he saw porcelain gentlemen , in antique costume , standing very erect ; -- what they were for he did not know , but he supposed they were toys , and he knew toys came from Germany ; so Germany was in his mind . 
He saw pearl-handled penknives , and all that Teacher and books had said about Sheffield was remembered . 
There was a little marble dog , with a gold chain about its neck ; -- he did not comprehend that . 
There were boxes of toilette soap , hidden away in silvered paper ; -- here he was out , too . 
There were quantities of Valentines , to which he could get no clue whatever . 
A box of gold pencils revived his confidence . 
There were patent inkstands , and patent pickwicks , and patent table-bells ; -- good a mechanician as he might be , he was totally confused . 
Of whatever size , it was big enough for Richard . 
He had studied grammar , and he knew the apostrophe indicated the possessive case ; he saw at a glance that Nefon possessed what , to his eye , appeared so grand and magnificent ; and Nefon must be a large man . 
Yet , if he had known who stood there , and what the feelings of the young man were , and how near that young man 's feelings were like his own , he would not only have invited him , but even seized him by the collar and snatched him in , and saved him the trouble of getting in as he did ; for Richard 's heart beat smartly , -- so smartly it might have answered for a good knock , if there had been any but himself to hear it , -- and he tried the latch twice before it yielded . 
This Richard felt ; and if he wondered in the street , he was awed within the walls . 
Now , within those books , that filled the shelves on either side , and were piled on the counters , lay many of the purest and profoundest thoughts and feelings that Richard ever had , and many more which he expected to have ; and it is not strange that he gazed at the books , and forgot Nefon . 
Nor did Nefon notice Richard ; there were other persons with whom he was engaged . 
Richard had heard of great libraries ; -- of the Alexandrine library , that was burned ; of the National Library , at Paris ; -- but if all the libraries in all the world had been flung into one , and opened to his view , his emotion could not be much deeper than it was now . 
Not that Nefon had so many books , but Richard had never seen so many . 
But before he could set his eye steadily to work , his imagination must exercise itself a little ; and there passed , as in a trance , before his mind , many a rosy-colored youthful vision of books , and , as it were , a sea of literary mist , in which floated whole islands of flower-reading ; and calm , shady coves of solid intellectual progress opened in the scene . 
These things over , he could observe more literally the nature of what was about him . 
The meanest author on Nefon 's shelves was immortal in Richard 's feelings ; Richard was fame , fortune , posterity , to all of them . 
But as he gazed at these rows of books , reaching higher than his head , and extending , in shadowy files , far into the rear of the building , the pleasant sky of things became a little overcast . 
He had this feeling , -- that he knew nothing , and never should know anything . 
He had the feeling which a young and ardent author may be supposed to have , who enters a book-shop with a basket of books on his arm , to dispose of his wares , and try his fortune in the general market . 
So Richard , the admirer of all authors , -- so many an author , -- is , in a sense , killed by those authors whom Dr. Johnson summarily consigns to oblivion . 
So , we say , Richard , with these treasures , endless granaries , of wisdom , genius , art and science , before him , felt he knew nothing , and never should know anything . 
He forgot even the Circulating Library , and paper and pens ; and was half resolved to leave the premises , and go home to Memmy and Bebby , and the Green Mill . 
Richard could hardly tell how he did . 
Recollecting himself , however , he asked after a Circulating Library . 
Nefon replied that he kept one , retailed the terms , but added , it was an unprofitable part of his establishment , and , moreover , that he had been obliged to adopt the rule of not lending to strangers , -- that was , to people out of town , and to such as had no -- . 
He was at loss for a word ; he said credentials , or something of that sort . 
He meant , to irresponsible persons ; to those , in a word , who looked as Richard did . 
But Nefon was busy ; he had many customers , and many cares , and he did not regard Richard attentively . 
He had a glimpse at him , and , not thinking but that he might be a prodigal , good-fornothing fellow , like many in the city , who wanted a novel to read , he answered him as he did . 
Why did he not look into Richard 's gentle , truthful eye ? 
why did he not observe his earnest , honest face ? 
What did he see in the glimpse he had ? 
The suit which Richard 's mother had spun and wove for him , which she had bade him good-by in , and which she had thought , with a strong motherly feeling , `` None will be ashamed of my son '' in , -- that suit well-nigh ruined him with Nefon . 
Nefon will deny this ; but we will put it to him thus : Suppose Richard wore a fine linen shirt , a Cremonia doeskin paletot , and one of Bebee 's castors , -- would you have answered him as you did ? 
But Richard possessed a last resort . 
He took from his wallet a piece of paper , which , after some hesitation , he gave to Nefon . 
That paper was a sort of cosmopolitan passport for Richard , from the hands of his Pastor . 
It ran thus : -- `` This may certify that the bearer , Richard Edney by name , son of John and Mary Edney , of this town , whose birth has been duly registered in the town records , and his baptism in the records of the Church ; having arrived at man 's estate , and profited of such occasions as his native village affords , being desirous to see other places , and visit cities and towns more remote , is a member of the Church of Christ in this town , and has maintained a good walk and conversation ; that he is a lover of truth , and a friend of humanity ; is a practical agriculturist ; ingenious in the understanding of mechanics , and industrious in the fulfilment of his tasks . 
He looked at Richard , -- looked as if he had not seen him before , though he had been in the shop twenty minutes . 
He looked again ; and Richard , embarrassed and aggrieved , took the note , and turned away . 
Why had not Nefon been appointed Head Phrenological Custom-house Inspector , -- and he might have determined in a trice that Richard contained no fraud in his composition . 
We have said Nefon had a great head and a great heart , though he was a small man ; but all his greatness would have melted with kindness and run over , had he imagined how the case stood . 
He will not do so again . 
He did offer his library to Richard ; he asked him after his business , and where he lived , and said he should be glad to see him again . 
Richard took a book , and left the shop ; but he could not go home and face the children with empty hands . 
So he got candy and toys , as a sort of ammunition with which to encounter the onset of their affections . 
Saturdaynight the Mills did not run , and Richard enjoyed a regular sleep . 
Sunday he went to Church ; he went with his brother 's family . 
He wore his strong surtout , and his warm red shirt . 
He had cotton shirts , but at this season of the year he did not like to risk a change , and at home he always wore such a shirt to Church in winter . 
In the afternoon he said he would like to go to another Church ; he named Dr. Broadwell 's . 
`` That is aristocratic , '' replied his sister , `` and your shirt will not be tolerated there . '' 
`` I might sit in a back pew , '' added Richard . 
`` I would be as good as anybody , '' rejoined his sister , `` or I would not go at all . '' 
`` Well , Richard , '' -- so his sister appealed to him , -- `` if you will drag the truth out of me , and excruciate me to tell the whole , Mrs. Tunny , the grocer 's wife , goes to Dr. Broadwell 's , and she has invited us to her house , and I should not like to have her see you at Church in such trim . '' 
`` The city is not the country , Richard , and you can not do here as you do there . 
`` I will compromise matters , '' replied Richard ; `` I will not go to Elder Jabson 's , for , in fact , I am not accustomed to such a service , nor such discourse . 
Richard joined the currents of people that came from every direction , and went in every direction , -- as if nobody wished to have it known where he was going , as if everybody was in pursuit of something which he would hide from everybody ; -- up this street and down it , plunging into that lane and coming out of it , avoiding one another on the crossings , plumping into one another round the corners , disappearing in large doors where nobody else went ; -- as if heaven was a gold mine , of which each one had had a dream , and snugging the dream in his own thought , he followed its secret intimation ; or as if religion were a game of hide and coop , which the whole city was out playing ; and presently you would see these people , joyous and loving , rushing from their retreats to some central spot of Christian feeling ! 
Richard , with no intelligent bent of his own , except to keep clear of Dr. Broadwell 's and Elder Jabson 's , adhered to a bevy of people in which he happened to find himself , and in their wake entered the first Church he came to . 
He had found his heaven of enlarged , humane , allencircling sentiment ; and he was stirred with great kindness and brotherliness towards Richard , and took him cordially by the hand . 
`` Show me a back seat , -- the negro 's seat , if you have one , '' said Richard . 
`` Come with me , '' replied the Bookseller , in a quick but significant way he had , meaning more than he said ; and most likely haunted by the recollection of his former dereliction , he led Richard to his own pew , which was as conspicuous as any in the Church . 
Richard could not have appeared to better advantage in Nefon 's eye than he did , with his cap off , in meeting , that afternoon . 
We speak not now of how he appeared to the Omniscient eye , or to the eye of the simple Spirit of Truth . 
But Nefon saw that his manner was devout and earnest , his expression spiritual and intellectual , and that in worship and instruction his heart was engaged . 
He saw , moreover , that in the distribution of the sacred elements ; Richard was a recipient and he was touched , Nefon was , and he loved Richard more than ever . 
Nefon saw no more of Richard 's red shirt ; it had disappeared utterly , -- the flame of his virtues burned and consumed it . 
We will not say Richard stood naked before Nefon ; rather he appeared in the glory and the amiability with which Christ clothes his disciples . 
Nefon remembered Richard after this ; not that he had entirely forgotten him since he saw him in his shop , but he had thought of him by inch-meal and flittingly . 
Now he appeared to him more as an incarnate , well-favored tangibility . 
`` Children are eloquent , -- so Pastor Harold says , '' interposed Richard , `` for the Scripture declares ` out of the mouths of babes and sucklings Thou hast ordained praise . ' 
There was a point in which Munk was lame , -- at least , his wife and Richard both thought so . 
Richard replied , quoting Pastor Harold , that the use of horses on the Sabbath should be confined to occasions of necessity and mercy . 
Richard observed there were ample woods , the margin of streams , and pleasant roads , where they could walk . 
Richard asked if they did not go to taverns in the neighborhood , and squander the sacred hours in dissipation . 
`` Even , '' he continued , `` has not Clover had one of your horses to-day for such a purpose ? '' 
Richard , meanwhile , went to visit the Orphans at Whichcomb 's . 
Here he found a lady to whom he was introduced as Miss Dennington , daughter of the Governor 's . 
`` You achieved a great deed in the street , the other day , '' said Junia to Richard . 
`` I did not know who it was in the sleigh , '' replied Richard . 
`` I should have been , '' he replied , `` but that my mother , probably anticipating some accident to her son , had encased his flesh in stout wrappages . '' 
Mrs. Whichcomb was complaisant and deferential in presence of Miss Dennington , and she forebore her gibes and quirks with Richard . 
And when she saw Melicent and our friend freely conversing together , she even went so far as to commend Richard to her ear . 
Melicent , with an ill-suppressed smile , said to Richard , `` Is Asa Munk 's related to you ? '' 
`` Mr. Munk is my brother-in-law , '' replied Richard . 
`` I found it , '' he answered , `` the night I came to Woodylin . '' 
`` And you of the party that was frightened by a drunken man , '' he rejoined . 
`` You must be Transcendentalists , if I understand Pastor Harold 's account of that thing , '' said Richard . 
Richard said he had not ; that he did not know of them . 
Richard queried . 
Richard answered that he was there this afternoon . 
Richard replied that he had only done what he felt to be his duty . 
Melicent commended his generosity , and hoped he would persevere in the practice of usefulness , and ever maintain those principles of virtue which he seemed to have adopted . 
Richard left with a new impression in his heart , -- that light-spirited , lyrical impression , which the approbation of a refined , high-bred , religious woman is fitted to produce . 
At the foot of the stairs he met Miss Eyre , who drew him into the parlor , and seated herself near him . 
She looked at him tenderly and beseechingly . 
Richard replied that he could , though clearly he did not know as an answer was expected . 
`` Certainly , '' said Richard ; `` I am your friend . '' 
With her face towards him , she slowly retreated . 
`` Of course , '' rejoined Richard , `` I am your friend . '' 
The pleasant impression which Melicent had left in his soul was not effaced by this rencontre with Miss Eyre ; albeit a slight confusion of thought was thereby engendered ; but not sufficient to prevent the calm serenity of the setting Sabbath sun exerting its full effect , or to darken the many-tinted , lustrous dew-drops that glittered through the green wood of his sensibilities . 
That affair was like a high suspension-bridge over a dark gulf ; but he crossed it rapidly , and was soon on the safe side of his home . 
And here he was very happy ; not happier , indeed , than when he went away ; but it seemed as if the lamp of his feelings had been turned up a little , and he gave a little stronger light ; or this may have been the mere reflection of the light and happiness that was about him ; for his sister was more heartsome , the children more blithe , and Munk was always sunshine . 
Richard and Munk were of course in their glory , for their countenances seemed to say , `` See there ! 
Memmy whispered something to Uncle Richard , as if he was her Prime Minister ; and Bebby likewise sought his ear , and mummed at it ; then she retreated , and came back again , and mummed some more ; and there were additional peals of laughter . 
Uncle Richard got the singing-books , and they sang psalm-tunes ; and Memmy and Bebby sang too , -- and did n't their singing attract more attention than all the rest ? 
Come , Uncle Richard , help us to some more music . '' 
Richard prayed , and they parted . 
Thereis one point which , as faithful historian of Richard , and his times and place , we shall be obliged to mention . 
The newspapers espoused one doctrine or the other ; and when Richard came to the place , there were two dailies , discriminated according to the sentiment of the times . 
We repeat that Phumbics , except at brief periods , was not an absorbing theme , save with those who made it a profession and trade ; and at the time Richard came to the city , the excitement had materially exhausted itself . 
Munk and his wife and Richard went . 
Richard fairly struck his high colors to the persuasions of his sister , and ran up instead a white collar and bosompiece . 
Mrs. Tunny curtsied to Richard so stiffly , so amazingly , it embarrassed the bow he was executing , and converted it into a horried bungle . 
Richard himself blushed ; and his sister , who was truly proud of him , -- proud of his fine figure , and fine face , and proud too , I must say , in justice to her , of his noble heart , -- blushed also . 
And by the time he had finished Tunny , and got through with Faustina , he was in a truly shocking state . 
He lost his rudder , his feet , foundered on his hands ; and made for a blank place on the wall , as a haven , like a vessel in distress . 
how could you exert your art to reassure Richard so ? 
How could you take advantage of that moment to show him that you did not mind his awkwardness , but only regarded himself , so ? 
And when you got him to face the room , right in the midst of the lights , right in the midst of the Milliner 's and Fancy Goods Dealer 's , there stood Clover , with the fingers of one hand thrust in his vest , and dispensing perfume with a bouquet of flowers in the other , -- so cool , so steady , so strut , and with a snake-like eye , looking down on Richard so triumphantly ; -- and you knew it all , -- how could you do so ? 
And so Richard thought ; at least , you laid the seeds of that thought in his memory , which was to spring up by-and-by . 
And there was Mrs. Xyphers , with whom Clover was talking ; and when Richard would have exchanged with her the compliments of the evening , you even drew him back ; you pouted , in a quiet , but stealing , very stealing manner , your pretty lips , and Richard only half did what he set out to do . 
Then you had him all to yourself ; and you were so amiable , so round-cornered , so genteel , -- what did you mean ? 
Would you make Richard love you ? 
Let me tell you , Plumy Alicia , Richard could not love you ; -- I mean , the depths , the teeming crypts , the abeyant longings of his nature , you could not thrill ; -- and I believe you knew it . 
Her face was comely , but not handsome ; her eye was small and retreating , but expressive of great earnestness , thought and animation ; so much so that Richard looked at her twice . 
At Richard 's request , she presented him , and he took his seat by the stranger . 
If Richard had been flurried by Miss Tunny , and ravished by Miss Eyre , he was quite restored by Miss Freeling . 
The thought of spring , when it did come , gave to Miss Freeling the same sort of halcyon , saltatory , juvenescent feeling that Richard had , and this made them seem like old friends . 
Now , this angel-man was Richard , and this , of course , transformed them into the very best of friends . 
But if she had known a deal more , -- if she had known whether Pope was a poet , or where Captain Kidd hid his money , or who the man in the Iron Mask was , -- she would have been obliged to stop ; for every one in the room stopped , and Richard turned his head , and she turned her head , to see Mrs. Tunny advance to receive Dr. Broadwell . 
Yes , that lady advanced several steps , when that venerable form was seen entering the door , having on his arm one of his daughters . 
`` I am not expert in the rules of good society , '' replied Richard . 
`` The disdain of the woman is more reprehensible than her want of manners , '' added Richard . 
`` Yet , '' replied Richard , `` I should prefer Aunt Grint to Mrs. Tunny . '' 
`` Is there not good sense , '' asked Richard , `` among the lower orders as in the higher ? '' 
Dr. Broadwell , who was exchanging a word with those he knew , recognizing Richard , took him cordially by the hand , presented his daughter , and inquired after the Orphans . 
Ada deeply commiserated those unfortunate ones , and was pleased to know that Richard had so kindly befriended them . 
These attentions of the Doctor were the signal for attack from other quarters , and several persons shot at Richard . 
Mrs. Tunny bestowed herself upon him , and thrust Faustina into his face and eyes , adding Tunny gratis . 
Captain Creamer , though having some scores against Richard , was more complaisant than usual , and rejoiced Richard could have a taste of good society . 
It was a fine thing , he said , for our young men to imbibe a little polish as they were coming on to the public stage . 
A pair of stern eyes , under a beetling brow , capped by a short tuft of thick hair , were seen working their way up over the shoulders of Captain Creamer , and scowling at Richard . 
`` I think , '' said he , `` that our young men , and all other young men , had better attend to their own business . '' 
Richard , perceiving the misunderstanding , said , `` The gentleman does not refer to you , Sir . 
Scenes of this description were of too common occurrence either to engage curiosity or excite alarm , and Richard was glad to make his escape . 
Threading his way through a dædalian intricacy of cords and starch , where his breathing was impeded by a dense vapor of cologne , he encountered Miss Eyre . 
She put her arm into his , and drew him towards the hall . 
He went with her to the upper entry , and she conducted him to a sort of recess that overhung the stairs leading to the rear of the house , and motioned him to listen . 
`` Edney is out of the way , '' so Clover was heard to say . 
`` I vanquished him to-night ; he knows he is a fool , and he can not recover . '' 
Miss Eyre clasped both hands on Richard 's arm . 
His name is his nature ; he is nought , and the additional sonly doubles his emptiness . '' 
`` Xyphers is something , '' replied Clover ; `` his nothingness is something , or he would not be game . 
Then he was interested in you , and that shows that you are an interesting woman , and that you deserve protection ; and I should be false to my own honor , if I did not rescue you from such imbecility . 
Miss Eyre took one of Richard 's hands in both of hers . 
Miss Eyre throbbed on the breast of Richard . 
Miss Eyre , releasing herself from Richard , said , `` Do not remain here ; go to the drawing-room . 
Richard went down . 
Among the loiterers were Richard and Miss Freeling . 
Now Richard longed to ask Miss Freeling , `` Do you know Miss Eyre ? 
-- but he knew more about her than Miss Freeling did , and he had come by his knowledge in so confidential and secret a way , and it was so sacred a matter withal , he did not dare to put the question . 
Miss Freeling , taking up the subject very nearly where it lay in Richard 's mind , said , `` Miss Eyre seems to have been born out of her place . 
Richard was oppressed ; he knew too much , and he knew too little , to say anything , and he kept silence . 
Besides , Plumy Alicia turned to him so smiling , sad indeed , but so grateful and azure a face , that what he would like to have said was snatched from his tongue 's end . 
She introduced Richard to Mr. Cosgrove , and he liked his new acquaintance very well . 
Mr. Cosgrove squired Miss Freeling ; Richard , seeing Miss Eyre standing alone and aloof , offered his arm . 
So Richard proceeded alone to the rendezvous of attraction . 
Mr. Cosgrove handed Richard a glass of water , which he drank . 
Clover , a violent Phumbician , approached ; he had one arm devoted to Mrs. Xyphers , the other he presented to the attention of Richard , giving it the fisticuff form and the snapping motion in which the expert delighted to display itself . 
Richard laid hold of the arm , and lowered it , and held it down ; and Clover could not raise it . 
It was Clover 's left arm , and Richard used his right . 
`` There is its place , '' said Richard ; `` and this is mine . '' 
`` Water , '' said the little male , answering the call of his spouse , in a thin , child-like voice , -- `` water is wholesome , it is respectable ; I am for water , myself , -LSB- a hiss , -RSB- but I would not make it an absorbing topic ; we are in danger of getting one idea on the subject ; I should say half an idea was better ! 
Miss Eyre contrived , as young ladies always will contrive when they undertake it , that Richard should beau her home . 
But she was considerate ; she did not distress him . 
Meanwhile , Richard , backed by some friends , mounted the dais , and while Clover was adjusting himself to the undertaking of despatching the lecturer at a single swallow , he swung his cap , and shouted , `` Great is Truth ! '' 
But Clover , not a little incensed , darting his skinny eye at Richard , said , `` Who are you , that dares cross the path of Might ? 
`` I am Richard Edney , '' replied the other . 
`` I am what I am , '' replied Richard ; `` and if you do not know what that is already , you may know by and by . '' 
To give piquancy to his words , Clover let loose his fist , which had long fretted in the leash , at Richard , and dealt him a violent blow in the face . 
Richard reeled , and put his hand to his face , as if he would feel whether it was there or not . 
His friends hastened to him , but he shook them off . 
His blood was up , -- it was up very high for him . 
He turned towards Clover , both of whose fists were levelled at him ; he leaped upon these fists , as one would upon a long lever under a mired wagon-wheel ; he clenched one in one hand , the other in the other , and sought to lower them . 
He bent them down , though they were refractory as an elephant 's tusk . 
He straightened them out carefully and squarely on Clover 's thighs ; then he crossed them on Clover 's back ; and Clover could not stop him . 
He writhed , and throbbed , and fumed , but to no purpose ; and though every nerve in his body had been wrought of Damascus steel , it would not have availed him ; and Richard embraced Clover , giving him , in rural phraseology , a bear 's hug . 
Richard and Clover left the Hall together . 
Richard drew Clover 's arm into his , and they went towards their homes , both of which lay in the Beauty of Woodylin . 
OneSunday evening , Richard went , with Aunt Grint and his sister , to Elder Jabson 's meeting , in a neighboring School-house . 
The chorister was gone , but Richard , knowing the tune , and loving the words , led off ; and he threw such life and unction into the singing as never was seen before . 
It was as if tuttihad been written on his understanding and his spirit , his lips and his eyes ; and his throat was equal to any tuba mirabilisthat was ever invented . 
Richard , thereupon , spoke , and said : -- `` We will pray for our brother ; we will help him to a confirmation of his wishes , and a renewal of his assurance . 
The Elder here reminded Richard that this was a religious meeting , and that he should not digress into other topics . 
Richard replied , that it was only of what had a supreme religious bearing that he wished to speak , and continued : -- `` The trouble seems to be that we get religious feeling without acquiring evangelical principle . 
After the meeting , several of the people spoke with Richard . 
One said he had hit the nail on the head ; another , that he had driven it home ; a third thought he had clenched it ; a fourth hoped he would bring some more nails . 
`` Our Richard , '' replied Aunt Grint , `` has really got waked up . '' 
`` I am usually awake at proper times , '' observed Richard ; `` and I sleep my eight hours every day . 
`` Your Bible , '' answered Richard , `` would correct these superstitious fears , and lead you to a constant , unfaltering , filial faith in God . '' 
Richard knew but little of him . 
His disease was malignant erysipelas , a fearful form of St. Anthony 's fire . 
He addressed Richard . 
But Captain Creamer interfered ; he thought it was flinging away a valuable life on a worthless one . 
Mr. Gouch opposed even his tears to the idea , and said , with extreme emotion , that he should never see Richard again . 
Silver , who had become strongly attached to Richard , planted a picaroon in his collar , and declared he should not go . 
But somebody must go ; and the city would remunerate Captain Creamer for the loss of Richard 's time , and also give Richard such compensation as was just . 
So Richard went . 
`` O God , '' he said , `` spare my life , if it pleases thee ; but if thou takest it , let it be in the service of my fellow-men ! '' 
He reached what , under the circumstances , was a dreary place , and one sufficiently revolting . 
He was past consciousness when Richard arrived ; his head was swollen to a preternatural size ; his features had all disappeared , and were submerged in a chaos of whatever is most shocking in the ravages or the deformities of disease . 
Richard found this fellow sitting on a block before the fire , nursing his ears with his fists . 
He did not rise when Richard entered , -- he did not speak ; he only gave a sort of hunch with his head . 
His dark visage -- dark with hair , and beard , and grime -- was freaked by that dull redness which intemperance and exposure impart ; and intermixed with this were traces of a huffy despair , -- a state to which we might suppose a human heart , uninfluenced by refined affection , unenlightened by religious truth , would arrive . 
And he swore at Richard in the first reply he made to him , when he asked what he should do ; and he damned Bill , soul and body , to hell ; yet , if we shall be permitted to say so , he loved Bill . 
What should Richard do ? 
Richard thought cold water would be a better lotion , and said as much to Chuk ; who , having first sent Richard to eternal perdition for intimating anything of the sort , took a pail , and descending to a hole in the ice , filled it , and brought it to Richard . 
He was a quiet man , of few words , but gifted with pleasant manners , great professional fidelity , and much flavor of gentle feelings . 
His replies extinguished expectation , and provided for a speedy termination of the sickness ; Bill could not live twenty-four hours longer . 
Richard ventured to expostulate with him ; but it was like spitting against the wind , -- rather like raising sail in a hurricane . 
Richard was left alone with that sick man , and that Boy , in that room , for the night . 
He needed no candle , for the resinous stuff that Chuk provided emitted an illumination quite sufficient . 
Richard 's employment was wringing out the rags afresh in the water , whenever they became hot ; and this was very often . 
He could hardly pray for mercy on the soul before him , -- he could commend that soul to the Infinite Mercy . 
The eastern sky was bland , prismatic , reviving ; and the sun came into the room with warmth and peace , if not healing , in its beams , and Richard was tempted to the window . 
Richard drew up to the rude table . 
Chuk poured out the coffee , and handed him the sugar and milk ; and while Richard was eating , the boy tended his master , and chowtered about the room . 
`` There is not a boom on the river like that , '' he said , `` and there 'll never be another ; for Bill will be dead , and in the lake , where no timber grows . 
Richard had been to the Lakes ; he had hauled timber to the head-waters of the stream ; he had once , in a stress , helped `` drive the River , '' as the idiom is , and knew about the catching of logs in booms ; and he understood a little of the Boy 's feelings , and truly commiserated him , and tried to cheer his heart . 
But Chuk would listen to nothing , -- he would be persuaded by nothing . 
Mysie entered the room ; and as Chuk did not tell Richard about her , and as Richard , when he afterwards knew her , was interested in her , we will venture a word or two for her . 
Richard went to the door to answer the inquiries of the ladies . 
He thought Barbara was Melicent , and spoke to her as a friend , and extended his hand to her ; but she did not know him , and her manner showed that she did not . 
They had brought cordials , and fruit , and rolls of linen ; but , except as to the last , they were too late , Richard replied . 
Richard feared she was exposing herself ; but she would do it . 
Richard beheld her , shall we say , with astonishment . 
And there were other reasons why Richard should regard her with interest : the Lady Caroline was a noble woman to look to ; she completed the idea of what is called an elegant woman ; and she exceeded it , in that she added thereto great beauty of spirit , and the charms of religious self-denial . 
Ada talked with Richard ; she ventured to say the room seemed lacking in comforts and care . 
`` Bill could n't live anywhere else , '' he said ; `` and you want to bring in your handyjingledoms here , and kill him before his time ! 
He swore himself into a sort of blubbering yex , and brayed his eyes with his fingers , as if he was angry with them for their ability to see , and would grind them to powder . 
Richard was not detained in that place a great while . 
Cloverhad been fairly beaten at the Anti-Slavery Meeting , but he knew his antagonist was an honorable one ; nay , he thought that Richard , like one having got a large advantage , might be disposed to make some deduction ; and he was sure he was rich enough in spoils to offer a handsome present . 
Of course , Richard could not ; it would give him compunction to refuse Clover even a larger favor . 
And Clover and Richard entered it very quietly ; and the Friend of the People -- the man of the timid eye and a small hacking cough -- was very quiet behind the bar ; very quiet in pouring out liquors , very quiet in stirring the glasses . 
There were young men , and some gray-headed men , and , as well as the dim light and clouds of tobaccosmoke would allow him to ascertain , there were some whom Richard knew . 
But Richard , participating in the spirit of the place , was quiet also , and said nothing . 
Helskill 's whole soul seemed to start out from under his heavy eyebrows , and to shrink into a most fearful glance at Richard , and finally to be cracked off in a quick short cough , as he saw him advance . 
Clover led Richard through this room , towards another , which he gave him to understand was the Grotto . 
When Helskill saw Richard approaching that door , he hacked three or four times in rapid succession , but Clover winked him into silence . 
Capt. Creamer was there ; he did not hack when he saw Richard , -- he put his hand to his eye , as if he would correct his vision , -- as if he was not right at first . 
But he was right ; it was Richard , his slip-tender . 
Dropping his finger to his lips , he kissed it to Richard ; and jumping up , he seized him both by the hand and the shoulder , and leading him forward with a double gripe of honor , introduced him to young Chassford , son of Dr. Chassford , and Glendar , nephew of Mrs. Melbourne . 
`` I do not play , '' replied Richard , affecting a pun ; `` I take it more seriously . '' 
The Captain , pretending to understand him , laughed very hard , while Richard quietly ensconced himself in a seat by the wall . 
Tunny was there , and so was the Sailmaker ; and these were playing against each other , and so thoughtful of their sport , they did not notice Richard . 
Yes , Tunny was there , and he knew he was there ; even if Mrs. Tunny did n't know it , and Dr. Broadwell did n't know it , he knew it , and felt it . 
Richard saw another man there , whom he had also seen about the Saw-mill , and who he knew had a young wife and small children to support , and who , he was well assured , had better be anywhere else . 
`` You were at Tunny 's the other night , '' said the Captain to Richard . 
`` A pleasant party ; it takes some of our young men from the country a good while to get the hay-seed out of their hair ; but no one would imagine , Edney , you had ever seen a barn . 
Richard replied that they were all alike to him . 
In fact , Richard was not only ignorant of cards , but so unconscious of the pleasure of gaming , that he quite abruptly rose to leave the room . 
On his way out , he looked at Tunny , and tapped him on the shoulder . 
O that he had Klumpp 's eye ! 
-- but he had n't . 
Yet he had an eye , that operated on Tunny worse than his internal gripes ; and as if he was as thin as some of our newspapers , that look seemed to annihilate what there was left of him . 
The Sailmaker resented this interference , but Richard had no controversy with the Sailmaker . 
Tunny revived sufficiently to whisper in Richard 's ear , `` Do n't tell Mrs. Tunny . '' 
Richard passed on to Cornelius Wheelan , and did not tap him , for he was a stronger man , but thumped him on the back . 
He drew upon Richard ; but Richard whispered something in his ear , -- something of his wife and children , we guess , -- and he was still . 
Interlocking with him , Richard led him from the room . 
When he reached the other apartment , he found the calmness somewhat broken ; and the Friend of the People , when he saw Richard , and knowing how he loved quietness , and fearing that the pleasure of his visit might be marred , said , `` Let us be quiet , friends . '' 
These were the very words he said . 
But Richard manifested no uneasiness ; only , clinging to Cornelius , and followed by Clover , he left the Arbor . 
But Richard went on , arm in arm with Cornelius ; and Clover himself returned . 
Was Clover disappointed in Richard ? 
Did he not understand him ? 
Did he suppose he would game , or that he was game ? 
If he did , he was very stupid . 
Richard went with Cornelius to his own home . 
It was now near midnight ; but there sat his wife waiting for him -- there were his children in bed sleeping for him . 
The icicles that form on the fall of the Dam , -- glacial stalactites , a columnar veil extending nearly the whole length of the structure , -- these Richard saw give way and tumble into the stream . 
Richard saw the first ice flake over the Dam ; then an immense sheet , many rods square , parting in regular sections , like snow sliding from the roof of a house , came on . 
Where was Richard ? 
Where he ought to be , -- helping Mr. Gouch , who lived on the shore , save his furniture . 
Now , quicker than this pen can move , Richard was there , and Munk , and Silver , and the gang that had been relieving distress elsewhere , and they dashed into the water and rescued the Governor . 
Now , also , since the suspense is ended , and we can speak of it , it will be expected we should say that Richard was the first to leap in after the Governor ; that in his young and athletic arms he grasped the bruised and exhausted magnate , and bore him to dry land . 
Poetical justice to Richard , and to the Governor 's Family , and to the whole scope of this book , and to the hearts of its million , polyglottal , deeply interested readers , requires this . 
Well , it is so : fact coincides with fancy , and Richard , who , by the way , was a very accommodating youth , did just what poetic justice and all our readers would wish him to do . 
To Richard this scene was new , and he sat at the backdoor of the Mill looking at it . 
Now Chassford and Glendar had seen Richard a few nights before , but they did not remember him . 
The Denningtons remembered him well , and talked with him . 
The River repeated its wonders every year , but the beauty and the grandeur of the scene were continually revealing a new shape to the minds of these ladies , and awakening fresh transports of delight ; and while the whole was comparatively novel to Richard , they could meet him quite half way in the enthusiasm of the hour . 
Glendar dipped in his oar , and rowed with the ladies a while ; finally , so to speak , he got them into his own boat , and rowed in another direction . 
Richard , with his pocket-knife , was carving toys , out of a piece of pine , for Memmy and Bebby . 
So he kept at his work , and let his boat run whither it list . 
He tried to talk with Alice Weymouth , but she blushed deeply , and said little . 
She was a black-eyed girl , about twelve years old , with a quick , sensitive face ; and every time Richard looked at her , she half laughed and wholly blushed ; and , clinging to Aunt Barbara 's hand , she seemed quite unable to support conversation . 
Melicent did ask what Richard was making , and he told her ; and she even dropped a question or two about the children , and he could have answered a folio volume . 
But she was polite , and he was polite ; and she had other friends to listen to , and he had no wish to inflict the children upon her . 
Barbara asked Richard if he had seen the Boy , Chuk , since Bill Stonners ' death . 
So would Richard and Melicent ; and so would Chassford and Glendar . 
Rasle ran everywhere ; but little Alice Weymouth kept in the rear , and little though she was , she seemed to be laboring with a mighty large arrision all the way up ; and every time she looked at Richard , she laughed the more ; but all to herself , all within her own thoughts . 
What was there in Richard so provoking , or so titillating ? 
He wore his red shirt , and snuff-colored monkey-jacket , and had mounted a new Rough and Ready glazed hat ; but these she ought not to laugh at . 
They had to cross a small brook ; and while Chassford and Glendar were attending to the ladies , Richard would have helped her over ; but she shrank from him , -- she seemed to feel as bad to have him touch her as Tunny did to have him look at him . 
They found Chuk in trouble ; his guys had parted , and his boom-sticks were broken . 
Richard promised to help repair the disaster when the water fell . 
The Boy flung his pole into the stream , and himself on a rock , and acted quite desperately . 
`` You a n't Bill , '' said he , `` and you need n't try to be ! 
Melicent told him not to feel so bad . 
But he would feel so bad ; that was his prerogative , -- it was his duty . 
Mysie brought back the pole , which she went along the shore and rescued , and gave it to him . 
The road to the Point went by Munk 's ; and when the party returned , the children , who had probably already espied them from the kitchen window , stood on the front door-step , jiggling , and hooting , and clapping their hands ; and before Richard could get to them , Bebby had backed half way down the steps . 
`` It is nothing , '' she said , `` only I saw Richard Edney . '' 
`` He did n't hurt you , did he ? '' 
`` I was only thinking , '' replied the child , `` it was he that scared us so on the Bridge , that he was the one that stopped the horse when Aunt Melicent like to have been run away with , and that he dragged Grandpa out of the water last night . 
`` How did he look ? '' 
`` He is real good-looking , '' replied the child . 
`` He has an intelligent look , and a noble bearing , '' observed Barbara . 
`` He looks the same as anybody looks , out of his eyes , '' added Rasle , who had the reputation of being a smart boy . 
`` I do not know how he looks , '' said the Governor , `` but he carries a pair of stout arms . 
`` It was so funny , '' pursued Alice Weymouth , `` to see him talking with Aunt Melicent and Aunt Barbara , and to see him try to help them over the brook , with his queer hat on , and his red shirt ! '' 
`` This Richard Edney , '' said Madam , `` must be a good youth , '' -- here she laid down her knife , unconsciously , -- `` a very good youth , '' -- her fork dropped , -- `` and you should not laugh at goodness , Alice Weymouth ; nor you , Rasle . '' 
So fared Richard in the Governor 's Family , to-day . 
If we wish to run a further parallel between the heroic elements of our book , we should say , that at the precise instant Melicent and Barbara were setting back the table in their dining-room , Richard was helping his sister , Roxy , with the same office in her kitchen , and that the two tables struck the wall together . 
As Richard returned from the Mill at night , Clover walked on with him . 
Richard made no reply . 
Richard was more thoughtful than usual after tea that night . 
The children were rampant as ever , but he did not seem to notice them . 
He had been in the habit of rocking Bebby to sleep in his arms . 
She climbed into his lap , -- she lay on one shoulder , then tried the other ; nothing suited her . 
She pointed to his pocket for his handkerchief , with which he sometimes cushioned her head ; then she pointed to the mantel-piece for the match-box , which she was wont to go to sleep upon , holding it in her hands ; but he did not attend to her ; -- she pulled his lips for him to tell her a story ; he did not answer ; then she cried . 
But Richard kept on thinking . 
Munk was smoking and reading , his sister was sewing , and he thought . 
His thoughts went down into the neighborhood of his feelings , and his feelings , like fishes about a ship , kept edging about his thoughts . 
He feared Chassford and Glendar were bad men . 
He believed the Governor 's daughters were the best of human beings . 
At least , if he never imagined so much before , it seemed to him so now . 
Set off against bad men , they appeared to him good , very good indeed . 
The contrast brought them into strong relief , -- their goodness took a most palpable , glorious form to his eye . 
And this got down into his heart as a sort of divine impression , -- a something that stirred his deepest reverence , -- and he could almost worship it . 
At the same hour , while Richard sat by the stove at Munk 's in a sort of brown study , Chassford and Glendar were making a call at the Governor 's . 
`` That fellow , '' said Glendar , alluding to Richard , `` has an off-hand way , rather uncommon among his class . '' 
Notmany days afterwards , Richard might have been seen , at mid-evening , in close conference with Nefon at the store of the latter . 
Only this we are prepared to say , -- that Nefon was a great friend of Temperance , and so was Richard ; and they had often spoken together of the increase of drunkenness , and the means of quenching that evil . 
While Richard waited on the walk , Nefon ascended to the Hall , and in a few minutes returned with a half-dozen sturdy Brothers , in their white collars , including also a W. P. , with his scarlet ensigns . 
Richard led them forthwith to the Pebbles , on the shore of which Quiet Arbor was snugly located . 
Leaving his accomplices at the door , he entered this sanctuary alone . 
Waving ceremony , he abruptly accosted the obliging but modest head of the establishment in these words : -- `` You are the Friend of the People ? '' 
said he , interrogatively . 
Richard opened the door , and the six Brothers approached . 
`` These are the Friends of the People , '' he said . 
If another flood had made a sudden onslaught on his bottles , Helskill could not have been more alarmed ; but he was more than alarmed , -- he was incensed ; he set his teeth , and he set his eyes , so that they did not play up and down , but looked straight forwards . 
Richard proceeded with his plot . 
He addressed those men : `` Ye are slaves , '' said he ; `` slaves to your appetites and habits , -- slaves to this spot and this hour , -- slaves to sin and shame ! 
`` Mr. Nefon , '' said Richard , `` pass the pen and ink . '' 
The Tapster could not so far overcome his friendly feelings as not to favor the man in this his last request . 
Emptying the glass to the dregs , and sweeping his lips with his hand , this man advanced to the table and wrote his name . 
`` Drunk or sober , it makes no difference , '' replied Richard . 
These Liberators , with their captives to freedom , departed , and Richard and Nefon were left alone with the Keeper of the Arbor . 
Now Nefon was tart -- tarter than Richard ; and he longed to rub the dram-monger 's ears a bit , just in an easy way ; and he could not forbear a little pleasantry , even if there was a needle at the point of it . 
So he said , `` Your Arbor will be very quiet now , -- still as a nether mill-stone ; and you will have nothing to do but whirl round on it , and grind out your meditations at your leisure . '' 
He had better not have said this , for it made Helskill mad , very mad ; and it did no good . 
Richard tried the door that led to that apartment , but Helskill sprang forward and locked it ; and Chuk-like , he would see them , and himself , and the whole premises , in the ashes of perdition , before they should go in . 
`` There is a private entrance , '' said Richard , `` and we will find it . '' 
The little Bookseller might have been frightened , but he was not . 
`` We are in for a job , '' said he , `` and for a broken head , for all I know . 
`` I am indebted to you , Sir , '' Richard said , addressing the Captain ; `` you gave me occupation when I was a stranger in the place . 
`` I do not mind that , '' replied Richard ; `` but you must give up Tunny . '' 
`` I am between you and Tunny ; and I am alive , and tolerably well , '' rejoined Richard . 
`` Tunny , '' he added , `` go home . '' 
Richard elbowed him off . 
`` Go home , Tunny , '' he repeated , in a still louder voice . 
Richard and Nefon supported Tunny to his house . 
The Sailmaker sought to be as good as his word . 
He came to the Mill and detained Richard one noon after the bell had rung the others to dinner . 
he said . 
`` I will give it , '' replied Richard ; `` what shall it be ? '' 
he answered , with an emphasis of pathos and frenzy . 
`` Not so bad as that , I hope , '' rejoined Richard . 
`` Very well , '' answered Richard , `` and prepare yourself to meet an antagonism that comes with weapons not carnal , but spiritual . '' 
He drew a dirk , which he might have done mischief with ; but Richard took it from him , and breaking the blade , threw the fragments into the wheel-pit . 
`` You do not know , '' said he , `` what I have endured . 
Richard replied , `` My friend , I think I understand you , -- I believe I know to what you refer , and I may be deeper in the secret of your affairs than you are yourself . '' 
`` Well , let me tell you , '' continued Richard , `` that was not owing to your birth or vocation , but to your habits . '' 
`` That may be , '' responded Richard ; `` but Faustina never said so , did she ? '' 
`` There may be , '' said Richard , `` for all that I know . 
Richard was at work in the Mill when these things took place . 
Richard , cant-dog in hand , would now and then go to the door and look at the logs , and exchange a syllable with his new acquaintance . 
But Captain Creamer , who , however he might behave at the Grotto , was , reasonably , master on his own premises , deemed Richard too young to have much to do with the ladies , kept him engaged in fresh tasks , and , as if he himself was of an age when such conversation would be harmless , he monopolized it altogether . 
Of course , Richard and all hands were afloat , as well as Chuk 's boom . 
Munk had employment for Richard at the stable ; in fact , his brother-in-law could be of real use to him . 
We can only say , the weather was pleasant ; the roads were good ; the grass was green ; the birds were songful ; and Uncle Richard never was happier , nor the children either . 
Sometimes Richard drove the hack to the wharves and the depot ; sometimes he went on family and social excursions with the omnibus . 
Munk had a garden , which Richard spaded and sowed . 
This Richard resolved to ornament and improve . 
He applied to the woods in the neighborhood , where were all varieties of evergreen and perdifoil . 
He knew how to dig deeply round the trees , to sever the roots carefully , and prune the tops judiciously . 
He was thoughtful enough , also , to choose a humid day for this operation . 
He studied grouping and curves in the arrangement of the trees . 
He supplied their roots with well-rotted manure . 
Against the kitchen window , where was the sink , and Roxy did her work , and the summer sun burned like an oven , he planted a good-sized maple . 
He ploughed and graded the rear portion of the lot , and laid it down to grass . 
He induced his brother to purchase a quantity of fruit-trees , for which he discovered an abundance of suitable locations . 
Hence he called the place Willow Croft . 
Was Richard in advance of his age and rank in this ? 
He may have been : but he was not in advance of the newspapers , nor of Pastor Harold , to say nothing of his own taste . 
Then she recollected a thorn that she had seen in its full snow-bloom , and when it dripped with red apples ; and she thought there was nothing so handsome in the whole world , and Richard must have it . 
He seemed to recognize no other currency than that of the River ; he made all his drafts with the picaroon ; the use of the spade was real bankruptcy to him ; and Richard had behaved so wickedly at the Point , Chuk deemed his tender of money a sacrilege on the memory of Bill and the boom ; and even his thanks he rejected as a device of the adversary . 
But Chuk got his pay , and Richard took his receipt , in the children , who applauded what was done , and condescended to disport amid the trees ; Bebby indicated her royal interest in the scene by upsetting one of the shrubs . 
Chuk , as if he had inhaled magic gas , began to frolic with the children ; he acted as if he were a mere child , and had never been anything else . 
He keeled over on the grass , peeked through the trees , cock-a-whooped to Uncle Richard , strutted behind Bebby . 
`` This , '' said he , `` is it ; it was just so , then -- there was toddling and skirling ; it huv stones , it rolled in the dirt . 
He repeated this question , and turned towards the door of the house a wild , haggard stare . 
He presented a comical , not to say pitiable picture ; -- bare-headed , with long , tangled black hair , in the native luxuriance of which neither comb nor shears had interfered for many a month , and a voluminous pepper-and-salt shirt , that flared wide in the neck . 
shouted Chuk , and ran forward with the children , flapping his arms like a new-fledged chicken , to receive what the good dame would bestow . 
Richard noticed , during this metamorphosis of the Boy , that he dropped his customary oaths , and that his tone was milder , and his language less rough and churlish , than at other times . 
Richardwas laying out his vegetable beds one morning , and the children were to their knees and elbows in dirt , preparing for baking , -- moulding pie-crust , stirring puddings , cupping cakes , out of the damp earth . 
Looking towards the street , he saw the Old Man , the Grandfather of the Orphans , urgently bent upon something , as it were star-gazing , -- now lifting his face into the air , now peering across the fields , anon putting his hand to his ear . 
said he to Richard . 
asked Richard . 
`` The hang-bird , '' he replied . 
said Memmy , whose eyes were sharp as a razor , pointing with the bit of a shingle she was at work with ; `` it is there on the fence . '' 
`` That is a robin , '' answered Richard . 
`` I would not talk in this way here , Aunt , '' said Richard . 
That afternoon there were assembled about the final bed-side of the Orphan , Dr. Broadwell , the Denningtons , the Lady Caroline , Richard , Miss Eyre , and one or two other girls from the Factories . 
Richard left the room ; and Landlady followed him . 
`` Yes , '' replied Richard , mournfully . 
`` I have feared it a long time , '' he rejoined . 
She was behind him when she said this . 
Reaching the landing , he turned towards her , and saw her eye drooping over the tray , loaded with empty bottles and sundry trifles , the wrecks of a vain Hygiene . 
To that tray , as he had nothing else in particular to look at , his own gaze gravitated . 
`` Yes , '' replied Richard , touched by her emotion . 
Richard heard enough , too much for his peace of mind ; and he retorted , with reasonable severity , `` How can you so harrow the sensibilities of the living , and insult the memories of the dead ! '' 
Richard escaped into the street . 
He provided for the obsequies ; he took charge of the services on the burial day . 
Munk & St. John 's stage-route led part way to it , and it occurred to Richard , as it probably would occur to half our readers , that a free passage would be offered them . 
Richard was compromised with Junia . 
He had said there could be no doubt about the conveyance . 
What should Richard do ? 
They were both in that pain in which little things will sometimes involve pure and benevolent minds ; -- Richard overleaping his means in an attempt to do good ; Junia sorely perplexed by the trouble she gave her friends . 
Munk and St. John desired to send an agent into the country to purchase grain , and look after stables and other things incident to an important stage-route , and Richard was deemed a suitable person for such a trust . 
He wished to see the country , and was glad to go ; but stipulated , as a consideration for his services , that his unfortunate friends should be carried likewise . 
So , one morning , after collecting passengers from all the hotels , and taking in the mails from the Post-office , with his clean-washed , newly-painted , and highly-enameled coach , and his team of mettlesome , pawing , bright-haired bays , Winkle drew up at Willow Croft . 
Shall we say that Richard had all these thoughts about Stage-drivers , and Winkle in particular ? 
He told Richard the names of many of them , and they were bad enough to be dismissed in silence ; but it is because they were so bad , Richard could not be silent , neither shall we be . 
asked Richard . 
asked Richard , as they stopped at a lovely hamlet on the margin of a pond . 
`` Mouth-of-the-Klaber Road , '' answered his companion . 
Now , Richard rode through a beautiful valley belonging to Sam Jones and Isaac Seymour , and along the margin of a stream remarkable for its contrasts of thickets and clearing , wildness and repose , known as `` Eight-mile Brook ; '' and while the horses were changing , he went upon an elevation called `` Tumble-down-Dick Mountain , '' from which was a view of unequalled tint and variety , rimmed around with those bright waters , `` Spectacle Pond , '' `` the Matthew Paxson Pond , '' and `` Smith Corner Pond ! '' 
Richard relapsed into frequent reveries . 
Richard offered her water , but she could not drink ; at a hotel , where they stopped to dine , she could not eat ; and when Richard would have walked with her into the streets of the town , she could not go . 
Thither , Richard , taking a horse and wagon belonging to the Company , drove his friends , and arrived late in the evening . 
This family he found very glad to see Junia and her Grandfather , and in very comfortable circumstances . 
Early on the morrow Richard returned . 
Having attended to the business of the route , in a few days he came back to the city . 
`` That would not be right , I think , '' interposed Richard . 
`` Let me see what can be done , '' added Richard . 
He took the child into the rocking-chair , sang songs , and soon had her fast asleep . 
TheGovernor was in the practice of taking his family , in a festive way , sometimes to `` Spot , '' sometimes to `` Speckle , '' -- names of ponds , of which there were several in the neighborhood of the city , -- where they spent the day , and returned at night . 
This year he would go to `` Spot , '' and `` Climper 's , '' Mr. Climper being the proprietor of `` Spot , '' and its hotel , its boats , and other recreative additaments . 
The Governor 's carriage was too small , and he ordered Munk & St. John 's omnibus , and Richard was commissioned to drive it . 
Alice Weymouth , emerging from under the trees in the front yard , was the first to discover Richard Edney on the box . 
So , when the rest were seated , Melicent mounted the box with Richard . 
It had indeed got whispered all through the party that it was Richard ; but Madam , who hated an ado , hushed the folks , and Richard drove on without molestation . 
He took the same road that , a few months before , in midwinter , he had come to the city on . 
Richard remarked these changes , and spoke also of the woman whom he extricated from a snow-drift . 
Richard went on to thinking of his first coming to the city ; -- of the Bridge , and the lively people from the Athenæum ; of the man with the umbrella , and his solemn warning ; and of other things that had befallen , in many of which Melicent herself had borne a part ; and now he sat alone with one of the objects of his thought , and he wished to know more of her , and she was ready to know more of him . 
This brought up the whole question of horses , and domestication , and the power of the human over the brute ; all which topics Richard handled very sagely and instructively . 
`` Exquisitely fine , '' added Richard . 
There must have been something in Richard 's mind , or education , or association , to suggest this expletive , which he pronounced as if he was used to it , and deeply felt it . 
And Melicent looked again at the day , and thought of Richard . 
`` A very blue sky , and very white clouds , '' added he . 
Richard rejoined . 
He was ahead of her this time ; but he instantly apologized by saying , `` My teacher , Mr. Willwell , used to instruct us that there was an earth-line of the sky , as well as a sky-line of the earth . 
`` He is , '' answered Richard . 
`` At the bottom of a well , '' remarked Richard , `` the sky , he said , would appear to rest on its mouth . 
`` I have not , '' replied Richard . 
He had had a good village school education , and improved on what he was taught . 
Melicent would hold the reins , while Richard jumped down and recovered it , -- she really would . 
This pleased Richard , and it pleased Melicent , both equally . 
That Melicent should offer to hold the reins , that Richard should think she could hold them , that she did hold them , that she had held them , -- the reins , and the four horses , and the coachful of people , -- oh , these are trifles , but they are such sort of trifles as helped while away a mile of the road , and such as have their place and mission all along the road of life . 
Let us look at this ride , and in fact this entire tale , in one point of view : -- that Richard Edney now had the Governor 's Family under his thumb , or , more literally , in his two hands ; that there they were , closely stowed under his feet , in a tight vehicle , -- a mere box , -- and four stout horses in front . 
If Richard were evil-disposed , how easy to do them an injury ! 
If he were vain , how natural to feel exalted ! 
If he were wanton , how pleasant to tease and scare them ! 
If he knew the dignity , extent , and value of the Family , how readily he might manage an advantage out of them ! 
But his Father told him to treat everybody respectfully , -- to behave properly in all relations . 
If he were a servant , to be faithful ; if he were a master , to be kind ; and if he drove , to do it carefully , -- to reverence life , and be tender of sensibility , human or brute . 
Almost the last word his Mother said to him was , `` Richard , be a good boy . 
Richard was a good boy , and of course a good driver , and treated the Governor 's Family becomingly , and drove them securely . 
So he got the party , in good shape , to `` Spot , '' and `` Climper 's . '' 
So Richard thought , when Climper wheezed forth to let down the steps and hand the people out . 
He scowled , when he did so , and scolded because Richard had not driven a few feet further , and worried because word had not been sent that they were coming . 
Her foot caught , and she would have fallen , if Richard had not caught her . 
This brought around him the whole Family . 
Miss Rowena , who , on a former occasion , had really sneered at Richard , was awe-stricken . 
Melicent introduced Richard in form to her several friends . 
When this ceremony was ended , Richard proceeded to look after his team . 
Richard took from the box a coarse frock he wore on such occasions , and followed . 
While he was rubbing down the horses , Climper appeared in haste , and said Mrs. Melbourne wanted to see him . 
Richard would take off his frock . 
Richard went to the drawing-room , where were Madam , Mrs. Melbourne , Melicent , and Rasle . 
`` You wish to see me , '' said Richard , looking rather indefinitely . 
`` Mrs. Melbourne wishes to see me , '' particularized Richard . 
`` I do not , '' answered that lady ; `` I am far from it , '' Richard was quite blanked . 
`` Mr. Climper said you did , '' he explained . 
Richard neither smiled nor looked knowing . 
`` Never mind , young man , '' said Madam , coming kindly towards him , and as it were moving with him towards the door . 
O yes , Richard knew ; and went back , very pleasantly , to his work . 
`` Do not speak of it , '' said Richard . 
`` We owe you something -- '' `` Nothing , '' he persisted . 
`` I only did my duty , '' answered Richard . 
Richard took the oars . 
He had seen that article before , on the River , and the Lakes , to say nothing of his father 's mill-pond ; and he pulled dextrously and strong . 
`` Sail on it , '' answered Richard . 
she rejoined . 
That was Rasle all over , and he made it all over with the rest . 
It was Richard 's first choice , and whom should he choose but Madam herself ? 
Richard led off handsomely , and Madam was no mean player ; but the Governor was a great ball , and so was Mrs. Melbourne : but Richard beat , or his side did ; and such Yankee-doodling as the little ones , who had beaten Grandfather , set up , was never heard this side of the Revolution . 
They were summoned to a dance ; and the Governor asked Richard to join them . 
But Richard , imagining the invitation to spring more from politeness than cordiality , -- that it was rather from consistency 's sake than any singleness of feeling , -- declined . 
Now , Climper , fat and mulish , always on the off side , always plaguing people , declared Richard should dance ; and , pushing him into the hall , said if he did not dance , he would make him , and rendered excuse abortive and retreat impossible . 
Madam was tired ; so the Governor led out Miss Rowena , Melicent paired off with Barbara , and Richard bowed to Mrs. Melbourne . 
This lady could not refuse , and Richard could not but advance ; so he and Mrs. Melbourne danced together ! 
They could all be merry , Richard and the Governor alike ; and Mrs. Melbourne had to be , albeit she did not like to be ; besides , among the oddities of Climper was the practice of jumbling all sorts of people together , -- a practice , indeed , that might not seem suited either to the decorum or the policy of a respectable landlord ; but it was a way he had , and all who went to Climper 's must put up with Climper . 
After the dance , Richard stood with Melicent on a knoll overlooking the very pretty sheet of water that formed the nucleus of the interest of the place . 
`` I have not thanked you , '' he said , `` for the pleasure I have had here . '' 
`` The love of the Beautiful , '' continued Richard , `` may have captivated his heart . '' 
inquired Richard , as if he was startled at something he might have said . 
`` The slime , '' replied Richard , `` is one of the best of fertilizers ; and eel-pouts are a grateful dish to some people . '' 
While Richard seemed to be refreshing his memory , Melicent , laughing , said , `` Parson Harold , I suppose . '' 
`` Very likely , '' answered Richard . 
Mrs. Melbourne delivered this slattingly , and then pulling at Melicent , she said the little children wanted help in getting strawberries ; and she asked -- she only asked -- Richard if his horses had been watered ; she could not bear that the poor , dumb beasts should suffer through the folly of men . 
Richard went towards the stable . 
`` I must water my team , '' he said to Climper , whom he encountered in the way . 
echoed Richard . 
Richard laughed outright ; but the more he laughed , the more Climper blared , until he consented that the carriage should be overhauled . 
`` I am of no party , '' replied Richard . 
Kitty , Kitty , '' he called to his fingers an amiable and womanly looking Maltese , and taking her in his arms , stroked her back , in face of the wilful man , and added , `` That is good ; I love cats , too ! '' 
The strange Phumbician was touched , and , smiling goodnaturedly , he struck Richard smartly on his shoulders , and bade him look after the horses , and went with him towards the barn . 
`` You love cats , '' said Richard ; `` and do you love nothing else ? '' 
Climper helped Richard lead his horses to the pump ; he gave them their full measure of oats , then drove our hero back to where the Family was . 
But Richard could not find it , or come near it ; for the whole group was concealed , and monopolized by certain strangers , young gentlemen who had just arrived from the city , among whom were young Chassford and Glendar . 
The entire aspect of things indicated to Richard that his company was not wanted , and he strolled to a distance . 
He did wish to see Melicent , and make , as he thought , a great communication to her . 
Nor was Melicent indifferent to Richard . 
She saw his disappointed look , and watched his retreating steps . 
She presently took the liberty to leave her friends , and go where he was sitting . 
`` I have discovered the secret of Climper , '' said Richard , with considerable enthusiasm ; and related what Climper had said . 
Melicent looked at Richard incredulously , and then with an expression of wonder . 
asked Richard . 
She gave Richard another direct look , -- one of so fixed and searching a nature , that he started and said , `` I hope I have done no wrong . '' 
Richard , not wholly at his ease , was yet sufficiently disembarrassed to say , `` This place is a Hermitage , -- a queer one ; but shall we not call it so ? 
`` Nay , '' replied Richard , as the little children chased their Grandfather in and out among the trees , full of gambol , and breathlessness , and joy , `` let us call it Merrywater . '' 
said Glendar , who approached at this moment , and threw a quarter to Richard . 
`` I will , '' replied Richard , picking up the money , and going off . 
The sun was going down when Climper shut the coach door , flung up the steps , and cried to Richard to be off with his load . 
Barbara was timid , and did not like the omnibus , and was persuaded to resign herself to Chassford and his buggy . 
Glendar attempted the same arrangement with Melicent , but failed ; and she rode home as she had come out , -- on the box , with Richard . 
Melicent , with apparent sincerity and good intention , invited Richard to call at her father 's . 
Nay , more , -- Madam herself , to the amazement of all , asked him to tea on a specified evening . 
Whatis before us ; and Richard did not know what was before him . 
Yet Miss Plumy Alicia Eyre was before Richard ; her dark , thrilling eye was before him ; her pale , pensive , earnest face was before him ; so was her searching , pleading , piteous heart . 
But did Richard really know what was before him ? 
Was not the future hidden from him , and was not the present even partially veiled ? 
But with his body 's eye he only saw Miss Eyre ; and with his mind 's eye , if he had striven to look another way he could not , for she tyrannized over that too . 
Moreover , Richard had been sick two or three days , and Miss Eyre frequently called , exhibiting the gentlest sympathy . 
She brought cordials to his bed-side ; she spelled Roxy in the kitchen , while she watched with her brother . 
Plumy Alicia appealed to the sympathies of Richard ; she thrilled every commiserant fibre within him ; her anguish , like a troubled wave , beat upon him , her description of herself awakened his tenderness , while with consummate nicety she concealed her design to do so . 
Her ministry to Richard when he was sick , she knew , had established a place for her in his gratitude ; she had imparted some intimate matters to him , -- a movement which , while it secures confidence , inspires self-esteem . 
She laid her hand upon his ; he could not repudiate the familiarity , because by that act she seemed to be discharging upon one stronger than herself a load of sensation too heavy for her to bear . 
She looked into his eye , but only to assure him how sad and heavy her own was . 
She said this with her warm breath pulsating on his face . 
But Saw No. 1 -- Richard 's appropriate field of action -- was dead . 
Richard , Mr. Gouch , Silver , and the rest of the gang , gathered at their old resort ; but there was no one to employ them . 
Mr. Gouch and the others retained their several posts , whilst , by unanimous consent , it was arranged that Richard should assume the supervision of the concern . 
For this office , it was evident to his fellows , he was well qualified , and to it all were happy in raising him . 
His readiness in figures , his judgment of timber , the accuracy and economy with which he could answer an order , his familiarity with the several branches of work , -- what had become obvious during the winter , -- united to neverfailing vigilance and sagacity , and great kindliness of feeling and urbanity of intercourse , rendered the choice of the company as easy to themselves as it was flattering to him . 
His wages advanced with his responsibility ; and , if his labor was less manual , his duties were not less arduous and exacting . 
In transacting the affairs of the concern , Richard came in contact with a variety of individuals in the city , -- lumber dealers , carpenters , and such as were engaged in the erection of houses . 
He did a large amount of what is called custom work . 
In all things his honesty and intelligence were of use to him . 
He had been in the forest , studied trees , and investigated the kinds and properties of wood . 
In manifold particulars , his opinion was sought , and his advice followed . 
During the summer , Richard and Nefon , the Bookseller , became better acquainted ; and the more they became acquainted , the better they liked each other ; as if the nonacquaintance of man with man were not at the foundation of nine tenths of mortal dislikes ! 
Now , Nefon applied to Richard to take a class in the Sunday-school , of which he was Superintendent . 
Richard , with natural distrust of his abilities , yet obedient to the rule he had adopted as the supreme guide of life , TO DO GOOD , replied that he would be glad to do so . 
His sister feared such a step would alienate him from the church she attended , and consign him remedilessly to Parson Smith 's . 
Richard declared that no position of this sort in the Church of the Redemption should bind him to its authority or its influence , beyond the plain teachings of the New Testament . 
Roxy promised him her prayers , -- albeit she could not yield him her blessing , as he entered upon this novel duty . 
To his class he added certain boys , whose abodes were the shores of the River , the Islands , and the neglected quarters of the New Town , and whom he had seen playing the vagrant or the thief about the Mills ; and had the satisfaction of finding them punctual and interested , and of recording their progress in divine knowledge . 
Amongthe events of not a little interest in this season 's experience was Richard 's appointment with Madam Dennington . 
He ascended the Governor 's piazza and pulled at the bell-handle with a slight palpitation of the heart ; and the servant who ushered him in might have noticed a certain rusticity in his manner . 
Mrs. Melbourne rallied strong against Richard , when she found attention to the Sawyer going so far as a summons to a social family gathering . 
Not that she had anything against Richard ; only , -- she could hardly tell what . 
This was enough for Cousin , who thought the aversion unreasonable , and was easily inclined to protect Richard from it . 
Were Richard 's nerves a little wanton , and his hand a little clumsy ? 
What with cup and saucer on his knees , and waiter with sugar and cream , waiter with sandwiches and cheese , waiter with dough-nuts and cake , and the gradual filling up of the narrow rim of the only receptacle for this endless enumeration , and his own desire to be polite , and his fear that he should not be , and Mrs. Melbourne and Miss Rowena both watching him so closely , -- it was not strange there should be a downfall both of bread and of feeling . 
The Governor 's Family owed something to Richard , and they were disposed to requite in full , and that in modes at once delicate and honorable . 
In evidence that the invitation to Richard did not spring from merely personal and private regards , but belonged to a more expansive and general circle of social sentiments on the part of the Family , other guests , obviously by invitation , came in the evening . 
Richard was in the centre , and , we might say , in the centre of the centre , of the nobility of wealth , office and culture , and , if the worthy Dressmaker aforesaid is to be trusted , of the common sense , of Woodylin . 
How did he carry himself ? 
He had heard his beloved Pastor speak of God 's and nature 's noblemen , and perhaps sometimes thought he was as good an one as any . 
Still , Richard 's weakness was sustained and relieved by the intelligent and charitable experience of the Family , and he was borne in tolerable condition through the shoals and breakers of first encounter with high life . 
The cardinal maxim of his Teacher , that he must inquire the use of , and derive wisdom from , every new thing he saw , he was too agitated to apply . 
It was as much as he could do to be there , without asking why he was there . 
If he had gone on to asking questions , he would , peradventure , have startled points of a still lower deep , that would choke and flurry him far more than the superficial aspects of the case did . 
When it is said of one , he is aspiring , or of another , he looks down upon us , what is implied but that there is a something above , which the first has not reached , and which , to the last , is an attainment and a power ? 
If Richard shall be established in it , it will be by his virtues . 
Richard was at his ease in the Saw-mill , and at Mrs. Tunny 's party , and at a public meeting ; but he was not at the Governor 's . 
That mystic something which others possessed , he was conscious of lacking ; and he might have retired in great disquiet , if Cousin Rowena had not supported his flickering courage . 
Blessings on the wind , that did for Richard what the Governor 's Family , with its opulence , its beauty , its breeding , could not do ! 
Melicent joined him on the piazza ; and Richard , being himself again , could converse and behave more to his satisfaction . 
Richard was honest , and had a heart , and spoke of things that he loved most to those who loved to hear them . 
Correspondence of sentiment , connected as it often is with correspondence of aim , is wont to lead to harmony of feeling and mutuality of interest ; and Melicent left Richard , with a strong desire to know more of him , and be more with him . 
Richard went home that night burthened with reflections ; at one moment reproaching himself for pusillanimity and weakness , -- at another , questioning the authority of that which exerted so strong a spell over him during the evening ; but after vibrating between several disagreeable and disjointed subjects , he settled at last upon thinking about Melicent . 
For the second time was he brought to the direct and intense contemplation of Melicent ; and that in the night , -- that with the glare and surroundings of the day withdrawn . 
He had formerly thought of her as the Governor 's daughter , -- beheld in her a wonderful instance of human and female excellence , and admired the contrast she afforded to what sometimes appears a dark back-ground of aristocracy , pride of wealth , and meanness of station . 
He now thought of her as Melicent ; she was individualized to his imagination , -- she was beginning to stand out alone in the universe to his eye ; vapors or shadowy emptiness separated her from all others , -- an embarrassing , a hazardous state of affairs to a young man . 
But , before he slept , the natural order of things was restored , -- her own proper world surrounded and absorbed her ; and his own world , -- his Saw-mill and his rusticity , -- came and took him off . 
Richard ` schief joy was his nieces ; and his Sundays , and meal-times , and evenings , that gave him to them . 
He played with them , and they made a child of him ; nay , they made less than that ; they used him as if he had been a giant moppet in whiskers , and tumbled him about like a man of straw . 
There is the nativity of ideas as well as words ; and Richard , being bound to inspect everything new , considered of this also . 
`` I love , '' replied the child , `` Bebby , and Uncle Richard , and -- and -- pussy , and peaches . '' 
This was a poser to Richard . 
Vainly did he invoke the lessons of his Teacher . 
So Richard found , on inquiry , that she hated badness , whether in Turkey rhubarb , or the neighbor 's yelping dog , or drunken Weasand . 
Under the trees that Richard had planted was their play-ground , and there they acted out what their mother seemed to feel was their unhappy destiny , -- play . 
Richard had set the trees , not at the corners of the yard , not in straight lines , but in groups and curves ; thus creating many little in-and-out places for caprice and pastime to practise in . 
`` Look at the children among the trees , '' he called to his sister . 
She felt this , and so did Richard ; and they showed it by their looks , since neither spoke . 
So did Memmy and Bebby , at this present speaking ; they were bordered by trees , -- cedars and birches were about them , like curls on the face of fair maiden ; and one of Master Willwell 's primitive ideas turned up , -- bread was bread ; a toad was a toad ; the final sense was reached , and Richard and Roxy were pleased . 
now Bebby stands between , and partly screened by , two little cedars , about as tall as she ; -- and how beautiful she is ; what a joy in her father 's heart ; what a glistening in her mother 's eyes ; what a ravishment to Richard , all over , she is , or the thing that she is ! 
Parson Smith 's and Dr. Broadwell 's Sunday-school children and teachers were planning a union picnic , combined with a rail-road ride and a sylvan meeting ; and Richard was going , and he wanted to take Memmy , and Memmy wanted to go ; but Roxy clouded . 
`` I guess Memmy 's clothes will do , '' said Richard , in the way of oily interposition . 
Here was a cloud , and a shower ; and Richard was afraid the children would get wet . 
`` Do not say all this before them , '' he interceded . 
rejoined his sister . 
Richard took the children out doors . 
The children were kind to Memmy , the teachers affable with Richard . 
The parlor at Munk 's was a hidden room , -- an inner sanctuary , -- a Blue Beard 's chamber ; and Richard longed to get into it . 
It was the largest and the pleasantest room in the house , and he longed to enjoy it . 
The room was not open long enough for ventilation , and Richard declared the straw under the carpet was musty , and smelled damp and close . 
The buzzing of a venturesome fly alone relieved the stillness of the spot ; and a spider , not having the fear of Roxy before his eyes , was setting his traps to catch the fly . 
The street-bell rang , and Richard answering it , encountered Mrs. Mellow , the lady to whom Roxy so often referred . 
She glanced at Richard , who , having been requested by Mrs. Mellow to sit , had remained in the room . 
queried Richard . 
Mrs. Mellow , unlike herself , bridled at this , and looked sharply at Richard . 
But Richard was not pierced ; and perhaps because he was not , the lady remarked , as if it was the most effective thing she could do , she was sorry to see our young men , and laboring men too , imbibing transcendental notions ; at the same time tendering Richard a tract , which she said she hoped would teach him humility and the fear of God . 
Richard accepted the tract , and unceremoniously left the room . 
Now , Roxy , however she might view and feel some things , loved Richard , and was proud of him , and was wont to hear people speak well of him ; and though she sometimes blamed him to his face , she had no idea anybody else would do so to hers ; and while she entertained a profound regard , and an almost servile reverence , for Mrs. Mellow , the language of that lady served to jar the awe in which she stood , and set her upon a train of independent thinking . 
Still the sentiment of Mrs. Mellow , `` Never yield to a child , '' and the query of Richard , `` What if it be a bad rule ? '' 
`` That is the best room , '' replied Richard , `` which answers its purpose best , and contributes most to the enjoyment of the family . 
`` Yes , '' said Munk , not looking from his paper , `` be good and happy , -- only be happy , that 's all . '' 
`` The best room , '' continued Richard , `` on the present basis , is the worst room -- one that affords the least satisfaction of any in the house . 
`` But , '' answered his sister , `` I have made it a rule that they shall never go into the parlor except we have company . 
Roxy oh-deared ; and Richard , not knowing but he was pressing the subject too closely , dropped it . 
But Richard was a fresh ministry , -- there was at least the raciness and edge of novelty to his words , and she was disposed to be persuaded once more . 
Richard and Nefon were particularly interested . 
In the course of this business , Richard made new acquaintances , and , as he thought , with nice people . 
At his capacious office window lay all day long piles of gold and silver , and passers by , seeing the man through the window , and , as it were , breast-high in the precious stuff , supposed him a sort of monster , -- half a knave , half a fool . 
In addition , Richard was introduced to a worthy lady , of whom he had heard , a sister-in-law of the Broker 's , Mrs. Helen Mangil ; and as there was another lady in Woodylin of the same name , and whose husband bore the same name with that of the first , this one , in certain circles , was called Helen the Good . 
Mayor Langreen was its President , Parson Smith its Secretary , Nefon its Treasurer ; then it created a Do-something Committee , or might be said to resolve itself into such ; and this comprised men and women , among whom were Richard , Mr. Mangil , Broker , Elder Jabson , Munk , Mr. Cosgrove , Carpenter , Mr. Horr , Collector of Customs , Mr. Lawtall , Pianoforte-maker , Ada Broadwell , the Lady Caroline , Helen the Good , Melicent , and others . 
Richard , Mr. Mangil , Elder Jabson , and Nefon , were commissioned to this task . 
ejaculated Richard . 
bethought Richard . 
Richard was indefatigable . 
He had not so much leisure as many , but he had faith and patience . 
One evening every week , and , in emergencies , two , he assigned to Knuckle Lane . 
In these visits he was often aided and directed by Cornelius Wheelan , whom he had rescued from the Grotto and ruin , and who , so to say , having been pickled in vice and crime , took a long time to freshen ; but as it is said beef freshens better in salt water than fresh , so it seemed to take all this man 's humors out of him to go around among his old associates and haunts ; -- and he became not only a better man , but useful to those who were better than he , and also to some that were worse . 
Richard 's special beat was the New Town ; yet sooner or later , he visited almost the whole of the city . 
He went down among the roots of many of its evils . 
He got into the bosom , and , so to say , blossom , of much of its sorrow . 
He sat by the bed-side of its remorse . 
He made himself at home in its dens of iniquity . 
`` Men have feelings as well as appetites , and a longing for home amidst all dissipation , '' Richard used to say , quoting from Pastor Harold . 
But why recount expressions and feelings that would fill a volume , and which would reduce Richard Edney and the Governor 's Family to a very small space in their own book , and which , in truth , gave Richard and his friends trouble enough , without being employed to obscure the narration of events in his story . 
It did determine this to the mind of Richard , and others , -- that by resolutely undertaking to do good , something might be done . 
These matters , connected indeed with Richard , are yet somewhat in anticipation of his story . 
They were two or three years in progress , and during these years Richard had other matters to attend to , and to these we must recur . 
Richard had his varieties . 
Memmy and Bebby lived , -- lived in his heart , and in his arms , and in his fingers , and in his ears , and before his eyes . 
They ran all over the carpet of his days ; they sprawled upon it ; sometimes they blew soap-bubbles on it ; sometimes they were like twin cherubs asleep in one corner of it . 
In the night , going home from his meetings , Richard now and then saw , through the darkness before him , the arms of Clover describing their favorite contortions , like the vanes of a windmill ; and when he got home , there were giant streaks of shadow playing in his imagination , and these would sometimes hang over and threaten his dreams . 
Besides , even as Richard addicted himself to observation in behalf of his absent teacher and friend , Mr. Willwell , so , as has been already premised , we are writing with a latent reference to our Usbek cousins ; and might it not be well for us to give them some insight into the structure and sources of our language , as well as into our manners and customs ? 
-- During his noctivagancy , we say , in the cause of Knuckle Lane , Richard made many discoveries , and some which disturbed him . 
He encountered the young men , Chassford and Glendar , at gaming saloons , in tippling houses , and sundry places where he thought they ought not to be , and where it reflected no credit on the simplicity of their characters or purity of their principles in being . 
Already , the winter before , he saw them at the Grotto , and the sight afforded him any but pleasant recollections . 
Meanwhile he called once or twice at the Governor 's , and found these young men there . 
With a twirl of his cane , or a touch of his goatee , Glendar could set Richard 's composure shaking like an earthquake . 
And Richard was powerless , -- he could not avenge himself . 
He did not esteem the young men , but he had no desire to vent his disesteem there . 
He sometimes thought he would speak to Melicent or Barbara about them , but he did not . 
They complimented the Knuckle Lane movement ; yet Richard felt they could not in heart be much concerned for it . 
An event of greater interest to Richard was his election to the Common Council of the city . 
It was the second spring after his arrival in Woodylin , when , at a meeting of those who styled themselves `` The Friends of Improvement , '' he was unanimously nominated . 
Richard was young , and a new-comer . 
More than that , Richard , by this time , had become sole proprietor of the rent of two saws . 
Richard 's father owned a saw-mill ; lived upon a stream emptying into the River , and was able to cut more logs than he wanted and send them down stream . 
And whom should Chuk want to assist , if not Richard ? 
Whom would he strike the picaroon week in and week out for , if not Richard ? 
So it was arranged that the elder Edney should furnish the logs , Chuk boom them , and Richard saw them . 
More than that , what Bill never would do , Chuk was glad to do ; he went up to the stream on which Mr. Edney lived , and `` drove '' the logs . 
This boom of Chuk 's , lying , as it did , contiguous to the Mills , and so safe in all ordinary freshets , he was considered a very fortunate man who could acquire the entire use of ; and Richard was considered a fortunate man . 
This circumstance added to Richard 's consequence in the eyes of his neighbors . 
Then he had so excellent a friend in Mr. Cosgrove , the princely contractor for buildings , and who purchased of him to large amounts . 
It made a great stir at the Saw-mills when it was known Richard had obtained control of Chuk 's boom , though perhaps not twenty people elsewhere had the least intelligence of the matter . 
These circumstances aided Richard 's municipal advancement . 
Yet , his success was not without impediment . 
Next , the Dogbanes , for the sake of putting a pretty trick on their hereditary enemies , `` over the River , '' declared for Richard . 
To defeat this ruse , the Catapulters proclaimed Richard a Hydriatic , and brought up Richard 's connection with a certain horse , whose carcass Munk & St. John had caused to be thrown upon the ice . 
The Dogbanes mortally feared water ; and inasmuch as neither party could use Richard , they silently concerted to pounce upon him , like the animals whose names they bore , and devour him . 
In other words , they united upon a ticket which should destroy that of the Friends of Improvement , and in place of Richard substituted the name of Clover ! 
At the caucuses , Clover , whose real character could not have been commonly understood , represented that he was the only man who could be led against Richard with any prospect of success . 
In addition , Clover , as we say , electioneered for himself and against Richard . 
The union ticket did not prevail , and Richard carried the polls by a handsome majority . 
In the city councils , Richard found problems enough to last Euclid one year at least , and grave responsibilities that would make an impression on the shoulders of a small Atlas . 
Mr. Langreen was Mayor , and Nefon was an Alderman , and Richard was not altogether without friends at the board . 
He was able to do something for the furtherance of his favorite idea , the Knuckle Lane project . 
Richard selected the spot , -- his friends erected a handsome monument ; with his own hands he planted shrubbery and flowers about it . 
He saw at the bottom the thread-like rivulet , flowing on like a lover 's joy , as strolling , too , as lover 's walks by moonlight , crinkling its way along , and scolloping the ground on either side , singing and shining all alone down its deep bed , feeding the roots of trees , flinging its dew on the mosses , and creating innumerable little pleasure-grounds for the frogs . 
Richard , in his rambles with Memmy and Bebby , had seen it , and admired it . 
Among the first to call at Willow Croft and congratulate Richard on his accession to office , was Miss Eyre ; and this she did in a way touchingly graceful , and insinuatingly delicate . 
Richard 's name , as one of the Common Councilmen for Ward 2 , had appeared in all the papers ; and he saw it in the evening , and again in the morning prints ; and it seemed to him as if he saw it the next day in everybody 's face . 
They colored Richard 's triumph and advantage so strongly to his mind , he must needs feel it was great indeed , and feel , too , as if he were the whole city , and Clover a very small spot in it ; and they were so enthusiastic for Richard , -- they hurraed him so , with the wink of their eyes , and the legerdemain of their crowbars and pick-poles , -- Richard might be excused for believing everybody in the New Town and the Old Town was his friend and constituent . 
These were new sensations to Richard . 
One man , intent on a newspaper , drew in his elbows to let Richard pass ; another , opening a letter containing a remittance , Richard had to go round ; a third , discussing the last night 's play at the Theatre , and chewing tobacco , turning suddenly , mistook Richard for the floor . 
The clerk in the office , jesting at the window with a Dry Fish Culler touching the removal of the latter from his post , for a minute did not see the papers that Richard handed up to him ; and when he did , still laughing with the other , he asked Richard if they were pamphlets , and was seen to toss them , like peach-pits , into some hole or other . 
The printers ' boys jostled him with their great baskets . 
Who cared for Richard 's Mother ? 
So Richard had it all to himself ; and there was enough of it , and it was just as good to him as if everybody else had it . 
The clerk 's indifferent look , a hundred people 's preoccupied look , weighed not a feather against his own feelings ; and , perhaps , if he thought anything about it , he took some satisfaction in seeing his pride go to the stake , and having his pleasant little emotions suffer a slight martyrdom . 
So Richard was not discomforted . 
Indeed , he experienced all reasonable attentions . 
Nefon took him warmly by the hand , and expressed great pleasure in the election . 
Several smiled upon him , as he passed them , in a manner which said , `` We know what has happened . '' 
She only added fuel to the flame of Richard 's self-complaisance . 
The little ripples that had been stirring about in his bosom , she set all going again . 
She was the breeze on his surface , and covered him all over with most charming wavelets , and foam , and agitation . 
She brought the color to his cheeks , and made the blood warm in his veins . 
She talked to him about his mother , and how glad she would be ; and Clover , and how annoyed he was ; and the Common Council Chamber , and how honorable to sit there : and , like a magician , she raised a mist that rose from the floor , transparent and luminous ; her form and face were emparadized in it , and , like a cloud of transfiguration , it expanded , and enfolded them both . 
Never was Miss Eyre 's voice so musical , never was her eye so tender , never was her sympathy so entrancing ; and Richard 's self-love , his susceptibility of encomium , his deep pleasure in what had happened , -- that weak and soft spot in his and everybody 's nature , -- that spot which is so instinct with self , and so alive to public handling , -- that inbred regard to reputation and character , which she touched so softly , so deliciously , -- these were all carried away by her ; and we might say , Richard himself -- for there was not much else left to him at that moment -- Richard himself was carried away by Miss Eyre . 
If he seemed to surrender , she magnanimously restored his arms ; if he was like to grow impassioned , she wisely counselled him ; if his eye had any unnatural fervor , she deliberately hushed it . 
What he could keep ! 
Keep , keep , keep ; -- that word rang a good while in Richard 's ear , and with different inflections ; -- now upward , the doubtful interrogative ; now circumflective , the ironical ; now downwards , the grave and solemn . 
That night , when he retired to his chamber , into his thought of God and the Holy Spirit Miss Eyre could not enter ; into his hope of the Redemption of the world by Christ she could not enter ; into his calculations for the success of the Griped Hand she could not enter ; into what he most loved of the spiritual , the humane , the beautiful , she could not enter ; to the deeper life of his soul she was not kindred ; of his heart of hearts she was not partaker . 
But of necessity Richard must see Miss Eyre frequently . 
Then she had ministered to Richard when he was sick ; she had that hold on his consideration which a communication of sorrows creates ; she sometimes attended the Knuckle Lane meetings ; she loathed and despised Clover ; she was , moreover , in a certain sense , poor and friendless , -- a dependent , an operative ; and she appealed to the sympathies of Richard by whatever lies in the case of those who are sometimes deemed as belonging to a proscribed class . 
The next time Richard saw her , his manner was cool , and a little sheepish ; -- she laughed at him . 
The second time , she amused herself in endeavoring to rally him . 
The third time , by following the creep-mouse-catch - 'em precedent , she brought him more nearly en rapport , as the mesmerizers say , with herself . 
Monthswore away , and Richard was not idle . 
Green Mill prospered ; `` Knuckle Lane '' steadily advanced ; the `` Friends of Improvement '' were able to effect some wholesome regulations ; the majority of the workmen at the Saw-mills devoted spare hours to the Griped Hand , and a better tone of feeling and manner prevailed amongst them ; the parlor at Willow Croft was open , and Richard had much delight in it with the children and his friends . 
His Father and Mother had been to see him , and he , with Roxy , and Memmy and Bebby , and Munk & St. John 's best carriage , made a journey to the paternal home . 
Richard was happy , -- at least , as much so as is ordinarily the lot of mortals . 
He was invited to a party at the Mayor 's , to another at Nefon 's , and to one at Judge Burp 's ; and these were things of which his sister made account . 
Memmy used to say , `` I know Uncle Richard wants to see Miss Melicent . '' 
The Family authorized no such declaration , -- neither did Richard . 
I know not that Richard asked any questions , or received any answers . 
He was happy with Melicent ; happy to work with her in `` Knuckle Lane , '' -- to walk with her in Mayflower Glen , -- to sit with her under the vines of the piazza . 
Such was not the love of Richard and Melicent ; it did not look into the heavens , or the ideal and dreamy alone . 
But lowly as Richard 's feelings were , plain and simple as were his delights , he was still a conspicuous mark for the shafts of adversity . 
However , in his love of Melicent , he may have had no other consciousness than that of the lilyof-the-valley , there lurked an envious blast that would reach and rend him . 
His relation to the Governor 's Family must of necessity become a topic of remark , -- not to say an occasion of surprise , -- to many . 
But Richard ere long became sensible of her attempt at something ; and first , quite negatively , quite silently . 
She did not bow as he passed her in the street . 
Soon he met her face to face . 
She did not look at him ; she averted her eye , and slighted his salutation . 
This was awful , -- it was dagger-like , -- to Richard . 
Richard reflected that he had been friendly , and even indulgent , towards her , -- that she had been free and easy with him . 
She had even sometimes rallied him on going to the Governor 's so much . 
Chassford and Glendar were an embarrassment to Richard ; they embarrassed him by their looks , but more by their conduct . 
In the same room with him , they disturbed what we might call his physical equilibrium ; in other rooms , and other places , they disturbed his moral equanimity . 
Could he shake them off ? 
Could he disarm their insolence ? 
Could he expel the consciousness of their dissipation ? 
Certainly , then , Melicent ought to know , to make up her mind , and have the thing settled in the house , whether she would have Richard or not . 
He led his class at College , -- his professional promise was great . 
But he was ruining himself by profligacy . 
And it so happened , Richard knew more of this than anybody . 
The shining talents of the young man , his boyhood fairness , his visible industry , all the hopes and expectations that had been garnered in him by doting parents and partial friends , concealed the defects of his character . 
With Barbara , he could be , and really was , musical , poetical , ideal , romantic , profound , spiritual . 
Richard found he had eggs to walk on , and a plenty of them , and some not very sound ones , in the matter of these young men . 
Nor was he sure that duty required , or expediency would justify , any suggestions whatever as to what he might know or think of them . 
The Governor 's Family , withal , was , to some extent , terra incognitato him ; it had its own customs , preferences , and reasons , -- its own connections and law of life , -- and Richard might naturally presume it would take care of itself , and must be indeed its own keeper . 
Lovers are oblivious ; and when Richard was alone with Melicent , Miss Eyre , Chassford and Glendar , were like a dream of the night , which we never think of in the day-time . 
But he could not always be alone with Melicent . 
One day he found himself at the Governor 's alone with Mrs. Melbourne . 
Mrs. Melbourne said this not reproachfully , -- not with any dislike to Richard , but simply for his sake , and to fetch things to a focus . 
`` The Governor and Madam Dennington both sanction our intimacy , I believe , '' replied he . 
Not exactly this ; she deemed either of the young men an eligible match for the young lady , -- or , if her judgment consented to Richard , her affection supported Glendar . 
She did venture upon liberties with Richard , which she would not have taken with some others , accounting possibly the hardness of his early education and habits a sufficient foil for her own boldness . 
She was kind-hearted in what she said , and would have Richard know , if he did not take the prize , he was only standing in the way of one eager to grasp it . 
Yet it was not so much Richard 's sensibilities that were startled , as his recollections ; -- it was that Glendar should be named , -- the Glendar whom he had seen in so many unfavorable lights , and withal in so deep shadows , -- and his thought of whom was as wide from Melicent as the realm of outer darkness . 
He was moved to speak , and vent his mind . 
So he told Mrs. Melbourne that , not a month before , he saw Glendar drunk in a rookery , -- that it was not possible for Melicent to love him . 
She even went so far as to be more indignant at the teller than the story ; -- she flouted the idea ; she would not believe such a thing ; and , turning upon Richard , she charged the story to his jealousy . 
Richard left the house . 
A few days afterwards , as he was sitting on the door-steps at Willow Croft , the Governor 's servant appeared at the gate , and handed him a note , which ran as follows : -- `` Mr. Edney is requested to discontinue his visits at the Governor 's . 
If one of those forty-feet logs , that thrash about in such hair-brained fashion , at the foot of the Dam , in a freshet , had struck Richard across the breast , it could not have affected him more sensibly in that region than did this note . 
Cessation of intercourse was not the only method by which Miss Eyre chose to signify her sentiments towards Richard ; she matured a story that vitally touched his reputation . 
Richard had been attentive to her , confidential with her , and often alone with her . 
`` He won my heart , '' said Miss Eyre ; -- that might be . 
`` I had no other friend but him ; '' -- of the same sort . 
`` He knew that I sacrificed many others for him ; '' -- that might admit of question . 
`` Is he so black-hearted ? '' 
`` He unites the vulgarity of the lower classes with the insolence of the higher . 
He is reckless from instinct , and designing from position . 
He is ; he must be . 
I understand him now . 
I see through him . 
The original remained in Richard 's hand , and brain , and agony . 
Hewent to his chamber , fell upon his bed , and buried his face in the pillow ; as if his pillow could help him , or cared for him , or could soothe the sensations that racked his thought . 
Yes , Plumy Alicia , you had done it ; you were at the bottom of this ; you thrust that iron into his soul ! 
Richard knew Miss Eyre was rash , fickle , schemy , and fond of adventure ; he did not believe her so infamous , so utterly abominable , so abandoned . 
What should he think now ? 
When he came down to breakfast , the next morning , he looked pale , and had small appetite . 
He drank half a cup of coffee , nibbled at a slice of bread , and refused a piece of Indian cake Roxy had baked on purpose for him . 
His sister took alarm . 
`` Are you sick , Richard ? '' 
`` Not much , '' he answered . 
`` If Uncle Richard is sick , '' said Memmy , `` Plumy will come , and Miss Melicent will come too ; and we shall have such nice times , with quince sauce , and lots of candy ! '' 
Richard availed himself of the slight breeze to make his escape . 
Roxy called after him , as he left the room : `` You never will have anything done for you ; and you will come back dead , the next we know ! '' 
Richard felt , at the moment , there was more truth in her words than she always put into them . 
He went to the Mill , and assumed his customary duties . 
There was slipperiness in his hold , and dizziness in his calculations . 
He was like a man who undertakes to raise a barrel of flour in a fit of laughter . 
That afternoon Richard went to bed , on a cup of sage tea , and slept soundly ; he slept none the night before . 
He made no blunders at tea , but drank two strong cups of oolong , disposed of a large biscuit , and honored some new cake , for which Roxy had obtained the receipt of Mrs. Mellow . 
In the evening he went to Whichcomb 's , to see Miss Eyre . 
`` Plumy Alicia may be in to some folk , '' replied the landlady to his inquiry at the door . 
`` She is , '' replied Richard , emphatically , endeavoring to smooth the way through the difficulty of his feeling by pleasantry of speech . 
asked Richard . 
He began to push by the doorkeeper . 
``` No such a thing , ' said he . 
cried Richard . 
He enforced his way to the room which on the door was labelled `` Ladies ' Parlor . '' 
Several girls fled as he entered , among whom was not Miss Eyre . 
He did not wait long , however , before the object of his quest came in sight . 
asked Richard , or rather a voice from within Richard , that came up , groping and trembling , all the way , through the thickness and huskiness of his feelings . 
`` The house , '' rejoined Richard , `` and all its walls , and all its inmates , may tumble down upon us ; -- you must hear what I have to say . '' 
Richard stammered in reply . 
He gave her Mrs. Melbourne 's note . 
`` Do you love me , Richard ? '' 
Richard said this in a passion , quite wrought up . 
the reader is ready to exclaim ; and so , perhaps , was Richard . 
The truth is , Miss Eyre had formed a strong and despotic attachment for Richard . 
She had been resolved to possess him . 
Her long silence and reserve was a mode of ascertaining his inclinations . 
She heard of his engagement with Melicent , and knew how often he was at the Governor 's . 
Her communication to Mrs. Melbourne had a first object , to discover the nature of his connection with Melicent ; and , secondly , to dissolve it , and free him for herself ; and finally , if foiled herein , to be avenged upon him . 
At this meeting at Whichcomb 's , she maintained , with cardinal steadiness , a single point , -- the development of the actual state and movement of his mind and heart . 
To be avenged upon him , in the last resort , we say . 
How could that be , if she loved him ? 
Joseph could not be more astonished at the order for his arrest , than was Richard at the conduct of Miss Eyre . 
The wrong she did Richard was rather the wantonness of passion than the deliberation of insult . 
As is said , the rare and costly manuscripts used in forming the Complutensian Polyglott were used for rockets , so it seemed sometimes as if she tossed up the sacred and precious feelings of Richard 's heart merely for the pleasure of seeing them explode ; yet it is evident in this pastime her own deepest sentiments were involved also . 
Richard seemed to feel that his death was foreshadowed , while , at the same moment , Miss Eyre was loth to administer the final stroke . 
Richard said this so sternly and coldly , with look so sullen and menacing , and tone so hard and inexorable , that Miss Eyre must have seen the folly of dalliance . 
cried Richard , smiting his hand upon his brow . 
said Richard , approaching and attempting to take her hand . 
She waved him off . 
Richard took himself heavily from the house . 
Miss Eyrewas an enigma ; to Richard , certainly , and to many who may be inclined to bestow a thought upon her . 
In five minutes after Richard left , the girls dashed into the room ; and she was jocose , talkative as ever , and rattled away with the merriest of them , -- all traces of concern having vanished , and her look as bright as if she had just washed in a sunbeam . 
Richard did not recover so easily , -- indeed his power of elasticity seemed for the moment destroyed . 
To rise from the blow he had received , was an attainment in his own estimation impossible . 
He was naturally of heavier mould than Miss Eyre ; -- such , at least , would be a reasonable deduction from the facts of the case . 
He did not mention what had befallen to his sister , or to any one . 
He bore the burden alone . 
Richard was , or professed to be , a Christian ; and , like his Master , he might still have the Father with him . 
The Governor 's consequence in town rendered his movements matter of public rumor , and in this way Richard ascertained what by direct inquiry he might not have put himself upon finding out . 
He realized what was before him , and waited the progress of events , and the course of the hours , silently and awfully , as Alcestis did the unfoldings of Fate . 
It came , -- came like a thunderbolt which one expects ; bowed , tense , hot , and almost shrinking , in the suffocating silence , and dismal darkness , he hardly dare open his eyes , lest he should see himself struck . 
The house shook , and his sight reeled , and he knew it had come . 
Her note had evidently commenced with `` Dear Richard , '' and `` Dear Sir '' was the cover of a blot . 
She was in doubt what to write ; -- whether to regard Richard in the light of conscious rascality , or of scandalized innocence . 
So Richard passed before her imagination like the changing Spectre of the Brocken , -- assuming a new phase of terror , or of beauty , according to the fluctuating mood of her own mind . 
What could be done but acquiesce in Mrs. Melbourne 's foregone conclusion , that Richard be interdicted the house . 
Richard might have gone to the Governor 's , and applied tongue and person to dissipate the gloom and perplexity that rumor and speculation threw over the subject . 
He might have cast his own consciousness at the feet of Melicent , and said , `` That is my vindication ! '' 
But he was unused to extremities , -- he had had but little taste heretofore of what are called the trials of life . 
He had fortitude for distress , and boldness in danger . 
He lacked that rashness -- sometimes a virtue -- which loves a fiery peril , and possessed no dexterity adapted to the subtile and nice points of a dilemma . 
More than this , -- between Richard and the Governor 's Family was a Brocken Spectre too , dilating in portentous dimension , and guarding the passage with audacious and shadowy arms . 
Richard 's valued friends would hear of it , -- Mr. Gouch and Silver , Mangil and Nefon , Mysie and Chuk . 
`` She has turned off Richard ; the engagement is broke up . 
Presently Richard came in . 
He perceived the condition of things . 
He was composed , but a little flushed ; his lip quivered , and his voice was tremulous ; -- yet a smile shot up through his face , -- a sort of Zodiacal Light , through which might be seen the gray infinitude of his sorrow , beneath which the sun of his hope had set , while in the still vault around burned the stars of pure feeling , like vestal lamps , that burned on only because it was in their destiny never to go out . 
Roxy said nothing ; she looked at Richard , and instantly her gaze was stricken to the floor . 
Richard could but confirm to his sister what Aunt Grint had stated as to his separation from Melicent . 
But Roxy , whose keenness of penetration exceeded Richard 's wise reserve , said , in a knowing way , `` Has Plumy Alicia anything to do with it ? '' 
Richard assented , by trying to be silent . 
Now Richard nodded and added , `` I do not wish to speak of that ; I can not . '' 
His sister replied , `` I understand it ; I think I do . 
said Richard . 
When they were filing their saws , or squinting at the mark , or even bending over a cant-dog , they seemed to have one eye on Richard , -- not tauntingly , not even vulgarly curious , -- but with a sort of sympathy -- with some genuine fellowfeeling ; -- for Richard was respected and beloved in the Mill . 
If they had only spoken , -- if they had asked him something , -- it would have been a relief . 
No : he was mistaken there . 
It would do him no good . 
He could not continue the conversation . 
Silver sat on a pile of boards , and clumsily beckoned Richard to his side . 
But Silver could n't speak ; his tongue was always thick , and now it filled his mouth , -- filled it even to the exclusion of his pipe , which he was obliged to withdraw . 
The Dam , Richard could render . 
But driving in the bail-dog , -- did that mean how the iron had gone into his soul ? 
But neither Roxy nor Richard was deceived or plagued by her . 
Hitherto , Richard 's fortune only was involved , while his character remained untouched . 
But in a few days , the more depressing intelligence reached his ears , that he was under reproach , that baseness of conduct was assigned as the cause of his dismissal , and that such a statement came authentically from the Governor 's Family itself . 
If Richard had one poor virtue in common with the rest of mankind , he hardly dare present it to what he conceived would be a general attack upon him . 
He would prefer to retire from the contest . 
The river-logs , with which his early years were familiar , in a freshet , are sometimes carried high up the bank , or floated into a contiguous flat , where the receding waters suffer them to mildew , doze , and perish . 
Recent events , that had borne him a good distance from his proper source , and precipitated him down sundry cataracts , had at length landed him in a low thicket , where he was willing to die . 
He lessened his visits to the Old Town . 
One day he met Melicent . 
She stiffly bowed ; but this was owing as much to hesitancy of feeling , as to purpose of will . 
He met Glendar , and Glendar looked as if he could eat him ; and Richard felt he should not be sorry if he did . 
But Richard was a Christian , and the impulse of his life had been , doing good and being good . 
Nor could he now forget this original obligation . 
His closet , and the family altar he had helped to rear at Willow Croft , and his Bible , every day reminded him of it ; -- it caught his eye in large street-bill type on the wall of his chamber , where Pastor Harold recommended his young parishioners to post it ; Sundays , and the `` Knuckle Lane '' evenings , brought it round to him . 
There were some things in reserve for Richard . 
To be sure , if Richard was what had been represented , there could be no doubt as to the propriety of the course the Family adopted respecting him . 
Mrs. Melbourne sent a candid and polite note to Richard , informing him of what was a-foot , and inviting him to be present . 
He chose rather to appear by attorney , and Roxy went in his stead . 
`` Did not Captain Creamer order Richard to stay by the old man ? '' 
At this question and moment , a new champion of Richard appeared , in Miss Freeling , the Dressmaker . 
Moreover , by well-directed cross-questioning , Miss Eyre drew from Roxy that Richard seemed very attentive to Junia ; that he obtained board for her at Willow Croft , and , finally , that he went with her into the country . 
Mrs. Tunny corroborated Miss Eyre as to Richard 's being some time alone with her , on the back stairs , at a party at her house . 
She was at the same party , and had a long conversation with Richard ; she knew him better ; he was a noble , high-minded man . 
Mrs. Crossmore , disappointed Nurse , resident in Knuckle Lane , had seen Richard in unseemly places , at unseemly hours . 
Mrs. Xyphers , unfortunate woman , divorced from her husband , fooled by Clover , now a crony , now an enemy of Miss Eyre , -- broken in spirit , confused in judgment , distrustful of everybody , -- was induced to say , what she believed to be true , that she had no doubt Richard was base and unprincipled . 
Miss Elbertina Lucetta attempted no more than the confirmation of Mrs. Whichcomb 's story , that Richard was at the house , suspiciously , one winter night . 
Mrs. Mellow , Tract-distributor , had been in all parts of the city ; she had tried the public pulse on the Knuckle Lane movement , raked for opposition to it , and collected whatever gossiping items might work against it , or its originators ; and she was able to recount some things that reflected , not positively , she said , but presumptively , on Richard . 
But , from a little personal acquintance , she knew him to be self-willed , bold , froward , and an instructor of evil things ; and she was ready to believe anything of him . 
She was not inclined to side with Mrs. Melbourne , but she saw no loop-hole of extrication for Richard . 
Where , in all this matter , were Richard 's obvious excellences ? 
where his piety , his benevolence , his heroism ? 
where his straightforward consistency , and his transparent probity of character ? 
This was her position : she attributed the virtues of Richard to ambition , and his vices to intention . 
A feeling lurked in her heart , withal , which Mrs. Mellow more broadly hinted , that one of Richard 's birth , connections , and calling , was ill-adapted for an inmate in the Governor 's Family . 
In plain terms , the Governor 's Family did not perfectly understand Richard ; certainly the Mrs. Melbournism of the Family did not . 
It will be remembered , moreover , that the evidence elicited at Whichcomb 's was not primary , but secondary ; not essential , but tributary ; and , coming as it did on the heel of Miss Eyre 's more private communications , and in the way of incidental circumstance , which some are so profound as to tell us never lies , and confirming in all points what had been directly asserted , it led to an overwhelming verdict against Richard . 
Roxy reported proceedings at Willow Croft ; but Richard , as if he had foreseen the course of things , manifested no alarm . 
He had been so diligently racked , an additional turn of the screw could not aggravate his distress . 
If he had any lingering hopes of a favorable turn of affairs , or plausible scheme for recovering the ground he had lost , these were finally blasted . 
The little radicles of a tree adhere tenaciously to the bank in which they have been nourished , after the rising flood has mastered the branches and trunk , and even undermined the main body of the root itself ; so the tenderness of nature cleaves to objects in which it has had delight , when all energy and resolution have given out ; but this fond hold of sentiment and feeling in Richard broke at last . 
The change in Roxy , so noble and so visible , gave her husband almost as much delight as the sorrow of Richard did pain ; and especially as that change employed itself upon the sorrow , and was an alleviation of it , and a visit of queenliness unto it ; and as it rejoiced Richard so , and made him sometimes almost forget his sorrow , and made his sorrow seem so like a dark night full of glow-worms , Munk could not but keep some of his old flow of spirits . 
Richard would try to be good , but he found it hard to be happy . 
Sometimes Richard gasped from a certain internal hollow of pain ; sometimes cold prickles ran over him from head to foot , as if one were leisurely sprinkling him with a water-pot full of fleas and frost ; sometimes he played with the children , but languidly , as an invalid takes a ride , and not so much entering into the pleasure of the thing , as that the pleasure of the thing may enter into him ; sometimes he fell heavily on his bed , -- sometimes he paced energetically his chamber ; now he would be all strung up , and clenched , and wiry , -- again he was flaccid , limpsy , dissoluble as water . 
He did not shed many tears , but there was a sort of burning aridness , combined with a swollen tightness , back of his eyes ; at one time , he read all the papers , -- at another , he devoted his leisure to looking from the window . 
Roxy was good to him , -- very good . 
She made him the best cup of tea , boiled his potatoes in the mealiest way , lightened up the bread till it lay in slices on the plate like tiers of new honeycomb from the Patent boxes . 
If she could have asked him how he did , instead of complimenting the morning to him ; if she could have looked at his tongue , instead of half ignoring his presence ; if she could have asked him what she should do for him , instead of having to try to do so much ; if she could have just inquired if he would have some arrow-root , or green peas without butter , or a rasher of pork ; if she could have had the privilege of keeping the children still , instead of feeling obliged to urge them to entertain their Uncle ; if she could have driven off the man with the hand-organ and the monkey , instead of tempting him with a few cents to the gate , to grind his organ , and make his monkey dance ; -- then it would seem to be better . 
But there was Richard 's Motto ; sometimes it seemed to fly out of the wall , like a wasp , and sting him in the face when he looked at it . 
Hemust adjust himself to what was about him . 
He must ascertain the extent of his obligations and deficits , and square accounts with existence . 
He had relations to mankind that involved a personal attention , -- offices to fill or resign , -- scenes to be visited or abandoned . 
he asked . 
He was teacher in the same Sunday-school with Melicent and Barbara , one of whom had a class in the vestry , directly fronting him . 
One Sabbath he was at his post ; but he imagined he could not repeat the endeavor . 
It was not so much a cross which he would heroically bear , as an execution that it were wise to dispense with . 
He told his class , with some emotion , he should instruct them no more , but that he should be happy to see them at Willow Croft . 
Richard seemed to have the feeling that he was an offensive word in the sacred text of those movements in which he had been engaged , -- movements that he reverenced and loved , -- and that he ought to betake himself to the margin . 
Richard had friends , -- friends for adversity , -- who adhered to him whatever might befall . 
Some of his Knuckle Lane associates , believing in his integrity , not only loaned him a generous confidence , but would incite him to vindicate his position , and repossess himself of what Mrs. Melbournism had taken away . 
But nothing could dissuade Richard from letting those matters alone . 
Now , Richard made some mistakes , and one very plain one . 
He exaggerated the consequence that attached to his person and action , and seemed to imagine there was a public excitement about his affairs . 
The city appeared to him one great eye ; and that eye , like the sun , looking straight down upon him , and making his shadow the measure of its intensity . 
This turn of Richard 's mind was not an uncommon one . 
Whatever he undertook , Richard might feel it would be entitled , `` By the author of a Certain Disturbance ! '' 
We have said Richard 's heart , among other vagaries , got into his eyes and ears . 
We say Richard made a mistake . 
Yet it might have been difficult for him to be correct . 
His great sorrow held up the world to his view as in a kaleidoscope , which by invisible hands it kept turning round ; and , at each revolution , men and women , -- his fellow-beings , -- like the glass and beads in the toy aforesaid , tumbled into unexpected groups , and darted off with every conceivable expression . 
It would be hard to determine his precise footing with such folks . 
For the most part , he left the public walks , and attached himself to the Saw-mill and Willow Croft . 
`` The importance which every man supposes himself to be of '' assumed an unusual aspect , and dilated in extraordinary proportions , in Richard 's mind , about this time . 
He never had such a realization of himself before . 
If he would ever be great , he never felt himself so large , never experienced such an exaggerated consciousness , as now . 
He seemed aforetime to have lost sight of his own existence and individuality ; and now that existence and individuality , -- whatever he had done or been , -- all the plans he had engaged in , -- all the intercourse he had enjoyed , -- seemed to confront him , and inflesh before his eyes , and well up in his heart , and to be himself , and to double himself , and to shut out from his attention all things but his attention . 
He had no idea of what he had attained , until compelled to retreat , and contemplate his ground from a distance . 
One measures his height more by his fall than by his rise . 
One falls with a crash , -- he goes up with a kind of buoyancy . 
Sometimes he exclaimed , with Job , `` O that I were as in months past , -- as I was in the days of my youth ! '' 
He wished himself like the boy David , a keeper of sheep again in his father 's pasture ; -- he sighed for the obscurity and silence of the old forests where he had cut timber and slept on boughs . 
He wished that he had never left the station of slip-tender , under Captain Creamer ; -- he envied his own boy , the shingle-sticker . 
came to be quite familiar to Richard . 
It was all that remained to him in the way of expression . 
The whole course of his days seemed to have suddenly struck into a funeral procession , and the noise of the world to be a beat of the muffled drum , and he himself to be keeping slow and measured tread , as he moved downwards to obscurity and silence . 
Yet Richard recollected duty , and strove to carry forward the intention , if he was obliged to deviate from the method , of his former goodness . 
He went occasionally to Elder Jabson 's evening meetings , in the neighborhood of Willow Croft . 
The Elder was kind and attentive to Richard , and , waiving reproachful considerations , treated him as a friend and brother . 
Richard spoke on the subject with some warmth , and not a little judgment . 
He explained that the anticipated Coming of our Lord , so far as concerned this world , was a spiritual phenomenon ; -- that it was to be realized in the heart and life , and to be fulfilled in the amelioration of society and progress of the race . 
The fire , said he , is that which consumes iniquity . 
The idea of atmospheric convulsions and geological ruin , he said , originated in error and superstition ; and he explained how , in every age and in various places , it had been productive of terrible evils and unspeakable wretchedness . 
He must have been indebted for some of his facts to Pastor Harold . 
Then he expatiated with fervor , and almost a Pythian boldness , on the power , solemnity and grandeur , of the real coming of Jesus . 
We shall have cause to thank God in the day of eternity for Brother Edney 's word . 
Richard felt refreshed , that night , by the vision of Jesus that had been kindled in his imagination . 
Richard was a good and sincere singer , and Roxy not only knew that the pathos of his voice truly interpreted the condition of his soul , but she felt how with a certain choking resoluteness of heart , and solemn , painful heroism of intent , he sang . 
The next day , obedient to the feeling of the night before , he purchased a small golden cross , which he lodged carefully within his vest , and wore over his heart . 
Every night he hung it up directly under his Motto . 
Richard would still do good ; nor was he without opportunity . 
Outside of the large and tempting field where he had so long labored , and from which he imagined himself in a sense banished , in the `` margin '' of things where he lived , he found enclosures , or rather wastes , that demanded Christian attention , and appealed to Christian fidelity . 
In this , Richard did not forget the Griped Hand and the Church . 
He loved and would serve both ; and hoped that he might make of these Wild Olives , as he called them , plants that would do to graft on the domestic and civilized stock , and such as might adorn and bless those higher spheres to which he hoped ultimately to commit them . 
-- approached Richard , as he was `` shutting down '' the Mill , one day , in his lively way ; his little eyes pleasantly snapping , his left finger playing about his ear , and his right knee crooking rather antic-like . 
`` An investment , '' said he . 
In plain words , '' he continued , `` I have embarked in hens . 
Not deep , but high , -- high , I call it ; so ; '' -- he marked an altitude with his hand in the air . 
Richard was ready , and Munk consented . 
Richard ordered up the lumber , and Mangil superintended the structure . 
Munk liked to eat eggs ; Roxy liked to cook eggs ; Memmy liked to bring them in in a basket ; and Bebby liked to hold one in her hand , -- just once , -- just a little , -- so softly , -- so shrinkingly ; and Richard and the Broker liked to count the profits . 
There were so many questions , withal , about lime , sand , water , oats , barley , and what not ; and how to prevent a hen setting when she was a mind to , and how to make her set when she was not a mind to ; and which was best , one large egg , or two small ones ; and about the value of the different importations ; and there were so many persons to see the hennery , and so many inquiries to be answered , and so many suggestions to be considered , and so many wipes to be parried ; -- it was altogether exciting business ; and it was just the sort of excitement that Richard needed . 
Roxy said he did ; and that this was a trick of his . 
So our reader will have gone over that passage , and a short one it is , in Chapter V. , where allusion is made to certain business transactions between the elder Edney and Governor Dennington ; and will remember -- it is a trifle -- that the former was under indentures to the latter as relating to his farm ; and that one of Richard 's objects in coming to Woodylin was to obtain means for cancelling this contract . 
He took from a large file the papers in question , computed the interest , counted the money , and gave Richard a receipt . 
Richard arose to leave , when , as if a new thought had struck him , taking a gold piece from his pocket , he extended it towards the Governor , and , with suppressed emotion , said , `` Sir , I received that , two or three years since , upon resigning a horse , whose fright in the street had arrested my attention . 
`` I do not wish to keep it , '' reiterated Richard , growing paroxysmal inside . 
`` Will you have the kindness , Sir , '' pursued Richard , `` to receive back that which suggests nothing pleasant to my memory ? '' 
The Governor did not , or could not , or would not , enter into the spirit of Richard 's tender ; he merely replied , `` It is not mine , -- it is yours . '' 
He opened his day-book , and appeared to be making an entry . 
Richard would have thrown the gold into the fireplace , or out of the window ; but the manner of the Governor would not allow this , and , finally , forced it back into his pocket . 
Richard was a little piqued , and a little surprised ; and on his way home he could but wonder , partly at himself , and partly at the Governor . 
Richard went to the office with any quantity of misgivings and chokings , yet the Governor did not , in any way , appear to be cognizant of , or willing to revive , disagreeable recollections . 
This puzzled Richard . 
Yet he alluded unreservedly to his daughter , and pleasantly to the reminiscences of Richard , who , on the whole , felt better after the interview than before . 
We oppose the example of Richard , point-blank , to that theory . 
He would gladly be rid of money . 
Again , it is asserted that the golden eagle is one of the American gods ; nay , furthermore , Richard held in his hand a veritable golden eagle , which he would cheerfully have flung to the depths of Tartarus , into the face of Pluto himself , if he could ; -- a fact worthy of consideration . 
This we suggest to those of our readers who do not affect the golden eagle , or the fustian eagle , and yet are like the mountain eagle , in the grandeur of their flight , intensity of their gaze , terror of their swoop , and especially in the way they pounce upon another of their tribe , the fish-hawk , to disgorge him of his prey . 
As Richard was walking , towards dusk , turning the corner of St. Agnes-street , he saw Melicent slowly approaching the gate of her father 's house . 
Here she stopped , and stood looking in a direction opposite from him . 
She had on the same blue shirred bonnet , white cashmere shawl with dark spots , and blue muslin dress , -- the same that Richard had seen before . 
Richard 's heart went to throbbing , of course . 
It was as if the sight diffused a fragrance , in which all his senses swam . 
If Richard had been a German , he would have wept ; if an Italian , torn his hair ; if a Frenchman , leaped towards the beloved one . 
He was an American , and did not know what to do . 
He could not remain stationary ; he dared not advance . 
As he was about to retreat , or , rather , make a detour across the street , on the opposite walk he beheld Miss Eyre . 
She was loitering , and had evidently been watching him and Melicent . 
But in this direction , his eye encountered the person of Clover , partially concealed by the twilight shadows of the trees , who had been reconnoitring all three . 
Fly , sink , burst ; he would have rejoiced in any slight miracle , or , as he was sufficiently distended , why not , like a kernel of corn in the fire , permit him to pop out of his dilemma , and drop , say , into his little chamber at Willow Croft ? 
There was the glimmer of an equivocal smile on Miss Eyre 's face ; Clover satanically gloated ; Melicent had her back towards him , with her eyes on the clouds . 
She went through the gate , and into the house , and made an escape at once for Richard 's person and alarm . 
For instance , that in this last incident , while there is much said , there is an omission of what is essential to the right feeling of the scene , -- to wit , that the dress of Melicent , the contour of her person , the verisimilitude of her motion , the way she rested her arm on the gate , had been endeared to Richard by the deepest of all associations -- love . 
That the gate-post supplanted his arm , and he must needs be pained at the interference . 
That the contrast between the pleasant past and the dismal present was provoking ; that his heart was inflamed with a sense of repulsed , disdained love , that still loved on . 
That night , as sometimes happened , Bebby slept with Richard . 
Richard raised himself on his elbow , and bent over the unconscious enchanter with mingled agony and ecstasy . 
It was as if a vision of beauty and repose had been lent to him from some far off heaven . 
It was as if his own innocency and early promise had been collected out of his life , and laid in breathing form at his side . 
Was it his Childhood come back to mock him ? 
Was it put there to reinspire him ? 
He worked his fingers in his dark hair , till it hung in tangled locks over the pearly fairness before him , and his worried brow contrasted strongly with the calm face of the little one . 
He kissed the child , inhaled its balsamic breath , and laid down by the side of it to sleep . 
Everybody was abroad that day , and Richard , with Memmy and Bebby , followed in the wake . 
Richard 's enjoyment seemed rather to lie behind him , in the children , than before him , in the scenes of the occasion . 
He appeared to be hauling his pleasures along , instead of going in pursuit of them . 
He labored under the mistake we have commented upon . 
There were , at a moderate computation , 30,000 people in the city and in the streets thereof , that morning , and all recreating ; and how few knew anything of Richard , and how fewer were intent on anything else than happiness , or were unwilling that everybody should be happy too ! 
Richard found this out before the day was over , and that he had really nothing else to do but forget himself , and care and sorrow , and be as happy as the rest . 
He found out , too , that he was not of any consequence compared with a show-bill of the Theatre , which a jam of people on the side-walk were almost in a quarrel to see , and never thought of opening for him to pass . 
We have not said that Richard had anything to do in getting this up ; -- he had , nevertheless . 
He was on the committee of arrangements ; and , if less conspicuous , was as effective as any . 
This committee wore red sashes ; -- Richard omitted the badge . 
Richard was so caught up , subdued , or etherized , or whatever it be , by the pleasantness of the hour , he saw Miss Eyre pass without a pang , and beheld Melicent in the distance without emotion , unless it be that of simple gladness . 
As he stood , with the two children in front of him , on a seat , Mangil approached , with Melicent and Helen the Good on his arm . 
Mangil bowed , and Richard bowed , and they all bowed ; and Mangil took Richard 's hand , and so did Helen the Good , and Richard and Melicent exchanged the same compliment . 
Richard replied that he did . 
`` It is a great treat to them , '' rejoined Richard . 
The children showed a joyous excitement when they saw Melicent ; but Richard had the advantage of them , and kept them still . 
Mangil , being one of the committee , wore a sash , and , alluding pleasantly to Richard 's want of it , said , `` You are not in authority to-night . '' 
`` It goes off of itself , '' replied Richard . 
At this moment , a lamp fell in the rear of Richard , and there was a shriek in the crowd . 
said Richard , starting for the scene of alarm . 
Richard helped bear her to a seat , where , with due application of fans , and water from the brook , she presently recovered . 
Richard returned to the children , whom he found alone with Melicent . 
`` I was apprehensive , '' said Richard , `` in the haste of preparation , that some of the lamps were not made sufficiently fast . 
`` It was Miss Eyre , '' replied Richard . 
`` I should like it , '' said Richard . 
As Richard had received and conversed with Melicent , so he saw her retire , without agitation . 
He did watch the rose-bud in her hair , till it was lost in a thicket of flowers and the glimmering distance . 
The sentimentalist asks , how could Richard keep his countenance and heart , during such an interview with Melicent ? 
But , interposes the lady judge , that may answer for Richard ; -- it does not explain Melicent . 
Besides , it may be stated that the love both of Richard and Melicent was founded , as Miss Edgeworth would say , on esteem , and not on impulse ; and this will afford some key to their subsequent conduct , throughout . 
Richard had arisen to her eye a splendid model of a human being ; and to see this shattered by one blow , must needs distress her . 
But she had supports that Richard wanted ; -- one , in the unequivocalness of her position ; another , in the multitude of her friends ; a third , in the abundant and elegant ministries of her daily life . 
I am saddened by Richard , and for him . 
He was so purely princely to my imagination , I am slow to comprehend his vulgarity . 
My attention was first called to the heroism , simplicity , and modesty , of his outward life . 
My interest was awakened by contact with his sentiments . 
I first knew his heart , -- was introduced to his reflections , and , so to say , made the journey of his principles and purposes ; and found myself a lover . 
I loved him as soul can love soul , as sympathy yearns for sympathy , as weakness is won by strength , as aspiration adores grandeur . 
Was he great enough to deceive me ? 
Richard gave little heed to him , until , at length , he would be heeded . 
He sat with his feet tossing on the mill-chain , -- an endless chain , revolving on a toothed shaft , and running through the entire width of the building , employed to haul logs from the basin up the slip to the bed . 
He blew out the contents of his mouth in studied and very dramatic directions . 
With his fists he seemed to be kneading the air into strange shapes , which he wished Richard to look at . 
`` I will be obliged to you to regard my feet , in disposing of your humor , '' said Richard , punning and reproachful . 
`` I shall trouble you to remove your feet from that chain , '' said Richard . 
`` I only meant , '' replied Richard , `` if you did not stand back , you might get hurt . '' 
Richard had become considerably aroused , to say the least , by these words of Clover ; and could not help but suspect him . 
`` Speak plain , '' he said . 
`` Come this way , '' said Richard , and called the fellow to the rear of the building . 
`` I know her , '' replied Richard . 
`` Adam , '' replied Richard ; waiting to see what would come . 
It flashed upon Richard , -- nay , it blazed and burnt upon him , as if the sun had fallen at his feet , -- that Clover was back of the difficulty with Miss Eyre , and beneath it ; remedilessly , diabolically , and everlastingly , there ; and , staggering at the thought , `` Good God ! '' 
said Richard ; `` no more ! 
Richard clasped his hands bitterly , and exclaimed , `` O my Father ! 
The Mill-men , as if a serious disturbance had arisen , with axes and poles , ran forward ; and , at a word from Richard , it seemed as if they would have struck Clover dead . 
Richard waved them into silence , and Clover strode from the spot . 
Ona previous page , we undertook to say what a Tale , with Richard and sundry things in it , was like . 
We did not state what Richard , with sundry things in him , was like . 
How , with emotion succeeding emotion , excitement spooming across excitement , and the suppression of all elementary hope and life , could he exist at all ? 
We found him joyous and glad in `` Knuckle Lane '' and Melicent , upset by Miss Eyre , trembling before Melicent at the gate , calm in Mayflower Glen , lively in the Hennery , and now `` crushed '' by Clover . 
What is left of Richard now ? 
Let him have a good night 's sleep , some one says , and he will wake up feeling better . 
The great reaper , Sorrow , did seem to have clipped Richard close and clean , and stooked him out for aye ; but there remained charity , truth , duty , and absolute submission to God . 
And Richard had the spirit of Christ ; -- or , at least , we shall for the present beg so much out of the main question at issue . 
He was so thoroughly in the feeling of his Master , that , in this his last trial , as it were instinctively and unconsciously , he expressed himself in those words which have become a formula of agony and piety in all ages . 
His moral existence , his self-counterpoise , his capability of sustained exertion , would seem to be annihilated by the unremitting stroke of misfortune ; yet he lived and worked on . 
We hope there was one in Richard . 
Hekept up his Ragged School , and did his best to tame the Wild Olives . 
And in this charity he chanced upon two singular and very unexpected co-laborers . 
The Captain had become reduced in estate and in feeling , -- so much so , as to beg small favors in money from Richard , whom he had both patronized and abused . 
This tested Richard 's Christian principle . 
Would he assist a man who had so annoyed him ? 
He did , -- he was kind to the Captain when others abandoned him . 
Under these circumstances , Richard not only helped him , but was able to secure his help . 
He told him there was work to be done in the Ragged School , and prevailed with him to unite in that enterprise . 
The Green Grocer had fallen , too , -- failed , and , like Richard , was crushed . 
Worse than the mice , whose inroads he so pathetically described , the vanity and folly of his wife had undermined him . 
He was reduced to what `` the law allowed , '' -- less then than now ; everything else , even to his credit and good name , fled . 
It was rumored that he gambled ; -- and this hurt him . 
Richard visited him in his bereavement , and his wife in her despair , and was a comforter unto both . 
Richard found employment in the Mill for Theodoric , their son . 
The Sailmaker , who had married their daughter Faustina , and between whom and Mrs. Tunny alienation never slumbered , Richard reconciled , and persuaded him to commiserate his mother-in-law , and take her to live with him . 
The husband he summoned in his train of beneficence . 
It made Roxy smile to see Richard start off for the Point , of a Sunday afternoon , with his two fellow-missionaries , on their work of mercy . 
There was a little pleasant reäction in Richard 's favor . 
Captain Creamer repented him of the wrong he did to Richard , in refusing to testify before the court of females at Whichcomb 's . 
He knew it was his authoritative injunction that caused Richard to stay in the chamber with the Old Man and orphan girls . 
He would make reparation . 
Unknown to Richard , who would not have suffered it , he went to Miss Freeling , -- a sort of flame of the Captain 's earlier and better days , -- and reported the facts . 
Miss Rowena , while she could not doubt Richard 's wrongdoing , still felt that he had been harshly disposed of by Mrs. Melbourne . 
In discussing the matter with the latter , she even went so far as to seem to clear him altogether . 
Would Richard be willing to go and see her ? 
`` It can alter nothing , '' replied Richard . 
But go he must . 
It was midsummer , and Richard had had his Night 's Dream ; and he would be glad of daylight , -- he would be glad of rest and recreation . 
So he set off with Winkle on the road he had formerly traversed . 
Winkle was kind to Richard , as he was to everybody , and did all in his power to cheer the journey . 
What on his former ride had really interested and delighted Richard , in Winkle and in the way , now had a melo-dramatic effect , that served to divert him . 
Richard at length reached the house whither he had originally conveyed Junia . 
The Old Man , her grandfather , was still alive , but weak and infirm ; and he remembered the kindness Richard had done unto him . 
There were many things that operated to remind Richard of his own home and childhood , and recall the days of his innocent and unfettered existence . 
The woodbine , that veiled the front of the house , rolled its tide of verdure over the roof , and shaded the snug parlor , was like one he himself set out , and had recently seen , in Green Meadow . 
They welcomed Richard with rural hospitality to rural joys . 
But sickness and sorrow are so much alike , this impression gradually assimilated with the prevailing mood of Richard 's mind ; his sensations became toned down to the color of Junia , and he seemed in spirit to be brought very near unto her . 
The Old Man presaged the result , and , with decrepit hilarity , instructed Richard in the fatal signs , and demonstrated the veritableness of his predictions . 
She went with Richard into the fields , and took a long walk with him to a spring in the mountains ; he helped her trim and relay the flowers in the garden . 
Richard imparted his distress to Junia , and she was prompt to reply to it . 
Junia loved Richard , -- not with an impatient , or imperious , or forestalling love , -- but with a deep , strong love ; -- a love constant , if not adhesive , -- a love that remembered , even if it was deficient in attention . 
Richard 's piety and charity , his delicate and constant assiduity , his devotion to her sister Violet , and subsequent care of herself , at that early period when this Tale opens , won upon the heart of Junia , raised her mere enjoyment of goodness to some desire of its possession , carried her from the common ground of friendship and esteem to that sometimes called hazardous verge , where such feelings slide into love , -- slide unwittingly and unpurposely into it ; -- into a love that does not announce itself , but lives in the shadow of things about it , -- lives , nun-like , in its own mystery , and novelty , and blessedness ; -- and , perhaps , like the nightingale , sings all the more sweetly for its confinement and seclusion . 
Richard , at the time , had some dim and unheeding impression of the fact . 
Having early consecrated herself to Richard , Plumy Alicia was jealous of any intervention or rivalry . 
She was witness of Richard 's fidelity in the sick chamber ; she followed Junia when she went to Willow Croft , and , by methods peculiar to herself , learned the secret that otherwise might have slumbered forever in the Orphan 's breast . 
Mrs. Eyre relied upon what she knew for the accomplishment of her subsequent purposes , or rather to prevent Richard accomplish his . 
She believed that Junia , deeply attached to Richard , would not lend an influence to facilitate his inclinations for another , and would prefer , of the two , rather to widen , than close , the breach between him and Melicent . 
Richard trusted the magnanimity of a virtuous heart ! 
The short and decisive inquiry he had to make of Junia , whether his conduct towards her was open to question , she answered with a prompt No ! 
he added , with energy . 
Richard looked at the flickering branches of the tree overhead . 
`` It is the mystery of my existence , '' replied Richard , `` that I do when I may not , and the discipline which my heavenly Father imposes , that I must when I can not . '' 
This declaration startled Richard . 
He thought he knew what it meant , and feared there was more meaning than he would be able to manage . 
She laid her hand upon his shoulder ; then , taking his arm , they walked into the house . 
It was a delightful home she had , and Richard was made very happy there , and the family kept him many days . 
He would hardly be sorry if it were decreed they should keep him always there . 
Rarely had he seen the sun shine on so pleasant a spot , -- rarely had he seen so pleasant a spot , when there was no sun . 
If Richard ever felt drawn towards any human being , -- if he ever felt repaid a thousand times over for all he had done for any one , -- if he ever felt thankfulness at relief , like a sudden recoil in the jaws of a vice that held him , -- he felt this now in respect of Junia . 
To a paper , like a deposition , or affidavit , vindicating Richard from the calumny promulgated by Mrs. Whichcomb , and behind which Miss Eyre intrenched herself , comprising , likewise , the warmest and most forcible allusions to his probity and sincerity , Junia affixed her signature , as did likewise her Grandfather . 
With this , Richard returned to Woodylin . 
Miss Freeling , who became a sort of messenger between Richard and the Governor 's Family , told him how Miss Rowena was pleased with the paper ; -- beyond this , she could say nothing , and Richard expected nothing . 
In this , still , he was repaid for his journey ; and added to this , his spirits seemed to revive in the remembrance of Junia . 
He wrote to her , and she to him ; and her letters were as music in the night of his sorrows . 
Clover clenched the nail of Richard 's calamity , which Miss Eyre had already driven to the head ; and despair becoming a habit and law of his mind , and getting himself used to it , it offered less and less obstruction to the routine of his days , and uniformity of his feelings . 
He bowed to the will of Heaven , and addressed himself with firmness and sobriety to the days of the years of his pilgrimage . 
He read his Bible more diligently , -- not to repine with Job , but to invigorate himself on Paul , and especially to imitate his Master , who went about doing good . 
Richard seemed to belong to this class , for Roxy declared his face was white as a sheet ; but Aunt Grint , more lenient than those priests who ordered hair-shirts in addition , recommended the extract of valerian , under which he visibly amended . 
Richard especially , as he seemed to have derived the seeds of the good he was able to effect from the Church , was most happy in being permitted to return thither some of the fruit . 
Richard 's old pupils of the Sabbath-school visited him , and he took them to see his `` Olive-garden , '' and they assisted him in cultivating it . 
Dr. Broadwell and Parson Smith honored Richard with a visit . 
These gentlemen , while they supposed Richard essentially culpable , relied on his judgment and discretion , and could not question his good intentions . 
Parson Smith , indeed , had frequently seen Richard , and believing in the soundness of his piety and purity of his aims , notwithstanding the darkness that shrouded portions of his history , and seeing , as he thought , every token of contrition , was unwilling that his relations to the Church and Christian people should materially change . 
If he were a sinner before God , the Parson argued , he had better keep within reach of the appointed means of grace . 
They called to converse with Richard on the Theatre , circuses , and similar things , that were the pests of recreation , and corrupted the proper pastime of the people . 
So these Churchmen thought , and Richard with them . 
Both these divines , in conversation with Richard , wholly forgot that Richard was a bad man . 
Richard was an atom distressed by a letter from Junia , in which , after announcing the death of her grandfather , she says , `` I am going to Woodylin . 
I long to be where Violet is buried and Richard suffers . 
Richard replied , begging her not to come . 
Her presence , while it would rejoice him , would do his cause no good ; -- that was past attempt , or hope . 
Her health , he said , would be endangered . 
Richard gave instructions to Winkle , -- who was on the alert for whatever was pathetic , as well as prompt in what was purely commercial , on his route , -- to be mindful of Junia , and bring her safely . 
But Winkle could manage better than Richard . 
Out of this , '' -- he touched Richard with his whip , -- `` no more sulking ! 
This was concise and forcible , -- rather too much so for Richard , in his present weak state . 
He would fain have an explanation . 
But Richard learned as much as this , -- that Climper liked Richard and the Governor 's Family ; -- there may have been cause from the fact that the Governor and his Family , and the coaches belonging to Munk , Richard 's brother-in-law , often visited Merrywater , and were profitable customers of Climper ; -- that he had heard of the rupture between them , and possessed , as he imagined , a clue to the origin of it in Clover . 
Once , being out with them on the pond , and drowsily tending the tiller , and , as they thought , sleeping , he overheard Clover urging Miss Eyre to the assault of Richard , and particularly suggesting the method of approach , through Mrs. Melbourne . 
He thought little of it at the time , -- believed Richard could take care of himself . 
But a party , comprising Captain Creamer , Mangil , Helen the Good , and Miss Freeling , being at his house , told him of the disastrous and irretrievable result . 
He would lead Richard to the Governor 's . 
Richard drew back . 
`` That 's pleasant , '' said he . 
He laid his hand on Richard 's collar . 
`` I am not much used to women and children , '' he said . 
If Richard knew this , he would be wiser than he is now . 
We must teach him . '' 
If Climper pulled at Richard 's collar , Aunt Grint seemed to drub his shoulders . 
Richard took his hat , and went with Climper . 
Reluctantly , and with a shudder of trepidation , he allowed himself to be taken to and through the Governor 's gate , and across the yard , and up the piazza , and face to face with the great front-door . 
Cousin took a seat on the sofa by Richard . 
Glendar sat very stiffly in a chair , with his hand in his vest . 
Climper , in his way , related the plot Clover had concerted against the peace of Richard and the Family . 
Barbara trembled , and Richard , too . 
It raised a storm , in which Richard would fain have got away . 
She did not deign to address Richard . 
Mrs. Melbourne said this with a tone so terrible , and a look so scathing , Richard could not contain himself , and quite abruptly left the house . 
He did , however , hear other words which Mrs. Melbourne uttered , with a loud and almost tragic emphasis -- `` You must see , Barbara , that Clover 's agency do n't alter Miss Eyre 's wrongs , nor that fellow 's baseness ! '' 
These words , and the ring of the voice , adhered to Richard all the way home . 
Shecame to the relief of Richard 's spirits , and , as it were , to the care of his hands ; and in the last , perhaps , carried out the idea of the first , since a little outward oversight of this sort , and secular responsibility , could do him no harm . 
Simon brought her in the best manner Winkle could devise . 
She entered softly and quietly , with an air of lofty purpose , united to a sense of delicate position ; her face was not so much sickly pale , as subdued by spiritual concern ; her voice was sweet , but evening-like ; her eye was mellow with love and enthusiasm . 
She kissed Roxy and the children . 
After tea , she sat in the rocking-chair in the parlor . 
The twilight , -- that blush with which Night introduces her starry train to the world , -- from over dun hills , crossing silent hollows and entering the room through the cool trees Richard had planted in the yard , -- was reflected in the pure and exalted fervor of her countenance . 
`` I have but one duty in life , Richard , '' she said , `` and that is to thee ; my next is to join the Immortals . 
Almost as if she were divinely inspired , Richard was subdued before Junia , and ventured no remonstrance to the course of her inclinations . 
She had changed since he saw her ; she was feebler , but more resolved , -- less unreserved in her love , but more selfforgetful in its intents , -- very cheerful and very serious . 
Simon , who had risen from stable-boy to hack-driver , who loved to serve Richard , and continued to sing , with new pathos to Richard 's ear , that melancholy refrain , like a fragment from the ruin of some old dirge which he carried about with him , was ordered to bring up the invalid coach . 
Fair to the senses , her aspect was still more affecting to the imagination ; and Richard , sacredly moved , drew from under his vest , where he had so sadly worn it , the small golden cross , which he reverently hung on her neck . 
Richard would have done more than hand her into the carriage , -- he would go with her ; but she said , `` Not now . '' 
He could do little else than listen to the wailing cavatina of the boy , as he drove off with the precious minister to his peace . 
`` I wish to speak of Richard . '' 
Junia said this with an emphasis that quite thrilled Melicent , who , at once surprised and awed , echoed , `` Richard ! '' 
`` I came , '' said Junia , when they were seated , `` to interdece for Richard . 
I know him to be pure and good . 
I have long known him so . 
And you , Melicent , -- you have known him so . 
`` He has erred , -- he may have sinned ; but his sin is not beyond forgiveness or removal . 
It is lost in the depth of his piety , -- it is swept away by his virtues , as a leaf on the river . '' 
`` I do not think of that , '' answered Melicent , strongly agitated ; `` I think beyond that , of him . '' 
`` And he loves you ! '' 
`` The lover and the bride of Richard , '' calmly replied Junia . 
`` Such I plead with thee for him -- '' `` What do I hear ? '' 
I love Richard ; -- I loved him for his greatness and his purity ; I loved him with the instinct of girlhood , -- I have loved him with the meditativeness of womanhood . 
because you love him . 
He , too , suffers . 
I have been near his heart ; I have heard its lonely anguish ; I have felt its tortured throbs . 
I love his happiness ; and his happiness is your love ; and the happiness of you both is your mutual reünion . 
I am his bride , but through you . 
My love for him I give to you . 
And when , in the rapture of being , you can call him your own , remember , oh remember , that one , young and inexperienced , -- too susceptible , perhaps too constant , -- that Junia loved him too ! '' 
`` I am simple Junia , '' replied the other ; `` but hear me ; -- I am brided to Richard 's and your felicity . 
I put on this little array , such as a fond girl 's heart might choose ; clothing not my body , but an irrepressible promise of things in my soul ; clothing , it may be , some old , pleasant feelings , that once wished to be the bride of Richard ; clothing , too , the brief remaining hour of my life for marriage with the ideal vision which your union with him is to my mind , -- the union of Wealth and Worth , -- of Refinement and Nobleness , -- of Richard and Melicent ! '' 
I am called to the spirit land , -- let me bless you and Richard ere I go -- '' Her voice faltered ; blood on her lips betrayed the violent hemorrhage that succeeded . 
What remained , that Richard should not be immediately summoned , and the reconciliation celebrated ? 
If Richard is recalled , she must be banished ; his exoneration is her perdition . 
She saw Junia supplicating Melicent for Richard ; she saw woman 's heart yielding heroically to rival supremacy ; she saw a young girl 's gushing , undying affection , sacrificing itself on the altar of another 's love . 
That Richard would kill you , if he were left to himself one moment ! 
I have seen him strike a horse that was all in a foam of sweat . 
you shall marry Richard . 
If Richard has wronged you , and you still love him , you shall have him . 
-- There , there ; I will never speak against Richard again . '' 
`` Did you love Richard ? '' 
`` You know I loved him , '' replied Junia . 
`` And you gave him up ? '' 
You will not make Richard unhappy , will you ? 
You will not do anything to distress his noble spirit , will you ? 
You have been weeping ; you will never weep again when Richard is happy ; -- you will be happy too . '' 
`` I could not go into the next world , -- and we must all go there , -- with the sin of unkindness to Richard , and Melicent , and all these excellent ones , on my soul . '' 
The same day , Miss Rowena did slip away to Willow Croft , but simply to tell them how Junia was , and to tell Richard how nobly she had vindicated him . 
She dared only allude to Miss Eyre ; and Richard , perhaps , wished her to do no more than that . 
He had himself a feeling about Miss Eyre which Miss Rowena could not fathom . 
I saw Richard , -- I liked him ; -- I tell you I liked him ! 
He united the loftiness of the higher classes with the solid virtues of his own . 
I sprang towards him , in my heart , wantonly wildly . 
His reserve and moderation the rather inflamed me . 
I tortured him . 
I could not endure Richard 's union with you . 
My regard for Richard was the only good thing of my life!I believed he loved me ; at least , I believed I could make him love me , -- that I had made him love me . 
Others managed for my approbation , -- why should I not for his ? 
Glendar has adored my smile , -- why should I not fawn on Richard 's heart ? 
I have told no untruths about Richard ! 
I knew Junia loved Richard ; and that I did care to know . 
And afterwards , so far as his connection with you was concerned , I thought she would hate him . 
`` You acquit Richard of the aspersions that have been thrown upon him ? '' 
Richard is too innocent , -- too harmless . 
If he had only been guilty , -- not that , -- if he had been selfish or forward , -- I should have loved him more : -- nay , I should have scorned him ! 
He has his weak points ; and his weak ones are my strong ones , and there I should have mastered him , but for a something beyond . 
Richard relies on the simplicity of things , and what he supposes to be the goodness of men . 
He deceives himself . '' 
`` Richard is sorry for me . 
He knows I am not exempt from pangs . 
He feels committed , not to me , but to my misery . 
`` Angelic Richard ! 
He has even now to step over my desolation to reach you . '' 
`` Did Richard have no intention and respect of love towards me ? 
he said he detested me ! 
The world , that clutched at my story , and , bartering its respect for its envy , patronized my cause , and poured its venom on Richard , will whirl upon me . '' 
A man like Richard , Lumberer though he be , can marry the Governor 's daughter ! '' 
`` Then you give me Richard , if I give you Roscoe ? '' 
`` Richard is all yours , -- was ever yours ; his fair , large being , hidden to me , broods over you . 
Richard will see no bruises in me . 
She was dressed in her peculiar blue , which she remembered Richard liked ; and she was a pure blue thought already , in Richard 's imagination , and looked as if her Guardian Angel had bathed her in the azure of the sky , and the azure of Richard 's feelings , and placed her there on purpose to meet her old and good beloved . 
She received him with an affectionate smile , -- a smile that bared her teeth beautifully , but pensively , as if joy still swam in the remembrance of a long sorrow ; -- a smile that , descending , clove asunder her arms , and parted the Doubt and the Fear that had hung over her being , and turned them into silvery clouds , on the right hand and the left , through which Richard passed to the brightness of her spirit . 
TheWedding Eve of Richard and Melicent was a splendid one , -- splendid in its feelings , in its guests , in its appointments . 
All the friends of Richard and all the friends of Melicent were there , and this was a multitude . 
The Father and Mother of Richard were there , and his early spiritual and intellectual guides , Pastor Harold and Teacher Willwell . 
Parson Smith was not sorry to be called to marry Richard and Melicent , and it is said clergymen generally are happy at weddings , and fond of wedding-cake . 
There entered , to make the vow and receive the convenant which the State ordains and the Church supports , -- which in all ages has been agreeable to the reason and religion of mankind , -- Richard and Melicent , with their train of attendants . 
Taking from her breast the golden cross of Richard , she hung it on Melicent 's neck . 
She tenderly kissed Richard ; it was her first and her last kiss . 
A burial may succeed a wedding ; -- the burial-day of Junia comes not harshly on the wedding-day of Richard and Melicent . 
Diligent girls from the Factories , and strong men from the Mills , come out ; for Junia had worked in the first , and Richard belonged to the last . 
for Richard and Melicent follow as chief mourners ; and there glide into the procession the fondness and true-heartedness of maidenhood , and the kindling and respectful admiration of young men ; and much pursed and austere meanness of manhood relaxes , and walks after . 
Notincongruous , we trust , with any one 's presentiments , or with the spirit of these page & sacute ; , or with the solemnities of a preceding day , as we have reason to think it was not with the feelings of Richard Edney and the Governor 's Family , was a festivity that came off a short time afterward , -- a sort of bridal party thrown open to the public . 
None were excluded save such as banished themselves by indifference to the Griped Hand , of which Richard was co-founder , and those who could have no interest in the Glen , -- a part of the system of urban regeneration that had been undertaken . 
Richard and Melicent came , with their grooms-men and bride-maids , and other friends . 
This festivity , originating , indeed , with the Governor , had been prosecuted in detail by the benevolent and ingenious friends of Richard and Melicent . 
I have REPASTED on Richard . '' 
`` I worsted Richard , and he capitulated . 
Wemight say more things of Richard , and of what pertains to him ; we might relate how , through the Governor , who was one of the corporators of the Dam and Mills , he became Agent of that extensive interest ; how he built a fine house on land near Bill Stonners ' Point , deemed one of the most picturesque spots in the Beauty of Woodylin ; and how he got the land , with its fine park of forest trees , of Mysie and Chuk , who would part with it to nobody else ; how he was respected and beloved by his fellow-citizens , and became Mayor of the city ; and how the Griped Hand continued to flourish , recruiting the Church on the one hand , and replenishing the purity and beauty , the law and order , of the city , on the other . 
Richard facilitated this consummation , -- first , by his faithful dealing with Chassford 's vices ; secondly , by the support he afforded to his virtues . 
If Richard had his sorrows , Barbara was not without hers . 
And it is worthy of remark , that while Richard was secretly laboring to reform Chassford , Barbara was equally active , in a silent way , for the restoration of Richard . 
In fact , Richard understood Chassford better than Barbara did , and Barbara understood Richard better than Melicent did ; and not unnaturally . 
So Barbara , darkened in regard to Chassford , thought she could distinctly translate Richard to Melicent , as Richard presumed he had the key to Chassford . 
After his return to Melicent , Richard had freer opportunity to work for the hearts and happiness of these unfortunate ones . 
Mrs. Melbourne bore no malice , and would allow that she was actuated by no meanness , toward Richard . 
She believed Miss Eyre , -- her prejudices reïnforced her belief ; her energy , having so strong a team in hand , would easily haul Richard to perdition . 
His elevation , compassed in spite of herself , she had at length the good sense to see was deserved , and the candor to applaud . 
This was Richard 's doings , -- nay , Teacher Willwell did it himself . 
Practising the rule he taught , -- to see what things are made for , -- at the nuptials of Richard and Melicent , he decided that Cousin was made for himself . 
Simon rose to the post of Richard 's hack-driver . 
Captain Creamer so far prospered as to be able to take of Richard the rent of the identical saw at which he had originally offered Richard the chance of the slip . 
words fail to describe their joy in seeing Uncle Richard happy again , and particularly at the sight of his new house ; and all the fleeting , bird-like ways they took to show it , -- and how they ran of errands between Mamma and Aunt Melicent , -- and in a little basket , under a little cover , carried dishes of strawberries , and rounds of warm , light cake , and an occasional potted pigeon . 
The same that what he represents has in the world at large . 
You , `` Richard , '' I know , will appear as well as you can , and be what you are , -- honest certainly , pleasing if possible . 
