The youth , one of whose names was Robin , finally drew from his pocket the half of a little province bill of five shillings , which , in the depreciation of that sort of currency , did but satisfy the ferryman 's demand , with the surplus of a sexangular piece of parchment , valued at three pence . 
He then walked forward into the town , with as light a step as if his day 's journey had not already exceeded thirty miles , and with as eager an eye as if he were entering London city , instead of the little metropolis of a New England colony . 
Before Robin had proceeded far , however , it occurred to him that he knew not whither to direct his steps ; so he paused , and looked up and down the narrow street , scrutinizing the small and mean wooden buildings that were scattered on either side . 
`` This low hovel can not be my kinsman 's dwelling , '' thought he , `` nor yonder old house , where the moonlight enters at the broken casement ; and truly I see none hereabouts that might be worthy of him . 
He resumed his walk , and was glad to perceive that the street now became wider , and the houses more respectable in their appearance . 
He soon discerned a figure moving on moderately in advance , and hastened his steps to overtake it . 
As Robin drew nigh , he saw that the passenger was a man in years , with a full periwig of gray hair , a wide-skirted coat of dark cloth , and silk stockings rolled above his knees . 
Having made these observations , Robin laid hold of the skirt of the old man 's coat , just when the light from the open door and windows of a barber 's shop fell upon both their figures . 
The citizen , in the mean time , turned a long-favored countenance upon Robin , and answered him in a tone of excessive anger and annoyance . 
His two sepulchral hems , however , broke into the very centre of his rebuke , with most singular effect , like a thought of the cold grave obtruding among wrathful passions . 
Robin released the old man 's skirt , and hastened away , pursued by an ill-mannered roar of laughter from the barber 's shop . 
Ah , Robin , Robin ! 
You will be wiser in time , friend Robin . '' 
The smell of tar was obvious to his nostrils , the masts of vessels pierced the moonlight above the tops of the buildings , and the numerous signs , which Robin paused to read , informed him that he was near the centre of business . 
At length , on the corner of a narrow lane , through which he was passing , he beheld the broad countenance of a British hero swinging before the door of an inn , whence proceeded the voices of many guests . 
The casement of one of the lower windows was thrown back , and a very thin curtain permitted Robin to distinguish a party at supper , round a well-furnished table . 
The fragrance of the good cheer steamed forth into the outer air , and the youth could not fail to recollect that the last remnant of his travelling stock of provision had yielded to his morning appetite , and that noon had found , and left him , dinnerless . 
said Robin , with a sigh . 
`` But the major will make me welcome to the best of his victuals ; so I will even step boldly in , and inquire my way to his dwelling . '' 
He entered the tavern , and was guided by the murmur of voices , and the fumes of tobacco , to the public room . 
The only guests to whom Robin 's sympathies inclined him were two or three sheepish countrymen , who were using the inn somewhat after the fashion of a Turkish caravansary ; they had gotten themselves into the darkest corner of the room , and , heedless of the Nicotian atmosphere , were supping on the bread of their own ovens , and the bacon cured in their own chimney-smoke . 
But though Robin felt a sort of brotherhood with these strangers , his eyes were attracted from them to a person who stood near the door , holding whispered conversation with a group of ill-dressed associates . 
His features were separately striking almost to grotesqueness , and the whole face left a deep impression on the memory . 
While Robin deliberated of whom to inquire respecting his kinsman 's dwelling , he was accosted by the innkeeper , a little man in a stained white apron , who had come to pay his professional welcome to the stranger . 
Being in the second generation from a French Protestant , he seemed to have inherited the courtesy of his parent nation ; but no variety of circumstances was ever known to change his voice from the one shrill note in which he now addressed Robin . 
said he , with a profound bow . 
thought Robin , who had hitherto experienced little superfluous civility . 
Robin replied to the courteous innkeeper , with such an assumption of confidence as befitted the major 's relative . 
`` My honest friend , '' he said , `` I shall make it a point to patronize your house on some occasion , when '' -- here he could not help lowering his voice -- `` when I may have more than a parchment three-pence in my pocket . 
My present business , '' continued he , speaking with lofty confidence , `` is merely to inquire my way to the dwelling of my kinsman , Major Molineux . '' 
There was a sudden and general movement in the room , which Robin interpreted as expressing the eagerness of each individual to become his guide . 
Robin had begun to draw his hand towards the lighter end of the oak cudgel , but a strange hostility in every countenance induced him to relinquish his purpose of breaking the courteous innkeeper 's head . 
As he turned to leave the room , he encountered a sneering glance from the bold-featured personage whom he had before noticed ; and no sooner was he beyond the door , than he heard a general laugh , in which the innkeeper 's voice might be distinguished , like the dropping of small stones into a kettle . 
`` Now , is it not strange , '' thought Robin , with his usual shrewdness , `` is it not strange , that the confession of an empty pocket should outweigh the name of my kinsman , Major Molineux ? 
On turning the corner of the narrow lane , Robin found himself in a spacious street , with an unbroken line of lofty houses on each side , and a steepled building at the upper end , whence the ringing of a bell announced the hour of nine . 
The light of the moon , and the lamps from the numerous shop windows , discovered people promenading on the pavement , and amongst them Robin hoped to recognize his hitherto inscrutable relative . 
The result of his former inquiries made him unwilling to hazard another , in a scene of such publicity , and he determined to walk slowly and silently up the street , thrusting his face close to that of every elderly gentleman , in search of the major 's lineaments . 
In his progress , Robin encountered many gay and gallant figures . 
Embroidered garments of showy colors , enormous periwigs , gold-laced hats , and silver-hilted swords , glided past him , and dazzled his optics . 
Travelled youths , imitators of the European fine gentlemen of the period , trod jauntily along , half-dancing to the fashionable tunes which they hummed , and making poor Robin ashamed of his quiet and natural gait . 
At length , after many pauses to examine the gorgeous display of goods in the shop windows , and after suffering some rebukes for the impertinence of his scrutiny into people 's faces , the major 's kinsman found himself near the steepled building , still unsuccessful in his search . 
As yet , however , he had seen only one side of the thronged street ; so Robin crossed , and continued the same sort of inquisition down the opposite pavement , with stronger hopes than the philosopher seeking an honest man , but with no better fortune . 
He had arrived about midway towards the lower end , from which his course began , when he overheard the approach of some one , who struck down a cane on the flag-stones at every step , uttering , at regular intervals , two sepulchral hems . 
quoth Robin , recognizing the sound . 
Turning a corner , which chanced to be close at his right hand , he hastened to pursue his researches in some other part of the town . 
His patience now was wearing low , and he seemed to feel more fatigue from his rambles since he crossed the ferry , than from his journey of several days on the other side . 
Hunger also pleaded loudly within him , and Robin began to balance the propriety of demanding , violently , and with lifted cudgel , the necessary guidance from the first solitary passenger whom he should meet . 
The moonlight fell upon no passenger along the whole extent , but in the third domicile which Robin passed there was a half-opened door , and his keen glance detected a woman 's garment within . 
`` My luck may be better here , '' said he to himself . 
Accordingly , he approached the door , and beheld it shut closer as he did so ; yet an open space remained , sufficing for the fair occupant to observe the stranger , without a corresponding display on her part . 
All that Robin could discern was a strip of scarlet petticoat , and the occasional sparkle of an eye , as if the moonbeams were trembling on some bright thing . 
Robin 's voice was plaintive and winning , and the female , seeing nothing to be shunned in the handsome country youth , thrust open the door , and came forth into the moonlight . 
Moreover , her face was oval and pretty , her hair dark beneath the little cap , and her bright eyes possessed a sly freedom , which triumphed over those of Robin . 
Now , her voice was the sweetest Robin had heard that night , the airy counterpart of a stream of melted silver ; yet he could not help doubting whether that sweet voice spoke Gospel truth . 
He looked up and down the mean street , and then surveyed the house before which they stood . 
`` Now truly I am in luck , '' replied Robin , cunningly , `` and so indeed is my kinsman , the major , in having so pretty a housekeeper . 
So saying , the fair and hospitable dame took our hero by the hand ; and the touch was light , and the force was gentleness , and though Robin read in her eyes what he did not hear in her words , yet the slender-waisted woman in the scarlet petticoat proved stronger than the athletic country youth . 
She had drawn his half-willing footsteps nearly to the threshold , when the opening of a door in the neighborhood startled the major 's house-keeper , and , leaving the major 's kinsman , she vanished speedily into her own domicile . 
As he walked sleepily up the street , he turned his broad , dull face on Robin , and displayed a long staff , spiked at the end . 
`` This is the second hint of the kind , '' thought Robin . 
Nevertheless , the youth felt an instinctive antipathy towards the guardian of midnight order , which at first prevented him from asking his usual question . 
But just when the man was about to vanish behind the corner , Robin resolved not to lose the opportunity , and shouted lustily after him , -- `` I say , friend ! 
The watchman made no reply , but turned the corner and was gone ; yet Robin seemed to hear the sound of drowsy laughter stealing along the solitary street . 
At that moment , also , a pleasant titter saluted him from the open window above his head ; he looked up , and caught the sparkle of a saucy eye ; a round arm beckoned to him , and next he heard light footsteps descending the staircase within . 
But Robin , being of the household of a New England clergyman , was a good youth , as well as a shrewd one ; so he resisted temptation , and fled away . 
He now roamed desperately , and at random , through the town , almost ready to believe that a spell was on him , like that by which a wizard of his country had once kept three pursuers wandering , a whole winter night , within twenty paces of the cottage which they sought . 
Twice , however , little parties of men , among whom Robin distinguished individuals in outlandish attire , came hurrying along ; but though on both occasions they paused to address him , such intercourse did not at all enlighten his perplexity . 
They did but utter a few words in some language of which Robin knew nothing , and perceiving his inability to answer , bestowed a curse upon him in plain English , and hastened away . 
The man was proceeding with the speed of earnest business , but Robin planted himself full before him , holding the oak cudgel with both hands across his body , as a bar to further passage . 
`` Halt , honest man , and answer me a question , '' said he , very resolutely . 
said a deep , gruff voice , which Robin partly remembered . 
cried Robin , flourishing his cudgel , and then thrusting its larger end close to the man 's muffled face . 
The stranger , instead of attempting to force his passage , stepped back into the moonlight , unmuffled his face , and stared full into that of Robin . 
`` Watch here an hour , and Major Molineux will pass by , '' said he . 
Robin gazed with dismay and astonishment on the unprecedented physiognomy of the speaker . 
The forehead with its double prominence , the broad hooked nose , the shaggy eyebrows , and fiery eyes , were those which he had noticed at the inn , but the man 's complexion had undergone a singular , or , more properly , a two-fold change . 
The stranger grinned in Robin 's face , muffled his parti-colored features , and was out of sight in a moment . 
ejaculated Robin . 
He seated himself , however , upon the steps of the church-door , resolving to wait the appointed time for his kinsman . 
The irregular and often quaint architecture of the houses , some of whose roofs were broken into numerous little peaks , while others ascended , steep and narrow , into a single point , and others again were square ; the pure snow-white of some of their complexions , the aged darkness of others , and the thousand sparklings , reflected from bright substances in the walls of many ; these matters engaged Robin 's attention for a while , and then began to grow wearisome . 
Next he endeavored to define the forms of distant objects , starting away , with almost ghostly indistinctness , just as his eye appeared to grasp them ; and finally he took a minute survey of an edifice which stood on the opposite side of the street , directly in front of the church-door , where he was stationed . 
`` Perhaps this is the very house I have been seeking , '' thought Robin . 
Then he strove to speed away the time , by listening to a murmur which swept continually along the street , yet was scarcely audible , except to an unaccustomed ear like his ; it was a low , dull , dreamy sound , compounded of many noises , each of which was at too great a distance to be separately heard . 
Robin marvelled at this snore of a sleeping town , and marvelled more whenever its continuity was broken by now and then a distant shout , apparently loud where it originated . 
But altogether it was a sleep-inspiring sound , and , to shake off its drowsy influence , Robin arose , and climbed a window-frame , that he might view the interior of the church . 
The scene made Robin 's heart shiver with a sensation of loneliness stronger than he had ever felt in the remotest depths of his native woods ; so he turned away , and sat down again before the door . 
There were graves around the church , and now an uneasy thought obtruded into Robin 's breast . 
What if the object of his search , which had been so often and so strangely thwarted , were all the time mouldering in his shroud ? 
What if his kinsman should glide through yonder gate , and nod and smile to him in dimly passing by ? 
said Robin . 
Recalling his thoughts from this uncomfortable track , he sent them over forest , hill , and stream , and attempted to imagine how that evening of ambiguity and wearines had been spent by his father 's household . 
He pictured them assembled at the door , beneath the tree , the great old tree , which had been spared for its huge twisted trunk , and venerable shade , when a thousand leafy brethren fell . 
There , at the going down of the summer sun , it was his father 's custom to perform domestic worship , that the neighbors might come and join with him like brothers of the family , and that the wayfaring man might pause to drink at that fountain , and keep his heart pure by freshening the memory of home . 
Robin distinguished the seat of every individual of the little audience ; he saw the good man in the midst , holding the Scriptures in the golden light that fell from the western clouds ; he beheld him close the book , and all rise up to pray . 
He heard the old thanksgivings for daily mercies , the old supplications for their continuance , to which he had so often listened in weariness , but which were now among his dear remembrances . 
He perceived the slight inequality of his father 's voice when he came to speak of the absent one ; he noted how his mother turned her face to the broad and knotted trunk ; how his elder brother scorned , because the beard was rough upon his upper lip , to permit his features to be moved ; how the younger sister drew down a low hanging branch before her eyes ; and how the little one of all , whose sports had hitherto broken the decorum of the scene , understood the prayer for her playmate , and burst into clamorous grief . 
Then he saw them go in at the door ; and when Robin would have entered also , the latch tinkled into its place , and he was excluded from his home . 
cried Robin , starting ; for all at once , when his thoughts had become visible and audible in a dream , the long , wide , solitary street shone out before him . 
He aroused himself , and endeavored to fix his attention steadily upon the large edifice which he had surveyed before . 
But still his mind kept vibrating between fancy and reality ; by turns , the pillars of the balcony lengthened into the tall , bare stems of pines , dwindled down to human figures , settled again into their true shape and size , and then commenced a new succession of changes . 
For a single moment , when he deemed himself awake , he could have sworn that a visage -- one which he seemed to remember , yet could not absolutely name as his kinsman 's -- was looking towards him from the Gothic window . 
A deeper sleep wrestled with and nearly overcame him , but fled at the sound of footsteps along the opposite pavement . 
Robin rubbed his eyes , discerned a man passing at the foot of the balcony , and addressed him in a loud , peevish , and lamentable cry . 
Perceiving a country youth , apparently homeless and without friends , he accosted him in a tone of real kindness , which had become strange to Robin 's ears . 
inquired he . 
`` I am afraid not , sir , '' replied Robin , despondingly ; `` yet I shall take it kindly , if you 'll answer me a single question . 
Then Robin briefly related that his father was a clergyman , settled on a small salary , at a long distance back in the country , and that he and Major Molineux were brothers ' children . 
The major , having inherited riches , and acquired civil and military rank , had visited his cousin , in great pomp , a year or two before ; had manifested much interest in Robin and an elder brother , and , being childless himself , had thrown out hints respecting the future establishment of one of them in life . 
The elder brother was destined to succeed to the farm which his father cultivated in the interval of sacred duties ; it was therefore determined that Robin should profit by his kinsman 's generous intentions , especially as he seemed to be rather the favorite , and was thought to possess other necessary endowments . 
`` For I have the name of being a shrewd youth , '' observed Robin , in this part of his story . 
`` I doubt not you deserve it , '' replied his new friend , good-naturedly ; `` but pray proceed . '' 
`` Well , sir , being nearly eighteen years old , and wellgrown , as you see , '' continued Robin , drawing himself up to his full height , `` I thought it high time to begin the world . 
`` O , he was a very ill-favored fellow , sir , '' replied Robin , `` with two great bumps on his forehead , a hook nose , fiery eyes , -- and , what struck me as the strangest , his face was of two different colors . 
He seated himself accordingly , and soon engaged his companion in animated discourse . 
It was but of brief continuance , however , for a noise of shouting , which had long been remotely audible , drew so much nearer that Robin inquired its cause . 
asked he . 
`` Why , indeed , friend Robin , there do appear to be three or four riotous fellows abroad to-night , '' replied the gentleman . 
But the watch will shortly be at the heels of these lads , and -- '' `` Ay , and set them in the stocks by peep of day , '' interrupted Robin , recollecting his own encounter with the drowsy lantern-bearer . 
`` May not a man have several voices , Robin , as well as two complexions ? '' 
said his friend . 
The sounds of a trumpet in some neighboring street now became so evident and continual , that Robin 's curiosity was strongly excited . 
In addition to the shouts , he heard frequent bursts from many instruments of discord , and a wild and confused laughter filled up the intervals . 
Robin rose from the steps , and looked wistfully towards a point whither several people seemed to be hastening . 
`` Surely some prodigious merry-making is going on , '' exclaimed he . 
`` Sit down again , sit down , good Robin , '' replied the gentleman , laying his hand on the skirt of the gray coat . 
`` You forget that we must wait here for your kinsman ; and there is reason to believe that he will pass by , in the course of a very few moments . '' 
`` Indeed , I ca n't warrant it , sir ; but I 'll take my stand here , and keep a bright look-out , '' answered Robin , descending to the outer edge of the pavement . 
` The double-faced fellow has his eye upon me , '' muttered Robin , with an indefinite but an uncomfortable idea that he was himself to bear a part in the pageantry . 
When Robin had freed his eyes from those fiery ones , the musicians were passing before him , and the torches were close at hand ; but the unsteady brightness of the latter formed a veil which he could not penetrate . 
The rattling of wheels over the stones sometimes found its way to his ear , and confused traces of a human form appeared at intervals , and then melted into the vivid light . 
Right before Robin 's eyes was an uncovered cart . 
There the torches blazed the brightest , there the moon shone out like day , and there , in tar-and-feathery dignity , sat his kinsman , Major Molineux ! 
He was an elderly man , of large and majestic person , and strong , square features , betokening a steady soul ; but steady as it was , his enemies had found means to shake it . 
His face was pale as death , and far more ghastly ; the broad forehead was contracted in his agony , so that his eyebrows formed one grizzled line ; his eyes were red and wild , and the foam hung white upon his quivering lip . 
His whole frame was agitated by a quick and continual tremor , which his pride strove to quell , even in those circumstances of overwhelming humiliation . 
But perhaps the bitterest pang of all was when his eyes met those of Robin ; for he evidently knew him on the instant , as the youth stood witnessing the foul disgrace of a head grown gray in honor . 
They stared at each other in silence , and Robin 's knees shook , and his hair bristled , with a mixture of pity and terror . 
Soon , however , a bewildering excitement began to seize upon his mind ; the preceding adventures of the night , the unexpected appearance of the crowd , the torches , the confused din and the hush that followed , the spectre of his kinsman reviled by that great multitude , -- all this , and , more than all , a perception of tremendous ridicule in the whole scene , affected him with a sort of mental inebriety . 
At that moment a voice of sluggish merriment saluted Robin 's ears ; he turned instinctively , and just behind the corner of the church stood the lantern-bearer , rubbing his eyes , and drowsily enjoying the lad 's amazement . 
Then he heard a peal of laughter like the ringing of silvery bells ; a woman twitched his arm , a saucy eye met his , and he saw the lady of the scarlet petticoat . 
A sharp , dry cachinnation appealed to his memory , and , standing on tiptoe in the crowd , with his white apron over his head , he beheld the courteous little innkeeper . 
The sound proceeded from the balcony of the opposite edifice , and thither Robin turned his eyes . 
Then Robin seemed to hear the voices of the barbers , of the guests of the inn , and of all who had made sport of him that night . 
The contagion was spreading among the multitude , when , all at once , it seized upon Robin , and he sent forth a shout of laughter that echoed through the street ; -- every man shook his sides , every man emptied his lungs , but Robin 's shout was the loudest there . 
`` Well , Robin , are you dreaming ? '' 
Robin started , and withdrew his arm from the stone post to which he had instinctively clung , as the living stream rolled by him . 
His cheek was somewhat pale , and his eye not quite as lively as in the earlier part of the evening . 
said he , after a moment 's pause . 
observed his companion , with a smile . 
`` Why , yes , sir , '' replied Robin , rather dryly . 
`` No , my good friend Robin , -- not to-night , at least , '' said the gentleman . 
