`` Here , Bart , '' exclaimed Brush , as the company , having dropped the discussion of all weighty matters , were now briskly circulating the bottle , and beginning to give way to noisy merriment -- `` here , Bart , you sleepy devil , come and snuff these candles . 
Our chap here , '' he continued , winking archly to those around him -- `` our chap Bart , or Barty Burt , to give the whole of his euphonious name , gentlemen , may be considered an excellent specimen of the rebel party , who talk so wisely about self-government , sitting under one 's own vine and fig-tree , and all that sort of thing ; for , in the first place , he has a great deal of wisdom , handy to be got at , it all lying in his face . 
And then he is so much for self-government that no one can govern him in any thing . 
Then again , as to the idea of sitting under a fig-tree , I think it is one that Bart would most naturally entertain ; for had he a tree to sit under , be it fig or bass-wood , and enough to eat , he would sit there till he was gray , before he would think of moving . '' 
`` I crave pardon , gentlemen , '' cried the secretary ; `` I should have qualified ; for , really , I have several times seriously suspected Bart to have ideas , or , at least , one whole idea of his own ; and if you think that is too much to allow the individuals of the party generally , with whom I have compared him , why , then I must knock under , that 's all . '' 
Bart , the chief butt of this ridicule , in the mean while , was moving quietly about the room in performance of his bidden tasks , without appearing to notice a word that was uttered ; and but for a certain rapid twinkling that might have been seen in his eyes , which , as he deliberately returned to his seat in the corner , were opened to an unusual extent , one would have supposed him utterly insensible to all the taunts and jeering laughter of which he had thus publicly been made the victim . 
-- '' `` Our witnesses , '' quickly interposed Judge Chandler , bowing with a significant smile and cautionary wink , while he threw a sidelong glance towards Bart , whom the wary eye of the judge had detected in slightly changing his position , so as to bring his ear more directly towards the speakers -- `` our witnesses and quarrelling suitors in court you mean , of course ? '' 
Assoon as the company , described in the preceding chapter , had all retired from the room , Brush , bidding Bart to rake up the fire and go to bed , proceeded to lock all the outer doors of the house , muttering to himself as he did so , `` It ca n't be as Chandler fears , I think , about this fellow 's going out to blab to-night ; but as this will put an end to the possibillity of his doing it , I may as well make all fast , and then there will be no chance for blame for suffering him to remain in the room . '' 
So saying , and putting the different keys in his pocket , he at once disappeared , on his way to his own apartment . 
When the sound of his retiring footsteps had ceased to be heard , Bart , who had lingered in the room , suddenly changed his sleepy , abject appearance for a prompt , decisive look and an erect attitude . 
he said , and slowly repeated , as with flashing eyes he nodded significantly in the direction his master had taken . 
With this he blew out the last remaining light , and groped his way to his own humble sleeping-room , in the low attic story of the back kitchen . 
Here , however , he manifested no disposition to go to bed , but sitting down upon the side of his miserable pallet , he remained motionless and silent for fifteen or twenty minutes , when he began to soliloquize : `` Jackass ! 
The fact is , Bart , you are a rebel now -- honestly one of them -- you feel it in you , and you may as well let it out . 
Having , in this whimsical manner , made a sort of manifesto of his principles and intentions , as if to give them , with himself , a more fixed and definite character , he now rose , buttoned up his jacket , carefully raised the window of his room , let himself down to the roof of a shed beneath it , and from that descended to the ground , with the easy and rapid motions of a squirrel engaged in nut-gathering . 
Soon , however , appearing to come to a determination , he struck out into the main street , and , with a quick step , proceeded on , perhaps a furlong , when he suddenly stopped short , and exclaimed , `` Hold up , Bart . 
Put that and that together now , Bart , and see if it do n't mean that the only guns brought into town to-night are packed away in the straw , in the bottom of the sleighs of the court party understrappers ? 
Let 's go and mouse round their stopping-place a little , Bart . 
With a low chuckle of delight at his discovery , Bart took as many as he could conveniently carry at one load , and , going with them into the barn , thrust them one by one into the hay mow , under the girts and beams , so as effectually to conceal them . 
He then returned for others , and continued his employment till the whole were thus disposed of ; when he left the place , and resumed his walk to the northerly end of the village . 
After pursuing his way through the street , and some distance down the road beyond the village , he paused against a low , long log-house , standing endwise to the road . 
Bart , from some remark he had overheard in the street , in the early part of the evening , had been led to conclude that the company he now sought were assembled at this house . 
And though he was personally unacquainted with the owner , and knew nothing of his principles , yet he was resolved to enter and trust to luck to make his introduction , if the company were present , and , if not , to rely on his own wit to discover whether it were safe to unfold his errand . 
As he was approaching the house , Dunning hastily emerged from the door , and , advancing with a quick step , confronted him in the path with an air which seemed to imply an expectation that his business would be at once announced . 
Bart , who was not to be discomposed by any thing of this kind , manifested no hurry to name his errand , and seemed to prefer that the other should be the first to break the silence . 
I have often been there , '' replied Bart , with the utmost gravity . 
Taking no exceptions to the character of the invitation , Bart now followed the other into the house , and , sitting down on a bench by the fire , began very unconcernedly to whistle , on a low key , the tune of Yankee Doodle , which was then just beginning to be considered a patriotic air . 
After a few more evasive remarks , in which he succeeded in drawing out the other more fully , and causing him the more completely to commit himself , Bart threw aside all bantering , and proceeded to relate all his discoveries relative to the contemplated movement of the court party . 
exclaimed the hunter , as , with eyes sparkling with excitement , he sprang to his feet , as the other finished his recital . 
So saying , he immediately led the way through a dark entry to a room in the rear of the house , which the two now entered ; when Bart found himself in a company of nearly twenty grave and stern-looking men , deliberating in a regularly organized meeting . 
`` Ditter here , Captain Wright , '' eagerly commenced Dunning , as he entered , addressing the chairman , a prompt , fine-looking man , and the leading whig of the village ; `` here is one , '' he continued , pointing to Bart , `` one who brings ditter news that -- '' `` Esquire Knowlton , of Townsend , has the floor now , '' said the chairman , interrupting the speaker , and directing his attention to a middle-aged man of a gentlemanly , intelligent appearance , who was standing on one side of the room , having suspended the remarks he was making at the entrance of Dunning and his companion . 
Bart , then , mostly in the way of answers to a series of rapid questions , put by the chairman , who seemed to know him , and understand the best way of drawing him out , -- Bart then related his discoveries to his astonished and indignant auditors , giving such imitations of the manner of each of the company , whose words he was repeating , as not only showed their meaning in its full force , but at once convinced all present of the truth of his story . 
No sooner had Bart closed , than a half dozen of the company sprang to their feet , in their eagerness to express their indignation and abhorrence of the bloody plot , which their opponents , under the garb of peace and fair promises , had , it was now evident , been hatching against them . 
exclaimed the enraged master , standing in the door-way , and looking down with ineffable scorn upon the prostrate person of the ejected Bart , as he lay sprawled out upon the spot where he landed , without manifesting any disposition to rise . 
responded the latter , looking back over his shoulder at the other , with a doleful grimace . 
`` Well , I ` spose I know what you want , '' muttered Bart , by way of reply to this tirade -- `` you want to accuse , and drive me away , so you wo n't have to pay me the two crowns you owe me for work , and other things . '' 
he continued , pulling out and disdainfully tossing the coins down at the other 's feet . 
With this , and an expressive slam of the door behind him , the secretary returned into the house ; and in a few moments , the sash of a garret window was thrown up , and a pair of shoes , a pair of old summer pantaloons , a spare coarse shirt , and pair of stockings , were successively flung down into the yard , near where the owner was still lying , by the hand of a grinning and blushing servant maid , while her dainty-fingered master stood by , directing the operation . 
`` Well , Bart , '' now soon began to mutter this singular being , in his usual manner of addressing himself as a second person , when alone -- `` well , Bart , your plan of getting driv away has worked to a shaving . 
You 've got your pay , too , jest in the way you calculated would fetch it ; yes , all your honest pay , and one crown more ; but you charged that , you know , when you told him two crowns , as damage for the kick and cane lick you got . 
And as to the other accounts against him , and the rest of 'em there , you 'll be in a way to square all , fore long , guess ; for you will be your own rebel , now , Bart , you know . '' 
`` Kinder ` pears to me , Bart , '' he at length said , resuming his soliloquy , as he glanced keenly at the tavern , which was the scene of his last night 's exploit , and which he was now passing -- `` ` pears to me , there 's a good many heads rather close together , in spots , round that tory nest over yonder . 
`` But suppose , Bart , as going this way is only a sham , suppose we now haul up here , and edge over there among 'em a little , to learn what they are up to , before you go to join the company at the Court House . '' 
On reaching the yard of the tavern , Bart found that the company , numbering perhaps twenty in all , had broken from the separate groups in which they had been conversing , and had now gathered round one man , who , having just come out of the tavern , appeared to be communicating to the crowd something that obviously produced considerable sensation . 
Bart soon contrived to work his way into this circle , till he gained a position from which he could hear what was said . 
`` You may rely on what I have told you , '' said the speaker , as Bart came within hearing ; `` for I have just had it from the sheriff and lawyer Stearns . 
But as they wo n't do that , and our forces will shortly be here , you can all guess what we shall now soon see follow , '' he added , with a significant wink . 
Now , as I take it , we are to remain here to-night ; and as we have now learned that the judge and the people here are the -- ditter -- best of friends , I would just move , Mr. Moderator , that his honor be -- der -- ditter -- invited to take up lodgings with us in the Court House to-night ; so that , if the enemy comes , '' he added , imitating the manner of the judge , as described by Bart , `` he can assist us to -- ditter -- ` temporize -- temporize -- till ' -- '' Here the hunter bobbed down into his seat , while explosive bursts of laughter rose from several parts of the room , and a low , half-smothered titter ran through the whole assembly , at this sly , but cutting allusion to the part last night taken by the double-dealing judge , who now sat before them , looking , for the moment , like a suddenly detected criminal . 
Among those taking their turns as sentries , at this juncture , were Woodburn and Bart , who , with each a stout cane or cudgel in his hand , were now stationed at the principal entrance . 
cried Bart , who , having gone out into the street to ascertain what might be the noise which they had heard at a distance , now came running up , with an excited air , to his companion ; `` they are upon us again , with twice as many men as before , and plenty of guns ! '' 
Instantly springing into the door , which he unfortunately left open , Bart made the announcement to French , who was restlessly moving about in the passage , and who repeated the same in a voice which started all , both above and below to their feet . 
he added , in a tone of strange , wild glee . 
Let us die like -- '' The report of two or three muskets , and the whistling of bullets through the passage just over his head , cut short the speaker . 
`` Master Bart , '' said Miss Haviland , who had become somewhat acquainted with the other , while supplying her room with fuel , previous to his ejection from the house , to which she was knowing , `` your appearance , at this time , to say the least of it , causes me much surprise . '' 
`` I returns the compliment , miss , '' replied Bart ; `` so that makes us even , and no questions on ither side , do n't it ? '' 
Well , I can get down , and off , before he can get here , I reckon , '' responded Bart , in a tone of roguish defiance . 
Scarcely a minute had elapsed before she again heard his footsteps stealing back by her door to the window , through which he had so noiselessly entered ; when , once more raising the sash of her own , she found him already standing on the top of the ladder where she last saw him , he having effected his ingress and egress with such celerity , that but for the light fusil he now held in his hand , she would have believed herself mistaken in supposing he had entered at all . 
`` Well , miss , I am waiting for your say so , '' he said , in a low tone , peering warily around him . 
`` Well , now , '' replied Bart , hesitating in his turn , `` without more token for knowing what you 're up to , I 'll say , may be so , and may be no so . '' 
`` You need not fear me , Bart , '' replied Sabrey , conjecturing the cause of his hesitation ; `` I am no enemy of those who have suffered there to-night . 
`` Yes , through the grate ; glad to do it , glad of it , twice over , '' replied Bart , reaching out and grasping the proffered billet . 
Yes , I 'll get it to him , '' said Bart , beginning to descend . 
As Bart heard these last words of the fair speaker , so inconsistent with all which both her words and manner had just expressed , he looked up with a stare of surprise to her face , now sufficiently revealed , by the glancing light standing near her in the room , to betray its varying expressions . 
But , as he ran his keen gray eyes over her hesitating and slightly confused countenance , he soon seemed to read the secret cause of her sudden change of purpose , arising from that curious and beautiful trait in woman 's heart , which , by some gush of awakened sympathy , often unfolds all the lurking secrets of the breast , but which , when the cause of that sympathy is removed , closes up the avenue , and conceals them from view , in the cold reserve of shrinking delicacy -- the colder and more impenetrable in proportion as the disclosure has been complete . 
`` O , yes , I will carry it , '' said Bart , pretending to misunderstand the other , while he pocketed the billet and began to glide down the ladder . 
`` No , '' commenced Miss Haviland ; `` no , Bart , I said -- '' `` Yes , yes , I will have it there in a jiffy , '' interrupted Bart , hastening his descent , and the next instant dodging away in the dark beneath the foot of the ladder . 
`` If what I expressed , when I thought him dying , was right and proper , it can not be very wrong now . '' 
As soon as she had thus reconciled herself to the unexpected turn which this matter had taken , Miss Haviland now began to reflect more on Bart 's motives in coming , at such an hour of the night , for his gun ; when it , for the first time , occurred to her mind , that he had been induced to take this step in consequence of some particular call for arms having reference to the events of the evening . 
Fearing she might have done wrong in suffering him to take away the gun , if it was to be used for hostile purposes , and anxious to know whether her conjectures relative to a rising of the people were well founded , she proceeded to an end window of her room , which overlooked a range of buildings known to her to be mostly occupied by the opposers of royal authority ; and removing the curtains and raising the sash , she leaned out and listened for any unusual sounds which might reach her from without . 
Bart 's object in coming for his gun , at such an hour of the night , was now sufficiently explained ; for the quick and discerning mind of Miss Haviland at once told her that the country was indeed rising in arms to avenge the atrocities just committed by the party among whom were all her relatives and friends ; and she shuddered at the thought of to-morrow , feeling , as she did , a secret and boding consciousness that their downfall , brought about by their arrogance and crimes , was now at hand . 
`` What the dogs are you ditter doing there , Bart ? '' 
`` O , nothin very desput ; only showing Squire Brush , here , the differ between to-day and yesterday , that 's all , '' replied Bart , kicking and spurring , like a boy on some broken-down horse . 
Kinder seems to me , '' he continued to his groaning prisoner -- `` kinder seems to me I heard somebody say , ` tother night , that Bart Burt was n't above a jackass . 
`` Well , now , squire , I would n't make such a tearing fuss about this little bit of a walloping , after what 's happened , if I was you , '' said Bart . 
Now , as we are ditter expecting Allen over here , in a few days , I was der thinking , I and Bart , here , might as well ditter deliver you up , and claim the money . '' 
* So saying , the hunter , bidding the prisoner to follow , and Bart to bring up the rear , marched off in triumph to the Court House ; and , having delivered over his charge to the guard at the prison doors , sallied out into the village in quest of further adventures . 
Nor was he long in meeting with them . 
After gaining the street , he soon perceived a gathering and commotion nearly in front of the mansion whose owner he had just taken from the rear ; and , on reaching the spot , he found a crowd collected round a sleigh , filled with gentlemen and ladies , which proved to be that of Peters and his company . 
replied Bart . 
`` I 'd rather see their necks broken , '' responded Bart , dryly . 
`` For as good a reason as ever a tory officer had for doing any thing -- or not doing any thing , may be , I should say -- in the world , '' replied Bart , with a knowing look . 
But I should n't be surprised , '' continued the speaker , while a sly , roguish expression stole over his usually grave , impenetrable countenance , `` that is , not much surprised , if it turned out that two or three of Harry 's friends got the cattle out of the barn where they were keeping , one dark night , and driv 'em off into the woods , near the top of Governor 's Mountain , and then backed up hay enough to keep 'em a spell ; while the company took turns , for a few days , in going a hunting over the mountain , so as to come round , once in a while , to fodder and see to the creters , for which old Bug-Horn paid in milk , on the spot . 
`` Why , do n't know exactly , mistress , '' answered Bart , rousing himself from the dreamy abstraction in which he had been indulging , as he sat looking into the decaying fire -- `` do n't know , exactly ; but it has got a considerable piece into the night . 
But here is Bart to go , if he choose , both to-night and to-morrow . '' 
`` Bart is agreeable to that , if Harry and mistress do n't want him , '' said the person just named , rousing up from the long-silent reverie in which he had been sitting before the fire , apparently inattentive to the conversation of the others , which had been carried on in a low tone , at the opposite side of the room . 
`` What do you want to do with that , Bart ? '' 
`` I want it for lining to my coat , '' replied Bart . 
`` Bravo , Bart . 
You and Bart go in and vote ; and I will beat about the bush , here , for more help , before I go in ; for as they have just admitted some to vote on a twenty hours ' residence , -- as I can ditter swear they did , -- I intend to vote myself , this time , and have all those from my way der do the same , '' said the hunter , bustling off to muster his forces . 
Just as Dunning , who had collected a band of voters , without much regard to their qualifications , was pushing into the house at the head of his recruits , an outcry was raised within ; and , the next moment , Bart Burt was seen hastily emerging from the crowd , followed by the kicks and cudgel-blows of the tories , through whom he had been compelled , to save himself from a rougher handling , to run the gauntlet to the door . 
`` They let me vote last time without a word , '' said Bart , facing round upon his foes , with a grin of spite and pain ; `` and so they did John Stubbs and Jo Snelling , then and now too ; and they aint a day older than I be . '' 
A hasty consultation was now held , and a plan of operations for compelling the opposite party to admit Bart to the polls was soon digested . 
And , in pursuance of this plan , Bart , who was short and light of weight , was mounted astride the brawny shoulders of Dunning , while Piper , with his burly frame , was placed in front , with a stiff cudgel in hand , to act as the battering-ram or entering wedge to the crowd of tories , who had closed up the way with their bodies , obviously to prevent Bart , or any other whig , indeed , from again entering till the ballot-box was turned . 
now cried Dunning , firmly grasping Bart 's legs , and glancing over his shoulders to his lusty little band of backers . 
exclaimed Peters , approaching the stand as Bart , from his lofty seat on Dunning 's shoulders , was about to put in his vote , which was a simple yea , written on a slip of paper , and handed up to him by some one stationed near the box to furnish the unsupplied . 
shouted several of Bart 's friends . 
`` In with it , Bart ! '' 
`` Yes , in with it ; for he shall vote ! '' 
`` He shall not vote ! '' 
vociferated Peters ; `` and if he attempts to do it , I 'll blow his brains out ! '' 
Quick as thought , Bart threw open his over-coat , and , drawing from beneath it the light , short gun there concealed , cocked , and brought it to his shoulder ; while the threatening weapon of his foe was seen flying to a distant part of the room , from a sudden blow of Piper 's cudgel , and its disarmed and nonplused owner slinking away out of the range of the suspicious-looking barrel still kept aimed at his head . 
Amidst the loud cries of order , and the heated vociferations of both parties , now raised to condemn or defend the transaction , through the house , Bart , Dunning , and others of their company , who had not voted , now hastily deposited their votes , and retired unmolested . 
Although the portion of the revolutionary party , whose movements we have been more particularly describing , acting on the supposed and probably actual frauds of their opponents , had thus secured Bart 's vote , and the votes of two or three others , perhaps equally illegal , yet the event soon showed that their policy in so doing was a mistaken one , and calculated to defeat the very object they intended to promote ; for , as will always be the result where one party attempts to adopt the wrongful measures of their opponents , the tories , now armed with the fact that they had detected the other party in a wrong more glaring , because more public , than any they had perpetrated , made use of the advantage with such effect as to bring over several , intending to support the resolutions , to change their intention , and go against them . 
You , Piper and Bart , with your vials of oil of vitriol in your sleeves , ready to uncork on to their ditter tails ? '' 
Quickly availing themselves of the opportunity , the former , among the foremost of whom were Piper and Bart , now crowded eagerly round the cattle , and , after rapidly passing their hands over the cow and each of the oxen a moment , and then stepping back , began to banter and bid . 
Dunning , Piper and Bart , who , in the mean while , had , unknown and unsuspected in the darkness and confusion , stood in the throng , keenly watching the result of their plan , no sooner heard the expected order of pursuit given , than , separating , like their opponents , and each joining a different band of the pursuers , they sprang in before the rest , and , by their superior alacrity and speed , soon succeeded in taking the lead , and finally in completely distancing all others in the promiscuous chase . 
Nor were the actors in the transaction , with any certainty , identified , though the absence of Piper and Bart , for some days after the event , caused them to be suspected and marked for punishment , when they should again appear abroad . 
He and Piper , during the night following that affair , after meeting Dunning at an appointed place , and giving him charge of the cattle , which had been successfully pursued and there collected , to be driven out of that part of the country by the hunter , left town in different directions , to avoid the arrest they anticipated , in case they remained ; Piper going down the river in quest of some temporary employment till the storm blew over , and Bart setting off on a fishing excursion to Marlboro ' Pond , situated in a then nearly unsettled section , about ten miles to the north . 
Here Bart had pursued his sport unmolested , many days , occasionally going out to Brattleborough to sell his fish and buy provisions , and considering himself in this secluded situation perfectly safe from any search which might be made for him by the officers of Guilford . 
But the reward offered by the constable for the apprehension of the offenders , who had been soon pretty well identified , had put all the tories in the town and vicinity on the watch ; and the result was , that Bart had been seen , traced to his retreat , seized and brought back for trial . 
Although Bart 's general demeanor seemed to show a perfect indifference to the fate that now threatened him , yet the quick , keen glances with which , under that show of indifference , he noted every movement of those into whose power he had fallen , and the restlesness he exhibited when their eyes were not upon him , gave token of no little inward perturbation . 
And it was not without reason that his apprehensions were excited ; he knew the character and disposition of the two tory justices whom he saw taking their seats to try him , and he rightly judged that he need not expect either mercy or justice at their hands . 
He had also detected one of the constable 's minions , who had been despatched to the woods for the purpose , stealing slyly round into the horseshed , on his return , with a half dozen formidable looking green beech rods ; and he was at no loss to decide for whose back they were intended , or by whose ruthless hand they were to be applied . 
`` You ca n't go that , Bart , '' he mentally exclaimed . 
And as hopeless as , to all appearance , was any attempt to escape his captors , who stood round him with loaded pistols in their hands , Bart yet confidently counted on being able , in some way or other , to slip through their fingers , and avoid the fearful punishment which he knew was in store for him , if he remained many hours longer in their hands . 
To effect this , he looked for no aid from others ; for experience had taught him the value of self-reliance . 
The whole life of this singular being , indeed , had been one which was peculiarly calculated to throw him on his own resources , sharpen his wits , and render him fertile in expedients . 
He had been a foundling , and knew no more of his parentage than a young ostrich , that springs from the deserted egg in the sand . 
He was left , when an infant , at the door of a poor mechanic , in Boston , by the name of Burt , and by him transferred to the almshouse , where he was called after the name of his finder , with the pet name of Barty , given him by his nurse . 
While Bart was thus uneasily revolving the matter of his present concern in his mind , and beginning to cast about him for some means of escape , the constable was called aside by those who had undertaken to manage the prosecution , for the purpose of holding with them a consultation , the purport of which , though carried on in a low tone , and at some distance , was soon gathered by the quick and practised ears of the prisoner . 
Bart 's countenance brightened when he saw the savage officer depart , for he believed the absence of the latter would greatly increase his chances of escape ; and in spite of all the threats he had received of being shot , he resolved to improve that absence in making the attempt , though the manner of doing so yet remained to be decided , by the circumstances which might occur . 
Bart 's keepers not being able , where they stood , to see and hear what was going on very distinctly , and being equally desirous with the rest to get a favorable stand for that purpose , after renewing the threat of shooting him if he attempted to run away , took him along with them , and entered the line of spectators extended along the road . 
And his predictions being luckily fulfilled in several instances , and especially in one in which his most rigid keeper had been saved from losing , in a bet , which would have been made but for his timely cautions , Bart at length found himself on such a footing of confidence and good will with those whom he wished to conciliate , that he thought it would now do to commence operations for himself . 
`` I do n't think much of such trotting , myself , '' said Bart , carelessly , as one of the contests afoot had just terminated ; `` but there is one animal I notice here to-day , I should like to bet on . '' 
`` That dapple gray mare hitched over there in the corner of the cow-yard yonder , '' replied Bart , pointing to a small , longtailed pony , whose shabby coat of shedding and neglected hair greatly disguised the remarkable make of her limbs and other indications of strength and activity . 
`` Well , for all that , Mr. Sturges , '' responded Bart , banteringly , `` I 'll not take back what I 've said about the nag . 
`` Never rid her with any other hoss , but know she can trot faster than any thing you can find here ; so you may as well back out at once , '' answered Bart , with apparent indifference . 
Bart , in the mean time , seemed perfectly indifferent to all these precautions of the tories , as well as the gibes and laughter which constantly greeted him on the way , and , on reaching the prescribed limit , quietly dropped down on the grass among the company , and awaited the coming of the horses with the greatest unconcern . 
exclaimed Bart , springing up to receive his chosen pony ; `` do you know me , Lightfoot ? '' 
The animal instantly pricked up her ears , and responded by a sort of low , chuckling whinny , by rubbing her nose against his arm , and by other demonstrations of recognition and pleasure , which plainly showed the two to have been old acquaintances and friends . 
Bart then , stripping off the saddle and handing it to a boy to be carried back to the tavern , again went to the head of the pony , and , after patting her on her neck , repeated certain words in her ear , which seemed to produce the instant effect of arousing her spirit , and making her restless and impatient for a start . 
After going through these and other ceremonies of the kind , which seemed greatly to amuse the company , he mounted , reined up , and announced himself ready for the signal . 
cried Bart , in tones of distress and affright , still appearing to strain every nerve to hold in the ungovernable animal -- `` whoa ! 
Here Bart hastily made another apparent attempt to rein her up ; but rearing and spinning round on her heels , she again made a plunge forward , and set out in a keen run , making the ground smoke beneath her feet as she flew , with astonishing speed along the road ; while her rider , grasping her mane with both hands , and swaying from side to side , as if hardly able to keep his seat at that , continued to bawl and screech , at every step , `` Whoa ! 
The tories were so completely taken by surprise by these manœuvres , and the unexpected feat of leaping the barricade , that Bart and his fleet pony were nearly a quarter of a mile off , before they sufficiently rallied from their astonishment and confusion to realize what had passed ; and when they did , hearing his piteous cries for help , and expecting every moment to see him hurled headlong from his horse , they stood doubtfully looking at him and each other , several seconds longer , before they thought of following him . 
Onthe same day , and near the same hour , on which Bart so singularly and luckily effected his escape from his vindictive enemies , the bereft Woodburn left his lonely residence and walked to the graveyard , to shed another tear over the freshly-laid turf that covered the remains of his sainted mother . 
`` This is , indeed , unexpected , Bart , '' said Woodburn , stepping out into plain view . 
resumed Bart , drawing a long breath , and riding forward -- `` I vags , if I did n't begin to feel rather ticklish when Lightfoot give me that hint to look out for snakes , just now . 
Well knowing Bart 's peculiarities , and that it would be useless to try to draw from him the secret of his appearance here until he chose to reveal it , Woodburn , while the other dismounted and told his pony to be cropping the bushes in the mean time , related all that had transpired between himself and the victim of his deeply regretted paroxysm of passion , adding , at the close of his gloomy and self-accusing recital , -- `` I first thought , after reaching my house , that I would return and give myself up to the authorities ; but knowing , whether Peters should live or die , that I should be a doomed man in this part of the country , I at length brought myself , perhaps wrongly , to try to get out of it undiscovered . 
warmly responded Bart , who had listened to the other with many a whew!of surprise at his accompanying expressions of self-condemnation for killing an antagonist who struck the first blow -- `` that 's grand ! 
`` But you have not now stole and run away with her , I trust , Bart ? '' 
`` No ; she run away with me , '' replied Bart , roguishly , as I can prove ; for I hollered whoaall the time , as loud as I could yell . '' 
Bart , in his own peculiar manner , then related , with great accuracy , the particulars of his arrest and escape from the tories , as we have already described them in the preceding chapter , merely explaining , in addition , that Lightfoot well understood the game , and knew she was to obey the signs he secretly gave her with his feet and hands , however loud he , or others , might cry whoa , or any of the terms usually addressed to horses . 
`` Well , now , Harry , I did n't expect the like of that from you , any how , '' observed Bart , evidently touched at the remark . 
`` Bart , you have silenced me . 
`` Upon my word , Bart , you are successful to-day in making defences . '' 
`` That is queer reasoning , Bart . '' 
`` Ah , Bart , Bart , your religion , as you term it , is a strange one ! 
And Bart 's plan being adopted , our two humble , friendless , and nearly penniless adventurers left the wood , and entering the northern road , set forth on their destination , Woodburn first mounting the pony and keeping some hundred yards in advance , and Bart forming the rear-guard , under the agreement that the latter , on hearing any sounds of pursuit , should utter the cry of the raccoon , when both were to plunge into the woods , and remain till the danger had passed by . 
he added , glancing towards Bart , who stood several paces in the background . 
`` Do you agree to that statement , without any qualification , master Bart ? '' 
`` Well , some of it , I reckon , '' answered Bart , with a look of droll gravity . 
`` No more I had n't , '' replied Bart , composedly ; `` but I did n't say I did n't know where it turned off , for Tom Dunning told me that . '' 
`` Bart , '' said Woodburn , seriously , `` though I am not sorry to have fallen in with father Herriot , yet , as between you and me , this needs explanation . 
`` I am still perfectly at a loss how to understand all this , Bart ; and I still wish you would more fully explain it . '' 
And now , after hearing the explanation of Herriot , being satisfied of the propriety of the course so generously taken by his friends in his behalf , he gratefully received the money ; and , in turn , while Bart and the servant were out caring for the pony , he confidentially disclosed to the recluse the painful occurrence of the afternoon which had led to his sudden flight from home , and his determination of immediately joining the army , concluding by giving the particulars of Bart 's arrest and singular escape from the tories . 
But come , Harry , '' he added , taking up a light , and making a sign for the other to follow him , `` some new notions have come into my head since I became acquainted with you and your young friend , at Westminster , and knowing of no two persons in whom I take greater interest , I have concluded to impart something to you in confidence . '' 
So saying , he led the way into the cellar , the bottom of which was flagged over with stones of various shapes and sizes ; when , pointing to a broad , flat stone lying near the centre of the room , he asked Woodburn to raise it . 
Soon after they had returned , Bart and the servant came in ; when a frugal meal was set before the travellers . 
`` I wonder what this new business is they want you should do , Bart ? 
O Lord , Bart , what a stupid pup ! 
He passed you when you was napping it in the bushes at that cool spring ! 
Well , we sha n't see much more of him to-night , likely , seeing it is love he 's doing , and such a moon as this holds the candle ; and we may as well be trying to find out this business without him . 
Harry and the rest of 'em do n't know I can read writing ; but I can , when driv to it ; though I think we wo n't let 'em know that , Bart ; for no knowing what cunning things we may find out if they do n't mistrust it . 
`` This will be a great thing for you , Bart . 
Bart , we 'll go it for them ; and have a touch of the trade this very night , if you please . 
that 's it ; so now up the river for Howard 's , as a beginning , hit or miss , Bart . '' 
When Woodburn and Bart left the state , under the circumstances described in the closing chapters of our first volume , they proceeded directly to Cambridge , where the revolutionary army was then gathering for the siege of Boston , enlisted , for two years , into the continental service ; and actively participated in all the most important movements of the army in the campaign that immediately succeeded . 
A walk of twenty or thirty minutes brought Bart to the log-tenement of Howard , who was a soldier in the continental service , now absent on duty , having left his house and business in charge of his wife , a woman no less noted , in her neighborhood , for energy in conducting her domestic affairs , than for the patriotic spirit with which she espoused the American cause . 
exclaimed Bart , as , after having cautiously approached , he paused to reconnoitre the house . 
Now what 's to be done , Bart ? 
But such things they expected of you , did n't they , Bart ? 
Taking a wide sweep round the house , Bart soon approached that part of it , on the back side , in which he rightly conjectured the young people were sitting ; and gliding up to the wall with steps as noiseless as those of a mousing fox , he discovered a crevice between the logs , from which the moss calking had fallen out so as to permit a small pencil of light to escape . 
`` Well , Bart , what do you think of that ? '' 
Being equally fortunate in finding an opening into the room to which his attention was now directed , Bart cautiously peered in ; when his eye soon fell on the solitary occupant , a fine , resolute-looking matron , quietly employed in knitting by the light of a torch stuck in one of the stone jambs of the broad fireplace . 
He , however , had scarcely time to note these circumstances before the door was softly opened , and the girl who had just left the other room entered on tiptoe , and whispered in her mother 's ear something that seemed to produce an instant effect on the hitherto sedate and listless countenance of the latter ; for , starting to her feet , she stood gazing at the other with a flashing eye , and listening with the keenest interest , as some further particulars were added to the communication . 
`` Are you sure he was not fooling you ? '' 
just as I told you , '' muttered Bart , who , inwardly vexed that the secret he had been hugging , as exclusively his own , should be shared by another , for fear measures might be taken to deprive him of the sole honor and profit he had promised himself of communicating it , had been jealously noting what had occurred . 
`` Just as I told , Bart ; the old woman has got your story , and there she goes , streaming off with it , like the house afire , for the great road , through woods , swamp , and all ! 
With this resolution , he immediately gave chase ; and by occasionally pausing , after entering the forest , to listen to the rustling of her garments as the intrepid woman rushed through the tangled thickets on her way , or the cracking of dry twigs under her rapid tread , he was enabled to trace her course and keep within hearing distance , though not without exertions which drew forth many an exclamation of surprise at the speed with which , at such a time and place , she got over the ground . 
`` I vags , '' exclaimed Bart , pausing and wiping the perspiration from his face with his sleeve , as he emerged from the wood , `` if the perlite Frenchman , they tell of , who thought women had no legs , had followed this one through a mile-swamp at the rate she has gone , he would think a little different about the matter , I guess . 
But never mind the tramp , Bart , but still keep your eye on her . 
Well , Bart , seeing you are fairly beat in this business , let 's work along over into the road against the house , and see what comes of it . '' 
Scarcely had Bart gained his proposed situation in a nook of the fence , before the major , followed by his son , came bustling out into the yard . 
he said , hastily turning to his son , `` you run to the barn , and saddle and bring out my horse , while I slip over to Captain Barney 's . 
he added , espying and approaching Bart . 
Content with this assurance of an officer known to be in the confidence of the council , and quite willing to make one in the expected affray , Bart cheerfully complied . 
The place where the latter were to separate being soon reached , appearances examined , and no discoveries made , the captain , with Purdy and young Ormsbee , struck off from the road , and proceeded cautiously along the bushy outskirts of the path before mentioned as leading to the supposed rendezvous , leaving to Bart the task of going on and reconnoitring the old establishment on the main road , at which , it was believed , the tories would be sure to call , on their way out , to take a last treat from mother Rose 's ever-ready bottle , and perhaps some provisions from her cupboard , to invigorate them for their long night march to the British camp . 
A short walk now brought Bart in close vicinity to the house he was appointed to reconnoitre ; when , gliding silently along under cover of the fences , tall weeds , and other screening objects , he quickly made a circuit round the buildings , contriving , as he did so , to peer into the barns , sheds , and even into most of the rooms of the capacious old dwelling . 
He perceived , however , no indications of the presence of any but females about the establishment ; though , from the movements of these , and especially those of the old woman , who was busily engaged in cutting up large quantities of bread and cheese , and in replenishing her junk bottles , he became satisfied that the company , of whom he was in search , were shortly expected . 
Having made these observations , he retired from the house , crossed over the road into the opposite field , and was marking out a course for himself through the wood , which would intersect the path taken by his companions , and enable him to join them somewhere near the tory rendezvous , when his ear caught the clattering of horse-hoofs , approaching , at a furious pace , up the road from the south . 
And so rapid was the advance of the coming horseman , that Bart had scarcely time to gain the covert of a clump of shrubbery standing by the fence , over against the house , before the former made his appearance , and , turning into the yard , galloped up to an open window , and addressed a hasty inquiry to the mistress of the house ; when , hardly waiting for the negative reply that appeared to be given , he suddenly wheeled about , and , regaining the road , pursued his course with renewed speed . 
exclaimed Bart in surprise , as he caught a view of the man 's features ; `` as sure as a gun , it is Harry 's old troubler , that he thought he 'd killed once , and felt so guilty about it , till he heard he did n't . 
Bart , has n't this tall tory got wind of our movement , somehow , and come on to warn the gang , that , not finding here , he has gone to meet ? 
Let 's be off and try to trace him . 
yes , and scratching gravel took , like Mars , I should think , by the way his horse 's feet strike the ground ! 
Here he comes ! 
he added , in low , eager shouts of exultation , as the recognized horseman passed , like a flash , by his place of concealment . 
Springing forward to a small elevation in the field , which commanded a broken view of the road to the path before described , and even a small portion of the latter , Bart tasked both eye and ear to the utmost , in trying to trace the dimly-discerned forms of the receding horsemen , now obviously but a short distance asunder , his object being to ascertain whether Peters would keep on in the main road , or , as he suspected his intention to be , strike into the path to Asa Rose 's , and try to reach the tories before he should be overtaken . 
For one moment , in which he lost sight of both pursuer and pursued , Bart stood in doubt ; but the next , the changing direction of the still audible sounds , and the slight glimmerings of the sparks from the horse 's hoofs , now seen extending out in a line nearly at right angles to the course they had been pursuing , sufficiently apprised him that his suspicions were correct . 
Waiting , therefore , no longer than to ascertain this , he turned and plunged into the wood on his left ; and taking the course he had already decided on for joining his companions , and being now incited to his utmost exertions of speed by his anxiety to reach the other road in time to warn Woodburn of the trap into which his antagonist was doubtless intending to draw him at the tory rendezvous , or to be ready to lend any needed assistance in case a collision took place between them before reaching it , he made his way through the opposing obstacles of the thickets with a rapidity , probably , that a wild Indian could not have equalled , till he suddenly found himself in the path of which he was in quest , within a few rods of the small opening where stood the suspected log-tenement of Asa Rose . 
`` I will multiply into a platoon of ten , and be their orderly , if you will let me have my own way in the managing of 'em , captain , '' said Bart , entering with great spirit into a plan in which his peculiarities so well fitted him for taking a leading part . 
Purdy and Ormsbee now made a simultaneous movement in the bushes , on the different sides of the road , by stepping about , hitting their guns against the trees , and thrusting out the muzzles at various openings towards the enemy ; while , at the same time , the clicking sounds , as of the irregular cocking of a dozen muskets , with as many distinct movements of men , apparently , were heard in the direction of Bart 's concealment in front . 
shouted Bart , from his covert , to his men of straw ; `` do n't do that , I tell you ! 
`` Hold up there , Sergeant Burt ! '' 
exclaimed Bart , in a tone of impatience . 
While this order , which was thus given for the double purpose of enabling the victors to get between the tories and their guns , and to give time for Pettibone and his associate to come up , was being carried into effect , Bart , who had been burning with impatience for a chance to go to the assistance of his endangered friend , Woodburn , slunk noiselessly from his post , and made his way , with all possible speed , towards the spot from whence the noise of the firing appeared to proceed . 
Woodburn having come in sight of his antagonist soon after crossing the river , and the latter then taking the alarm , the chase had proceeded , as witnessed by Bart , till the parties struck into the by-road leading to the tory rendezvous ; when the former , concluding that Peters would not have turned in here without the expectation of finding friends and defenders near , now redoubled his exertions to overtake him , and bring on an encounter while it would have to be decided by individual prowess , and before his foe should reach assistance to render the pursuit futile or dangerous . 
And Woodburn , judging that any attempt to pursue him in the woods would be useless , reluctantly gave up the chase , and turned to go back to his horse ; when Bart , running up and peering an instant at the dying horse and then at his friend , rushed by the latter , and , throwing himself on the neck of his loved pony , fell to hugging and fondling her in an ecstasy of delight . 
he exclaimed ; `` lucky divil that you are , not now to be sprawling and kicking , like your tory brother there in the bushes ! 
`` Bart ! '' 
`` O , Captain Barney , and Bart , and I , and Mr. Stratagem , and one or two others . '' 
and no fool of an exploit on your part neither , Bart , if all this is so . 
Let 's see ; six -- you , myself , and Captain Coffin , and -- '' `` And der Bart , if he comes ; ditter do n't you expect him along here to-night ? '' 
Miss Haviland , according to the letter of Mr. Allen , who wrote some days ago , to apprise me of her coming , would have started , I calculate , this morning ; and Bart , whom I immediately despatched to act as her guard on the way , will of course come with her . 
eagerly exclaimed Woodburn , as Bart , with a downcast and troubled look , drew near . 
The suggestions of Dunning , who , as the reader will already have inferred , had been made a sergeant in Woodburn 's company of Rangers , were at once approved by his superior , who accordingly , as the first step , despatched him and Bart to the woods , where the man conjectured to be in charge of the arms of his comrades was supposed to be concealed . 
In a few minutes after the surrender of the tories , their guns were brought in by Dunning and Bart , who found them at the suspected place , though the traitor , Redding , whom they identified , had just taken the alarm , and was seen retreating over a distant knoll as they came up to the spot . 
Dunning and Bart , from their known sagacity and skill as woodsmen , and coolness and intrepidity in action , were the two men selected to undertake the more difficult and hazardous part first mentioned . 
`` Remember the arrangement , boys , '' said Woodburn , addressing Dunning and Bart , in a voice which betrayed the intense solicitude he felt in the event at issue . 
Here finding , as he seemed to have expected , a capacious canoe , dug out from the trunk of some huge pine , he drew it forth from its concealment , beneath a mass of fallen trees projecting over the bank , and , bidding Bart enter with the oars , and placing one knee on the stern , with a grasp on the sides , gave a push with his foot from the shore , which sent his rude craft surging out far into the open expanse of water before him . 
`` Nothing out on the pond , guess , but loons , ducks , and sich like , '' quietly observed Bart , raising himself from his listening attitude ; `` nor can I make out any sounds from the nest of 'em you say there is over on the shore yonder . 
We are within the ditter matter of three hundred yards of 'em , now ; so carefully , Bart , and do n't let your oar graze the boat , or any thing , to give out the least sound ; for they 've ears , it 's der probable , as well as we . '' 
Without demurring to the suggestion , Bart immediately set forward , on his hands and knees , in the direction indicated by his companion . 
Carefully removing every dry twig and leaf from each place where he wished to bear his weight , and moving as noiselessly as the preying cat along the ground , he made his way onward till he had gone far enough , as he judged , to reach the expected shanty ; when he paused to listen and reconnoitre . 
Not the slightest sound of any kind reached his ears ; while it had , in some unaccountable manner , suddenly become so pitchy dark that he could not distinguish a single object before him . 
And he began to feel confused and doubtful about proceeding , when , by the action of those secret and undefinable sympathies , perhaps , by which , it is said , we sometimes become apprised of the presence of others before we are informed by the senses , he all at once became impressed with the idea that some person was near him . 
He therefore strained his senses to the utmost in trying to discover what objects might be before or around him ; but all , for a while , to no purpose . 
In a short time , however , his ear caught the sound of a deep sigh , the softness of which told him it came from a female , within a few feet of him . 
With a palpitating heart , he now doubtfully attempted to move forward , when he suddenly perceived his head on the point of coming in contact with some broad , high obstacle , which seemed to rise like a wall before him . 
Surprised , and still more confused than before , he retreated a few paces , and looked upward , to try to make out the nature of the obstacle before him ; when he discovered it to be the backside of the very shanty of which he was in search . 
The strange darkness , which had so suddenly overshadowed him , and which was caused by the obstruction of the skylight by this rude structure , being now explained , and every thing made clear to his mind , he cautiously moved round towards the front of the shanty , to find the entrance , no longer doubting that those he sought were within . 
On reaching the front corner , so as to enable him to peer round it on that side , he soon made out the entrance ; but directly across it , to his disappointment , he discovered the half-recumbent form of a man , with a musket leaning on his shoulder . 
After a few hurried observations , in which he discovered , by the decaying fires before them , several other shanties or tents among the trees , a few rods in front , Bart again slunk back to the spot he had just left , and was about to retrace his way to his companion , when a new thought occurred to him , and , moving up to the back of the shanty , which was formed by broad pieces of thick bark standing slantingly against a pole supported by crotches , and , placing his mouth to a crack , softly whispered the names of the captives , and turned his ear to the spot to catch the hoped-for response . 
For the first moment , all was still ; but the next , the catching of a long-suspended breath , and even , as he thought , the rapid beatings of a fluttering bosom , became audible . 
Presently a slight movement , as of a cautiously changed posture , was heard within ; and the next instant a pair of soft lips came in contact with his ear at the crevice , articulating , in sounds scarcely above the slightest murmur of the air , -- `` Who speaks my name ? '' 
`` Bart , '' replied the other . 
After slightly essaying several of the pieces of the bark he wished to remove , he at length commenced operations at the bottom of one of them , and gently forcing it aside , inch by inch , in a short time effected an opening sufficient , as he judged , for the egress of the captives , and that too , he felt confident , without attracting the attention of the dozing guard . 
`` Now feel your way out ; and , without stirring a twig or leaf , creep on after me , '' whispered Bart . 
And receding a few paces from the opening , he paused to await the result . 
In a moment he had the satisfaction of perceiving a female form slowly emerging from the narrow passage into the open air without . 
`` Bart , how is this ? 
But Bart , equally disappointed and perplexed , was mute ; and the lady , who proved to be Miss Howard , replied , -- `` Miss Haviland , if not retaken , is now wandering in the woods . '' 
We must save what we have got ; so into the canoe there with ye , gal ; and you , Bart , take her across , der find Harry , whom I 'd ditter rather you would meet first , and tell him you have left me this side to go in search of the other , who , if found , can most likely be got to the road as well the way she set out as this , in the shape things now stand . '' 
Although this conversation scarcely occupied a minute , and although , while the hunter was yet speaking , Bart and his fair friend were in their respective positions in the boat , which instantly shot out silently and swiftly into the pond , under the vigorous push given it by the former , yet the event showed that they had been none too speedy in their movements ; for , at that instant , a sudden bustle in the tory encampment , which was quickly followed by the confused sounds of voices making rapid inquiries and giving orders , together with the stealthy tread of approaching footsteps , apprised the fugitives that not only was their escape discovered , but probably also the direction they had taken . 
`` Der narve it , narve it , Bart ! 
`` O , but you 'll kill us if we come back , '' replied Bart , splashing round his oar as if turning the boat , which in fact was going swiftly ahead . 
sung out Bart , with the greatest sang froid , as he hastily cast himself down in the boat . 
but that a n't so bad shooting as might be , in the dark so , '' exclaimed Bart , hastily springing up and seizing his oar . 
`` They are more at the business than I thought 'em ; and we may as well be a little further off afore they have time to load and fire agin , guess , '' he added , suddenly changing the direction of the boat from the course it had been taking , and playing the oar with an energy which showed rather less indifference to his proximity to the hostile marksmen behind him than his words might seem to imply . 
But not receiving the signal promised , in case help was needed , and feeling doubtful how to act , most of them fell back , and ceased operations , till Bart , who had , in the mean time , reached the shore , and , with the fearless girl he had released , hastened round to their post , arrived and informed them of all that had occurred . 
`` Why , you know that Bart , the night after we discovered the place where we supposed the girl was destroyed , disappeared , and has not been here since . 
Where have they sent him , and what after ? '' 
Bart has gone a spy to the British camp . 
Though Harry , in his despair , would for a while believe nothing but that she was der dead , or worse , yet , as I and others , putting all things together , hoped and reasoned ditter different , in part , and thought she might not have been killed there , but retaken ; and , for fear of pursuit , hurried off directly to the British , he concluded to despatch Bart to his friend Allen , of the Council , to take advice , and then proceed , in some disguise or other , right into the lion 's den -- ascertain whether the girl was there -- and , after ditter learning what he could about the enemy 's movements , return with the news . '' 
But if any creature on earth can carry it out , it is Bart ; and he will , unless they get word from this quarter that such a fellow is among them . 
`` It will be all right , I presume , Bill , now you perceive Bart 's neck may depend on your ditter discretion . 
`` Your disguise , Bart , '' said the maiden , looking at the other with a smile -- `` your disguise is so perfect , or rather , the new character , in which you this time appear , has been so well acted , that had it not been the afternoon you set for your third appearance , I should have never known you . 
`` No , Bart . 
I engage you to act as that servant , Bart . '' 
If I am , do not desert me , Bart , but return to this kitchen at dusk . '' 
But you 'll go it without the ifs , I reckon , '' said Bart , swinging his panniers to his shoulder , and departing with full confidence in his ability to effect an escape perilous to them both , but made much more so to him by the new charge he had so cheerfully undertaken . 
`` Now , miss , '' said Bart , falling in by the side of the maiden , and speaking in a low , cautionary tone -- `` now we are coming out on to the river , and at a spot that I feel kinder shyish of . '' 
`` On what account , Bart ? '' 
`` Well , it 's for a reason I have , and then one or two more on top of that , '' replied the former , with his usual indirectness . 
`` That is what I 'm thinking about , '' replied Bart , musing . 
Bart , now assisting the maiden to dismount , and directing her attention to a mossy hillock at hand , as an eligible seat or bed for resting herself , turned the pony loose to crop the bushes , and disappeared to commence his observations . 
In a few minutes he returned , and , having reported the discovery of a safe and easy route for passing to the east of the public road , as far as it might be necessary to avoid it , proceeded to reconnoitre the houses below . 
And taking a well-screened seat on a log , lying on the verge of the bluff , he looked long and intently . 
Among the nearest and most respectable of these , stood , in a retired situation considerably to the east of the highway , the house presenting the questionable appearances to which Bart 's attention had been directed . 
`` It acts some like a funeral there , '' observed Bart , doubtfully ; `` but then those Indians , that seem to be waiting for some one -- and that horse with the lady 's saddle on him , which they appear to have the care of , and which looks , by the trim , like a British army horse -- and -- '' `` Bart , do you know who lives there ? '' 
That 's him and his wife standing before the door , I take it . 
His name is Mc -- something . '' 
`` Well , the poor thing has settled it at last , '' observed Bart , drawing a long breath . 
`` Yes , but I hope they wo n't attempt it , '' said Bart ; `` for if these Redskins , who are probably to have a smart price for getting her safe to camp , should find themselves about to be robbed of her , there 's no telling what they would do . '' 
Theindefatigable Bart , after seeing the object of his greatest solicitude in safety for the night , that of his next , his loved Lightfoot , well stabled and fed , and , lastly , his own wants supplied , determined , with his usual caution and forethought , on making a little tour of observation to Fort Edward , now some miles in the rear , for the purpose of gathering what new intelligence could be gained respecting the movements of the enemy , which might both enhance the value of his budget of news to carry home , and enable him to shape his course more understandingly and safely on the morrow . 
`` It is time you and I was jogging , Bart , '' muttered the unsuspected personage within hearing , who deemed himself not the least interested in this unexpected announcement , as he gradually edged himself out of the camp , and made his way , with unusual haste , back to his quarters for the night . 
Without any allusions to the startling discoveries he had made since they parted for the night , other than the quiet remark that he had ascertained that it might not be wholly safe for them to proceed any longer in the main road , Bart assisted the lady to mount , and led the way on their now doubly difficult and hazardous flight . 
`` I hope you will indulge in no unnecessary alarms , Bart , '' said the other , reluctant to leave the road , as she supposed he was about to advise . 
`` I can not comprehend you , Bart , '' said the maiden , with a look of surprise and concern . 
`` Spose so ; for I have held in , cause I thought I would n't worry your mind till needful , which it may be now ; so I 'll tell you the whole kink , '' replied Bart , proceeding to relate his last night 's discoveries , and then adding , -- `` Now a party of the enemy -- for I saw a moccason track just now , and none on our side would be in such company as that means -- a party of 'em have gone on before us ; and my notion is , that we strike off through this bushy pasture to the left . '' 
cried Bart , as the horse , with her fair burden , dashed lightly through the breach , and cantered off in the direction indicated by the finger of her master . 
Pausing to replace the fence , lest the opening should attract the notice of those coming on behind , Bart rapidly followed , and , in another minute , the fugitives were safely screened from observation by the thick foliage of the different clumps of bushes , which they managed to keep between them and the road they had just quitted . 
`` There is a house , '' said Bart , musingly , after they had proceeded a while in silence -- `` there is a house about half a mile ahead , and nearly the same distance from the great road , with woods between , which is a place I called at when I came down , and which I had been all along calculating to turn off to , for a short stop , as we might shape our course to do now , if not somewhat risky . '' 
`` The man , '' said Bart , glancing up to his wondering companion , with an odd air of shyness , as he provokingly persisted in his evasions -- `` the man is one of Warner 's sergeants , and a sort of relation to somebody that I thought likely would be visiting at his house by this time . 
And -- and I guess we 'll venture there , considering , '' he added , suddenly dashing some distance ahead , under pretence of pointing out the way . 
Bart instantly caught the bridle , and was turning the horse for the purpose of fleeing back into the forest , when five or six armed men sprang out from the bushes behind and around them , cutting off their retreat in every direction . 
Bart 's quick eye had told him , at a glance , that there was no chance for him to escape ; and , before his natural looks could be noted , he had become transformed into a lout of so stolid and inoffensive an appearance , that his captors seemed greatly disappointed , and evidently entertained doubts whether he could be the one they supposed they were about to secure . 
And it was not till his pale and trembling fellow-prisoner had been conducted off on her horse some rods , that they could make him seem to comprehend that he was a prisoner , and must go with them . 
He then burst out into a piteous fit of weeping , and , passively receiving the kicks and cuffs of his keepers to get him in motion , went bawling along , like a whipped schoolboy , towards the house . 
And as to this bawling devil , '' he continued , turning with a scrutinizing , but somewhat staggered look , to the blubbering Bart , `` take him to the barn , where I just noticed some good cords , bind him hand and foot , and guard him closely . 
Bart was now led into the open barn , which stood facing the yard , and projecting in the rear over a steep bank , making from the floor , on the back side , that was also open , a perpendicular fall of nearly a dozen feet . 
He was then ordered to sit down in the middle of the floor , when two of the half dozen keepers who had him in charge , with many a half taunting , half pitying joke at his doleful whimpering , carelessly proceeded to prepare the cords for binding him , while the rest laid aside their guns , and went searching about the barn for eggs , all , notwithstanding the caution of their commander , being evidently so much impressed with the idea of his innocence as to disarm them of the vigilance usually exercised on such occasions . 
At this juncture , just as the two men , one standing before and the other behind him , were in the act of stooping to take his legs and arms , Bart started to his feet with the suddenness of thought , and giving the one in his rear a paralyzing kick in the pit of his stomach , grappled round the legs of the other , and , bearing him , in spite of all his struggles , across the floor , leaped with him from the verge to the earth below . 
Managing to keep uppermost in the descent , Bart , as the man struck heavily on the ground , leaped unhurt from the senseless body , and , with the speed of a wild deer , made his way to the nearest point of woods , which he fortunately reached just in time to avoid the volley of bullets that was sent after him by the rallying guard from whom he had so strangely escaped . 
The pleasure of Miss Haviland was equalled only by her surprise , when , on entering the house , she found her former fellow-prisoner , the sprightly and fearless Vine Howard , a transient but favored inmate , whose presence here now fully explained the enigmatical language of Bart , on the way , while it soon raised a shrewd suspicion of the cause of the awkward shyness he had exhibited in making his partial and roundabout revelations . 
Their mutual salutations , inquiries , and explanations , had scarcely been exchanged , before they were called to the window by an outcry and commotion among the tories without ; when they had the unspeakable satisfaction of witnessing the escape of Bart , for whose situation and fate they had both , from different causes , felt the deepest commiseration and the most gloomy apprehensions . 
`` Now , '' said the animated Vine , as she turned exultingly away from the gratifying scene that had opened by the escape of Bart , and closed by that of his pony -- `` now , Sabrey , if they will let you remain here till dark , I will see what Ican do towards effecting yourescape , which , to be candid about it , I mainly came here to favor . 
`` By this time , '' observed Vine to her thoughtful companion , after they had concluded the remarks which the novelty of their situation naturally elicited -- `` by this time , Bart , at the rate he will be likely to ride , has nearly reached Bennington , now less than ten miles distant ; and in another hour after , if the news he carries has the effect on our army there that I anticipate from what I learned when I came down , these fellows will be met on the way by a force which they can not be expecting to see . 
`` I think not , '' replied Sabrey , `` or we should have been sent back , at once , to the British camp , as we expected ; but , believing he shall meet with no serious opposition , and probably fearing I should find some means to escape , if sent back , my magnanimous persecutor concludes to drag me round with him and his minions , that I may be watched more closely , till , having completed his anticipated triumphs , he is ready to return . '' 
The sudden appearance of Woodburn in the now deserted yard of her prison-house , whither , the moment the battle was won , he had hastened , with the usual anxiety of the lover made intense by the distracting fear that she might have been carried off by the escaping tories , -- his eager inquiries for her presence and safety , -- her own involuntary but silent response to his calls , by rushing out to meet him , and placing herself under his coveted protection , -- the hurried congratulations that passed between them , -- the complimentary greetings of the gallant hero of the day , and other distinguished persons soon gathering around her and her fair companion , as they stood shrinking from the admiration and applause which the conduct of one , and the position of both , had called forth from the lips of all , -- their welcome escape from the embarrassing scene , in a carriage , under the guidance of Bart , to whom they were given in charge by Woodburn , as he hastily departed , at the head of a chosen band of followers , in pursuit of Peters , and a body of tories that were discovered to have escaped , -- the passage of the vehicle through the contested field , ploughed up by artillery , blackened by the fire and smoke of battle , and strewed with the dying and the dead , among whom the busy groups of the dismissed soldiery were every where scattered in pursuit of their different objects -- here to collect plunder from their slain enemies , and there to minister to the wounded , or search among the fallen for missing comrades , -- all these followed so rapidly upon a victory , the sudden announcement of which had nearly overpowered her with joyful surprise , that it was not till she and her companion had passed beyond the confines of the battle-field , and entered upon the comparatively solitary road leading towards the village of Bennington , to which they were now directing their course , that she could realize her happy deliverance . 
We must , however , leave her and her friend to indulge their overflowing feelings , and listen to the recitals of the no less happy Bart , who had been in the hottest of the fight , while they pursue their unmolested way to their present destination -- we must now leave them , and return once more to the field of battle , where the dismissed troops were still busily engaged in gathering up the trophies of war , preparing refreshments , and exulting over the glorious result of the conflict , little dreaming of any further appearance of the enemy after so signal a defeat . 
The next moment , our old acquaintance , Bart Burt , who , having conveyed the ladies to their destination , had sped back to the battle-field in time to participate in the last part of the final action , was seen stealthily creeping round the point of the ledge , from which the fatal shot had issued , and approaching the leader of the concealed assailants , who , as the reader may have already anticipated , was no other than Captain Woodburn . 
`` Bart , '' said the latter , `` you have executed my order as no other man could . 
Bart now , with the noiseless tread of a cat , rapidly glided away into the bushes and disappeared on his errand . 
In a few minutes , the cracking of sticks , as if under the pressure of cautiously moving feet , was heard in a thicket of bushes within full range of the guns of the tories , who , now safely ensconced behind the new coverts , to which , in alarm at Bart 's fatal shot , they had betaken themselves , instantly turned their attention in that direction ; and , levelling their pieces , keenly watched for the expected exposure of the persons of some of their opponents . 
And , the next moment , every tory , but one , sent the contents of his gun at these supposed forms of the lurking besiegers . 
On turning their eyes towards the spot , the company beheld Bart , with his rifle in one hand , and a long beechen switch in the other , driving in before him the whilom constable , Fitch , who was chafing , like a chained bear , under the lash which his catechizing captor was administering every few yards on the way . 
`` Why are you so rough with him , Bart ? '' 
`` Why , '' replied the imperturbable Bart , `` perhaps I do n't remember , and perhaps I do , how a chap of about my size sat sweating near two cool hours , at the sight of an ugly-looking bunch of beech rods , that a certain constable had ordered for his back . 
Those persons were Henry Woodburn , Bart Burt , Sabrey Haviland , and Vine Howard , who , ignorant of his particular wishes or intentions , and wondering why the presence of all of them should be desired at the same time , had been summoned to his bedside to hear his last communication and receive his blessing . 
Bart , '' he continued , after a thoughtful pause , as he turned to the young man who had stood mutely noting the proceedings with a puzzled look -- `` Bart , do you remember the old Rose Homestead , which was confiscated , and also purchased by me ? '' 
`` Well , yes , '' replied Bart , looking up with an inquiring , doubtful expression -- `` yes , for as many as two several reasons , or more , '' he added , with one glance to Woodburn , and another , and more significant one , to Vine , who was standing demurely at his side . 
exclaimed Bart , casting an incredulous but searching look at the other 's countenance , in which , however , he read something that at once changed his demeanor ; and , in a softened and respectful tone , he replied to the question , `` Yes , Father Herriot , as soon as the smell of toryism got fairly out of it , I would like it grandly , that 's a fact . '' 
`` Well , do n't know exactly , but may be the chap that helped me fix up my spy disguises , and gave me so many good hints for ferreting out the tories , wo n't object much to that , seeing we have had considerably the start of the captain and his lady here , in the way of finished bargains , '' replied Bart , turning , with an expression of droll gravity , to the blooming girl at his side , who , thereupon , with an arch and blushful smile , placed her hand in his , which had been extended to receive it . 
Perhaps I should have made it , as I had nearly done , when , at the breaking out of the war , you and Bart visited my hermit cabin in the vicinity of the Connecticut . 
Bart , '' he continued , turning , with an agitated countenance , to the young man , `` as forsaken and guideless as you have been , many a parent has had a less deserving offspring . 
And had you not done more for yourself than he , who should have been your protector and guide , has done for you , you had been less than nothing among men . 
Bart , you were , and still are , that son . 
