The title of Rob Roy was suggested by the late Mr Constable , whose sagacity and experience foresaw the germ of popularity which it included . 
Thus a character like his , blending the wild virtues , the subtle policy , and unrestrained license of an American Indian , was flourishing in Scotland during the Augustan age of Queen Anne and George I. Addison , it is probable , or Pope , would have been considerably surprised if they had known that there existed in the same island with them a personage of Rob Roy 's peculiar habits and profession . 
It is this strong contrast betwixt the civilized and cultivated mode of life on the one side of the Highland line , and the wild and lawless adventures which were habitually undertaken and achieved by one who dwelt on the opposite side of that ideal boundary , which creates the interest attached to his name . 
Hence it is that even yet , `` Far and near , through vale and hill , Are faces that attest the same , And kindle like a fire new stirr 'd , At sound of Rob Roy 's name . '' 
There were several advantages which Rob Roy enjoyed , for sustaining to advantage the character which he assumed . 
The most prominent of these was his descent from , and connexion with , the clan MacGregor , so famous for their misfortunes , and the indomitable spirit with which they maintained themselves as a clan , linked and banded together in spite of the most severe laws , executed with unheard-of rigour against those who bore this forbidden surname . 
The sept of MacGregor claimed a descent from Gregor , or Gregorius , third son , it is said , of Alpin King of Scots , who flourished about 787 . 
A Sir Duncan Campbell bell of Lochow , known in the Highlands by the name of Donacha Dhu nan Churraichd , that is , Black Duncan with the Cowl , it being his pleasure to wear such a head-gear , is said to have been peculiarly successful in those acts of spoliation upon the clan MacGregor . 
This conduct , though natural , considering the country and time , was studiously represented at the capital as arising from an untamable and innate ferocity , which nothing , it was said , could remedy , save cutting off the tribe of MacGregor root and branch . 
To avenge this quarrel , the Laird of MacGregor assembled his clan , to the number of three or four hundred men , and marched towards Luss from the banks of Loch Long , by a pass called Raid na Gael , or the Highlandman 's Pass . 
He was MacGregor 's foster-brother , and the chief committed the youths to his charge , with directions to keep them safely till the affray was over . 
When MacGregor learnt their fate , he expressed the utmost horror at the deed , and upbraided his foster brother with having done that which would occasion the destruction of him and his clan . 
This homicide was the ancestor of Rob Roy , and the tribe from which he was descended . 
He lies buried at the church of Fortingal , where his sepulchre , covered with a large stone , I have been informed , that , at no very remote period , it was proposed to take this large stone , which marks the grave of Dugald Ciar Mohr , and convert it to the purpose of the lintel of a window , the threshold of a door , or some such mean use . 
A man of the clan MacGregor , who was somewhat deranged , took fire at this insult ; and when the workmen came to remove the stone , planted himself upon it , with a broad axe in his hand , swearing he would dash out the brains of any one who should disturb the monument . 
Athletic in person , and insane enough to be totally regardless of consequences , it was thought best to give way to his humour ; and the poor madman kept sentinel on the stone day and night , till the proposal of removing it was entirely dropped . 
is still shown , and where his great strength and courage are the theme of many traditions . 
The above is the account which I find in a manuscript history of the clan MacGregor , of which I was indulged with a perusal by Donald MacGregor , Esq. late Major of the 33d regiment , where great pains have been taken to collect traditions and written documents concerning the family . 
A man of the clan MacGregor , who was somewhat deranged , took fire at this insult ; and when the workmen came to remove the stone , planted himself upon it , with a broad axe in his hand , swearing he would dash out the brains of any one who should disturb the monument . 
Athletic in person , and insane enough to be totally regardless of consequences , it was thought best to give way to his humour ; and the poor madman kept sentinel on the stone day and night , till the proposal of removing it was entirely dropped . 
The above is the account which I find in a manuscript history of the clan MacGregor , of which I was indulged with a perusal by Donald MacGregor , Esq. late Major of the 33d regiment , where great pains have been taken to collect traditions and written documents concerning the family . 
MacGregor 's brother was one of the very few of the tribe who was slain . 
He was buried near the field of battle , and the place is marked by a rude stone , called the Grey Stone of MacGregor . 
By an act of the Privy Council , dated 3d April , 1603 , the name of MacGregor was expressly abolished , and those who had hitherto borne it were commanded to change it for other surnames , the pain of death being denounced against those who should call themselves Gregor or MacGregor , the names of their fathers . 
By a subsequent act of Council , 24th June , 1613 , death was denounced against any persons of the tribe formerly called MacGregor , who should presume to assemble in greater numbers than four . 
MacGregor was sent under a strong guard to the frontier of England , and being thus , in the literal sense , sent out of Scotland , Argyle was judged to have kept faith with him , though the same party which took him there brought him back to Edinburgh in custody . 
MacGregor of Glenstrae was tried before the Court of Justiciary , 20th January , 1604 , and found guilty . 
He appears to have been instantly conveyed from the bar to the gallows ; for Birrell , of the same date , reports that he was hanged at the Cross , and , for distinction 's sake , was suspended higher by his own height than two of his kindred and friends . 
The Earl of Argyle 's service , in conducing to the surrender of the insolent and wicked race and name of MacGregor , notorious common malefactors , and in the in-bringing of MacGregor , with a great many of the leading men of the clan , worthily executed to death for their offences , is thankfully acknowledged by act of Parliament , 1607 , chap . 
Patrick MacGregor , their leader , was the son of a distinguished chief , named Duncan Abbarach , to whom Montrose wrote letters as to his trusty and special friend , expressing his reliance on his devoted loyalty , with an assurance , that when once his Majesty 's affairs were placed upon a permanent footing , the grievances of the clan MacGregor should be redressed . 
On the last day of March in that year , a supplication to the King and Parliament , from Calum MacCondachie Vich Euen , and Euen MacCondachie Euen , in their own name , and that of the whole name of MacGregor , set forth , that while , in obedience to the orders of Parliament , enjoining all clans to come out in the present service under their chieftains , for the defence of religion , king , and kingdoms , the petitioners were drawing their men to guard the passes at the head of the river Forth , they were interfered with by the Earl of Athole and the Laird of Buchanan , who had required the attendance of many of the clan Gregor upon their arrays . 
Commissioners of supply were named in Parliament by the proscribed title of MacGregor , and decrees of courts of justice were pronounced , and legal deeds entered into , under the same appellative . 
They entered into a deed recognising John Murray of Lanrick , Esq. -LRB- afterwards Sir John MacGregor , Baronet -RRB- , representative of the family of Glencarnock , as lawfully descended from the ancient stock and blood of the Lairds and Lords of MacGregor , and therefore acknowledged him as their chief on all lawful occasions and causes whatsoever . 
This deed was subscribed by eight hundred and twenty-six persons of the name of MacGregor , capable of bearing arms . 
A great many of the clan during the last war formed themselves into what was called the Clan Alpine regiment , raised in 1799 , under the command of their Chief , and his brother Colonel MacGregor . 
That of Rob Roy was deduced from Ciar Mohr , the great mouse-coloured man , who is accused by tradition of having slain the young students at the battle of Glenfruin . 
Rob Roy MacGregor Campbell , which last name he bore in consequence of the Act of Parliament abolishing his own , was the younger son of Donald MacGregor of Glengyle , said to have been a Lieutenant-Colonel , -LRB- probably in the service of James II . -RRB- 
Rob 's own designation was of Inversnaid ; but he appears to have acquired a right of some kind or other to the property or possession of Craig Royston , a domain of rock and forest , lying on the east side of Loch Lomond , where that beautiful lake stretches into the dusky mountains of Glenfalloch . 
In the more quiet times which succeeded the Revolution , Rob Roy , or Red Robert , seems to have exerted his active talents , which were of no mean order , as a drover or trader in cattle to a great extent . 
Those of Rob Roy were for several years so successful , as to inspire general confidence , and raise him in the estimation of the country in which he resided . 
His importance was increased by the death of his father , in consequence of which he succeeded to the management of his nephew Gregor MacGregor of Glengyle 's property , and , as his tutor , to such influence with the clan and following as was due to the representative of Dougal Ciar . 
Such influence was the more uncontrolled , that this family of the MacGregors seem to have refused adherence to MacGregor of Glencarnock , the ancestor of the present Sir Ewan MacGregor , and asserted a kind of independence . 
It was at this time that Rob Roy acquired an interest by purchase , wadset , or otherwise , to the property of Craig Royston already mentioned . 
Unfortunately , that species of commerce was and is liable to sudden fluctuations ; and Rob Roy was -- by a sudden depression of markets , and , as a friendly tradition adds , by the bad faith of a partner named MacDonald , whom he had imprudently received into his confidence , and intrusted with a considerable sum of money -- rendered totally insolvent . 
It fixes the period when Rob Roy exchanged his commercial adventures for speculations of a very different complexion.See Appendix , No . 
He appears at this period first to have removed , from his ordinary dwelling at Inversnaid , ten or twelve Scots miles -LRB- which is double the number of English -RRB- farther into the Highlands , and commenced the lawless sort of life which he afterwards followed . 
The Duke of Montrose , who conceived himself deceived and cheated by MacGregor 's conduct , employed legal means to recover the money lent to him . 
Rob Roy 's landed property was attached by the regular form of legal procedure , and his stock and furniture made the subject of arrest and sale . 
It is said that this diligence of the law , as it is called in Scotland , which the English more bluntly term distress , was used in this case with uncommon severity , and that the legal satellites , not usually the gentlest persons in the world , had insulted MacGregor 's wife , in a manner which would have aroused a milder man than he to thoughts of unbounded vengeance . 
It is certain that she felt extreme anguish at being expelled from the banks of Loch Lomond , and gave vent to her feelings in a fine piece of pipe-music , still well known to amateurs by the name of `` Rob Roy 's Lament . '' 
The Duke of Argyle was also one of Rob Roy 's protectors , so far as to afford him , according to the Highland phrase , wood and water -- the shelter , namely , that is afforded by the forests and lakes of an inaccessible country . 
Rob Roy was , therefore , sure of refuge in the country of the Campbells , both as having assumed their name , as connected by his mother with the family of Glenfalloch , and as an enemy to the rival house of Montrose . 
The extent of Argyle 's possessions , and the power of retreating thither in any emergency , gave great encouragement to the bold schemes of revenge which he had adopted . 
This was nothing short of the maintenance of a predatory war against the Duke of Montrose , whom he considered as the author of his exclusion from civil society , and of the outlawry to which he had been sentenced by letters of horning and caption , -LRB- legal writs so called , -RRB- as well as the seizure of his goods , and adjudication of his landed property . 
Against his Grace , therefore , his tenants , friends , allies , and relatives , he disposed himself to employ every means of annoyance in his power ; and though this was a circle sufficiently extensive for active depredation , Rob , who professed himself a Jacobite , took the liberty of extending his sphere of operations against all whom he chose to consider as friendly to the revolutionary government , or to that most obnoxious of measures -- the Union of the Kingdoms . 
Under one or other of these pretexts , all his neighbours of the Lowlands who had any thing to lose , or were unwilling to compound for security , by paying him an annual sum for protection or forbearance , were exposed to his ravages . 
The country in which this private warfare , or system of depredation , was to be carried on , was , until opened up by roads , in the highest degree favourable for his purpose . 
The opinions and habits of the nearest neighbours to the Highland line were also highly favourable to Rob Roy 's purpose . 
A large proportion of them were of his own clan of MacGregor , who claimed the property of Balquhidder , and other Highland districts , as having been part of the ancient possessions of their tribe ; though the harsh laws , under the severity of which they had suffered so deeply , had assigned the ownership to other families . 
There was , therefore , no difficulty in Rob Roy , descended of a tribe which was widely dispersed in the country we have described , collecting any number of followers whom he might be able to keep in action , and to maintain by his proposed operations . 
He himself appears to have been singularly adapted for the profession which he proposed to exercise . 
His stature was not of the tallest , but his person was uncommonly strong and compact . 
The greatest peculiarities of his frame were the breadth of his shoulders , and the great and almost disproportioned length of his arms ; so remarkable , indeed , that it was said he could , without stooping , tie the garters of his Highland hose , which are placed two inches below the knee . 
His countenance was open , manly , stern at periods of danger , but frank and cheerful in his hours of festivity . 
His hair was dark red , thick , and frizzled , and curled short around the face . 
His fashion of dress showed , of course , the knees and upper part of the leg , which was described to me as resembling that of a Highland bull , hirsute , with red hair , and evincing muscular strength similar to that animal . 
To these personal qualifications must be added a masterly use of the Highland sword , in which his length of arm gave him great advantage , and a perfect and intimate knowledge of all the recesses of the wild country in which he harboured , and the character of the various individuals , whether friendly or hostile , with whom he might come in contact . 
His mental qualities seem to have been no less adapted to the circumstances in which he was placed . 
On the contrary , Rob Roy avoided every appearance of cruelty , and it is not averred that he was ever the means of unnecessary bloodshed , or the actor in any deed which could lead the way to it . 
His schemes of plunder were contrived and executed with equal boldness and sagacity , and were almost universally successful , from the skill with which they were laid , and the secrecy and rapidity with which they were executed . 
All whom I have conversed with , and I have in my youth seen some who knew Rob Roy personally , gave him the character of a benevolent and humane man `` in his way . '' 
Supposing Rob Roy to have argued on the tendency of the life which he pursued , whether from choice or from necessity , he would doubtless have assumed to himself the character of a brave man , who , deprived of his natural rights by the partiality of laws , endeavoured to assert them by the strong hand of natural power ; and he is most felicitously described as reasoning thus , in the high-toned poetry of my gifted friend Wordsworth : Say , then , that he was wise as brave , As wise in thought as bold in deed ; For in the principles of things He sought his moral creed . 
Said generous Rob , `` What need of Books ? 
And thus among these rocks he lived , Through summer 's heat and winter 's snow : The eagle , he was lord above , And Rob was lord below . 
On the contrary , as is common with barbarous chiefs , Rob Roy appears to have mixed his professions of principle with a large alloy of craft and dissimulation , of which his conduct during the civil war is sufficient proof . 
It is also said , and truly , that although his courtesy was one of his strongest characteristics , yet sometimes he assumed an arrogance of manner which was not easily endured by the high-spirited men to whom it was addressed , and drew the daring outlaw into frequent disputes , from which he did not always come off with credit . 
From this it has been inferred , that Rob Roy was more of a bully than a hero , or at least that he had , according to the common phrase , his fighting days . 
Some aged men who knew him well , have described him also as better at a taich-tulzie , or scuffle within doors , than in mortal combat . 
The power of commanding his passions , on such occasions , far from being inconsistent with the part which MacGregor had to perform , was essentially necessary , at the period when he lived , to prevent his career from being cut short . 
I may here mention one or two occasions on which Rob Roy appears to have given way in the manner alluded to . 
My late venerable friend , John Ramsay of Ochtertyre , alike eminent as a classical scholar and as an authentic register of the ancient history and manners of Scotland , informed me , that on occasion of a public meeting at a bonfire in the town of Doune , Rob Roy gave some offence to James Edmondstone of Newton , the same gentleman who was unfortunately concerned in the slaughter of Lord Rollo , -LRB- See Maclaurin 's Criminal Trials , No . 
IX. , -RRB- when Edmondstone compelled MacGregor to quit the town on pain of being thrown by him into the bonfire . 
`` I broke one of your ribs on a former occasion , '' said he , `` and now , Rob , if you provoke me farther , I will break your neck . '' 
But it must be remembered that Edmondstone was a man of consequence in the Jacobite party , as he carried the royal standard of James VII . 
Rob Roy , however , suffered in reputation for retiring under such a threat . 
He chanced to be in company with Rob Roy , who , either in contempt of Boquhan 's supposed effeminacy , or because he thought him a safe person to fix a quarrel on , -LRB- a point which Rob 's enemies alleged he was wont to consider , -RRB- insulted him so grossly that a challenge passed between them . 
The goodwife of the clachan had hidden Cunningham 's sword , and , while he rummaged the house in quest of his own or some other , Rob Roy went to the Shieling Hill , the appointed place of combat , and paraded there with great majesty , waiting for his antagonist . 
Mr MacGregor Stirling has a softened account of this anecdote in his new edition of Nimmo 's Stirlingshire ; still he records Rob Roy 's discomfiture . 
Occasionally Rob Roy suffered disasters , and incurred great personal danger . 
On one remarkable occasion he was saved by the coolness of his lieutenant , Macanaleister , or Fletcher , the Little John of his band -- a fine active fellow , of course , and celebrated as a marksman . 
It happened that MacGregor and his party had been surprised and dispersed by a superior force of horse and foot , and the word was given to `` split and squander . '' 
Each shifted for himself , but a bold dragoon attached himself to pursuit of Rob , and overtaking him , struck at him with his broadsword . 
A plate of iron in his bonnet saved the MacGregor from being cut down to the teeth ; but the blow was heavy enough to bear him to the ground , crying as he fell , `` O , Macanaleister , is there naething in her ? '' 
had his arm raised for a second blow , when Macanaleister fired , and the ball pierced the dragoon 's heart . 
Such as he was , Rob Roy 's progress in his occupation is thus described by a gentleman of sense and talent , who resided within the circle of his predatory wars , had probably felt their effects , and speaks of them , as might be expected , with little of the forbearance with which , from their peculiar and romantic character , they are now regarded . 
`` This man -LRB- Rob Roy MacGregor -RRB- was a person of sagacity , and neither wanted stratagem nor address ; and , having abandoned himself to all licentiousness , set himself at the head of all the loose , vagrant , and desperate people of that clan , in the west end of Perth and Stirlingshires , and infested those whole countries with thefts , robberies , and depredations . 
Very few who lived within his reach -LRB- that is , within the distance of a nocturnal expedition -RRB- could promise to themselves security , either for their persons or effects , without subjecting themselves to pay him a heavy and shameful tax of black mail . 
He at last proceeded to such a degree of audaciousness , that he committed robberies , raised contributions , and resented quarrels , at the head of a very considerable body of armed men , in open day , and in the face of the government . '' 
The period of the Rebellion , 1715 , approached soon after Rob Roy had attained celebrity . 
His jacobite partialities were now placed in opposition to his sense of the obligations which he owed to the indirect protection of the Duke of Argyle . 
But the desire of `` drowning his sounding steps amid the din of general war , '' induced him to join the forces of the Earl of Mar , although his patron , the Duke of Argyle , was at the head of the army opposed to the Highland insurgents . 
The MacGregors , a large sept of them at least , that of Ciar Mohr , on this occasion , were not commanded by Rob Roy , but by his nephew already mentioned , Gregor MacGregor , otherwise called James Grahame of Glengyle , and still better remembered by the Gaelic epithet of Ghlune Dhu , i.e. Black Knee , from a black spot on one of his knees , which his Highland garb rendered visible . 
After this temporary removal from his old haunts , Rob Roy was sent by the Earl of Mar to Aberdeen , to raise , it is believed , a part of the clan Gregor , which is settled in that country . 
But while in the city of Aberdeen , Rob Roy met a relation of a very different class and character from those whom he was sent to summon to arms . 
This was Dr James Gregory , -LRB- by descent a MacGregor , -RRB- the patriarch of a dynasty of professors distinguished for literary and scientific talent , and the grandfather of the late eminent physician and accomplished scholar , Professor Gregory of Edinburgh . 
With such a family it may seem our friend Rob could have had little communion . 
He invited Rob Roy to his house , and treated him with so much kindness , that he produced in his generous bosom a degree of gratitude which seemed likely to occasion very inconvenient effects . 
On the day before his departure from the house of his learned relative , Rob Roy , who had pondered deeply how he might requite his cousin 's kindness , took Dr Gregory aside , and addressed him to this purport : -- `` My dear kinsman , I have been thinking what I could do to show my sense of your hospitality . 
The task of apology or explanation was of a most delicate description ; and there might have been considerable danger in suffering Rob Roy to perceive that the promotion with which he threatened the son was , in the father 's eyes , the ready road to the gallows . 
Indeed , every excuse which he could at first think of -- such as regret for putting his friend to trouble with a youth who had been educated in the Lowlands , and so on -- only strengthened the chieftain 's inclination to patronise his young kinsman , as he supposed they arose entirely from the modesty of the father . 
This agreement being made , the cousins parted , -- Rob Roy pledging his honour to carry his young relation to the hills with him on his next return to Aberdeenshire , and Dr Gregory , doubtless , praying in his secret soul that he might never see Rob 's Highland face again . 
this comes of not having been educated by Rob Roy . '' 
The connexion between Rob Roy and his classical kinsman did not end with the period of Rob 's transient power . 
At a period considerably subsequent to the year 1715 , he was walking in the Castle Street of Aberdeen , arm in arm with his host , Dr James Gregory , when the drums in the barracks suddenly beat to arms , and soldiers were seen issuing from the barracks . 
`` If these lads are turning out , '' said Rob , taking leave of his cousin with great composure , `` it is time for me to look after my safety . '' 
So saying , he dived down a close , and , as John Bunyan says , `` went upon his way and was seen no more . '' 
The second rests on the recollection of an old man , who was present when Rob took French leave of his literary cousin on hearing the drums beat , and communicated the circumstance to Mr Alexander Forbes , a connexion of Dr Gregory by marriage , who is still alive . 
We have already stated that Rob Roy 's conduct during the insurrection of 1715 was very equivocal . 
His person and followers were in the Highland army , but his heart seems to have been with the Duke of Argyle 's . 
Yet the insurgents were constrained to trust to him as their only guide , when they marched from Perth towards Dumblane , with the view of crossing the Forth at what are called the Fords of Frew , and when they themselves said he could not be relied upon . 
During this medley of flight and pursuit , Rob Roy retained his station on a hill in the centre of the Highland position ; and though it is said his attack might have decided the day , he could not be prevailed upon to charge . 
This was the more unfortunate for the insurgents , as the leading of a party of the Macphersons had been committed to MacGregor . 
While the favourable moment for action was gliding away unemployed , Mar 's positive orders reached Rob Roy that he should presently attack . 
To which he coolly replied , `` No , no ! 
One of the Macphersons , named Alexander , one of Rob 's original profession , videlicet a drover , but a man of great strength and spirit , was so incensed at the inactivity of his temporary leader , that he threw off his plaid , drew his sword , and called out to his clansmen , `` Let us endure this no longer ! 
if he will not lead you , I will . '' 
Rob Roy replied , with great coolness , `` Were the question about driving Highland stots or kyloes , Sandie , I would yield to your superior skill ; but as it respects the leading of men , I must be allowed to be the better judge . '' 
-- `` Did the matter respect driving Glen-Eigas stots , '' answered the Macpherson , `` the question with Rob would not be , which was to be last , but which was to be foremost . '' 
Incensed at this sarcasm , MacGregor drew his sword , and they would have fought upon the spot if their friends on both sides had not interfered . 
Rob did not , however , neglect his own private interest on the occasion . 
In the confusion of an undecided field of battle , he enriched his followers by plundering the baggage and the dead on both sides . 
Notwithstanding the sort of neutrality which Rob Roy had continued to observe during the progress of the Rebellion , he did not escape some of its penalties . 
He was included in the act of attainder , and the house in Breadalbane , which was his place of retreat , was burned by General Lord Cadogan , when , after the conclusion of the insurrection , he marched through the Highlands to disarm and punish the offending clans . 
But upon going to Inverary with about forty or fifty of his followers , Rob obtained favour , by an apparent surrender of their arms to Col. Patrick Campbell of Finnah , who furnished them and their leader with protections under his hand . 
Being thus in a great measure secured from the resentment of government , Rob Roy established his residence at Craig-Royston , near Loch Lomond , in the midst of his own kinsmen , and lost no time in resuming his private quarrel with the Duke of Montrose . 
For this purpose , he soon got on foot as many men , and well armed too , as he had yet commanded . 
He never stirred without a body-guard of ten or twelve picked followers , and without much effort could increase them to fifty or sixty . 
It was the object of these several columns to arrive about the same time in the neighbourhood of Rob Roy 's residence , and surprise him and his followers . 
They burned Rob Roy 's house , though not with impunity , for the MacGregors , concealed among the thickets and cliffs , fired on them , and killed a grenadier . 
Rob Roy avenged himself for the loss which he sustained on this occasion by an act of singular audacity . 
They appeared accordingly , and the factor had received ready money to the amount of about L. 300 , when Rob Roy entered the room at the head of an armed party . 
After some rapid changes of place , -LRB- the fatigue attending which was the only annoyance that Mr Graham seems to have complained of , -RRB- he carried his prisoner to an island on Loch Katrine , and caused him to write to the Duke , to state that his ransom was fixed at 3400 merks , being the balance which MacGregor pretended remained due to him , after deducting all that he owed to the Duke of Montrose . 
However , after detaining Mr Graham five or six days in custody on the island , which is still called Rob Roy 's Prison , and could be no comfortable dwelling for November nights , the Outlaw seems to have despaired of attaining further advantage from his bold attempt , and suffered his prisoner to depart uninjured , with the account-books , and bills granted by the tenants , taking especial care to retain the cash.The reader will find two original letters of the Duke of Montrose , with that which Mr Graham of Killearn dispatched from his prison-house by the Outlaw 's command , in the Appendix , No . 
Other pranks are told of Rob , which argue the same boldness and sagacity as the seizure of Killearn . 
The Duke of Montrose , weary of his insolence , procured a quantity of arms , and distributed them among his tenantry , in order that they might defend themselves against future violences . 
To these storehouses Rob Roy used to repair with a sufficient force , and of course when he was least expected , and insist upon the delivery of quantities of grain , sometimes for his own use , and sometimes for the assistance of the country people , always giving regular receipts in his own name , and pretending to reckon with the Duke for what sums he received . 
In the meanwhile a garrison was established by government , the ruins of which may be still seen about half way betwixt Loch Lomond and Loch Katrine , upon Rob Roy 's original property of Inversnaid . 
Even this military establishment could not bridle the restless MacGregor . 
He contrived to surprise the little fort , disarm the soldiers , and destroy the fortification . 
It was afterwards re-established and again taken by the MacGregors under Rob Roy 's nephew , Ghlune Dhu , previous to the insurrection of 1745 -- 6 . 
It was not , strictly speaking , as a professed depredator that Rob Roy now conducted his operations , but as a sort of contractor for the police ; in Scottish phrase , a lifter of blackmail . 
Upon this fund he employed one half of the thieves to recover stolen cattle , and the other half of them to steal , in order to make this agreement and black-mail contract necessary . 
At what rate Rob Roy levied black-mail , I never heard stated ; but there is a formal contract by which his nephew , in 1741 , agreed with various landholders of estates in the counties of Perth , Stirling , and Dumbarton , to recover cattle stolen from them , or to pay the value within six months of the loss being intimated , if such intimation were made to him with sufficient dispatch , in consideration of a payment of L. 5 on each L. 100 of valued rent , which was not a very heavy insurance . 
Rob Roy 's profits upon such contracts brought him in a considerable revenue in money or cattle , of which he made a popular use ; for he was publicly liberal , as well as privately beneficent . 
Rob Roy took an opportunity to assure him that he would do well to abstain from this new exaction , -- a hint which the minister did not fail to understand . 
But to make him some indemnification , MacGregor presented him every year with a cow and a fat sheep ; and no scruples as to the mode in which the donor came by them , are said to have affected the reverend gentleman 's conscience . 
The following account of the proceedings of Rob Roy , on an application to him from one of his contractors , had in it something very interesting to me , as told by an old countryman in the Lennox who was present on the expedition . 
Rob Roy was sent for , and came with a party of seven or eight armed men . 
He heard with great gravity that could be told him of the circumstances of the creagh , and expressed his confidence that the herd-widdiefows Mad herdsmen , a name given to cattle stealers . 
could not have carried their booty far , and that he should be able to recover them . 
He desired that two Lowlanders should be sent on the party , as it was not to be expected that any of his gentlemen would take the trouble of driving the cattle when he should recover possession of them . 
They had no good-will to the journey ; nevertheless , provided with a little food , and with a dog to help them to manage the cattle , they set off with MacGregor . 
The next morning they resumed their journey among the hills , Rob Roy directing their course by signs and marks on the heath , which my informant did not understand . 
About noon , Rob commanded the armed party to halt , and to lie couched in the heather where it was thickest . 
`` Do you and your son , '' he said to the oldest Lowlander , `` go boldly over the hill . 
`` If they do you any wrong , '' said Rob , `` I will never forgive them as long as I live . '' 
The Lowlander was by no means content with this security , but did not think it safe to dispute Rob 's injunctions . 
He and his son climbed the hill , therefore , found a deep valley , where there grazed , as Rob had predicted , a large herd of cattle . 
When they contrived , however , in the best Gaelic they could muster , to deliver the message Rob Roy told them , she became silent , and disappeared without offering them any further annoyance . 
They drove on the cattle with little repose until it was nearly dark , when Rob proposed to halt for the night upon a wide moor , across which a cold north-east wind , with frost on its wing , was whistling to the tune of the Pipers of Strath-Dearn . 
Rob Roy observing this , directed one of his followers to afford the old man a portion of his plaid ; `` for the callant -LRB- boy -RRB- , he may , '' said the freebooter , `` keep himself warm by walking about and watching the cattle . '' 
It was perhaps about the same time that , by a rapid march into the Balquhidder hills at the head of a body of his own tenantry , the Duke of Montrose actually surprised Rob Roy , and made him prisoner . 
He was mounted behind one of the Duke 's followers , named James Stewart , and made fast to him by a horse-girth . 
The person who had him thus in charge was grandfather of the intelligent man of the same name , now deceased , who lately kept the inn in the vicinity of Loch Katrine , and acted as a guide to visitors through that beautiful scenery . 
-- It was evening , -LRB- to resume the story , -RRB- and the Duke was pressing on to lodge his prisoner , so long sought after in vain , in some place of security , when , in crossing the Teith or Forth , I forget which , MacGregor took an opportunity to conjure Stewart , by all the ties of old acquaintance and good-neighbourhood , to give him some chance of an escape from an assured doom . 
He slipped the girth - buckle , and Rob , dropping down from behind the horse 's croupe , dived , swam , and escaped , pretty much as described in the Novel . 
When James Stewart came on shore , the Duke hastily demanded where his prisoner was ; and as no distinct answer was returned , instantly suspected Stewart 's connivance at the escape of the outlaw ; and , drawing a steel pistol from his belt , struck him down with a blow on the head , from the effects of which , his descendant said , he never completely recovered . 
In the success of his repeated escapes from the pursuit of his powerful enemy , Rob Roy at length became wanton and facetious . 
He wrote a mock challenge to the Duke , which he circulated among his friends to amuse them over a bottle . 
In the following year Rob Roy composed another epistle , very little to his own reputation , as he therein confesses having played booty during the civil war of 1715 . 
The impossibility of his being neutral in such a debate , Rob seems to lay down as an undeniable proposition . 
At the same time , while he acknowledges having been forced into an unnatural rebellion against King George , he pleads that he not only avoided acting offensively against his Majesty 's forces on all occasions , but , on the contrary , sent to them what intelligence he could collect from time to time ; for the truth of which he refers to his Grace the Duke of Argyle . 
Rob Roy appears to have continued to live very much as usual . 
His fame , in the mean while , passed beyond the narrow limits of the country in which he resided . 
A pretended history of him appeared in London during his lifetime , under the title of the Highland Rogue . 
As Rob Roy advanced in years he became more peaceable in his habits , and his nephew Ghlune Dhu , with most of his tribe , renounced those peculiar quarrels with the Duke of Montrose , by which his uncle had been distinguished . 
It was probably after this state of temporary quiet had been obtained , that Rob Roy began to think of the concerns of his future state . 
He had been bred , and long professed himself , a Protestant ; but in his later years he embraced the Roman Catholic faith , -- perhaps on Mrs Cole 's principle , that it was a comfortable religion for one of his calling . 
He is said to have alleged as the cause of his conversion , a desire to gratify the noble family of Perth , who were then strict Catholics . 
Having , as he observed , assumed the name of the Duke of Argyle , his first protector , he could pay no compliment worth the Earl of Perth 's acceptance , save complying with his mode of religion . 
Rob did not pretend , when pressed closely on the subject , to justify all the tenets of Catholicism , and acknowledged that extreme unction always appeared to him a great waste of ulzie , or oil.Such an admission is ascribed to the robber , Donald Bean Lean , in Waverley , vol . 
In the last years of Rob Roy 's life his clan was involved in a dispute with one more powerful than themselves . 
The MacGregors of Rob Roy 's tribe claimed a right to it by ancient occupancy , and declared they would oppose to the uttermost the settlement of any person upon the farm not being of their own name . 
Rob Roy , finding himself the weaker party , asked a parley , in which he represented that both clans were friends to the King , and that he was unwilling they should be weakened by mutual conflict , and thus made a merit of surrendering to Appin the disputed territory of Invernenty . 
When all this had been amicably adjusted , in presence of the two clans drawn up in arms near the Kirk of Balquhidder , Rob Roy , apparently fearing his tribe might be thought to have conceded too much upon the occasion , stepped forward and said , that where so many gallant men were met in arms , it would be shameful to part without a trial of skill , and therefore he took the freedom to invite any gentleman of the Stewarts present to exchange a few blows with him for the honour of their respective clans . 
The brother-in-law of Appin , and second chieftain of the clan , Alaster Stewart of Invernahyle , accepted the challenge , and they encountered with broadsword and target before their respective kinsmen.Some accounts state , that Appin himself was Rob Roy 's antagonist on this occasion . 
The combat lasted till Rob received a slight wound in the arm , which was the usual termination of such a combat when fought for honour only , and not with a mortal purpose . 
Rob Roy dropped his point , and congratulated his adversary on having been the first man who ever drew blood from him . 
This was probably one of Rob Roy 's last exploits in arms . 
The time of his death is not known with certainty , but he is generally said to have survived 1738 , and to have died an aged man . 
When he found himself approaching his final change , he expressed some contrition for particular parts of his life . 
His wife laughed at these scruples of conscience , and exhorted him to die like a man , as he had lived . 
In reply , he rebuked her for her violent passions , and the counsels she had given him . 
`` You have put strife , '' he said , `` betwixt me and the best men of the country , and now you would place enmity between me and my God . '' 
There is a tradition , no way inconsistent with the former , if the character of Rob Roy be justly considered , that while on his death-bed , he learned that a person , with whom he was at enmity , proposed to visit him . 
`` Raise me from my bed , '' said the invalid ; `` throw my plaid around me , and bring me my claymore , dirk , and pistols -- it shall never be said that a foeman saw Rob Roy MacGregor defenceless and unarmed . '' 
His foeman , conjectured to be one of the MacLarens before and after mentioned , entered and paid his compliments , enquiring after the health of his formidable neighbour . 
Rob Roy maintained a cold , haughty civility during their short conference , and so soon as he had left the house , `` Now , '' he said , `` all is over -- let the piper play Ha til mi tulidh , -LRB- we return no more , -RRB- '' and he is said to have expired before the dirge was finished . 
The character of Rob Roy is , of course , a mixed one . 
His sagacity , boldness , and prudence , qualities so highly necessary to success in war , became in some degree vices from the manner in which they were employed . 
The circumstances of his education , however , must be admitted as some extenuation of his habitual transgressions against the law ; and for his political tergiversations , he might in that distracted period plead the example of men far more powerful , and less excusable in becoming the sport of circumstances , than the poor and desperate outlaw . 
Pursuing the occupation of a predatory chieftain , -- in modern phrase , a captain of banditti , -- Rob Roy was moderate in his revenge , and humane in his successes . 
No charge of cruelty or bloodshed , unless in battle , is brought against his memory . 
The author perhaps ought to stop here ; but the fate of a part of Rob Roy 's family was so extraordinary , as to call for a continuation of this somewhat prolix account , as affording an interesting chapter , not on Highland manners alone , but on every stage of society in which the people of a primitive and half-civilized tribe are brought into close contact with a nation , in which civilization and polity has attained a complete superiority . 
Rob had five sons , -- Coll , Ronald , James , Duncan , and Robert . 
Shortly after Rob Roy 's death , the ill-will which the MacGregors entertained against the MacLarens again broke out , at the instigation , it was said , of Rob 's widow , who seems thus far to have deserved the character given to her by her husband , as an Até stirring up to blood and strife . 
But as they contrived to represent the action as a rash deed committed by the `` daft callant Rob , '' to which they were not accessary , the jury found their accession to the crime was Not Proven . 
The sergeant was absolutely a Highland Sergeant Kite , full of stories of Rob Roy and of himself , and a very good companion . 
The sergeant was absolutely a Highland Sergeant Kite , full of stories of Rob Roy and of himself , and a very good companion . 
He afterwards appeared openly in the MacGregor 's country ; and , notwithstanding his outlawry , married a daughter of Graham of Drunkie , a gentleman of some property . 
Robert MacGregor of Glencarnoch , generally regarded as the chief of the whole name , and grandfather of Sir John , whom the clan received in that character , raised a MacGregor regiment , with which he joined the standard of the Chevalier . 
His corps , the relics of his father Rob 's band , behaved with great activity ; with only twelve men he succeeded in surprising and burning , for the second time , the fort at Inversnaid , constructed for the express purpose of bridling the country of the MacGregors . 
`` His company , '' says Chevalier Johnstone , `` did great execution with their scythes . '' 
MacGregor was brave and intrepid , but , at the same time , somewhat whimsical and singular . 
When advancing to the charge with his company , he received five wounds , two of them from balls that pierced his body through and through . 
Stretched on the ground , with his head resting on his hand , he called out loudly to the Highlanders of his company , `` My lads , I am not dead . 
By G -- , I shall see if any of you does not do his duty . '' 
After that defeat the clan MacGregor kept together in a body , and did not disperse till they had returned into their own country . 
They brought James Roy with them in a litter ; and , without being particularly molested , he was permitted to reside in the MacGregor 's country along with his brothers . 
But an atrocious outrage , in which the sons of Rob Roy were concerned , brought at length on the family the full vengeance of the law . 
At this place , in the night of 3d December 1750 , the sons of Rob Roy , and particularly James Mohr and Robin Oig , rushed into the house where the object of their attack was resident , presented guns , swords , and pistols to the males of the family , and terrified the women by threatening to break open the doors if Jean Key was not surrendered , as , said James Roy , `` his brother was a young fellow determined to make his fortune . '' 
Having , at length , dragged the object of their lawless purpose from her place of concealment , they tore her from her mother 's arms , mounted her on a horse before one of the gang , and carried her off in spite of her screams and cries , which were long heard after the terrified spectators of the outrage could no longer see the party retreat through the darkness . 
In her attempts to escape , the poor young woman threw herself from the horse on which they had placed her , and in so doing wrenched her side . 
They even dared to carry her to the public church of Balquhidder , where the officiating clergyman -LRB- the same who had been Rob Roy 's pensioner -RRB- only asked them if they were married persons . 
Several witnesses , all of the MacGregor family , swore that the marriage was performed with every appearance of acquiescence on the woman 's part ; and three or four witnesses , one of them sheriff-substitute of the county , swore she might have made her escape if she wished , and the magistrate stated that he offered her assistance if she felt desirous to do so . 
It is stated to be forwarded by MacGregor Drummond of Bohaldie , whom , as before mentioned , James Mohr acknowledged as his chief . 
MacGregor stipulated for a license to return to England , promising to bring Allan Breck thither along with him . 
He escaped from his kidnapper , after , as MacGregor alleged , robbing his portmanteau of some clothes and four snuffboxes . 
To prove MacGregor 's claim to our reader 's compassion , we here insert the last part of the letter alluded to . 
Macgregor . 
While MacGregor wrote in this disconsolate manner , Death , the sad but sure remedy for mortal evils , and decider of all doubts and uncertainties , was hovering near him . 
It now remains to mention the fate of Robin Oig , for the other sons of Rob Roy seem to have been no way distinguished . 
They found him guilty of being art and part in the forcible abduction of Jean Key from her own dwelling.The Trials of the Sons of Rob Roy , with Anecdotes of Himself and his Family , were published at Edinburgh , 1818 , in 12mo . 
Thus , we may conclude this long account of Rob Roy and his family , with the classic phrase , `` Ite . 
Conclamatum est. `` I have only to add , that I have selected the above from many anecdotes of Rob Roy , which were , and may still be , current among the mountains where he flourished ; but I am far from warranting their exact authenticity . 
Clannish partialities were very apt to guide the tongue and pen as well as the pistol and claymore , and the features of an anecdote are wonderfully softened or exaggerated , as the story is told by a MacGregor or a Campbell . 
`` That Robert Campbell , commonly known by the name of Rob Roy MacGregor , being lately intrusted by several noblemen and gentlemen with considerable sums for buying cows for them in the Highlands , has treacherously gone off with the money , to the value of L. 1000 sterling , which he carries along with him . 
All Magistrates and Officers of his Majesty 's forces are intreated to seize upon the said Rob Roy , and the money which he carries with him , until the persons concerned in the money be heard against him ; and that notice be given , when he is apprehended , to the keepers of the Exchange Coffee-house at Edinburgh , and the keeper of the Coffee-house at Glasgow , where the parties concerned will be advertised , and the seizers shall be very reasonably rewarded for their pains . '' 
It is unfortunate that this Hue and Cry , which is afterwards repeated in the same paper , contains no description of Rob Roy 's person , which , of course , we must suppose to have been pretty generally known . 
As it is directed against Rob Roy personally , it would seem to exclude the idea of the cattle being carried off by his partner , MacDonald , who would certainly have been mentioned in the advertisement , if the creditors concerned had supposed him to be in possession of the money . 
`` My Lord , -- I was surprised last night with the account of a very remarkable instance of the insolence of that very notorious rogue Rob Roy , whom your lordship has often heard named . 
The honour of his Majesty 's government being concerned in it , I thought it my duty to acquaint your lordship of the particulars by an express . 
The same night , about 9 of the clock , Rob Roy , with a party of those ruffians whom he has still kept about him since the late rebellion , surrounded the house where Mr Grahame was with some of my tenants doing his business , ordered his men to present their guns in att the windows of the room where he was sitting , while he himself at the same time with others entered at the door , with cocked pistols , and made Mr Grahame prisoner , carreing him away to the hills with the money he had got , his books and papers , and my tenants ' bonds for their fines , amounting to above a thousand pounds sterling , whereof the one-half had been paid last year , and the other was to have been paid now ; and att the same time had the insolence to cause him to write a letter to me -LRB- the copy of which is enclosed -RRB- offering me terms of a treaty . 
All that could be done upon the occasion was to burn a countrie house , where Rob Roy then resided , after some of his clan had , from the rocks , fired upon the king 's troops , by which a grenadier was killed . 
It seems Rob Roy , when he came to consider a little better of it , found that he could not mend his matters by retaining Killearn his prisoner , which could only expose him still the more to the justice of the government ; and therefore thought fit to dismiss him on Sunday evening last , having kept him from the Monday night before , under a very uneasy kind of restraint , being obliged to change continually from place to place . 
He gave him back the books , papers , and bonds , but kept the money . 
`` I am , with great truth , Sir , `` your most humble servant , `` Montrose '' `` In charity to your Grace 's couradge and conduct , please know , the only way to retrive both is to treat Rob Roy like himself , in appointing your place and choice of arms , that at once you may extirpate your inveterate enemy , or put a period to your punny -LRB- puny ? -RRB- 
life in falling gloriously by his hands . 
That impertinent criticks or flatterers may not brand me for challenging a man that 's repute of a poor dastardly soul , let such know that I admit of the two great supporters of his character and the captain of his bands to joyne with him in the combate . 
This saves your Grace and the troops any further trouble of searching ; that is , if your ambition of glory press you to embrace this unequald venture offerd of Rob 's head . 
-LSB- This singular rhodomontade is enclosed in a letter to a friend of Rob Roy , probably a retainer of the Duke of Argyle in Isla , which is in these words : -- `` Sir , -- Receive the enclosed paper , qn you are taking your botle ; it will divert yourself and comrades . 
`` Rob Roy . '' 
It appears from the envelope that Rob Roy still continued to act as intelligencer to the Duke of Argyle and his agents . 
The war he alludes to is probably some vague report of invasion from Spain . 
`` Sir , -- The great humanity with which you have constantly acted in the discharge of the trust reposed in you , and your ever having made use of the great powers with which you were vested , as the means of doing good and charitable offices to such as ye found proper objects of compassion , will , I hope , excuse my importunity in endeavouring to approve myself not absolutely unworthy of that mercy and favour which Your Excellency has so generously procured from his Majesty for others in my unfortunate circumstances . 
It was my misfortune , at the time the Rebellion broke out , to be liable to legal diligence and caption , at the Duke of Montrose 's instance , for debt alledged due to him . 
The achievement of Robert Oig , or young Rob Roy , as the Lowlanders called him , was celebrated in a ballad , of which there are twenty different and various editions . 
Balloch might , no doubt , succeed MacGregor in the situation . 
But as I doubt mickle whether any of the competing sovereigns would give Rob Campbell a tass of aquavitæ , if he lacked it , I give my vote and interest to Jonathan Brown , our landlord , to be the King and Prince of Skinkers , conditionally that he fetches us another bottle as good as the last . '' 
`` Ye are a dauring villain , Rob , '' answered the Bailie ; `` and ye will be hanged , that will be seen and heard tell o ' ; but I ` se ne'er be the ill bird and foul my nest , set apart strong necessity and the skreigh of duty , which no man should hear and be inobedient . 
`` Ye 're mad , Rob , '' said the Bailie -- `` mad as a March hare , -- though wherefore a hare suld be mad at March mair than at Martinmas , is mair than I can weel say . 
or Macbeth , and all his kernes and galla-glasses , and your awn to boot , Rob , procure him five thousand pounds to answer the bills which fall due ten days hence , were they a ' rouped at the Cross , basket-hilts , Andra-Ferraras , leather targets , brogues , brochan , and sporrans ? '' 
Inch Cailleach is an island in Lochlomond , where the clan of MacGregor were wont to be interred , and where their sepulchres may still be seen . 
`` There is some cousin-red between us , doubtless , '' said the Bailie reluctantly , `` but we hae seen little o ' ilk other since Rob gae up the cattle-line o ' dealing , poor fallow ! 
he was hardly guided by them might hae used him better -- and they haena made their plack a bawbee o ' t neither . 
I laid my hand on Rashleigh 's collar , who made no resistance , but said , with a sort of scornful smile , `` You hear him , MacGregor ! 
he rushes on his fate -- will it be my fault if he falls into it ? 
He looked around , and before , and behind him , and then said : `` The ne'er a bit will I yield my consent to his being ill-guided , for standing up for the father that got him -- and I gie God 's malison and mine to a ' sort o ' magistrates , justices , bailies , sheriffs , sheriff-officers , constables , and sic-like black cattle , that hae been the plagues o ' puir auld Scotland this hunder year ; -- it was a merry warld when every man held his ain gear wi ' his ain grip , and when the country side wasna fashed wi ' warrants and poindings and apprizings , and a ' that cheatry craft . 
`` Your conscience , MacGregor ! '' 
`` Yes , my conscience , '' reiterated Campbell , or MacGregor , or whatever was his name ; `` I hae such a thing about me , Maister Osbaldistone ; and therein it may weel chance that I hae the better o ' you . 
He seconded his words with an effort so sudden and unexpected , that he freed Rashleigh from my hold , and securing me , notwithstanding my struggles , in his own Herculean gripe , he called out , `` Take the bent , Mr Rashleigh . 
-- Robert 's mad -- clean wud , and waur -- Rob will be hanged and disgrace a ' his kindred , and that will be seen and heard tell o ' . 
but ye judge Rob hardly , '' said the Bailie , -- `` ye judge him hardly , puir chield ; and the truth is , that ye ken naething about our hill country , or Hielands , as we ca ' them . 
But the times cam hard , and Rob was venturesome . 
It wasna my faut -- it wasna my faut ; he canna wyte me . 
I aye tauld him o ` t -- And the creditors , mair especially some grit neighbours o ' his , grippit to his living and land ; and they say his wife was turned out o ' the house to the hill-side , and sair misguided to the boot . 
-- I am a peacefu ' man and a magistrate , but if ony ane had guided sae muckle as my servant quean , Mattie , as it 's like they guided Rob 's wife , I think it suld hae set the shabbleCutlass . 
Weel , Rob cam hame , and fand desolation , God pity us ! 
`` Ou , ye see , Rob soon gathered an unco band o ' blue-bonnets at his back , for he comes o ' a rough name when he 's kent by his ain , and a name that 's held its ain for mony a lang year , baith again king and parliament , and kirk too , for aught I ken -- an auld and honourable name , for as sair as it has been worried and hadden down and oppressed . 
My mother was a MacGregor -- I carena whakens it -- And the Rob had soon a gallant band ; and as it grieved him -LRB- he said -RRB- to see sic hership , and waste , and depredation to the south o ' the Hieland line , why , if ony heritor or farmer wad pay him four punds Scots out of each hundred punds of valued rent , whilk was doubtless a moderate consideration , Rob engaged to keep them scaithless -- let them send to him if they lost sae muckle as a single cloot by thieving , and Rob engaged to get them again , or pay the value -- and he aye keepit his word -- I canna deny but he keepit his word -- a ' men allow Rob keeps his word . '' 
Troth , I wad advise ony friends o ' mine to gree wi ' Rob ; for , watch as they like , and do what they like , they are sair apt to be harriedPlundered . 
-- they lost their haill stock the first winter ; sae maist folks now think it best to come into Rob 's terms . 
He 's easy wi ' a ' body that will be easy wi ' him ; but if ye thraw him , ye had better thraw the deevil . '' 
`` And by his exploits in these vocations , '' I continued , `` I suppose he has rendered himself amenable to the laws of the country ? '' 
-- ye may say that ; his craig wad ken the weight o ' his hurdies if they could get hand o ' Rob . 
`` Rob can levy five hundred men , sir , and therefore war suld concern him as muckle as maist folk , '' replied the Bailie ; `` for it is a faculty that is far less profitable in time o ' peace . 
We a ' heard o ' the public money that was taen frae the chield Morris somewhere about the fit o ' Cheviot by Rob and ane o ' the Osbaldistone lads ; and , to tell ye the truth , word gaed that it was yoursell , Mr Francis , and sorry was I that your father 's son suld hae taen to sic practices -- Na , ye needna say a word about it -- I see weel I was mistaen ; but I wad believe ony thing o ' a stage-player , whilk I concluded ye to be . 
And the creature Morris is sic a cowardly caitiff , that to this hour he daurna say that it was Rob took the portmanteau aff him ; and troth he 's right , for your customhouse and excise cattle are ill liket on a ' sides , and Rob might get a back-handed lick at him , before the Board , as they ca ` t , could help him . '' 
Na , na , he 'll hae the stuff safe at some o ' their haulds in the Hielands , and I daur say my cousin Rob could get at it gin he liked . '' 
`` But would he be disposed to serve us in this pinch , Mr Jarvie ? '' 
`` I canna preceesely speak to that -- the grandees among them are doubtfu ' o ' Rob , and he 's doubtfu ' o ' them -- and he 's been weel friended wi ' the Argyle family , wha stand for the present model of government . 
-- If he was freed o ' his hornings and captions , he wad rather be on Argyle 's side than he wad be on Breadalbane 's , for there 's auld ill-will between the Breadalbane family and his kin and name . 
The truth is , that Rob is for his ain hand , as Henry Wynd feughtTwo great clans fought out a quarrel with thirty men of a side , in presence of the king , on the North Inch of Perth , on or about the year 1392 ; a man was amissing on one side , whose room was filled by a little bandy-legged citizen of Perth . 
-- he 'll take the side that suits him best ; if the deil was laird , Rob wad be for being tenant , and ye canna blame him , puir fallow , considering his circumstances . 
But there 's ae thing sair again ye -- Rob has a grey mear in his stable at hame . '' 
I canna meddle wi ' a friend 's business , but I aye end wi ' making it my ain -- Sae , I 'll een pit on my boots the morn , and be jogging ower Drymen-Muir wi ' Mr Frank here ; and if I canna mak Rob hear reason , and his wife too , I dinna ken wha can -- I hae been a kind freend to them afore now , to say naething o ' ower-looking him last night , when naming his name wad hae cost him his life -- I 'll be hearing o ' this in the council maybe frae Bailie Grahame , and Mac-Vittie , and some o ' them . 
They hae coost up my kindred to Rob to me already -- set up their nashgabs ! 
-- If Rob is an outlaw , to himsell be it said -- there is nae laws now about reset of intercommuned persons , as there was in the ill times o ' the last Stewarts -- I trow I hae a Scotch tongue in my head -- if they speak , I ` se answer . '' 
He roared to Mattie to `` air his trot-cosey , to have his jack-boots greased and set before the kitchen-fire all night , and to see that his beast be corned , and a ' his riding gear in order . '' 
-- Now , as for your questions , Mr Osbaldistone , now that chield 's out of ear-shot , I 'll just tell ye it 's free to you to speer , and it 's free to me to answer , or no -- Gude I canna say muckle o ' Rob , puir chield ; ill I winna say o ' him , for , forby that he 's my cousin , we 're coming near his ain country , and there may be ane o ' his gillies ahint every whin-bush for what I ken -- And if ye 'll be guided by my advice , the less ye speak about him , or where we are gaun , or what we are gaun to do , we 'll be the mair likely to speed us in our errand . 
For it 's like we may fa ' in wi ' some o ' his unfreends -- there are e ` en ower mony o ' them about -- and his bonnet sits even on his brow yet for a ' that ; but I doubt they 'll be upsides wi ' Rob at the last -- air day or late day , the fox 's hide finds aye the flaying knife . '' 
`` Ay , but I was only making fashion before , '' replied Andrew ; `` but it 's come on me in sair earnest now -- Lose or win , I daur gae nae farther wi ' your honour ; and if ye 'll tak my foolish advice , ye 'll bide by a broken tryste , rather than gang forward yoursell -- I hae a sincere regard for ye , and I 'm sure ye 'll be a credit to your friends if ye live to saw out your wild aits , and get some mair sense and steadiness -- But I can follow ye nae farther , even if ye suld founder and perish from the way for lack of guidance and counsel -- to gang into Rob Roy 's country is a mere tempting o ' Providence . '' 
`` Rob Roy ? '' 
Ye needna ask whae Rob Roy is , the reiving lifter that he is -- God forgie me ! 
I hope naebody hears us -- when ye hae a letter frae him in your pouch . 
I heard ane o ' his gillies bid that auld rudas jaud of a gudewife gie ye that . 
take care o ' your young bluid , and gang nae near Rob Roy ! '' 
`` And tat 's true , '' said the taller Highlander , whose name I found was Stewart , `` for we suldna be plagued and worried here wi ' meetings to pit down Rob Roy , if the Cawmils didna gie him refutch . 
We shased the MacGregors as ye wad shase rae-deer , till we came into Glenfalloch 's country , and the Cawmils raise and wadna let us pursue nae farder , and sae we lost our labour ; but her wad gie twa and a plack to be as near Rob as she was tat day . '' 
`` Ye 'll forgie me speaking my mind , sir ; but ye wad maybe hae gien the best bowl in your bonnet to hae been as far awa frae Rob as ye are e ` en now -- Odd , my het pleugh-culter wad hae been naething to his claymore . '' 
`` We 'll hae nae quarrelling , Allan , '' said his shorter companion ; `` and if the Glasgow gentleman has ony regard for Rob Roy , he 'll maybe see him in cauld irons the night , and playing tricks on a tow the morn ; for this country has been ower lang plagued wi ' him , and his race is near-hand run -- And it 's time , Allan , we were ganging to our lads . '' 
The garrison and our ain horse could hae taen Rob Roy easily eneugh . 
There 's the hand , '' he said , holding up his own , `` should lay him on the green , and never ask a Hielandman o ' ye a ' for his help . '' 
Shored folk live lang , and sae may him ye ken o ' . 
`` I came here wi ' my men to fight against the red MacGregor that killed my cousin seven times removed , Duncan MacLaren in Invernenty ; This , as appears from the introductory matter to this Tale , is an anachronism . 
The slaughter of MacLaren , a retainer of the chief of Appine , by the MacGregors , did not take place till after Rob Roy 's death , since it happened in 1736 . 
`` Spies of Rob ! '' 
`` We are gaun to see after some gear o ' our ain , gentlemen , '' said the Bailie , `` that 's fa'en into his hands by accident -- there 's nae law agane a man looking after his ain , I hope ? '' 
But he 's wilfu ' to gang up the hills and speak wi ' Rob ; and O , sir , it wad be a charity just to send a wheen o ' your red-coats to see him safe back to Glasgow again whether he will or no -- And ye can keep Mr Jarvie as lang as ye like -- He 's responsible eneugh for ony fine ye may lay on him -- and so 's my master for that matter -- for me , I 'm just a puir gardener lad , and no worth your steering . '' 
At their departure , the Bailie thus expressed himself : `` Thae Hielandmen are o ' the westland clans , and just as light-handed as their neighbours , an a ' tales be true , and yet ye see they hae brought them frae the head o ' Argyleshire to make war wi ' puir Rob for some auld ill-will that they hae at him and his sirname -- And there 's the Grahames , and the Buchanans , and the Lennox gentry , a ' mounted and in order . 
-- It 's weel kend their quarrel -- and I dinna blame them -- naebody likes to lose his kye -- and then there 's sodgers , puir things , hoyed out frae the garrison at a ` body 's bidding -- Puir Rob will hae his hands fu ' by the time the sun comes ower the hill . 
Weel -- it 's wrang for a magistrate to be wishing ony thing agane the course o ' justice , but deil o ' me an I wad break my heart to hear that Rob had gien them a ' their paiks ! '' 
The officer , whose name I understood was Thornton , paying no attention to the Bailie 's threats or expostulations , instituted a very close enquiry into Dougal 's life and conversation , and compelled him to admit , though with apparent reluctance , the successive facts , -- that he knew Rob Roy MacGregor -- that he had seen him within these twelve months -- within these six months -- within this month -- within this week ; in fine , that he had parted from him only an hour ago . 
This by-dialogue prevented my hearing what passed between the prisoner and Captain Thornton , but I heard the former snivel out , in a very subdued tone , `` And ye 'll ask her to gang nae farther than just to show ye where the MacGregor is ? 
If ye are seeking Rob Roy , he 's kend to be better than half a hunder men strong when he 's at the fewest ; and if he brings in the Glengyle folk , and the Glenfinlas and Balquidder lads , he may come to gie you your kail through the reek ; and it 's my sincere advice , as a king 's friend , ye had better tak back again to the Clachan , for thae women at Aberfoil are like the scarts and sea-maws at the Cumries , there 's aye foul weather follows their skirling . '' 
Our last accounts of Rob Roy correspond with what this fellow has confessed , that , finding himself surrounded on all sides , he had dismissed the greater part of his followers , with the purpose either of lying concealed , or of making his escape through his superior knowledge of the passes . '' 
Captain Thornton , a man of conduct as well as courage , instantly resolved to force the pass in front , without waiting till he was assailed from the rear ; and , assuring his soldiers that the bagpipes which they heard were those of the friendly Highlanders who were advancing to their assistance , he stated to them the importance of advancing and securing Rob Roy , if possible , before these auxiliaries should come up to divide with them the honour , as well as the reward which was placed on the head of this celebrated freebooter . 
He therefore ordered the rear-guard to join the centre , and both to close up to the advance , doubling his files , so as to occupy with his column the whole practicable part of the road , and to present such a front as its breadth admitted . 
she said , with a commanding tone , `` and tell me what ye seek in MacGregor 's country ? 
`` It 's Helen Campbell , Rob 's wife , '' said the Bailie , in a whisper of considerable alarm ; `` and there will be broken heads amang us or it 's lang . '' 
`` We seek the outlaw , Rob Roy MacGregor Campbell , '' answered the officer , `` and make no war on women ; therefore offer no vain opposition to the king 's troops , and assure yourself of civil treatment . '' 
`` Huzza , my boys , for Rob Roy 's head and a purse of gold ! '' 
I concluded , therefore , it would be unsafe to present ourselves without some mediator ; and as Campbell , whom I now could not but identify with the celebrated freebooter Rob Roy , was nowhere to be seen , I resolved to claim the protection of his emissary , Dougal . 
`` The creature , '' so he continued to call the Highlandman , `` contrived to let me ken there wad be danger in gaun near the leddy till he came back , and bade me stay here -- I am o ' the mind , '' he continued , `` that he 's seeking after you -- it 's a considerate creature -- and troth , I wad swear he was right about the leddy as he ca 's her , too -- Helen Campbell was nane o ' the maist douce maidens , nor meekest wives neither , and folk say that Rob himsell stands in awe o ' her . 
`` What fellow are you , '' she said , `` that dare to claim kindred with the MacGregor , and neither wear his dress nor speak his language ? 
I ken weel eneugh you Hieland folk haud us Glasgow people light and cheap for our language and our claes ; but every body speaks their native tongue that they learned in infancy ; and it would be a daft-like thing to see me wi ' my fat wame in a short Hieland coat , and my puir short houghs gartered below the knee , like ane o ' your lang-legged gillies -- Mair by token , kinswoman , '' he continued , in defiance of various intimations by which Dougal seemed to recommend silence , as well as of the marks of impatience which the Amazon evinced at his loquacity , `` I wad hae ye to mind that the king 's errand whiles comes in the cadger 's gate , and that , for as high as ye may think o ' the gudeman , as it 's right every wife should honour her husband -- there 's Scripture warrant for that -- yet as high as ye haud him , as I was saying , I hae been serviceable to Rob ere now ; -- forbye a set o ' pearlins I sent yoursell when ye was gaun to be married , and when Rob was an honest weeldoing drover , and nane o ' this unlawfu ' wark , wi ' fighting , and flashes , and fluf-gibs , disturbing the king 's peace and disarming his soldiers . '' 
And I will carry on the work this day has so well commenced , by a deed that shall break all bands between MacGregor and the Lowland churles . 
-- Should I tell ye to cut out their tongues and put them into each other 's throats , to try which would there best knap Southron , or to tear out their hearts and put them into each other 's breasts , to see which would there best plot treason against the MacGregor -- and such things have been done of old in the day of revenge , when our fathers had wrongs to redress -- Should I command you to do this , would it be your part to dispute my orders ? '' 
-- Robert -- Hamish -- Where 's the MacGregor ? 
The sons of MacGregor , to whom this expostulation was addressed , were youths , of whom the eldest had hardly attained his twentieth year . 
`` The MacGregor , '' his son stated , `` had been called out upon a trysting with a Lowland hallion , who came with a token from '' -- he muttered the name very low , but I thought it sounded like my own . 
-- `` The MacGregor , '' he said , `` accepted of the invitation , but commanded the Saxon who brought the message to be detained , as a hostage that good faith should be observed to him . 
Within half an hour Angus Breck came back with the doleful tidings that the MacGregor had been surprised and made prisoner by a party of Lennox militia , under Galbraith of Garschattachin . '' 
He added , `` that Galbraith , on being threatened by MacGregor , who , upon his capture , menaced him with retaliation on the person of the hostage , had treated the threat with great contempt , replying , ` Let each side hang his man ; we 'll hang the thief , and your catherans may hang the gauger , Rob , and the country will be rid of two damned things at once , a wild Highlander and a revenue officer . ' 
`` And did you learn this , you false-hearted traitor , '' said the wife of MacGregor , `` and not instantly rush to your father 's rescue to bring him off , or leave your body on the place ? '' 
The young MacGregor modestly replied , by representing the very superior force of the enemy , and stated , that as they made no preparation for leaving the country , he had fallen back up the glen with the purpose of collecting a band sufficient to attempt a rescue with some tolerable chance of success . 
At length he said , `` The militiamen would quarter , he understood , in the neighbouring house of Gartartan , or the old castle in the port of Monteith , or some other stronghold , which , although strong and defensible , was nevertheless capable of being surprised , could they but get enough of men assembled for the purpose . '' 
I understood afterwards that the rest of the freebooter 's followers were divided into two strong bands , one destined to watch the remaining garrison of Inversnaid , a party of which , under Captain Thornton , had been defeated ; and another to show front to the Highland clans who had united with the regular troops and Lowlanders in this hostile and combined invasion of that mountainous and desolate territory , which , lying between the lakes of Loch-Lomond , Loch-Katrine , and Loch-Ard , was at this time currently called Rob Roy 's , or the MacGregor , country . 
It was under the burning influence of the latter passion that the wife of MacGregor commanded that the hostage exchanged for his safety should be brought into her presence . 
I believe her sons had kept his unfortunate wretch out of her sight , for fear of the consequences ; but if it was so , their humane precaution only postponed his fate . 
The ecstasy of fear was such , that , instead of paralyzing his tongue , as on ordinary occasions , it even rendered him eloquent ; and , with cheeks pale as ashes , hands compressed in agony , eyes that seemed to be taking their last look of all mortal objects , he protested , with the deepest oaths , his total ignorance of any design on the person of Rob Roy , whom he swore he loved and honoured as his own soul . 
In the inconsistency of his terror , he said , he was but the agent of others , and he muttered the name of Rashleigh . 
He prayed but for life -- for life he would give all he had in the world : it was but life he asked -- life , if it were to be prolonged under tortures and privations : he asked only breath , though it should be drawn in the damps of the lowest caverns of their hills . 
It is impossible to describe the scorn , the loathing , and contempt , with which the wife of MacGregor regarded this wretched petitioner for the poor boon of existence . 
She gave a brief command in Gaelic to her attendants , two of whom seized upon the prostrate suppliant , and hurried him to the brink of a cliff which overhung the flood . 
He set up the most piercing and dreadful cries that fear ever uttered -- I may well term them dreadful , for they haunted my sleep for years afterwards . 
As the murderers , or executioners , call them as you will , dragged him along , he recognised me even in that moment of horror , and exclaimed , in the last articulate words I ever heard him utter , `` O , Mr Osbaldistone , save me ! 
I was so much moved by this horrid spectacle , that , although in momentary expectation of sharing his fate , I did attempt to speak in his behalf , but , as might have been expected , my interference was sternly disregarded . 
`` Then , '' she replied , `` if a stranger to his intrigues , you can go in safety to Garschattachin and his party , without fear of being detained , and carry them a message from the wife of the MacGregor ? '' 
-- I shall cause you to be guided to the enemy 's outposts -- ask for their commander , and deliver him this message from me , Helen MacGregor ; -- that if they injure a hair of MacGregor 's head , and if they do not set him at liberty within the space of twelve hours , there is not a lady in the Lennox but shall before Christmas cry the coronach for them she will be loath to lose , -- there is not a farmer but shall sing well-a-wa over a burnt barnyard and an empty byre , -- there is not a laird nor heritor shall lay his head on the pillow at night with the assurance of being a live man in the morning , -- and , to begin as we are to end , so soon as the term is expired , I will send them this Glasgow Bailie , and this Saxon Captain , and all the rest of my prisoners , each bundled in a plaid , and chopped into as many pieces as there are checks in the tartan . '' 
-- Ye 'll gie my service to the commanding officer , Mr Osbaldistone -- Bailie Nicol Jarvie 's service , a magistrate o ' Glasgow , as his father the deacon was before him -- and tell him , here are a wheen honest men in great trouble , and like to come to mair ; and the best thing he can do for the common good , will be just to let Rob come his wa 's up the glen , and nae mair about it -- There 's been some ill dune here already , but as it has lighted chiefly on the gauger , it winna be muckle worth making a stir about . '' 
With these very opposite injunctions from the parties chiefly interested in the success of my embassy , and with the reiterated charge of the wife of MacGregor , to remember and detail every word of her injunctions , I was at length suffered to depart ; and Andrew Fairservice , chiefly , I believe , to get rid of his clamorous supplications , was permitted to attend me . 
After gazing on this landscape with great earnestness , young MacGregor intimated to me that I was to descend to the station of the militia and execute my errand to their commander , enjoining me at the same time , with a menacing gesture , neither to inform them who had guided me to that place , nor where I had parted from my escort . 
`` You may return to those who sent you , '' he proceeded , `` and inform them , that I shall certainly cause Rob Roy Campbell , whom they call MacGregor , to be executed , by break of day , as an outlaw taken in arms , and deserving death by a thousand acts of violence ; that I should be most justly held unworthy of my situation and commission did I act otherwise ; that I shall know how to protect the country against their insolent threats of violence ; and that if they injure a hair of the head of any of the unfortunate gentlemen whom an unlucky accident has thrown into their power , I will take such ample vengeance , that the very stones of their glens shall sing woe for it this hundred years to come ! '' 
Rob Roy never came near the parish of Dreepdaily , to steal either pippin or pear frae me or mine . '' 
`` It was a hard case , '' he said , `` and he felt it as such ; but he had a paramount duty to perform to the country -- Rob Roy must die ! '' 
`` It would be more advisable , '' they said , `` to send him to Stirling Castle , and there detain him a close prisoner , as a pledge for the submission and dispersion of his gang . 
`` Rob Roy , '' he said , `` though a kittle neighbour to the Low Country , and particularly obnoxious to his Grace , and though he maybe carried the catheran trade farther than ony man o ' his day , was an auld-farrand carle , and there might be some means found of making him hear reason ; whereas his wife and sons were reckless fiends , without either fear or mercy about them , and , at the head of a ' his limmer loons , would be a worse plague to the country than ever he had been . '' 
`` I am sure , my Lord Duke , '' he replied , `` I have no favour for Rob , and he as little for me , seeing he has twice cleaned out my ain byres , beside skaith amang my tenants ; but , however '' -- `` But , however , Garschattachin , '' said the Duke , with a smile of peculiar expression , `` I fancy you think such a freedom may be pardoned in a friend 's friend , and Rob 's supposed to be no enemy to Major Galbraith 's friends over the water . '' 
But before we separate , I will examine Rob Roy before you all , and make you sensible , by your own eyes and ears , of the extreme unfitness of leaving him space for farther outrage . '' 
A shock-head of red hair , which the hat and periwig of the Lowland costume had in a great measure concealed , was seen beneath the Highland bonnet , and verified the epithet of Roy , or Red , by which he was much better known in the Low Country than by any other , and is still , I suppose , best remembered . 
The justice of the appellation was also vindicated by the appearance of that part of his limbs , from the bottom of his kilt to the top of his short hose , which the fashion of his country dress left bare , and which was covered with a fell of thick , short , red hair , especially around his knees , which resembled in this respect , as well as from their sinewy appearance of extreme strength , the limbs of a red-coloured Highland bull . 
Upon the whole , betwixt the effect produced by the change of dress , and by my having become acquainted with his real and formidable character , his appearance had acquired to my eyes something so much wilder and more striking than it before presented , that I could scarce recognise him to be the same person . 
His manner was bold , unconstrained unless by the actual bonds , haughty , and even dignified . 
He bowed to the Duke , nodded to Garschattachin and others , and showed some surprise at seeing me among the party . 
`` It is so , my Lord Duke ; I could have wished it had been , '' -LRB- looking at the fastening on his arms , -RRB- `` when I could have better paid the compliments I owe to your Grace -- but there 's a gude time coming . '' 
`` My lord , '' said Rob Roy , `` although I may well lay my misfortunes at your Grace 's door , yet I will never say that you yourself have been the wilful and witting author of them . 
`` Had I called myself Grahame , instead of Campbell , I might have heard less about them , '' answered Rob Roy , with dogged resolution . 
`` My lord , '' said Roy in answer , `` none of my enemies will allege that I have been a bloodthirsty man , and were I now wi ' my folk , I could rule four or five hundred wild Hielanders as easy as your Grace those eight or ten lackeys and foot-boys . 
-- Is there ony body here wad do a gude deed for MacGregor ? 
-- he may repay it , though his hands be now tied . '' 
The Highlander who had delivered the letter to the Duke replied , `` I 'll do your will for you , MacGregor ; and I 'll gang back up the glen on purpose . '' 
A horse-belt , passed round the bodies of both , and buckled before the yeoman 's breast , rendered it impossible for Rob Roy to free himself from his keeper . 
It was while we were thus huddled together on the bank that I heard Rob Roy whisper to the man behind whom he was placed on horseback , `` Your father , Ewan , wadna hae carried an auld friend to the shambles , like a calf , for a ' the Dukes in Christendom . '' 
`` And when the MacGregors come down the glen , and ye see toom faulds , a bluidy hearth-stane , and the fire flashing out between the rafters o ' your house , ye may be thinking then , Ewan , that were your friend Rob to the fore , you would have had that safe which it will make your heart sair to lose . '' 
`` It 's a sair thing , '' continued Rob , sliding his insinuations so gently into Ewan 's ear that they reached no other but mine , who certainly saw myself in no shape called upon to destroy his prospects of escape -- `` It 's a sair thing , that Ewan of Brigglands , whom Roy MacGregor has helped with hand , sword , and purse , suld mind a gloom from a great man mair than a friend 's life . '' 
Ewan put his horse in motion , and just as I heard Roy say , `` Never weigh a MacGregor 's bluid against a broken whang o ' leather , for there will be another accounting to gie for it baith here and hereafter , '' they passed me hastily , and , dashing forward rather precipitately , entered the water . 
I saw the Duke on the other side , by the waning light , engaged in commanding his people to get into order , as they landed dispersedly , some higher , some lower . 
Many had crossed , some were in the water , and the rest were preparing to follow , when a sudden splash warned me that MacGregor 's eloquence had prevailed on Ewan to give him freedom and a chance for life . 
and , without waiting to hear the apology which the terrified vassal began to falter forth , he fired a pistol at his head , whether fatally I know not , and exclaimed , `` Gentlemen , disperse and pursue the villain -- An hundred guineas for him that secures Rob Roy ! '' 
Rob Roy , disengaged from his bonds , doubtless by Ewan 's slipping the buckle of his belt , had dropped off at the horse 's tail , and instantly dived , passing under the belly of the troop-horse which was on his left hand . 
Indeed , as I partly suspected at the time , and afterwards learned with certainty , many of those who seemed most active in their attempts to waylay and recover the fugitive , were , in actual truth , least desirous that he should be taken , and only joined in the cry to increase the general confusion , and to give Rob Roy a better opportunity of escaping . 
MacGregor , however , had a trick beyond the otter ; for he contrived , when very closely pursued , to disengage himself unobserved from his plaid , and suffer it to float down the stream , where in its progress it quickly attracted general attention ; many of the horsemen were thus put upon a false scent , and several shots or stabs were averted from the party for whom they were designed . 
-- It was he gave Rob Roy the knife to cut the belt . '' 
I had nothing to apprehend from Rob Roy . 
He was now at liberty , and I was certain , in case of my falling in with any of his people , the news of his escape would ensure me protection . 
There was no mistaking the tone of MacGregor ; he had escaped the pursuit of his enemies , and was in full retreat to his own wilds and to his adherents . 
He had also contrived to arm himself , probably at the house of some secret adherent , for he had a musket on his shoulder , and the usual Highland weapons by his side . 
To have found myself alone with such a character in such a situation , and at this late hour in the evening , might not have been pleasant to me in any ordinary mood of mind ; for , though habituated to think of Rob Roy in rather a friendly point of view , I will confess frankly that I never heard him speak but that it seemed to thrill my blood . 
To these national peculiarities Rob Roy added a sort of hard indifference of accent and manner , expressive of a mind neither to be daunted , nor surprised , nor affected , by what passed before him , however dreadful , however sudden , however afflicting . 
Habitual danger , with unbounded confidence in his own strength and sagacity , had rendered him indifferent to fear ; and the lawless and precarious life he led had blunted , though its dangers and errors had not destroyed , his feelings for others . 
answered Rob , `` she 's under lawfu ' authority now ; and full time , for she was a daft hempie -- But she 's a mettle quean . 
Although in truth I had scarcely any thing else to expect , since I could not suppose that Diana could be travelling in such a country , at such an hour , with any but one who had a legal title to protect her , I did not feel the blow less severely when it came , and MacGregor 's voice , urging me to pursue my story , sounded in my ears without conveying any exact import to my mind . 
`` You are ill , '' he said , at length , after he had spoken twice without receiving an answer ; `` this day 's wark has been ower muckle for ane doubtless unused to sic things . '' 
-- Rob Roy expressed great exultation at the successful skirmish in the pass . 
`` They say , '' he observed , `` that king 's chaff is better than other folk 's corn ; but I think that canna be said o ' king 's soldiers , if they let themselves be beaten wi ' a wheen auld carles that are past fighting , and bairns that are no come till ` t , and wives wi ' their rocks and distaffs , the very wally-draigles o ' the country-side -- and Dougal Gregor , too , wha wad hae thought there had been as muckle sense in his tatty pow , that ne'er had a better covering than his ain shaggy hassock of hair ! 
I observed as much delicacy as I could in communicating to him the usage we had received , but I obviously saw the detail gave him great pain . 
`` I wad rather than a thousand merks , '' he said , `` that I had been at hame ! 
-- he said , muttering betwixt his teeth -- `` How fell that , sir ? 
-- Speak out , sir , and do not Maister or Campbell me -- my foot is on my native heath , and my name is MacGregor ! '' 
His passions were obviously irritated ; but , without noticing the rudeness of his tone , I gave him a short and distinct account of the death of Morris . 
`` I was sure ye wad get them , '' said MacGregor ; `` the letter ye brought me contained his Excellency 's pleasure to that effect ; and nae doubt it was my will to have aided in it . 
`` I am thinking , '' said MacGregor , `` that since ye dinna ken them already , they canna be o ' muckle consequence to you , and sae I shall say naething on that score . 
`` I conclude , then , '' I said to MacGregor , after about five minutes ' silence on both sides , `` that his Excellency , since you give me no other name for him , was residing in Osbaldistone Hall at the same time with myself ? '' 
`` But few , '' added MacGregor , `` kend he was derned there , save Rashleigh and Sir Hildebrand ; for you were out o ' the question ; and the young lads haena wit eneugh to ca ' the cat frae the cream -- But it 's a bra ' auld-fashioned house ; and what I specially admire , is the abundance o ' holes and bores and concealments -- ye could put twenty or thirty men in ae corner , and a family might live a week without finding them out -- whilk , nae doubt , may on occasion be a special convenience . 
`` Ye were going to say Morris , '' said Rob Roy coolly , for he was too much accustomed to deeds of violence for the agitation he had at first expressed to be of long continuance . 
-- Deil tak him , '' he ejaculated , by way of summing up , `` that gies women either secret to keep or power to abuse -- fules shouldna hae chapping sticks . '' 
The two others , after the first howling was over , set off literally with the speed of deers , contending which should first carry to the village , which a strong party of the MacGregors now occupied , the joyful news of Rob Roy 's escape and return . 
When I heard the rushing noise and yells of this joyful multitude approach us , I thought it a fitting precaution to remind MacGregor that I was a stranger , and under his protection . 
On arrival before her hospitable wigwam , I found power and popularity had its inconveniences in the Highlands , as everywhere else ; for , before MacGregor could be permitted to enter the house where he was to obtain rest and refreshment , he was obliged to relate the story of his escape at least a dozen times over , as I was told by an officious old man , who chose to translate it at least as often for my edification , and to whom I was in policy obliged to seem to pay a decent degree of attention . 
The audience being at length satisfied , group after group departed to take their bed upon the heath , or in the neighbouring huts , some cursing the Duke and Garschattachin , some lamenting the probable danger of Ewan of Brigglands , incurred by his friendship to MacGregor , but all agreeing that the escape of Rob Roy himself lost nothing in comparison with the exploit of any one of their chiefs since the days of Dougal-Ciar , the founder of his line . 
The only known countenance upon which my eyes rested , was that of the Bailie , who , seated on a stool by the fireside , received , with a sort of reserved dignity , the welcomes of Rob Roy , the apologies which he made for his indifferent accommodation , and his enquiries after his health . 
`` Weel , weel , then , '' answered Roy , `` what is ' t ails ye , man ? 
So saying , he drank up the contents of the cup with great gravity and deliberation , while MacGregor winked aside to me , as if in ridicule of the air of wisdom and superior authority which the Bailie assumed towards him in their intercourse , and which he exercised when Rob was at the head of his armed clan , in full as great , or a greater degree , than when he was at the Bailie 's mercy in the Tolbooth of Glasgow . 
`` Make yourself easy on that head , cousin Nicol , '' answered MacGregor ; `` the tae half o ' the gillies winna ken what ye say , and the tother winna care -- besides , that I wad stow the tongue out o ' the head o ' ony o ' them that suld presume to say ower again ony speech held wi ' me in their presence . '' 
-- Then clearing his voice with a preliminary hem , he addressed his kinsman , checking , as Malvolio proposed to do when seated in his state , his familiar smile with an austere regard of control . 
-- `` Ye ken yoursell ye haud light by the law -- and for my cousin Helen , forbye that her reception o ' me this blessed day , whilk I excuse on account of perturbation of mind , was muckle on the north side o ' friendly , I say -LRB- outputting this personal reason of complaint -RRB- I hae that to say o ' your wife '' -- `` Say nothing of her , kinsman , '' said Rob , in a grave and stern tone , `` but what is befitting a friend to say , and her husband to hear . 
`` If they could , kinsman , '' said MacGregor , with great indifference , `` their learning must have come o ' free will , for whar the deil was I to get them a teacher ? 
-- wad ye hae had me put on the gate o ' your Divinity-Hall at Glasgow College , ` Wanted , a tutor for Rob Roy 's bairns ? 
answered Rob ; `` Hamish can bring doun a black-cock when he 's on the wing wi'a single bullet , and Rob can drive a dirk through a twainch board . '' 
Tell me yoursell , Rob , what has a ' this cutting , and stabbing , and shooting , and driving of dirks , whether through human flesh or fir deals , dune for yoursell ? 
I observed that MacGregor , while his well-meaning kinsman spoke to him in this manner , turned and writhed his body like a man who indeed suffers pain , but is determined no groan shall escape his lips ; and I longed for an opportunity to interrupt the well-meant , but , as it was obvious to me , quite mistaken strain , in which Jarvie addressed this extraordinary person . 
`` And sae , '' said the Bailie , `` I hae been thinking , Rob , that as it may be ye are ower deep in the black book to win a pardon , and ower auld to mend yoursell , that it wad be a pity to bring up twa hopefu ' lads to sic a godless trade as your ain , and I wad blithely tak them for prentices at the loom , as I began mysell and my father the deacon afore me , though , praise to the Giver , I only trade now as wholesale dealer -- And -- and '' -- He saw a storm gathering on Rob 's brow , which probably induced him to throw in , as a sweetener of an obnoxious proposition , what he had reserved to crown his own generosity , had it been embraced as an acceptable one ; -- `` and Robin , lad , ye needna look sae glum , for I 'll pay the prentice-fee , and never plague ye for the thousand merks neither . '' 
exclaimed Rob , rising and striding through the hut . 
The person he addressed , a tall , strong mountaineer , who seemed to act as MacGregor 's lieutenant , brought from some place of safety a large leathern pouch , such as Highlanders of rank wear before them when in full dress , made of the skin of the sea otter , richly garnished with silver ornaments and studs . 
`` I advise no man to attempt opening this sporran till he has my secret , '' said Rob Roy ; and then twisting one button in one direction , and another in another , pulling one stud upward , and pressing another downward , the mouth of the purse , which was bound with massive silver-plate , opened and gave admittance to his hand . 
He made me remark , as if to break short the subject on which Bailie Jarvie had spoken , that a small steel pistol was concealed within the purse , the trigger of which was connected with the mounting , and made part of the machinery , so that the weapon would certainly be discharged , and in all probability its contents lodged in the person of any one , who , being unacquainted with the secret , should tamper with the lock which secured his treasure . 
Rob , had ither folk 's purses been as weel guarded , I doubt if your sporran wad hae been as weel filled as it kythes to be by the weight . '' 
`` Never mind , kinsman , '' said Rob , laughing , `` it will aye open for a friend 's necessity , or to pay a just due -- and here , '' he added , pulling out a rouleau of gold , `` here is your ten hundred merks -- count them , and see that you are full and justly paid . '' 
Mr Jarvie took the money in silence , and weighing it in his hand for an instant , laid it on the table , and replied , `` Rob , I canna tak it -- I downa intromit with it -- there can nae gude come o ` t -- I hae seen ower weel the day what sort of a gate your gowd is made in -- ill-got gear ne'er prospered ; and , to be plain wi ' you , I winna meddle wi ` t -- it looks as there might be bluid o n't . '' 
`` Nor Lowlanders neither , '' said MacGregor , arching his eyebrow , and , as he looked at me , directing a glance towards Mr Jarvie , who , all unconscious of the ridicule , weighed each piece with habitual scrupulosity ; and having told twice over the sum , which amounted to the discharge of his debt , principal and interest , he returned three pieces to buy his kinswoman a gown , as he expressed himself , and a brace more for the twa bairns , as he called them , requesting they might buy any thing they liked with them except gunpowder . 
`` You will hardly find a man that can write save ourselves within these three miles , '' said Rob , `` but I 'll settle the matter as easily ; '' and , taking the paper from before his kinsman , he threw it in the fire . 
I remarked that MacGregor , while doing the honours of the table with great and anxious hospitality , prayed us to excuse the circumstance that some particular dish or pasty had been infringed on before it was presented to us . 
`` You must know , '' said he to Mr Jarvie , but without looking towards me , `` you are not the only guests this night in the MacGregor 's country , whilk , doubtless , ye will believe , since my wife and the twa lads would otherwise have been maist ready to attend you , as weel beseems them . '' 
While the unpleasant ideas arising from this suggestion counteracted the good effects of appetite , welcome , and good cheer , I remarked that Rob Roy 's attention had extended itself to providing us better bedding than we had enjoyed the night before . 
Though tired and harassed , I did not myself feel the same disposition to sleep , but rather a restless and feverish anxiety , which led to some farther discourse betwixt me and MacGregor . 
`` I Ken not what to make of you , Mr Osbaldistone , '' said MacGregor , as he pushed the flask towards me . 
`` Had I been always prudent , '' said I , blushing at the scene he recalled to my recollection , `` I should have escaped a worse evil -- the reproach of my own conscience . '' 
MacGregor cast a keen and somewhat fierce glance on me , as if to read whether the reproof , which he evidently felt , had been intentionally conveyed . 
He saw that I was thinking of myself , not of him , and turned his face towards the fire with a deep sigh . 
I followed his example , and each remained for a few minutes wrapt in his own painful reverie . 
MacGregor first broke silence , in the tone of one who takes up his determination to enter on a painful subject . 
`` My cousin Nicol Jarvie means well , '' he said , `` but he presses ower hard on the temper and situation of a man like me , considering what I have been -- what I have been forced to become -- and , above all , that which has forced me to become what I am . '' 
He paused ; and , though feeling the delicate nature of the discussion in which the conversation was likely to engage me , I could not help replying , that I did not doubt his present situation had much which must be most unpleasant to his feelings . 
`` You speak like a boy , '' returned MacGregor , in a low tone that growled like distant thunder -- `` like a boy , who thinks the auld gnarled oak can be twisted as easily as the young sapling . 
As he went on in this manner , I could plainly see , that , by the enumeration of his wrongs , he was lashing himself up into a rage , in order to justify in his own eyes the errors they had led him into . 
In this he perfectly succeeded ; his light grey eyes contracting alternately and dilating their pupils , until they seemed actually to flash with flame , while he thrust forward and drew back his foot , grasped the hilt of his dirk , extended his arm , clenched his fist , and finally rose from his seat . 
`` And they shall find , '' he said , in the same muttered , but deep tone of stifled passion , `` that the name they have dared to proscribe -- that the name of MacGregor -- is a spell to raise the wild devil withal . 
he said , sitting down again , and in a calmer tone -- `` Only ye may opine it frets my patience , Mr Osbaldistone , to be hunted like an otter , or a sealgh , or a salmon upon the shallows , and that by my very friends and neighbours ; and to have as many sword-cuts made , and pistols flashed at me , as I had this day in the ford of Avondow , would try a saint 's temper , much more a Highlander 's , who are not famous for that gude gift , as ye may hae heard , Mr Osbaldistone . 
And yielding to despondence on account of his sons , which he felt not upon his own , the father rested his head upon his hand . 
I did not think the eye of man would again have seen a tear on MacGregor 's eye-lash . '' 
When I opened my eyes , and recollected my situation , I found that MacGregor had already left the hut . 
`` I am sorry , cousin , '' said MacGregor , who entered the hut during the last observation , `` I have not been altogether in the circumstances to make your reception sic as I could have desired -- natheless , if you would condescend to visit my puir dwelling '' -- `` Muckle obliged , muckle obliged , '' answered Mr Jarvie , very hastily . 
`` Ay , ay , Rob , '' said the Bailie , `` that 's ane o ' the maxims ye learned when ye were a drover -- ye caredna to face the tenants where your beasts had been taking a rug of their moorland grass in the by-ganging -- and I doubt your road 's waur marked now than it was then . '' 
`` The mair need not to travel it ower often , kinsman , '' replied Rob ; `` but I ` se send round your nags to the ferry wi ' Dougal Gregor , wha is converted for that purpose into the Bailie 's man , coming -- not , as ye may believe , from Aberfoil or Rob Roy 's country , but on a quiet jaunt from Stirling . 
-- See , here he is . '' 
At the same time , MacGregor invited us to accompany him upon our own road , assuring us that we must necessarily march a few miles before breakfast , and recommending a dram of brandy as a proper introduction to the journey , in which he was pledged by the Bailie , who pronounced it `` an unlawful and perilous habit to begin the day wi ' spirituous liquors , except to defend the stomach -LRB- whilk was a tender part -RRB- against the morning mist ; in whilk case his father the deacon had recommended a dram , by precept and example . '' 
`` Very true , kinsman , '' replied Rob , `` for which reason we , who are Children of the Mist , have a right to drink brandy from morning till night . '' 
Our escort consisted of MacGregor , and five or six of the handsomest , best armed , and most athletic mountaineers of his band , and whom he had generally in immediate attendance upon his own person . 
When we approached the pass , the scene of the skirmish of the preceding day , and of the still more direful deed which followed it , MacGregor hastened to speak , as if it were rather to what he knew must be necessarily passing in my mind , than to any thing I had said -- he spoke , in short , to my thoughts , and not to my words . 
MacGregor shook me very cordially by the hand , and detaining me , so as to permit Mr Jarvie to precede us , a manoeuvre for which the narrowness of the road served as an excuse , he said to me , `` You are a kind-hearted and an honourable youth , and understand , doubtless , that which is due to the feelings of a man of honour . 
himsell could hae framed it -- and so piteously sad and waesome , that our hearts amaist broke as we sate and listened to her -- it was like the wailing of one that mourns for the mother that bore him -- the tears came down the rough faces of our gillies as they hearkened -- and I wad not have the same touch of heartbreak again , no , not to have all the lands that ever were owned by MacGregor . '' 
`` And I should be content , '' he replied , `` that they pushed their fortune in the French or Spanish service , as is the wont of Scottish cavaliers of honour , and last night your plan seemed feasible enough -- But I hae seen his Excellency this morning before ye were up . '' 
`` Did he then quarter so near us ? '' 
`` Nearer than ye thought , '' was MacGregor 's reply ; `` but he seemed rather in some shape to jalouse your speaking to the young leddy ; and so you see '' -- `` There was no occasion for jealousy , '' I answered , with some haughtiness ; `` I should not have intruded on his privacy . '' 
`` But ye must not be offended , or look out from amang your curls then , like a wild-cat out of an ivy-tod , for ye are to understand that he wishes most sincere weel to you , and has proved it . 
`` Why , '' resumed MacGregor , `` ye ken weel eneugh that women and gear are at the bottom of a ' the mischief in this warld -- I hae been misdoubting your cousin Rashleigh since ever he saw that he wasna to get Die Vernon for his marrow , and I think he took grudge at his Excellency mainly on that account . 
He pronounced the last threat with an ominous frown , and the appropriate gesture of his hand upon his dagger . 
`` Trow ye na that , '' said Rob Roy ; `` traitor 's word never yet hurt honest cause . 
Now in sic a matter I 'll hae need o ' a ' the hands I can mak ; and , nae disparagement to the Kings of France and Spain , whom I wish very weel to , King James is as gude a man as ony o ' them , and has the best right to Hamish and Rob , being his natural - born subjects . '' 
`` Let it come , man -- let it come , '' answered MacGregor ; `` ye never saw dull weather clear without a shower ; and if the world is turned upside down , why , honest men have the better chance to cut bread out of it . '' 
I again attempted to bring him back to the subject of Diana ; but although on most occasions and subjects he used a freedom of speech which I had no great delight in listening to , yet upon that alone , which was most interesting to me , he kept a degree of scrupulous reserve , and contented himself with intimating , `` that he hoped the leddy would be soon in a quieter country than this was like to be for one while . '' 
Here a numerous party of MacGregor 's men were stationed in order , to receive us . 
Above this limited space the hill became more steep ; and on its edge we descried the glittering arms and waving drapery of about fifty of MacGregor 's followers . 
With the natural taste which belongs to mountaineers , and especially to the Scottish Highlanders , whose feelings I have observed are often allied with the romantic and poetical , Rob Roy 's wife and followers had prepared our morning repast , in a scene well calculated to impress strangers with some feelings of awe . 
MacGregor himself arranged his attendants in the rear , and , requesting Mr Jarvie to dismount where the ascent became steep , advanced slowly , marshalling us forward at the head of the troop . 
When we came close , the wife of MacGregor came forward to meet us : Her dress was studiously arranged in a more feminine taste than it had been on the preceding day , but her features wore the same lofty , unbending , and resolute character ; and as she folded my friend the Bailie in an unexpected and apparently unwelcome embrace , I could perceive , by the agitation of his wig , his back , and the calves of his legs , that he felt much like to one who feels himself suddenly in the gripe of a she-bear , without being able to distinguish whether the animal is in kindness or in wrath . 
Be this as it may , the wife of MacGregor invited us to a refreshment spread out on the grass , which abounded with all the good things their mountains could offer , but was clouded by the dark and undisturbed gravity which sat on the brow of our hostess , as well as by our deep and anxious recollection of what had taken place on the preceding day . 
`` For you , stranger , '' she said , `` I have a token , from one whom you can never '' -- `` Helen , '' interrupted MacGregor , in a loud and stern voice , `` what means this ? 
`` MacGregor , '' she replied , `` I have forgotten nought that is fitting for me to remember . 
cried the MacGregor , stamping with impatience . 
The eastern side , peculiarly rough and rugged , was at this time the chief seat of MacGregor and his clan , to curb whom a small garrison had been stationed in a central position betwixt Loch Lomond and another lake . 
After kissing each other very lovingly , and when they were just in the act of parting , the Bailie , in the fulness of his heart , and with a faltering voice , assured his kinsman , `` that if ever an hundred pund , or even twa hundred , would put him or his family in a settled way , he need but just send a line to the Saut-Market ; '' and Rob , grasping his basket-hilt with one hand , and shaking Mr Jarvie 's heartily with the other , protested , `` that if ever any body should affront his kinsman , an he would but let him ken , he would stow his lugs out of his head , were he the best man in Glasgow . '' 
Rob Roy remained for some time standing on the rock from beneath which we had departed , conspicuous by his long gun , waving tartans , and the single plume in his cap , which in those days denoted the Highland gentleman and soldier ; although I observe the present military taste has decorated the Highland bonnet with a quantity of black plumage , resembling that which is borne before funerals . 
At length , as the distance increased between us , we saw him turn and go slowly up the side of the hill , followed by his immediate attendants or body guard . 
He was pleased to inform me , as if he had been bringing the finest news imaginable , `` that the Hielands were clean broken out every man o ' them , and that Rob Roy , and a ' his breekless bands , wad be down upon Glasgow , or twenty - four hours o ' the clock gaed round . '' 
This great public event served to confirm and elucidate the obscure explanations I had received from MacGregor ; and I could easily see why the westland clans , who were brought against him , should have waived their private quarrel , in consideration that they were all shortly to be engaged in the same public cause . 
I had thought of Diana as she was , when her parting tear dropped on my cheek ; when her parting token , received from the wife of MacGregor , augured her wish to convey into exile and conventual seclusion the remembrance of my affection . 
I remember a strange agony , under which I conceived myself and Diana in the power of MacGregor 's wife , and about to be precipitated from a rock into the lake ; the signal was to be the discharge of a cannon , fired by Sir Frederick Vernon , who , in the dress of a cardinal , officiated at the ceremony . 
retorted MacGregor , and plunged his sword in his prostrate antagonist . 
`` Mr Osbaldistone , '' he said , in a whisper , `` you have nothing to fear -- I must look after those who have -- Your friends will soon be in safety -- Farewell , and forget not the MacGregor . '' 
It gave me to understand , that the opportune appearance of MacGregor and his party was not fortuitous . 
Rob Roy , of whose sagacity and courage they had known so many proofs , was the person whom they pitched upon to assist his escape , and the place of meeting was fixed at Osbaldistone-Hall . 
It succeeded , however , perfectly ; for when once Sir Frederick and his daughter were again at large , they found horses prepared for them , and , by MacGregor 's knowledge of the country , -- for every part of Scotland , and of the north of England , was familiar to him , -- were conducted to the western sea-coast , and safely embarked for France . 
Old Andrew Fairservice used to say , that `` There were many things ower bad for blessing , and ower gude for banning , like Rob Roy . '' 
The second article of the Appendix to the Introduction to Rob Roy , Vol . 
`` Mr Graham , younger of Killearn , being on Munday last in Monteith att a country house , collecting my rents , was about nine o'clock that same night surprised by Rob Roy with a party of his men in arms , who , haveing surrounded the house and secured the avenues , presented their guns in at the windows , while he himself entered the room with some others with cokt pistolls , and seased Killearn with all his money , books , papers , and bonds , and carryed all away with him to the hills , at the same time ordering Killearn to write a letter to me , -LRB- of which ye have the copy inclosed , -RRB- proposeing a very honourable treaty to me . 
`` I must beg yow 'll give my humble service to Mr Secretary Methven , and tell him that I must referr him to what I have written to My Lord Townshend in this affair of Rob Roy , believing it was needless to trouble both with letters . '' 
-- The enclosure referred to in the preceding letter , is another copy of the letter which Mr Grahame of Killearn was compelled by Rob Roy to write to the Duke of Montrose , and is exactly the same as the one enclosed in his Grace 's letter to Lord Townshend , dated November 21st , 1716 . 
The author may also here remark , that immediately previous to the insurrection of 1715 , he perceives , from some notes of information given to Government , that Rob Roy appears to have been much employed and trusted by the Jacobite party , even in the very delicate task of transporting specie to the Earl of Breadalbane , though it might have somewhat resembled trusting Don Raphael and Ambrose de Lamela with the church-treasure . 
