Some hearts are schooled , gradually , to grief , and grow familiar with its returning visage ; but Henrich 's first draught of sorrow was from the lees . 
He mourned as none but the ingenuous and noble-hearted can mourn ; and when to others ' seeming least mindful of his bereavement , his whole heart was often flooded with the gushing tenderness inspired by some sudden recollection of his loss . 
Mementoes were all around him , hourly touching some mystic thread of memory , and summoning , from her haunted caverns , the apparitions of departed bliss . 
To lose a friend , and feel that there can be no return , not even for one short hour , through all the coming months , and seasons , and years of life , no word , no glance , no token of forgiven wrong , of continued love , of hoped re-union ; to know this dreadful truth , to feel it pressing heavily upon a heart yet unused to its vacancy , this is misery indeed , and it was that of Henrich . 
It was a spectacle of rare beauty , and Henrich lingered long to gaze upon it , and to watch the shifting shadows that played upon the bay and beach , as the gauzy clouds sailed lazily across the bright blue sky . 
The town reposed quietly before him , sending up no busy hum to his ear . 
Appalled at the imminent peril which threatened a fellow-being , Henrich hastened to the spot , and for some time strove in vain to make himself a party to the conflict . 
The fierce flashing eyes of the wolf , his ensanguined jaws and teeth , as he turned snarlingly for a moment towards the new comer , were not calculated to inspire courage in his breast ; but determined not to abandon a fellow mortal in such extremity , Henrich grasped the infuriated beast by the neck , and throwing himself heavily upon him succeeded in disengaging him from the wounded man . 
A quick aim and a detonation that was mingled with a short , fierce yell of the wolf , as he rolled on the ground , ended the affair ; and for the first time Henrich had an opportunity to gratify his curiosity by looking at his companion . 
He was a rough , sun-burnt man of about forty years , clad in a sailor 's dress , and with a countenance which must have been singularly forbidding in any aspect , but which at the present moment was almost flendish in its expression . 
Seamed with scratches , stained with blood , lighted with eyes that still flashed rage , his face scarcely needed the coarse , disordered hair , and matted moustachewhich environed it , to seem altogether diabolical ; and when Henrich , suppressing his emotions of horror , sympathizingly inquired the extent of his injuries , the harsh , grating reply of the other was in singular unison with his looks . 
he said , glancing at the insensate carcase ; `` I was asleep upon the ground , or he never would have dared to attack me ; and as for you , young man , I suppose you think you have saved my life ! '' 
Henrich smiled , and was about to reply , when the other continued : `` But in that you are quite mistaken ; if you had let us alone , I should have done well enough ; I do n't need help against one wolf , and not much against a whole pack ; however , you meant well enough , Henrich Huntington , and for such a milk-soppish looking fellow , didwell enough , too ; only , next time , I 'll thank you not to interfere -- that 's all ! '' 
Thus soliloquizing , Henrich , after loading and priming his piece , proceeded to examine the body of the slain animal , which was of a size and species unusual in that region , and one from a personal encounter with which the bravest might well have shrunk . 
His bold attack , however , was very remarkable , and rendered probable the truth of the stranger 's assertion , that it had been made while he was asleep , and , doubtless , in the opinion of his assailant , already defunet . 
Continuing his examination , he again uttered a chuckle of delight , and taking his knife from his belt , moved it dexterously for a few moments about the shoulder of the beast , and produced a leaden bullet , which he held up exultingly to Henrich . 
he said ; `` my wolf ! 
replied Henrich ; `` why , I say that you have proved title very clearly ; and if you want the head -- there it is ; help yourself , Winny ! 
Henrich , meanwhile , abandoning his proposed sport , returned slowly homeward , musing upon the singular events of the day . 
If his relict had not mourned deeply for her bereavement , then there was no virtue in crape ; for hers was of the finest quality , and was selected , with the discriminating eye of grief , from the most recent importations . 
He sprang to the neighboring brook , and bringing water in his cap , dashed it freely and not without effect , in the face of the patient , who slowly revived , but on the sight of Henrich standing near had well nigh swooned a second time . 
They walked slowly together , but the brook which they were compelled to cross , fortunately recalled to Henrich an intention which he had formed before his recent adventure , of making his ablutions in its waters . 
With this remembrance came of course a sudden consciousness of his appearance , and coloring to the temples , he quickly explained everything to his fair companion , and then hastened to the cleansing wave . 
It was no small relief to Miss Montaigne to feel convinced , as she now did , that all her suspicions were unfounded ; and when Henrich re-appeared , with freshened features and smiling face , the last vestige of her fears had departed . 
Her arrival , however , had fortunately been retarded by the indirect route which she had taken , and before any alarm could be communicated to the neighbors , Blanche and Henrich were distinctly seen at a distance , descending the hill side , and approaching towards home . 
As this was at once verified by her cousin 's explanation , Miss Roselle was not a little discomfited , but inasmuch as Henrich politely took his leave after consigning his charge to her care , she still entertained the hope that he might be a bandit after all , who had indulged in a sudden fit of magnanimity . 
To Henrich the adventure was fraught with interest ; the impression made by the charms of Blanche , and especially by her artless and graceful deportment , hung around him like a spell . 
Mingled with this admiration , a strong curiosity pervaded his mind . 
Such were the questions which , in a moment of enthusiasm , Henrich mentally propounded , and which , smiling at his own ardor , he determined speedily to solve . 
Not that it could avail him aught to know . 
If the bright picture would bear a close and continued inspection , if there was no dark reverse to its first dazzling surface , his fears at once suggested some other barrier , high and insuperable , which would intervene between himself and so attractive an object . 
But Henrich reflected with pleasure that politeness demanded of him a visit to the strangers after their singular meeting ; and he did not hesitate to call upon them on the same evening . 
He was received with evident pleasure by both the ladies , and the event of the day formed the theme of no little merriment . 
`` It is quite unnecessary , Miss Roselle , '' replied Henrich ; `` the rivulet in which I washed told me that your fears were fully justifiable . 
`` You will laugh , '' answered Henrich , `` when I tell you , that at first I fully believed I had startled a covey of partridges ; the fluttering of dresses was not unlike the noise of their wings , and the fallen tree , which is the frequent resort of these birds , doubtless confirmed the illusion . '' 
`` You are truly unfortunate , '' said Henrich . 
The interview was prolonged somewhat beyond the limits of a formal call , and when Henrich rose to depart , it was with a reluctance that surprised himself . 
Mrs. Sniff politely asked him to repeat his visit , and , unconsciously , his eye turned to Miss Montaigne , with the hope of hearing the invitation seconded from the only quarter which could give it value ; but Blanche , with instinetive delicacy , remained silent , and Emily , to whom , in her character as an elder sister , such a duty more properly pertained , saw fit to follow her cousin 's example . 
`` I 'm going to pick peas over in dat field ; ` Massa eat de sugar , Sambo git de cane ; '' ' and she passed tremblingly on towards the fence . 
Anxious , however , to solve the mystery , although unalarmed about Blanche , Henrich turned quickly to the prostrate figure before him , and touching it not lightly with his gun , bade the slave arise and tell him what had happened . 
`` There , do n't show off any more airs now -- you are more frightened than hurt , I assure you , '' said Henrich , somewhat harshly . 
It was an exceedingly fortunate thing for Henrich that he was not standing at that moment upon some precipice , or beside some terrestrial chasm , into which he could have leaped and buried the burning shame and grief which overwhelmed him , as he saw to whom his coarse reproachful language had been directed . 
he said at length , speaking with difficulty ; `` how , -- why do I find you in this disguise ? 
`` You give me the best proof that you are incapable of ingratitude , Miss Roselle , '' replied Henrich , `` when you manifest so great an interest in an humble slave ; but do not be alarmed for the girl -- they can scarcely meditate any harm against her , and I hope it will be an easy matter to procure her release . '' 
Henrich departed on his errand , but not without being reminded by Blanche , with the slightest perceptible change of color , that she was not unreasonable enough to expect him to incur any personal peril in his mission : indeed , that she considered it her duty to protest against his doing so . 
She had started at every sound during his absence , and felt as if she were again exposed to all the perils which had so recently impended over her ; her fears had been augmented , too , by the remembrance of Henrich 's instinctive offer to avenge her wrongs , and she did not hesitate , on his return , to exact from him a promise that he would not seek personally to visit retribution upon the offender : `` I have , indeed , a right , '' she said , `` to require this at your hands ; for if gratitude did not prompt a regard for your interest , I can not but remember that my own security may continue to depend upon yours . '' 
Huntington replied with suppressed emotion : he was too happy to have been her preserver ; her lightest word should be to him a law , and he would leave no vigilance unexercised to secure her continued safety . 
Such were his words ; yet , fearful of seeming to presume on the benefits he had conferred , they were delivered rather with an air of distant respect , than of cordial regard . 
Whether the presence of Miss Montaigne had anything to do with this transformation , can of course be only a matter of conjecture Certain it was that she continued to engross a large share of Henrich 's thoughts ; and if , with an effort , he banished the beautiful vision as something dangerous to dwell upon , it still recurred in each unguarded moment , to his mind . 
But let him not be blamed , if at times he yielded to this pleasing thraldom , for the charms of Miss Montaigne were calculated to fascinate even a less susceptible mind than that of Henrich . 
Rich in its golden treasures of thought and feeling must have been the heart which emitted rays like these ; and Henrich was but too happy to catch their casual radiance , to treasure them in his memory , to recall them in dreams , and to wonder what there was of human suffering or achievement that could win from relenting Heaven a treasure so transcendent . 
Never before had his own poverty or obscurity been to him a source of serious regret ; but now he felt that he could make any effort to open the gates of wealth or scale the cliffs of Fame . 
Willing to diminish the distance between them , he had tried to discredit the rumor of her rank and wealth , as one which might well have originated in Mrs. Sniff 's desire to create a temporary éclatfor herself ; but there was something in the deportment of Blanche which gave confirmation to the story . 
The mystery that enveloped her , the singular mode of her arrival , the uncertain duration of her stay , and her voluntary seclusion from society , all added to the interest which she excited in the mind of Henrich ; nor had he failed to observe , in estimating her position , that independent action , even in matters of moment , which almost precluded the idea of her elder companion being in reality her sister . 
Henrich did not , indeed , yield a moment 's credence to the exaggerated views of his voluble neighbor , yet he was compelled to believe it probable that Blanche belonged to that aristocratic division of English society , between which , and everything below it , so strong a line of demarcation exists . 
The accident which had made him her benefactor , while it tended to augment his growing attachment , and to impart an air of romance to its character , seemed , in reality , rather to widen than diminish the distance between them . 
A chivalric sense of honor forbade the exhibition of a sentiment which might seem to found its claims for reciprocity upon such an obligation , or which might impose any restraint upon Blanche in seeking , in her still dependent state , his fullest assistance and counsel . 
The proud consciousness that she looked to him for protection was itself a pleasure which he would not lightly jeopard ; and he resolved , while sedulously watching her interests , to guard with equal assiduity his own demeanor . 
The negress , Jule , did not forget her appointment with Miss Montaigne ; and while the latter was discussing with Henrich a subject connected with her welfare , made her appearance , accompanied , according to promise , by her beau . 
said Henrich ; `` why how old are you now ? '' 
`` I 'm twenty-four , Massa Huntington ; I speak de trut ; not a day older : I shall be twenty-four a fortnight ago to-morrow . '' 
Harry hesitated and looked at Jule , who seemed also in some doubt , and said she believed it was forty or thirty ; but Massa Henrich was a scholar and could reckon it up himself . 
`` I tell you dat , '' answered the negro , excitedly ; `` my Massa good man , he belong to de church -- deacon Bolt , a berry good man -- he own me and a plenty more . 
I tended dat church , swept it , washed it , ring de bell , and dig de graves -- dig poor Massa 's grave at last , and when he die he guv me to de church in his will -- kase he berry good man . '' 
`` He was , indeed , '' said Blanche , smiling ; `` then youbelonged to the church , did you ? '' 
Mrs. Sniff had long been desirous to sell the girl , and break up her lonely establishment , and no difficulty was encountered in the arrangement , which had already been effected through the agency of Henrich , who had , indeed , but just returned and placed the deed of manumission in the hands of the delighted Blanche , when Jule and Harry arrived . 
There was a little pause in the conversation , during which Miss Montaigne hesitated how to bestow her boon ; and Jule , glancing at Henrich , seemed to suspect that she and Harry might be trespassing by too long a stay . 
`` Not yet , '' replied the young lady , with emotion , handing , at the same time , the papers to Henrich ; `` please to explain it to them , Mr. Huntington , '' she said in a low voice , turning away her face , and affecting to look for something in her reticule . 
`` Jule has told you , I suppose , Harry , '' he said , `` what took place yesterday , and how she saved Miss Roselle from being carried off by the pirates ? '' 
replied Henrich ; `` in other words , Miss Roselle has boughtJule , and made her free -- here is the deed ; take it , she is no longer a slave . '' 
`` Let me go if you please , '' said the frightened girl -- `` I 'm only Doxy ; Miss Blanche Roselle , and Miss Emily , and cousin Henrich -- '' `` Shut up your head , youngster ! 
Henrich entertained , of course , no suspicions of any impending danger to Blanche , who , in the large household by which she was now surrounded , had a sufficient guarantee against any repetition of the lawless attack which she had so recently escaped . 
But if the day was a favorable one for hunting , it availed but little to Henrich , whose vexed thoughts were themselves winding and doubling in too many directions to admit of successfully following up the track of the cunning fox , or the light-footed deer ; and whose repeated blunders in his sport were a matter of very apparent surprise , and even of comment , in his way , to the disappointed Bounder . 
Observing the Indian 's reluctance to stop , Henrich slightly changed his course and walked with quickened pace by his side , still questioning him on matters pertaining to the chase , and heedless that the other now gave still greater signs of dissatisfaction than before . 
`` Winny saw deer , '' he said at length , pointing towards the east side of the island ; `` going that way -- with horns like that ! '' 
exclaimed Henrich , with a look of incredulity . 
The Indian saw that he was disbelieved , and scorning further equivocation , he replied impatiently : `` The Panther is going to the council -- he must go alone . '' 
said Henrich , who perceived by his companion 's air , and by the use of his symbolical name , that he was in earnest ; `` why this is the first I have heard of a council of the Wappenos in a long time ; you have not thirty warriors in your tribe ; why do you hold councils ? '' 
The popularity of the young man among the Wappenos , and his own influence as a son of a chief , would protect the Panther from any severe censure , and if it became necessary for Henrich to withdraw , the secret , Winny believed , would still be safe . 
The Panther and Henrich went directly to this council-hall , where the latter was at first eyed with much suspicion , but was soon generally recognised and welcomed . 
Henrich had resolved to make an effort to prevent the threatened tragedy , but he knew that the savages were jealous of their prerogative , and that if he could succeed at all , it would be only by the utmost tact . 
To interfere with the deliberations of the council would give the greatest offence , and diminish the chance of his subsequent influence . 
He even resolved not to object to the execution of the first part of the sentence which was more formidable in sound than in reality , and which never resulted fatally , to a man of the least courage ; it was intended , indeed , rather as an intimidation than a punishment , although it often resulted in severe and sometimes in mortal wounds . 
Henrich was offered a club , and invited to take part in the performance , and but for the irrepressible signs of abhorrence with which he declined , would doubtless have been importuned to comply . 
When everything was ready , the Huron was brought forward and unbound , his eye , meanwhile , running rapidly over the ranks , as if estimating the danger and discovering the most perilous localities . 
The task before him was to run through this alley , between these living walls , in such manner and with such speed as he chose , but through he must go , and while all his foes were privileged to inflict upon him such blows as they could deal while he was passing , none was permitted to stir out of his place in pursuit . 
No dexterity or feint of the prisoner , and no manœuvre , in the way of dodging or doubling , were exceptionable ; his only task was to reach the opposite end of the line with as much impunity as possible . 
The first dozen of his foes struck only the empty air in his path , and the clubs of the next whizzed idly above his head . 
He was now stooping to the earth , and now bounding in the air , at one breath on one side of the line , and the next on the other , twisting , turning , gliding , crawling , and almost defying the pursuit of the eye , much more the hasty and ill-directed blows of his eager enemies . 
About half way down the lane the ranks were chiefly occupied by boys of from twelve to fifteen years , and having reached this point with but little injury he paused a moment to take breath , bearing meanwhile with little regard , the furious pummelling of the children . 
Henrich drew curiously near to the Huron , about whom the leaders of the savages had assembled , and for the first time caught the eye of the prisoner , which , as it rested for a moment upon his own , and then glanced hastily at the growing pyre without , had a mournful and appealing expression , sufficient to counterbalance a thousand proofs of stoicism . 
The response , indeed , was unanimous against clemency , and the Indians even manifested impatience at an interruption , which delayed their anticipated sport ; for , as Henrich became importunate , the wondering savages had crowded around him , until , the work of preparation being temporarily abandoned , even the women and children had mingled with the curious throng . 
A general murmur of approval followed this decision , in which , as Henrich observed with foreboding , even his friend , the Panther , joined . 
He next tried to effect a ransom ; and although able to give but little which could gratify the cupidity of so many , he was careful to offer such things as would appeal most to their peculiar wants : his rifle , a dozen canisters of powder and half as many kegs of the enticing fire-water were offered , and , strange to say , were all refused . 
Henrich knew nothing more that he could do . 
The dialect of the Wappenos , in which he had spoken , possessed sufficient resemblance to the language of the Hurons to be intelligible to the prisoner , as was proved by the look of gratitude which the latter bestowed upon his young friend ; but there was at the same time an expression of hopelessness in his features , which showed that he understood better than his advocate the character of the enemies with whom he had to deal . 
As it passed from hand to hand among the Indians , it soon took shape , to the eyes of the astonished Henrich , as a sealed letter , bearing a superscription ; but how was his amazement increased , when at length obtaining possession of it in his turn , he read the endorsement : `` To Father Ledra , or the Misses Roselle , in the city and province of New York . '' 
He remained gazing long and steadfastly at the writing , marvelling what new and unrevealed mystery , in regard to Blanche , was about to be evolved ; and on again looking up he saw that the prisoner 's eyes were fixed upon him with an intelligent and steady gaze . 
asked the senior chief , who with his companions had closely observed Henrich 's surprised air ; `` does it talk to our brother , and what are its words ? '' 
`` It says , '' replied Henrich , `` that far away by the bright lakes , an old man weeps for his daughters , who are captives of your English father in New York ; and that he will listen long for the feet of the swift runner , and for his voice to tell him that his children are yet alive . '' 
`` It says nothing more , '' replied Henrich , sadly , yet earnestly ; `` but there is a voice from the Great Spirit , which speaks to you , old man , and forbids this horrible sacrifice -- which says , ` Shed not innocent blood : ' which says that the happy hunting fields will be closed to the cruel and revengeful man . '' 
Henrich was about to make a final appeal by largely increasing his offered ransom , when he felt himself pulled suddenly by the sleeve , and on looking down he saw a pair of glowing eyes fixed intently upon him , and slowly receding at the same time into the depths of the crowd . 
As he gazed , he gradually recognized the features of an Indian , known as the Weasel , whom he had frequently met in the city , and who now evidently desired to make some private communication to him . 
He was celebrated among his brethren as an orator ; but was , in reality , a wordy , windy , sham patriot , exceedingly fond of intoxicating drinks , and indulging in his favorite propensity to a shameless extent , whenever a favorable opportunity occurred . 
As the general attention became at once engaged in the renewed preparations for the Huron 's death , Henrich found no difficulty in following the Weasel and obtaining an interview with him . 
The Indian had a proposition to make , which , divested of its parade of words , amounted to this ; that his own heart was touched by the condition of the unfortunate captive , that he remembered with gratitude the former services of Henrich to his tribe in the time of famine , and that he would undertake to bring about the release of the Huron for the ransom which had been offered , and for one additional keg of rum for his private benefit . 
Henrich caught with avidity at this offer , improbable as it seemed of fulfilment . 
`` But how , '' he said , `` can you do this ? 
`` I did , '' answered the Indian ; `` but my mind has turned over , '' turning his hand , by way of illustrating his meaning ; `` I will turn my brothers ' too . '' 
The orator entered at once upon his task . 
He took his position upon a slight eminence near the centre of the square , and commencing an energetic address , at once drew around him the gratified savages , who , knowing what had been his views and vote in council , anticipated only an inflammatory exhortation to persevere in their design , and , perhaps , a suggestion of some new and ingenious varieties of torture . 
The Weasel knew well the disappointment which he was about to create ; and he approached his subject carefully , and from a remote position . 
Only gradually unfolding his design , he fortified his premises by earnest and impressive appeals , while his hearers were yet uncertain of the conclusion to which they tended . 
He spoke of the famine from which they had suffered , and described by word and gesture the hollow cheeks and shrivelled limbs of themselves and their children ; he told of their inability to procure food , of their unwillingness to beg in the great city , of an old warrior who had sung his death-song in his empty cabin -- and finally `` brought down the house '' by a suddenly drawn picture of the good Henrich appearing in their midst , with a sleigh-load of yellow maize . 
`` Look around you , '' he said , `` and you will see the tracks of his horses , just where he stood but now , when you stopped your ears to his prayers . '' 
He dwelt briefly upon the peculiar mission of the Huron , as one which entitled him to clemency , and did not fail to dilate temptingly upon the ransom which Henrich stood ready to give ; he spoke , indeed , of everything connected with the affair , with the exception of his own promised counsel-fee , and on that subject , he maintained a discreet silence . 
He closed his remarks with a forcible and effective peroration , reminding his brethren that the council doors were still open , and that they should be glad that the opportunity yet remained to retrace their steps , and wipe out the stain of ingratitude from their character . 
Henrich watched with much anxiety the countenances of the auditors , and was rejoiced to see the signs of general relenting . 
Henrich received the tidings with the greatest exultation , which he manifested by shaking hands with the whole court , and , finally , with the Huron , to whom he had the pleasure of bringing the first news of his freedom . 
It was difficult to convince the captive that he was really discharged ; and it was not until in company with Huntington he had left the camp of his enemies , that he could believe himself at liberty . 
His delight was evidently extreme , although it was manifested less in language than in looks and manner . 
He resigned himself implicitly to Henrich 's guidance , who returned to him his lost packet , and undertook to conduct him at once to the persons to whom it was addressed . 
It would have been an easy matter at that moment to win from the confiding Huron the whole secret of his errand , and its author , and thus to solve to some extent , the mystery which enveloped Blanche ; but Henrich was incapable of taking such an advantage of his position . 
To induce the savage to violate his trust , or to penetrate by any means a secret which his friend was desirous to conceal , was an act repulsive to his sense of duty ; and although an unbounded curiosity pervaded his mind to know the origin and tendency of the Indian 's mission , he conducted him , unquestioned , to his own home . 
`` Weare compelled , Mr. Huntington , '' said Blanche , rising with an excited air , as Henrich entered the room , `` to make you the depositary of a few secrets , which , if they were ever important , will cease to be so when we are gone . '' 
answered Henrich , with astonishment , -- `` whither ? 
surely , Miss Roselle , you are not in earnest -- '' `` We are summoned , '' replied Blanche , interrupting him , `` by one who has the right to control our movements , and who doubtless has properly provided for our safety . 
`` I know the whole sad story , '' said Henrich ; `` the fugitive , of whom you speak , was the haughty and powerful Baron Montaigne ; the friend and counsellor of Louis ; the man by whose courage and diplomacy with the Indian nations , the whole tottering government of New France has long been upheld -- whose craft and cruelty have -- '' `` Mr. Huntington is speaking of my father , '' rejoined Miss Montaigne , with quiet dignity . 
Amazement for a while held the young man silent ; and when he again spoke , it was with the apology that the occasion seemed to require . 
`` The picture is drawn by his enemies , '' he said , `` and we may easily suppose that it is not impartial : I can believe nothing ill of the father of Miss Blanche Montaigne . '' 
`` Too much caution can not be used where everything is at stake , '' replied Henrich , with a saddened air ; `` I think I have already sufficient proof that the Indian is a Huron -- yet we will leave nothing to conjecture ; but how is he accompanied ? 
She had scarcely ceased speaking when the Huron stalked silently into the room , and answering an invitation to be seated by a graceful wave of the hand , remained standing erect and dignified , and seemingly awaiting his expected examination . 
Henrich was familiar with the abrupt and sententious style of colloquy used by the Indians , and naturally adopted it in conversing with them ; he addressed the stranger in French , which the latter , like many of his northern brethren , spoke with tolerable correctness . 
`` My brother comes with a talking paper , '' he said ; `` can he tell us what it says ? '' 
`` It talks to her , '' answered the Huron , laying his hand lightly on the head of Blanche , `` and to her , '' pointing to Emily , `` and to an old man , with long white hair -- I do not see him : it talks to them , not to me ; I have listened , but can not hear it . '' 
asked Henrich . 
asked Henrich , pointing towards Miss Roselle . 
`` Yonr words are true , '' replied Henrich , `` we receive them into our hearts ; yet tell us of this Baron Montaigne : what is he like ? '' 
The remaining part of the messenger 's story was soon told : he was one of a company of seven , who had descended the lakes and the Hudson river in canoes , and who , passing the few settlements and exposed places always under cover of the night , had reached the vicinity of New York without molestation . 
There had been , indeed , no recent active hostilities between the French and English at the time of the setting out of this expedition ; and as far as Montaigne could learn from his vigilant runners , there were no Indians on the war-path , in that part of the territory of the Five Nations which it would be necessary to traverse . 
The name fell ominously upon the ear of Henrich , who already pained beyond expression at the prospect of Blanche 's departure , at once foresaw , with a lover 's instinct , the danger which threatened most to his happiness . 
Henrich , whose aid was of course volunteered to accompany them to the camp , had in the meantime procured a boat and despatched it in charge of a slave to await the party on the shore of the river , a little north of the city wall , but there was at the same time something in the character of his arrangements which indicated a view to some ulterior purpose . 
It was in vain , however , that she sought to conceal her trepidation , and she seemed to seek a re-assurance for her failing courage in the language and bearing of Henrich . 
He would have rejoiced at the lightest intimation from Blanche , that his services would be acceptable as one of her guard through the whole of her anticipated journey , and only dared not make the offer , lest its refusal , founded on the suspicion of his daring love , should involve , by implication , a rejection of his suit , and extinguish for ever the flickering light of hope , which served now at least harmlessly to irradiate his heart . 
There was something in the romantic character of his attachment which admitted of his gathering bliss even from an acknowledged illusion , as long as it did not transcend the limits of possibility , but he had not courage to face the reality of a present and certain despair . 
Accident had left them a moment alone , and Henrich replied with a smile -- `` You must allow me to be a little dismal at the prospect of losing the companionship of yourself and your cousin and falling back upon the Wappenos , and wolves for society . 
`` With vigilance , prudence , and valor , on the part of your guard , no ; '' said Henrich , `` and we must presume they have been selected for qualities like these ; yet I would that you felt sufficiently insecure to permit of my offering to enrol myself among your defenders . '' 
exclaimed Henrich , laughing ; `` then say not another word , Miss Montaigne ; it is a charity to give occupation to an idle man , and I have really nothing else in the world to do : I think , too , that grandfather Waldron will gladly bew rid of me for a few weeks . '' 
`` The school of danger is one in which I need a few lessons , '' answered Henrich , gaily ; `` and as to privations , '' he continued , lowering his voice , to escape the ear of Miss Roselle , who re-entered the room at that moment , `` Miss Montaigne 's permission to accompany her will postpone for a while the only evil of that nature which has any terrors for me . '' 
Henrich withdrew from the apartment as he concluded speaking , and proceeded to complete his preparations , not forgetting to provide for the liquidation of his debt to his forest friends , the payment of which involved the loss of his favorite rifle . 
It became necessary to procure a substitute for this weapon , and he was fortunate in obtaining one of tried worth , which had acquired a wide celebrity , even in less skilful hands than those by which it was in future to be wielded . 
Withthe low monotonous sound of dipping oars , and of the trickling of water from their blades , did the boat of Henrich , under the skilful guidance of the Huron , glide rapidly along the stream , keeping close under the eastern shore , where the shadows of the forest withheld even the faint starlight from its path . 
The village of the Wappenos in which the Lynx had so nearly terminated his career , was situated near the river , a few miles south of the count 's covert quarters , and it became necessary for the voyagers on approaching it , to diverge at a wide angle from their course to avoid discovery . 
Not that Henrich entertained any fear of hostility from his allies towards himself , or his present party , but he felt that he could not answer for their pacific conduct towards Carlton 's command , if he should be unlucky enough to draw them upon the camp . 
There was danger , too , if the singular departure of Henrich and his companions became known to the Wappenos , that some gossipping or treacherous member of the tribe might divulge it in the city , and bring pursuit upon them from that quarter , before they had attained a distance , which would render it harmless . 
`` It is an echo , '' said Henrich , as the sound of dipping oars reached them for a moment , and then suddenly ceased ; `` we are nearer to the western shore than I had supposed . '' 
`` It is not improbable that the Indian sees no more , '' replied Henrich ; `` but these wild foresters are trained to the active use of all their faculties ; some irregularity in the fall of the oars has told him the canoe was not propelled by a single person , and it scarcely requires even Indian sagacity to detect the difference between the rowing of a white man and a savage . '' 
`` Iroquois is a generic name for the whole confederacy of the Five Nations , '' said Henrich ; `` and there is little likelihood of finding Indians in this region who do not belong to one or another of its subdivisions ; the word , in the mouth of the Huron , may almost be considered synonymous with enemy . '' 
The very pauses of his boat were promptly imitated by the other , as if it were but some distant shadow of its predecessor , thrown back upon the wave . 
This was an espionage not patiently to be endured , and , after a few moments ' consultation with Henrich , the Lynx again changed his course , and rowed rapidly towards the shore , hoping , in the obscurity of its deeper shadows , to elude further pursuit . 
Henrich began to suspect that he was followed from the city by some one authorized to require the return of Miss Montaigne and her cousin , and that an Indian canoe , with its oarsmen , had been employed to ascertain his route , and to pilot a more formidable foe upon his track ; but whatever was the character of the enemy , he did not exhibit a ready tact in detecting the designs of the fugitives , who were permitted to enter the shadows at a distance from the former , that at once buried them from sight . 
`` We have probably had a very useless alarm , after all , '' said Henrich , glad to dismiss his former suspicions ; `` our followers were doubtless only some belated hunters of the Wappenos , returning to their village , and attracted by curiosity out of their course . '' 
`` I know , '' answered Henrich , `` that the absence of curiosity forms part of the poetical character of the Indian , yet I have ever found them a meddling , gossipping race : on state occasions , indeed , it is different ; then , they put on their dignity , like a cloak , and like some counting-house Christians on Sunday , assume all their cardinal virtues for the occasion . '' 
he continued , addressing the Huron -- `` I speak of the Iroquois , of course . '' 
`` The Iroquois are dogs , '' answered the Lynx , giving but a moment 's heed to the question , and immediately returning to a close scrutiny of the shore past which they were gliding ; at the next instant he uttered an ejaculation of pleasure , as his eye rested upon some remembered landmark , and running the skiff into a little nook , he leaped lightly upon the land , where he was at once followed by his companions . 
`` These are possibilities , certainly , '' answered Henrich ; `` and only daylight , which is yet three hours distant , can reveal whether they are probable : it is useless to search by this light , and dangerous to make signals ; but if you are able to pass the remainder of the night here -- '' `` It is at least as easy as to return , '' Blanche replied ; `` we should be ill fitted for our journey if we shrunk from so slight an inconvenience ; a warm night in the open air is no great hardship , and yet I could wish , for the very romance of the thing , that we had the tents and hammocks , which the Lynx assures me were brought for our use . '' 
`` We will try what can be done by way of a substitute , '' said Henrich , gaily ; `` you have your cloaks , and you shall see that a forest couch can easily be rigged by hands that are used to expedients : as for the Lynx and myself , we shall have the honor of being your sentinels . '' 
So saying , he signified his wishes to the Huron , and the two , raising the skiff from the water , transferred it within the cavernous recess which has been described , where a quantity of light boughs of pine and hemlock , carefully adjusted within it , constituted a bed at once soft and elastic . 
`` I fear not , '' answered Henrich , unable to repress a smile at the words and manner of the speaker , `` we dare neither shoot nor shout at him , and he is far above the reach of any missile sent from the hand ; try to consider him only a serenader ; he is , I assure you , a very small and harmless bird , -- less than a robin , and answers better to the term vox et prœterea nihil , than anything else in nature . '' 
`` Until morning , undoubtedly , '' Henrich replied , `` when he will go to sleep -- there -- there , that 's an extra note , indeed ; what say you , Sachem , is there any way of getting rid of this bird-fiend ? '' 
The Indian uttered a low laugh , and raising his hands to his mouth , emitted a succession of quick shrill sounds in imitation of a nighthawk , which now in one quarter , and now in another , seemed to be hovering over the trees . 
said Henrich , much pleased , though less surprised than the ladies at the expedient , -- `` you must teach me that note , some time ; good bye to Mr. Vox ; he has pressing business in some other quarter -- and now , ladies , you perceive the Lynx has taken his station for the night , beneath that elm tree ; mine is at the foot of this oak , where his Huron highness gives me permission to sleep ; you must take our bearings , as a sailor would say , from your cot , and you 'll know where to find us , if you should be frightened in the night . '' 
The reasonableness of this assertion was too apparent to admit of contest , and Henrich , receiving his cloak , quietly disposed himself to sleep , while the ladies , laughing not a little at their various ineffectual attempts to gain a comfortable reclining position , finally triumphed over all difficulties , and followed his example . 
Dayhad fully dawned , and some crimson-tinted clouds were even announcing that the sun was not far below the horizon , when Henrich , awaking from sleep , bounded suddenly to his feet , alarmed at the very profoundness of his repose , and at the conjectured evils which might have occurred during its continuance . 
His first glance was at the boat , where the closely enveloped figures of the ladies were quietly reposing , and his next at the sentinel who remained motionless at his post , with no signs of weariness or impatience . 
he said , hastily approaching the Huron , `` and you have discovered no traces of the count and his party ; is it so ? '' 
exclaimed Henrich , glancing at the ladies , `` that they have been exposed to perils like these ? 
Henrich was not usually disposed to doubt his scholarship in the particular named , but he found himself not a little puzzled on approaching the tree , to construe the simple tokens it contained , nor was it without the aid of the Lynx that he fully comprehended them . 
`` Here is an arrow fixed in the bark , pointing to the north , '' he said , -- `` that is plain enough ; somebody has gone in that direction ; stay , here are six notches on it , one considerably in advance of the others ; that I suppose means that the whole party have gone , consisting of five men and their leader ; but why does the arrow point upward as well as northward ? '' 
he said , addressing the Huron ; `` they certainly have not gone through the air . '' 
`` Ah , yes , I am dull -- that signifies a distant destination very plainly , '' Henrich replied , or rather muttered to himself ; `` and it is partly broken here in the middle , I suppose , to show that the object of the expedition is defeated or abandoned ? '' 
That they reflected still more credit upon his heart , need scarcely be said , since , being compelled thus to desert a friend in the land of their common enemy , he sought by these means to enable the other still to overtake and rejoin his companions ; and there was little doubt that every halting-place on his homeward journey would bear evidence of the same generous design . 
asked Henrich ; `` it must have been , then , but a few hours before our arrival ; if we had known it we might have overtaken them , and might possibly do so , even yet . '' 
The Huron had longed for this proposition , though he had but little hopes that the ladies would accede to it ; a love of truth , however , would not permit him to hold out any false hopes of success ; the canoes , he said , were swifter than the skiff , and had already six hours the start ; but the count made many pauses , and lost much time in frequently crossing the river at the least alarm . 
`` But the sun is moving , while we stand still , '' he continued , pointing to the eastern horizon , where the orb of day was just beginning to appear , -- `` let the daughter of the great chief speak -- the Lynx must obey . '' 
`` You are right ; no time must be lost , if we are to proceed , '' answered Henrich ; `` go waken them , and we will decide the question with a full council board . '' 
`` I do not know , really , '' said Henrich , `` a grilled screech-owl might not be amiss , or a few frogs from the creek : if these can not be procured , we must try to content ourselves with the commoner dainties of ham , bread , and pastry , with which my good grandmother has so liberally supplied us . '' 
`` By this post , '' Henrich added , pointing to the tree at their side , `` and if I have rightly followed the direction of your eyes , they have already discovered it . '' 
Henrich proceeded to explain the various symbols before them to the great astonishment of Blanche , whose extreme interest in the information left her little thought for the ingenuity displayed in conveying it . 
`` You certainly have discharged your full duty , Miss Montaigne , if I can correctly estimate your position , '' Henrich answered , `` and prudence , as you say , forbids the thought of attempting to travel to Castle Montaigne , with so slight a guard ; yet I own that I speak with the bias of a strong wish for your return to New York . 
`` Doubtless , we must return , '' said Blanche , `` yet we will leave nothing in reason , undone ; it is early , and the day will be long ; if you please , therefore , and the Lynx is willing -- '' `` You commandthis company , Miss Montaigne , '' said Henrich , smiling , `` please to speak in the imperative mood ; no eastern despot has a more willing slave than the Huron seems disposed to be to you , -- and I , you know , am his brother . '' 
It was long past mid-day when the travellers reached the creek from which they had set out in the morning ; and Henrich and the Lynx , who had taken alternate hours at the oars , were sufficiently fatigued to look longingly at the cool landscape past which they were gliding . 
Henrich sprang instantaneously to his feet , grasping his gun as he rose , while the Lynx , also seizing his weapon , threw himself as suddenly upon the ground , and each remained a moment motionless , gazing towards the shore . 
The Huron signified to his companions that they should remain seated and silent while he crept to the shore and reconnoitred the strangers ; when , with the stealthy motion of a cat , slow and noiseless , rustling no leaves , crackling not so much as the smallest stick in his path , the Indian gained the bank , and buried his head in a bush that overhung its edge . 
No portion of his person was suffered to protrude through his leafy covert ; but his eyes , brought nearly to its outer side , rolled , sparkling , in every direction , like those of the watchful snake , gleaming from the still grass at the unconscious invader of his haunts . 
Henrich 's situation was one which gave him a partial view of the Huron 's face , and he watched it with the hope of gleaning from its expression the earliest intelligence of the nature of the interruption ; but for some moments it gave no evidence of any discovery . 
Suddenly , however , it lighted with animation , and , at the next moment , a marked and extraordinary change came upon it ; a look which , but for the Lynx 's known bravery , Henrich would have pronounced to evince the most unequivocal fear . 
The Indian drew cautiously back , and when his face came fully into the light , there was no longer room for a doubt as to the character of the emotions it depicted ; terror , absolute and unqualified , such as a warrior may not exhibit , such as the tortures and the stake in the Wappeno village had not inspired , were plainly marked upon his features . 
whispered Henrich , at length , disguising , as best he could , his own growing alarm ; `` are the Wappenos upon us ? 
The Huron shook his head , and laying down his gun with a carelessness as to its position that seemed to evince no expectation of requiring its aid , pointed steadily to the ground , and muttered some unintelligible words in his own dialect . 
exclaimed Emily , grasping the arm of Henrich ; `` what does he mean ? 
`` Keep silence , Miss Roselle , I implore you , '' whispered Henrich , with great equanimity , passing , at the same time , a cup of water from the grassy table to Blanche , who stared at him with deathly paleness ; `` we must not stir or speak ; an Indian 's ears are like the mole 's , and the whole forest is but a whispering gallery to their acute senses ; once more I implore you , '' he continued , turning to the Lynx , `` to tell us the cause of the alarm : what was it that you saw ? '' 
A burst of laughter succeeded from Henrich , at once re-assuring the alarmed ladies , and partly allaying the fears of the puzzled Indian who continued to gaze with a bewildered air , alternately at the approaching negro , and at his own now merry companions . 
`` Oh , massa Henrich ! 
massa Henrich ! '' 
he exclaimed , as he drew near , with widely distended eyes , and upraised arms , `` oh massaHenrich -- massa Henrich ! '' 
said Henrich , laughing ; `` speak out , and have done with it , if you have anything to say ; you have frightened the Lynx enough already ; I do n't want to flatter you , but he really mistook you for the devil ! '' 
`` Oh , no , no , Massa Lynch , '' said Harry , `` I ai n't de debbil , but he 's comin ' , sartain ; Gaffer Wallon send me to tell you , Massa Henrich ; oh golly , oh gosh ! '' 
exclaimed Huntington , `` he has n't come here for nothing , that 's evident ; here , you , Ruppy , '' he continued , addressing the boy , `` do you know anything about this ? 
`` I do n't know , '' said the boy , more composedly , though with a bashful air -- `` but the house has been full of sojers , this morning , ramsacking it all ober , sir -- and they cotched Miss Doxy and wuz goin ' to carry her off , kaze dey said it was Miss Mountain . '' 
`` Ensign Midge , '' said Henrich , `` is one of Grover 's creatures , and I fear it is as you suspect ; they have evidently learned your name , Miss Montaigne , for the boy seems to have heard it mentioned , and this is some pretence of making you a prisoner of state ; what did you say they called Doxy , boy ? '' 
`` Do not believe , Miss Montaigne , '' replied Henrich , `` that I can be induced to desert you ; were I willing to do so , the world of chivalry would cry shame on such an act ; I approve , aye , applaud , your choice , and am ready to share its perils ; one more , therefore , is added to your guard -- what say you , Harry Bolt , at making a third ? '' 
`` Making what , massa Henrich ? '' 
`` Massa Henrich , '' said the negro , `` I will go to de moon with Missa Blanche : I will go to de land of de Hottenpots with her ! 
Henrich grasped the hand of the negro , and shook it as if they had been brothers , while the tears poured like rain down the cheeks of Miss Montaigne . 
`` We are three strong men , '' he said , `` and the Lynx alone is a host in sagacity and skill ; add to this that there is some hope even yet of overtaking the count , and our cause is by no means desperate ; only one question more remains to be decided ; '' and Huntington turned to Miss Roselle as he spoke . 
If Miss Roselle was ever captious and trifling in the hour of security , she yet possessed in her inner nature much of woman 's self-sacrificing spirit ; Blanche bestowed upon her a look of exceeding tenderness ; and when , at the next moment , Henrich turned to converse aside with the negro , the cousins , for the first time , perhaps , since childhood , were locked in a sisterly embrace . 
`` Let us then lose no time , '' said Henrich ; `` Ruppy can take back Harry 's boat , but we must guard against his prating ; here , boy , '' he continued , thrusting several pieces of silver coin into the lad 's hand , `` mind now what I say to you : you must not speak a word in two days , excepting to grandfather Waldron -- do you hear ? '' 
`` Yes , Massa , I wo n't tell -- '' `` Tut -- tut -- that is n't enough -- if your mouth opens , out it will come in some shape , I know ; but you must not speak a word to a living soul in two days , excepting to grandfather -- will you promise ? '' 
`` Yes , Massa , I promise ; I 'll go to sleep , '' said the boy , grinning , and then setting his lips closely together , and eyeing joyfully the sparkling coin . 
`` This is truly a windfall , '' exclaimed Henrich , -- `` whose is this , Harry ? 
answered Harry , triumphantly ; `` I buy him of Winny last spring to go fishin ' on de Sound , and cotch him half full de fust time : and dat 's my gun , too , '' he added ; `` do n't Massa Henrich remember how I shoot de turkey 's tail off with him last Christmas , at de shootin ' match ; and ole Gummel would n't let me hab him , ` kaze I did n't draw blood -- blast his old pictur ! '' 
`` All our fortunate stars seem to be in conjunction to-day , '' said Henrich ; `` I knew , indeed , that Harry never stirs abroad without his rifle -- but the canoe is an unexpected treasure . '' 
asked Henrich , angrily : `` do you hear what Miss Montaigne says to you ? '' 
Ruppy bowed his head to his knees , but still kept his lips tightly together ; and then , by way of explaining his conduct , stopped rowing , took the silver coins from his pocket , and held them up to view . 
answered Henrich , laughing , and the travellers proceeded rapidly on their way . 
Itwas with an air of confidence , which at times , before , had seemed partly to desert him , that the Lynx had taken his seat in the slender and graceful canoe , which springing forward in its path , with an equable and noiseless motion , promised a very different rate of progress from that to which the voyagers had hitherto been confined . 
`` No , no , massa Henrich , I do n't mean nuffin like dat , '' said Harry , helping to secure the canoe , `` I mean worms ! '' 
exclaimed Henrich , `` you do n't think we can eat worms ? 
I have heard , indeed , of your Hottenpots , as you call them , or some other African tribe , doing such things , but -- '' `` Look a-here , massa Henrich , '' answered the negro , springing into the boat , and pulling out a small locker or drawer from one end of the vessel -- `` do you see dem ? '' 
Henrich 's eyes followed the other , and fell upon a confused lot of fishing tackle , lines , leads , hooks and buoys , which seemed to have been thrown , promiscuously , into the drawer ; the great value of which in their present emergency , became strikingly apparent . 
`` Harry Bolt , you are a jewel , '' he exclaimed , `` a crown-jewel ! 
`` Solely , I believe , because the exciting events of the last few days have fully engrossed my attention , '' said Henrich ; `` you would have heard it from me , doubtless , very soon ; indeed , you will find me an adept at blowing my own trumpet , but it must be a very gingerly twang that I give it in this instance when it is considered that all which my utmost efforts failed to effect , was procured by a few frothy words from a vagrant Indian . '' 
When the travellers were again in readiness to start , the Huron made his appearance equipped with an ashen bow , tightly strung , and a small bundle of arrows , while Harry came to the boat chuckling over a pocket-full of squirming bait , which , with difficulty , he was induced to transfer to some fitter receptacle . 
No words can paint the exultation of the negro at this successful result of his labors , and detecting with a sportsman 's eye , Henrich 's eager interest in the scene , he at once offered him the line , which the other as readily accepted . 
`` But this is not a good bass-hook , Harry , '' he said , `` have you none better than this ? 
exclaimed Henrich , laughing , `` that is something new , Harry ; that must be a spear , I think ; but never mind , -- yes , ah , that 's the thing exactly , '' he added , selecting one from a paper which the negro held out , `` now we shall see whose hook is the best . '' 
So saying , Henrich proceeded to arrange the line with its new pendant , and baiting it also after some peculiar notions of his own , he tossed it upon the water , and for many minutes sat anxiously watching the result . 
The interest in the sport had become general , the Lynx alone who was at the oars , bending unremittingly to his task , seeming not to participate in it . 
Nearly half an hour had elapsed , when a nervous start of Henrich 's whole frame , and a slow steady overhand pull upon the line attracted every eye to the wake of the boat , in which , floundering upon the very surface of the water , and approaching , open-mouthed , towards the vessel , a fish of apparently eight or ten pounds ' weight was seen . 
At the next instant , it darted suddenly down , and Henrich , distrusting the strength of his line , suffered it to escape through his hands , for several seconds , and not until the frightened fish had partly exhausted its strength , did the angler again draw it to the surface . 
A breathless silence prevailed in the boat ; the Lynx had dropped his oars , the negro , with bulging eyes , was leaning over the side of the canoe , while Henrich , with every faculty alive to his sport , seemed unconscious of anything besides . 
oh , de debbil take de crooked hooks ; I tell a-you so , massa Henrich ! '' 
exclaimed Henrich , angrily , and rising to his feet , with his eyes still intently fixed on the line , which he had again paid out , as the fish descended , `` he 's not off , but I see no way of getting him into the boat ; he weighs fifteen pounds if he weighs an ounce . '' 
As Henrich stopped speaking , the bass came again almost to the top of the water , and remained nearly stationary , his captor keeping a tight line upon it , and both parties seeming undecided as to future movements . 
Every eye was strained to discover the object of alarm , but without effect , and Henrich , watching the earnest countenance of the Lynx , as the latter continued to gaze fixedly at the distant vessel , awaited his further communications without question . 
While this probability was discussed by Henrich and the ladies , the Indian gave confirmation to it by pointing out another boat , with the same number of inmates , a little in advance of its consort , but somewhat nearer the western shore , from the shadows of which it was just emerging . 
`` We must be more certain , '' replied Henrich , `` before making so hazardous a movement ; a mistake here may be fatal ; but we shall have farther tidings soon from the Lynx : see how his eyes are fixed : you may be sure his oracular voice will be heard again ere long . '' 
A short time elapsed in silence , during which the sunlight from between some parting clouds fell upon the distant boats , and in the next minute the rudder under the Huron 's guidance turned suddenly outward , throwing the bow of his vessel around towards the west , while a smile of satisfaction played across his countenance . 
asked Henrich , anxiously , as this decided movement was made . 
An open chase would be probably useless , and the Lynx , explaining his intentions in a few words to Henrich , took a diagonal direction across the river , entirely to the western shore , hoping thus to allay suspicion , and give to his party the appearance of not being in pursuit . 
Having done this , he resumed his way within a few minutes , keeping close to the land , and being nearly certain that he was no longer observed by the count 's party . 
On the preceding day he had considerately prepared a pair of rude paddles for the canoe , to be used in addition to the oars when safety required extraordinary speed , and these were now brought into service , although for a very different purpose from that for which they had been designed . 
They were handled by Henrich and the negro , the Huron himself taking the oars , while Blanche , with a little occasional instruction , guided the helm . 
A moment of horrible suspense ensued , during which the Lynx and Harry dropped to the bottom of the boat ; and Henrich , conscious that there was no time to induce the ladies to follow their example , flung himself devotedly before Blanche , interposing his body as a shield for her protection . 
The report of the weapon had not ceased vibrating on the ear , when the Lynx again had possession of the oars , and by a few lightning-like strokes impelled the canoe to a place of safety near the shore ; having done which he sprang to the side of Henrich , about whom the other inmates of the vessel were already assembled . 
`` Speak to us , Mr. Huntington , for the love of Heaven , '' exclaimed Blanche , kneeling before him with a face like marble ; `` are you -- are you badly hurt ? '' 
`` See to yourselves , '' he whispered earnestly , -- `` they will fire again ! 
As he spoke , however , he fell into the arms of the Huron , who , continuing to uphold him , directed Harry to bring the boat to land . 
Less in compliance with this request , than for the purpose of overcoming a tendency to faintness which she now became aware of , Blanche stepped to the water 's edge , followed by Emily , while the Lynx proceeded gently to divest Henrich of his coat and waistcoat . 
Having done this , he dexterously cut the sleeve from the patient 's shirt , and laid bare the wound , which proved to be in the upper part of the arm , near the shoulder ; and , although bleeding profusely , the Indian at once pronounced it to be in no wise dangerous either to life or limb . 
Having carefully washed the wound , and taken means to avoid any unnecessary effusion of blood , the Lynx left Henrich in the charge of their companions , and proceeded to cull from his great medicine chest , the forest , some simple styptics with which to dress it . 
`` Are you sure , Harry , '' asked Henrich , `` that your fire can not be seen from the outside ? '' 
`` Oh , yes , massa Henrich , de bush is mighty tick all around -- more fear de Injuns smell 'em , golly ! '' 
he said , taking another relishing sniff . 
Wearied and hungry , the travellers , indeed , were not backward in doing justice to their forest cheer , and Harry Bolt , although pertinaciously diligent in serving until Henrich and the ladies had supped , acquitted himself afterwards at his meal as if he thought the absence of the Lynx imposed upon him a double duty . 
The sun , indeed , was not risen when Henrich , who was the sentinel of his party , perceived the returning canoes with emotions which he did not care to analyze , but in which joy did not certainly preponderate . 
He immediately communicated the intelligence to the ladies , in whose extreme delight he found additional cause for discontent ; and when next he proceeded to the beach , to receive the approaching party , it was only with a strong effort that he overcame his feelings sufficiently to admit of his usual frank and open deportment . 
The count was a man of about twenty-eight years , less in stature than Henrich , but in figure equally faultless . 
His countenance , dark , but not unhandsome , was marred by a sinister expression , which , to a ready reader of the human visage , was as legible as print , but which , softened by an attractive smile , was easily overlooked . 
His eyes were perfectly black and very small , possessing , of themselves , no other expression than that of acuteness and cunning , while his forehead , large enough for beauty , yet not for intellect , was shaded by clustering hair of the same raven hue . 
There was an abiding air of conceit , not only in his face , but in every movement of his person ; and this it was , perhaps , more than anything else , that constituted the repulsive part of his appearance , and negatived , in a great degree , all his personal advantages . 
Henrich 's countenance approached to some of the nobler models of Grecian manly beauty ; and if it had a fault , it was the almost feminine whiteness and texture of his skin . 
His expression was placid and gentle , but there was a latent fire in his large blue eyes , which kindled his countenance , at times , with a strange animation , and gave token of unrevealed energies of character . 
The eyes of the young men were riveted upon each other as the boat drew near to land ; surprise being plainly depicted upon Carlton 's countenance , accompanied by a supercilious and authoritative air , while on Henrich 's a slight disturbance of his natural expression scarcely hinted at the anxious feelings which had taken possession of his breast . 
The count had not yet landed when he addressed Huntington in a sharp , quick voice , with the inquiry whether he spoke the French language , to which the latter , greatly to the astonishment of the other , replied in the affirmative , giving at the same time the best proof of his assertion , by the fluency and well-modulated accent of his words . 
He next demanded , whether the ladies who were in his charge were safe , and where they were to be found ; and without further heed of Henrich , after receiving his reply , stepped upon the shore and passed to their presence . 
He replied , however , with perfect complaisance ; and on being more directly introduced to Henrich by Miss Montaigne , extended his hand to that young man with a condescending air , which seemed to imply a sense of having fully remunerated , by such an act of grace , all the services of the other . 
She could neither ask to continue in Henrich 's canoe , nor request his presence in the count 's ; but it was enough for her generous friend that her eye met his with an apologetic glance as she stepped into the barge , and that , unless indeed an eager fancy had misled him , a slight suffusion of color tinged , at the same moment , her beautiful cheeks . 
There was food for hope , in these gentle tokens so unwittingly bestowed , and Henrich took fresh courage under circumstances which seemed far from favorable . 
`` She is at least grateful and noble-hearted , '' he thought , as he turned to his deserted boat , `` she can not but know my aspirations , and she does not utterly discourage them ! 
Two of the soldiers propelled the barge , making its occupants , five in number ; a third was with the Indians in the Lynx 's boat , and the fourth , at the Huron 's request , too openly made to admit of its being refused , was permitted to assist in conducting Henrich 's canoe . 
Admitted once more to the society of his friends , after his seemingly long exile , Henrich recovered his natural buoyant spirits which imparted themselves by contagion to Blanche and Emily , who passed from the ceremonious politeness which had marked their deportment to the count , to the opposite extreme of unreserve and hilarity . 
It was with surprise , though without suspicion , when the time for re-embarking arrived , that Henrich beheld some singular changes in the order of departure . 
He did not stand long , but having watched the foremost vessel for some minutes , turned and walked rapidly towards Henrich , whom he addressed with elaborate politeness . 
Henrich listened to these words with the utmost astonishment , but he remembered some ominous looks of his companion , which he had encountered during the afternoon , and suspected , without seeming to do so , the deeper meaning involved . 
`` Count Carlton will excuse me , '' he said ; `` I have no design of withdrawing from Miss Montaigne 's escort , or of ceasing to be one of her defenders until she reaches Castle Montaigne ; it was with this intention that I left home . '' 
`` You shall not have that responsibility , Sir Count , '' answered Henrich promptly ; `` I shall venture upon the French domains at my own risk , and shall not trespass , I assure you , uninvited , on Baron Montaigne 's hospitality . '' 
`` I shall not cease to accompanyit , sir , '' said Henrich , haughtily , `` while Miss Montaigne forms one of its members , unless at her bidding ; I do not resign my charge so lightly . '' 
The Frenchman 's voice trembled with suppressed passion , when he again spoke , but the remembrance that he was in the midst of a hostile country , and that he was acting in direct contravention of Miss Montaigne 's wishes , tempered his language . 
`` I am sorry to say , '' he responded , `` that you will even cease to accompany it . 
`` Count Carlton , '' answered Henrich , `` if these objections have really any weight , they can be obviated : I will dismiss my man and boat opposite the fort , and will proceed in the Lynx 's canoe ; otherwise -- the river is a broad one , and I know of no one who has the right to forbid my navigating it . 
`` It may , indeed , '' said Henrich , dauntlessly , and with irrepressible wrath ; `` we are but two to seven , and you may possibly succeed in adding our murder to your already brilliant achievements ; but we aretwo to seven , and , believe me , we will not fall alone . '' 
Goaded to madness by treatment at once so unjust and despicable , Henrich 's whole soul breathed a spirit of the most perfect defiance ; he stood in the faint moonlight , proudly erect , with eyes that flashed like meteors , unable for the moment to restrain the ebullitions of his rage . 
Yet the folly of his threatened defence became apparent to him , even as he ceased speaking ; for the safety of Blanche was the paramount object of his consideration , and he could , of course , engage in no actual contest with her defenders . 
The threat , however , was not without its effect ; the count , unused to such an exhibition of feeling , stood for a moment awed by the furious spirit which he had evoked ; he looked hastily over his shoulder to make sure that his men were within call , and then turned to reply ; the subdued tone of his voice and the mildness of his language giving no token of the malevolence which now boiled within his breast . 
`` You are hasty , Mr. Huntington , '' he said , -- `` unnecessarily so , I think : if you desire a seat in the Lynx 's boat , you are entirely welcome to it ; but let us waste no more time , the barge is already well advanced , and we must hasten to overtake her . '' 
`` You grant all that I require , '' returned Henrich , now also speaking mildly , and fearing that he had exhibited an unwarranted passion ; while he hesitated , ingenuously considering whether any retraction or explanation was proper in return for the concession of the count , the latter again reminded him of the necessity of haste . 
He accordingly explained the new state of affairs to Harry , whom he furnished with money and instructed to proceed at once to Albany , and remain there until some descending sloop should afford him the means of returning in safety to New York . 
Suspicious of no artifice , Henrich had placed himself unreservedly in the power of an enemy , to whose frigid heart relentings were as unwont as thaws amidst polar ice . 
Making no attempt to overtake the barge , which maintained its advanced position of about half a mile , the count proceeded slowly and cautiously on his way , following the Lynx 's route , and hugging the eastern shore as he approached the English settlement . 
He spoke but seldom , and not at all to Huntington , who attributed his reserve less to uncooled wrath than to the desire of maintaining the silence necessary to their situation . 
Yet it was thought strange , when at sunrise he ordered the Algonquin to steer for the land , that no word or signal was passed to the barge , nay , that the distance between the vessels had been allowed materially to widen , and that a time was chosen for stopping when the other boat was entirely out of view . 
It was strange in seeming ; but when Henrich caught the eye of Carlton as they drew near the shore he read a picture of malignant triumph in its flash , which revealed at once the whole fearful secret . 
`` It is impossible , '' exclaimed Henrich , in accents husky with horror and wrath , `` that you can contemplate such an atrocity . 
`` Count Carlton , '' exclaimed Henrich , still unwilling to abandon a hope that some returning sense of justice would actuate the latter , `` I may not descend to entreaty , but let me appeal once more to your sense of honor . 
Further expostulation was evidently useless , and Henrich passed to the bow of the boat for the purpose of landing . 
In doing so , he came close to the count , who was also standing , and paused for a moment , confronting him , while a sudden pallor marked the countenance of the latter . 
Saying so , he stepped to the shore . 
answered Henrich , wrought to that desperation which sees no terror in death , and drawing at the same time a pistol from his belt ; he stood scarce six feet from his adversary , as he spoke , and the latter , utterly cowed by the words and manner of Huntington , forbore reply until the moving boat had placed a distance of several additional yards between them . 
`` You hold your life lightly , young man , '' he said , at length , while the canoe continued to recede ; `` it is well for you that others have more regard for it . '' 
They looked occasionally down the river for Henrich 's canoe , but supposing it to be at hand , made no direct inquiry , until , their morning meal being in readiness , they were invited , as usual , by the count , to partake of it . 
She had never analyzed her sentiments towards Henrich , and knew little in reality , even at this moment , of their true character ; but whatever they might be , she was both mortified and grieved at his conduct , which remained inexplicable , save by the merest conjecture . 
While they had remained encamped , Carlton had been haunted by some vague fears that Henrich might follow and overtake them still , if it were only to make known his wrongs to those of the party who had so much reason to be his friends . 
How such a useless feat could be accomplished , even if Huntington had had the hardihood to undertake it , he did not pause to reflect ; for he had warily landed upon the opposite shore from that on which he had deserted Henrich , and in a place admitting of close seclusion from any distant view ; but it was only now , when his barge was again gliding rapidly forward , that he became altogether free from apprehension . 
His next stage was nearly as long as the one preceding , and was made with equal rapidity ; for he was resolved to incur no further danger of re-union with his rival . 
Eight hours he proceeded with a happy consciousness that not even an Indian pedestrian could have made equal progress among the impediments of a pathless wilderness , much less a man unused to forest life . 
It would be idle to seek to depict the emotions of the deserted Henrich , as from the bank of the Hudson , and on the edge of a limitless forest , he watched the rapidly receding boat of the perfidious count . 
When he recovered his equanimity , he remembered , as we suddenly recall by day some forgotten passage of a dream , the few words which had been addressed to him in the boat by the Algonquin Indian : `` Follow until we stop , and answer when you hear the corn-bird 's call . '' 
Disheartened by the seeming inutility of his efforts , which he still resolved not to intermit , Henrich had paused for a moment 's repose when he heard with much alarm , the distinct sound of approaching oars . 
As he retreated hastily into the forest to avoid this new danger , his chafed spirit grew desperate under the thronging disasters which beset him ; for he seemed to be ascending the very stairway of grief , where each successive trouble proved but the stepping stone to another , higher and more insurmountable . 
But words can not portray his utter astonishment and delight , when , on attaining a safe post of observation , he discovered , approaching from the south , Harry 's canoe , with its sable owner , apparently well nigh exhausted , yet tugging lustily at the oars , and diligently scanning the western shore , as if in search of some lost object . 
Bounding to the beach , Henrich shouted and beckoned to the negro , who , seemingly no less surprised and pleased than himself , came hastily to the land . 
`` Why , Harry , '' exclaimed Huntington , still scarcely crediting his eyes , `` what , in the name of the seven wonders , has brought you here ? '' 
`` Golly , Massa ! '' 
Henrich jumped into the canoe , and taking the oars , bade the wearied negro compose himself to rest as best he could , an injunction which the latter complied with by curling himself up in the aft part of the boat , with his head resting upon the gunwale , where he was soon giving audible evidence of the soundness of his slumbers . 
Henrich gazed in every direction to discover the tantalizing bird which was mocking his misery , and saw , perched on a leafless tree , on the opposite shore , what for a moment seemed the object of his search , but while he looked , the fowl spread its wide wings , and dropping lazily upon the buoyant air , sailed majestically off , revealing the proportions and movements of the grey forest eagle . 
At the same moment , nearer , clearer , and more distinctly than before , came the welcome sound , and no longer doubting that his friends were at hand , he responded imperfectly to the signal , and approaching the quarter whence it seemed to proceed , had the unspeakable pleasure , in a few minutes , of grasping the hand of his faithful friend the Lynx . 
The words of the Indian were few and hasty , and his air was more authoritative than that which had formerly marked him ; he wasted no time in condolence or denunciation , but briefly signifying that the Algonquin had informed him of everything which had taken place in the morning , inquired if Henrich still desired to go to Castle Montaigne . 
asked Henrich , following as he spoke ; `` I know the count will never willingly retract -- will you compel him to do so ? '' 
`` How is it then , '' asked Henrich , with indignation , `` that you , who are of right an independent prince , thus consent to be the slave of a foreign nobleman ? '' 
Henrich followed unquestioning , until his guide stopped in a small open space , sheltered on all sides from observation , and here to his increasing surprise , he found the Algonquin , evidently awaiting their approach . 
Beside the latter , on the ground lay a small bundle , compactly tied , the envelope of which , as well as the strings which held it together , was of deer-skin : this he now quickly unrolled , revealing a flash of gaudy colors to the eye , which , at a second glance , took shape as a broidered and beaded kirtle , leggins , moccasins , and belt , with other articles of Indian apparel ; shells containing several varieties of paint , were also among the contents of the pack , and as these were severally opened to view , Huntington no longer doubted the design of his companions . 
`` Most certainly , '' replied Henrich , with exultation , for he felt confident of the ability of his friends to effect an impenetrable disguise , and saw at once how inappreciable might be its value to him -- `` but whose are these garments ? 
The Lynx hastily explained that it was the apparel in which he himself had started from home , and that his present Mohawk dress , although prepared before setting out , had only been assumed on approaching the Iroquois territory . 
The hair was shortened and being matted closely to the head , received its share of dark paint , and when all was done , the savages , satisfied with their work , pronounced the transformation complete , and assured Henrich that the most skilful eye even among their own people could not detect the deception . 
Overlooking nothing , they next repainted the stock of his gun , and bestowed upon it a liberal supply of dents and bruises to prevent any danger of detection from that source , while his discarded garments the Lynx carefully enveloped in the deer skin covering , and took charge of for their owner 's future use . 
`` I fear nothing , '' replied Henrich . 
The Indian turned , and pointing to the northwest , with a waving , sinuous motion of his hand , said : `` The river winds and twists like a serpent -- it is a long way before we turn towards the lake , and we shall not see it until to-morrow 's sun is in the west ; when we come , we shall pass near the eastern shore : my brother must be somewhere on the hills : we shall see him -- I have said . '' 
The route of the voyagers led up the river about twenty miles to a creek which , linking several Liliputian lakes in its course , extends eastward a dozen miles or more to the Horicon , while Henrich 's pedestrain route , striking the lake at a considerable distance from its source , was less than a third of the space to be traversed by the boats . 
Having received his instructions and promised a careful compliance with them , Henrich parted from his companion and slowly retraced his steps towards the spot where he had left the negro and the canoe , deeply engrossed in the reflections to which his singular situation was calculated to give rise . 
He had killed a bird at thrice the distance , and a bounding deer still more remote , but Henrich , by one of those minute events , the consequences of which , so vastly disproportionate to their seeming cause , indicate the unseen agency of Providence , became aware at this instant of his danger . 
A misstep caused him to stumble , and on recovering himself and looking up , his eye fell upon Harry and his presented weapon , just in time to allow of his springing , Indian-like , behind a tree for safety . 
He at once understood the negro 's very natural mistake , and shouted to him from his shelter , without daring to look forth : `` Harry ! 
now you jes show your red pate round dat tree -- dat 's all -- else you stay dare till Mass Henrich come back and den we hab you on bofe sides . '' 
`` He 's here , I tell you again -- I am Henrich myself ! '' 
replied the other , indignantly -- `` I know your tricks : Mass Henrich is a white gempleman , and you are a red and black sabbage ! '' 
Henrich placed his weapon on the ground and the negro did the same , and both advanced a step . 
`` Sartain , put em down -- oh you dybollical debbil -- you bin kill-a Mass Henrich , and stole his pistol : I 'll tear you into a tousen pieces . '' 
said Henrich , laughing -- `` which do you think is the best to catch a bass with , a straight hook or a crooked one ? '' 
This fortunate reference to the sport of a preceding day at once fully dispelled the negro 's illusion : he darted quickly to his friend 's side , exclaiming : `` Oh Massa Henrich , I know you now , and dat your voice , too , for sartain -- oh Mass Henrich ! 
oh gosh!Mass Henrich , ` spose I habshoot you ! '' 
It was several minutes before the faithful fellow could recover his equanimity , and when his trepidation had subsided , his mind passed to the opposite mood of merriment at Henrich 's strange appearance . 
What a genus he be ! '' 
he said , feeling of kirtle , belt , and moccasins in turn , and chuckling with hysterical laughter -- `` and he smash-a your splennid gun , too , what send a ball most to Skamkatky -- but nebber mind ; it wont hurt it -- oh dat Lynch -- oh dat Lynch ! '' 
But Huntington had no time to lose , and it was with much regret that he now prepared again to part with his faithful servitor , who begged earnestly to be allowed to accompany him , or at least to follow the route of the boats in his canoe . 
Blanche did not seek to trace her feelings to their source ; and if ever for a moment she had regarded Henrich as a suitor , the thought had been repressed by the conviction that there was an unbridged gulf betwixt them , across which Hope might gaze , but could not pass . 
So entirely void of suspicion was she as to the individuality of the Beaver , as an Indian hunter , that she could quite as easily have suspected the Lynx as him , to be the disguised Henrich . 
she said , at length , faintly , and with ashen face , resting one trembling hand upon a tree for support , and frankly extending the other to her friend : `` Is it you , Henrich ? 
`` We have viewed the worst side of the picture , '' continued Henrich . 
replied Henrich , soothingly . 
Henrich at once proceeded to counsel with the Lynx , while Blanche , being so permitted , went to inform her cousin of the presence of Huntington , in the disguise of the Beaver ; tidings which aroused Emily from her stupor of fear and grief , and infused a new though indefinite hope into her spirit . 
Such was the substance of the Lynx 's emphatic reply , and so wrapt was he in the thoughts he had uttered that it was some moments before Henrich could again attract his attention to his own remarks . 
When he had succeeded in doing so , he repelled , with indignation , any design on the part of himself or the ladies , to seek exclusively their own safety , assured the Indian that if any treaty was effected , it should be one which included the whole party in its provisions , and reminding him that it was the part of a great warrior never to remit his efforts for life , begged him to reflect whether he could devise any means to open a negotiation with the enemy . 
The Huron , incapable of opposing his friend , however hopeless of the result , undertook to find some mode of locomotion for a talking paper , if Henrich would prepare one , and they set simultaneously about their tasks , thus combining the ingenuity of civilized and savage life , where either alone would have been insufficient to effect their purpose . 
The pocket-book of Huntington furnished from its miscellaneous contents a scrap of paper , on which he wrote , in pencil , the following words : `` We are travellers ; three of us are English citizens -- the remainder are French and their allies . 
The Lynx , meanwhile , procured a piece of bark about eighteen inches in length , and six or eight inches wide , which he speedily fashioned , with his hunting knife , into the shape of a boat ; a miniature mast arose from its centre , slitted to receive the trimmed leaves which formed its lower sails , while the letter itself , fastened securely above them , constituted a top-gallant-royal to the little vessel . 
Can you forgive me , Emily -- Henrich ? '' 
Henrich ran to meet him , and trembled with the intensity of his emotions as he discovered a slip of paper secured in the feathery haft ; eagerly seizing the desired , yet dreaded document , he read the following words , which were written in French : `` I can not read your message ; you must surrender , or I can not answer for your lives ; we are thirty-five strong , French and Hurons . '' 
But Henrich , at length , prepared another note in the French language , as follows : `` If you are a French party , we are your friends ; this is Count Carlton 's command , and is the escort of Miss Montaigne . 
Underneath these lines , the Lynx drew a rough sketch of his namesake of the forest , as also of a hand , extended in amity , and the paper was at once transmitted by the same mode of conveyance by which the other had arrived , for although the arrow must fall far short of the opposing shore , attention would now be fixed upon it and it could readily be procured by the other party . 
exclaimed Blanche , who with Henrich and the count , stood watching the scene from the beach . 
shouted Carlton , gesticulating to the disguised Henrich -- `` fire -- I command you ; Miss Montaigne will have the goodness not to interfere : Fire ! '' 
he repeated , himself raising the Beaver 's gun , and pointing with his finger to the swimmer . 
Henrich , who could no longer affect to misunderstand his orders , glanced expressively at Blanche , and levelled his gun towards the Iroquois , making the prisoners tremble for their now seemingly doomed comrade , for too well they knew the fatal marksman and his weapon , and they could not repress an exclamation of relief and exultation as the dreaded ball was seen to strike the water about three feet distant from their friend . 
The disguised Henrich accompanied the Lynx to his quarters , being warned by his friend that it might be unsafe to expose himself at once to the wrath of the count , and the easily excited suspicions of Montaigne , during the plentitude of the former 's power and influence . 
Henrich readily anticipated the character of the charges which would be likely to be adduced against him by a man to whom he had thrown defiance but a few days previous , and how apt a listener Montaigne would prove to any accusation involving the crimes of insubordination or mutiny against his own delegated authority . 
Had the latter at once declared the whole story of Henrich 's heroism , and his wrongs , and promptly and unitedly denounced the count 's injustice and cowardice , there would have been some reason to hope that the baron might prove a just and impartial listener ; but delay and indecision weakened their cause , and proportionably strengthened that of their common adversary . 
If other excuse is wanting for Blanche 's remissness , it will be found in the sense of maidenly delicacy which forbade her manifesting too deep an interest in Henrich , and in the exciting emotions incident to an arrival at her new home , and a first interview with those near yet dreaded relatives who had so long occupied a prominent position in her thoughts . 
She feared that her father , of whose discernment she had the most exalted idea , had already penetrated Henrich 's disguise , and even his sentiments towards herself ; and that this discovery had been followed by the summary banishment of her friend from the country . 
Herself laboring under his disfavor , she felt painfully conscious that any representations which she could make in Henrich 's behalf would be comparatively ineffectual , and that even their Indian friends in lauding their young ally must proclaim their own insubordination , which alone had placed him in a condition to aid them , and thus materially lessen their influence with Montaigne . 
Encouraged by the manner in which Montaigne had spoken of the disguised Henrich , the Indian had concluded that it was a favorable moment to produce his friend , and to make the long deferred explanation . 
Sagacious as was the Lynx on other points , he was quite at fault in all the signs which mark affection between young hearts ; the trail of Cupid was invisible to his eyes ; and he had failed to discover the daring love of Henrich for the beautiful companion of his travels . 
If it had been otherwise , and above all , if he had suspected the baron 's knowledge of such an attachment , his reason , soberer than the lover 's , would have anticipated no friendly reception of Huntington by Montaigne , and he would have been spared the bitter disappointment to which he was destined . 
Bitter , indeed , it was , both for him and the ingenuous youth . 
Not that Henrich had been unwise enough to anticipate a very cordial welcome , or insane enough to hope to supplant his titled rival in the regard of the baron ; but he had expected common justice and gratitude , and hospitality , and for everything beyond , he was willing to wait the revealings of time and truth . 
Henrich was , in short , barely forgiven as an offender , was insulted by the offer of a pecuniary reward for his services , and , if not denied the hospitalities of the castle , they were tendered in a way which rendered their rejection necessary to his self-respect . 
She learned , however , through Myrtle 's agency , that Henrich had taken up his abode with the Lynx , and rejoicing in the security which the attachment of the faithful chief afforded him , she still indulged the hope that some returning sense of justice would yet actuate her father 's conduct towards him . 
She did not , indeed , anticipate a change which could ever favor Henrich 's claims as her suitor , but at the same time she remained comparatively free from any serious apprehensions of a compulsory union to another . 
The Indian , it will be remembered , had overheard the promise made by the baron to Carlton , that within a week Blanche should become his bride , but the subject , exciting little interest at the time , had been subsequently expelled from his mind by the engrossing emotions incident to Henrich 's reception . 
It recurred to him , however , at length , on the very last of the limited days , and he was little prepared for the agitation which the casual announcement of the tidings to his guest occasioned . 
Incredulous of danger at first , doubt and alarm rapidly succeeded in Huntington 's mind ; he believed it indeed impossible that Blanche 's consent could fairly have been obtained to so speedy a marriage , but he knew not to what influences she might have been subjected , while his knowledge of the baron 's character taught him to dread the worst . 
Filled with fear and anxiety , and feeling his utter impotence to stay the impending blow , -LRB- alas ! 
he walked at dusk , towards the castle , hoping to glean some information , which might relieve his mind from its torturing apprehensions . 
He thought it a favorable sign , as he drew near the building , that it was not unusually lighted , and that there was not the least of that bustling commotion , which , to some extent , usually marks so momentous an event even when it is comparatively private . 
He had gazed long and closely , and was about turning away , when his eye fell upon a solitary light gleaming through a window of the chapel , an edifice of considerable size , which stood without the walls , about sixty yards north of the castle , and like it , fronting towards the river . 
With the sight , the remembrance flashed upon his mind , that the baron belonged to a church , which regarded the marriage ceremony as a sacrament , to the validity of which , as consecrated hands were essential , a consecrated altar was scarcely less so . 
Was it not possible then , that at that very moment the mystic words were spoken , almost within his hearing , which would prove the knell of hope and joy to his heart ? 
Resolved to know the worst , to behold , if he could , the dreaded rite , and to learn at least if there were not some tokens of sadness and reluctance on the part of Blanche , which might take from his anguish a portion of its intensity , he turned quickly and with resolute air towards the church . 
He approached the principal entrance , and finding it closed , passed around the building , to a small postern door through which the priests were accustomed to enter . 
This also was fastened , but scarcely had he relinquished the unyielding latch , when he heard the sound of coming footsteps , and at the next breath , he discovered , through the dim light , the bulky figure of Father Parez , clad in sacerdotal robes , approaching with a slow and heavy tread . 
Henrich stepped aside to make way for the priest , who , either unobservant of his presence , or mistaking him for some official of the chapel , passed him without remark , and applying a key to the door , opened it , and went in . 
Huntington followed , with no attempt at secresy , yet unseen ; with no suppressed tread , yet unheard ; he entered the main body of the church , and remained standing near the centre of the principal aisle . 
The stolidity of this conduct did not fail to excite Henrich 's suspicions . 
Why , with quick thought , he asked himself , has this palsied man been selected to perform a rite like this ? 
exclaimed Henrich , wrought to desperation by the fear that the fatal tie would be completed beyond relief -- `` SHALL NOT ! '' 
he said , springing , almost at a bound , to her side , and startling the group as if a thunderbolt had fallen in their midst -- while still the nasal song of the priest went on , undisturbed even by the commotion around him . 
Carlton had sprung backward and stood transfixed with terror , gazing at the intruder ; Blanche , released from her father 's grasp , was clinging to the rail of the chancel , while the baron himself had receded a step , and stood looking with such amazement on Henrich , as that with which one might view a spirit evoked from the grave . 
exclaimed Montaigne , nearly voiceless with rage , and stepping towards Henrich as he spoke : `` is it thou , most insolent , and audacious ? '' 
replied Henrich -- `` a madman , if you will , yet driven to madness : listen , lord baron , one moment to me -- for her sake -- for yours -- not for mine -- '' `` In the dungeon I will listen to thee ! '' 
Henrich seized the arm of the wavering girl as he spoke , and , while bewildered and undecided she yet stepped slowly forward , the count , with sudden suspicion of the movement , shouted , `` Stop ! 
This movement decided Blanche , and turned into a flight , what otherwise , perhaps , would not have become so ; clinging to Henrich 's arm , she darted with him through the doorway by which they had entered the chapel , and as they passed it , Carlton , more courageous than usual , was close behind them ; but Henrich , withdrawing Blanche 's arm for a moment from his own , turned quickly around , and thrusting his pursuer suddenly back into the building , closed the door , and locked it by means of the key which had remained in the outer side . 
It was in the midst of this tumult that Blanche at length awoke to a sense of her situation , and listened to the earnest importunities of Henrich to rally her strength and courage . 
he said , pointing in a direction north of where the soldiers had gone -- `` if I can procure a boat , we may yet be safe . '' 
`` Oh , no , no , Henrich ! 
replied Henrich , speaking with great rapidity : `` he will not relent , nor will he release you from this hated marriage ; I have learned the whole story -- it is the darling project of his heart ; it is connected with his political fortunes , and for this alone is it that you have been brought from your home in England . 
She turned as she spoke , and darted close along the northern wall of the chapel , followed by Blanche and Henrich , and turning another angle , the party gained the front of the building , still keeping within its deep shadows . 
With quick step she started forward , again followed by Henrich and Blanche ; but scarcely were they in motion , when two soldiers , hastening directly towards them , struck new terror into their hearts . 
A shout and rush were heard behind them -- an order to stand ; and Carlton again made his appearance in the rear of three soldiers , who rushed breathlessly upon Henrich , and bore him to the ground . 
Central amidst this group , when at length permitted to rise , stood Henrich -- a prisoner , pinioned , hooted , derided , and mute ; the agitation of hope and suspense was past -- his was the silent serenity of despair . 
Ina dungeon rayless as his heart , Henrich passed the ensuing night -- a night , which to more than one of the inmates of Castle Montaigne was replete with prolonged misery ; a night dilated by terror , until its moments became minutes , its minutes hours , and its every hour a long age of anguish and suspense . 
Blanche , in the meantime , with the aid of both Myrtle and Emily , had exhausted every effort to learn the situation of Henrich , and the nature of the punishment which was designed for him . 
They knew only that he was in the dungeon , and that the passage which led to it was guarded by sentinels who permitted no approach to the prisoner . 
Conjecture had been rife among his retainers and dependants , ever since the moment of Henrich 's capture , as to the punishment to be inflicted upon him , and the first note of preparation for the sad tragedy was heralded by the busy tongue of rumor in every direction . 
`` The Lynx will die for Henrich ! '' 
The Huron meanwhile addressed Henrich , whose bandaged eyes had , up to this moment , taken no cognisance of the strange interruption to the melancholy drama . 
`` I have come to die for you , my brother , '' he said , quickly removing the handkerchief from the prisoner 's face ; `` the King of the Hurons will hear my words , for the Lynx is a chief , and hundreds of warriors shout his battle-cry ; rise , my brother , and when you return to Manahatta , tell the Wappeno dogs that the Lynx was not afraid to die . '' 
But ere he had finished speaking , other actors were added to the scene ; Emily and Myrtle had arrived , followed at a short interval by the baron , the count , and the Algonquin Indian . 
She had no design of retracting the dreadful pledge which she had given , or of shrinking from a fulfilment of her contract ; she had purchased Henrich 's life ; and , fearful as the price must prove , she resolved to pay it without a murmur ; the solace of her act would at least remain to her while life endured , which returning hope suggested could not be long . 
I wonder , by the way , if they have any decent stuff in Quebec for dresses : nothing fit for a bride , I 'll be bound ; and as to Henrich , you need not grieve on his account ; he 'll be safely home in a week , and will think no more about it ; I should not wonder , indeed , if he were married in three months to somebody else . '' 
If she found voice , at times , it was only to inquire , with a repetition that evinced a wandering mind , the particulars of Henrich 's departure . 
`` Did not some one tell me that he went away with the good Lynx , '' she asked , `` and that the Indian promised to send some one with him on his journey ? '' 
`` Yes , Blanche , they went out of the castle yard together , and the Huron told Myrtle this evening , that he had sent four strong men with Henrich , who were to accompany him as far as the Horicon lake ; they started an hour before sun-down , and are now , of course , far on their way . '' 
`` If you should ever see him again , Emily , '' she said solemnly , fixing her lustreless eyes upon Miss Roselle -- `` if ever -- when I am gone -- tell him -- what I have never told him -- tell him -- for it will be no sin then -- that my whole heart was his -- that I died thinking of him , -- praying for him ! '' 
He found the Algonquin , like the Huron , acquiescent with the Baron 's wishes , for although neither entered with alacrity into the proposed arrangements , they were convinced that they could do nothing further for Henrich , and were not unwilling either to display themselves in their gala dresses , or to participate in the expected feastings . 
how sad the contrast between his bliss and the anguish with which the hapless Henrich had gone forth on his lonely way ! 
What a night of wretchedness was that , in which , re-traversing his recent route , he glided , in his little bark , over the now resisting current of the Sorelle , and re-entered the broad waters of the Champlain ! 
What a weary day of hopeless , joyless , leaden-winged hours again succeeded , in which , with vain regret , his eyes measured the still widening distance which separated him from his lost friend , or dwelt idly upon the far northern sky , which bent tranquilly above her abode . 
At the close of the day succeeding that on which he left Castle Montaigne , he was aroused from a reverie into which he had fallen by feeling a sudden grasp upon his arm , and as he looked up to the Indian who had thus familiarly touched him , he became conscious that he had already been earnestly addressed several times , by name , and doubted not that there was some unusual cause for accosting him . 
Henrich 's canoe had been discovered , and a dozen men were rushing towards it on the shore , while others were leaping into boats for the purpose of pursuit ; flight would have been so utterly useless that the Indians did not once attempt it , and in another moment Henrich became happily conscious that for him , at least , it was not desirable , for the force which they had encountered , whatever its design or destination , was evidently English . 
He instructed the men to row immediately to the shore in the direction of the soldiers who were approaching , himself standing up , meanwhile , in the boat , and signifying to the strangers , by amicable signs , his design of submission . 
Having landed , he requested to be taken to the commanding officer , who , seated in his tent , received him with much apparent curiosity and interest ; he was a middle-aged man , seemingly of a quick mercurial temperament , and giving evidence by his equipment of no small rank . 
He at once addressed Huntington in French , demanding his name and residence , and seemed astonished when the latter replied politely to him in his own language , giving the desired information . 
There was an air of incredulity , however , in his manner , as he rejoined : `` What do you here , Mr. Huntington , in this wilderness , near an enemy 's border , and accompanied by hostile Indians ? 
`` They are such , '' replied Henrich , `` and I have come , as you perhaps surmise , from the enemy 's territory ; under these circumstances , I know that you will consider it your duty to detain me , and I therefore will not occupy your time by explanations that I have no means of verifying ; more especially as my detention will contribute to my security , and will afford me the means of safely regaining my home . '' 
`` May I inquire , '' asked Henrich , with great interest , `` which way your expedition points ? '' 
Henrich retired from this interview with emotions the most thrilling and exciting ; alarm for the safety of Blanche and his other friends at the castle , had been his first generous feeling , but this had been succeeded by dawning hopes , the brilliancy of which he scarcely dared to contemplate . 
enquired Henrich , `` they would be rare allies indeed . '' 
Massa Hen reek ! '' 
exclaimed a familiar voice at this moment in Huntington 's ear , while the rapid evolutions of a body turning a somerset at his side , attracted his attention . 
Massa Henrich , but I tickled to hare you say dat : ony let me stay by you , and I can do any ting -- but tell-a me , what you trampoose about so much alone for ? 
Asthe evening advanced , and Henrich was contemplating retirement for the rest which he so much needed , he was surprised and delighted to hear orders issued for re-embarking , and on seeking for the cause of so unexpected a movement , he encountered the polite Major Bain , who was personally superintending the preparations . 
`` We travel by night , you perceive , Mr. Huntington , '' he said ; `` our camp was pitched at dawn , and you must allow that our Indian guides have selected an unequalled hiding-place here for an army , where no intruder could discover us , without being first seen by our sentinels . '' 
`` I have neither seen nor heard of any sentinels , '' replied Henrich , `` and have been wondering at your remissness in that respect . '' 
If Henrich had exulted at the unexpected embarkation of the army , his fears all returned when he comprehended the commander 's design ; for on the ensuing day at noon , terminated the stipulated time , at the end of which Blanche had promised to become the bride of Carlton , and he well knew that the marriage would not be deferred materially beyond that time . 
That day , alas , Henrich had reason to apprehend , would be fatal to all his hopes , and the returning light which had illumined his heart , again gave way to the inroads of despair . 
It was with no little surprise that Major Bain and his fellow officers beheld the negro returning to the camp with a prisoner of so distinguished appearance , and Henrich 's astonishment and exultation can not easily be imagined . 
He had not felt himself called upon to interfere with the movements of Harry , who had regularly joined the army at Albany , of his own volition , after being discharged from Huntington 's service , and upon whom , indeed , he had not now the right to enjoin neutrality or inaction , if he had desired . 
To retrieve his own fortunes , to avenge himself fully on Henrich and the exulting negro , and to close the exciting drama of his adventures by his own final triumph , what was there that he would not do to accomplish ends like these ? 
Should an idle punctilio restrain him from reaping such a harvest of advantages ? 
He had passed his word of honor , indeed ; but was it not to a treacherous foe , who were themselves advancing stealthily upon their adversaries , with strategy and guile ? 
Had he not himself been artfully and surreptitiously captured , and in no fair and open combat ? 
Such were some of the arguments with which the count fortified his growing resolution ; for when did infamy or crime ever lack extenuation in the breast of its perpetrator ? 
The thought that Henrich had been thus culpable was agonizing beyond endurance , and a confirmation of her suspicions must not only place a barrier between them which no time could remove , but would crumble , at a blow , her bright ideal of human excellence and worth . 
But Henrich came , and all these apprehensions were dispelled ; he hastened , indeed , unaccused , to disclaim the very acts of which she had so much reason to suspect him , and to place his conduct in the irreproachable light , which truth admitted and required . 
He had neither by advice nor action contributed in the slightest degree to the surprise or capture of the castle ; he had entered within the walls with that portion of the enemy to whom the gates had been opened by the scaling party , and had remained a passive spectator of the scenes which ensued . 
Unspeakable was Miss Montaigne 's relief to learn these gratifying facts -- to learn that it was in reality as a prisoner of the invading army , and not as an enemy , or as a retributor of private wrongs , that Henrich had returned ; and she rejoiced that now , in the midst of the horrors which surrounded her , she might still look for advice , consolation , and support , to one who had so often before shown his willingness and ability to aid her . 
Yet she did not forget amidst this returning calm , that her plighted promise to wed the count was still binding upon her , if he yet lived , and should claim its fulfilment . 
Henrich was with these , once more at the side of Blanche as her friend and adviser , having obtained his full liberty by the courtesy of the English commander ; yet he was not without apprehension that the withdrawal of the army would be the signal for the return of his rival from some lurking-place in the wilderness . 
From such a scene of ruin and misery went Blanche and Henrich , with Emily , Myrtle , and the baroness ; their tears were many , and their hearts were sad , some with their own bitter grief , and some with sympathetic sorrow . 
They were speedily betrothed , and ere yet the autumn had fully passed , Henrich , unwilling that Blanche should spend the wintry season in a clime so ungenial , had obtained her consent to an immediate union , with a view to a journey to England and a sojourn until spring , amid its milder airs . 
Henrich , Blanche , and Emily sailed for Havre , and having reached that port in safety , they passed into the Netherlands , and thence crossed to England . 
The decease of her mother , three years later , left her still more desolate , and peace having then been established between France and England , she accepted an earnest invitation from Blanche and Henrich to remove to New York , and make their house her future home . 
Miss Roselle remained a welcome inmate of Henrich 's family , and , professedly from choice , a member of the single sisterhood ; having relinquished , with her matrimonial aspirations , her airs and affectation , it is not improbable indeed that she may have found admirers among the many visiters of her cousins , but none , it appeared , who possessed sufficient attractions to tempt her from what she called her chosen path of celibacy . 
The cessation of hostilities between the provinces enabled Henrich to visit Quebec , and render more fully available to Blanche and Myrtle their large property , of which the marquis was found to have proved a faithful steward . 
The happiness of Henrich and Blanche remained unimpaired by farther calamities ; if much suffering had been crowded into a short period of their lives , it was followed by a long exemption from trouble . 
