But there were other eyes than Gabriel Bennet 's that watched Hope Wayne , and for many months had watched her -- the flashing black eyes of Abel Newt . 
Handsome , strong , graceful , he was one of the oldest boys , and a leader at Mr. Gray 's school . 
Like every handsome , bold boy or young man , for he was fully eighteen , and seemed much older , Abel Newt had plenty of allies at school -- they could hardly be called friends . 
Then if it grew insupportable , and came to fighting , Abel Newt was strong in muscle and furious in wrath , and the recusant was generally pommeled . 
Reposing upon his easy , conscious superiority , Abel had long worshiped Hope Wayne . 
But as the regulations of the school confined every boy , without especial permission of absence , to the school grounds , and as Abel had no acquaintance with Mr. Burt and no excuse for calling , his worship had been silent and distant . 
When Gabriel Bennet came to Mr. Gray 's , Abel did not like him . 
He laughed at him . 
He made the other boys laugh at him whenever he could . 
He bullied him in the play-ground . 
He proposed to introduce fagging at Mr. Gray 's . 
`` What is it , '' Abel exclaimed one day to the large boys assembled in solemn conclave in the school-room , `` that takes all the boorishness and brutishness out of the English character ? 
perorated Abel , meaning that he should like to be the holy office , and to have Gabriel Bennet immediately delivered up to him for discipline . 
Once Gabriel overheard this kind of conversation in the play-ground , as Abel Newt and some of the other boys were resting after a game at ball . 
There were no personal allusions in what Abel had said , but Gabriel took him up a little curtly : `` Pooh ! 
Abel , how would you like to have Gyles Blanding shy his boots at your head ? '' 
Abel looked at him a moment , sarcastically . 
Then he replied : `` My young friend , I should like to see him try it . 
`` Then you 'd be licked till you dropped , my small Sir , '' said Abel , sneeringly . 
`` Yes , Abel , '' replied Gabriel , `` but it 's a mean thing for an American boy to want fagging . '' 
Gabriel had the same dislike of Abel which the latter felt for him , but they had never had any open quarrel . 
answered Abel -- `` what good does it do ? 
Abel smiled grimly as he looked round upon the boys , who did not seem at all enthusiastic for his suggestion . 
`` Well , '' said he , `` I 'm afraid I shall have to postpone my millennium of fagging . 
And mark you , my merry men , there 's more than one kind of fagging ; '' and he looked in a droll way -- a droll way that was not in the least funny , but made the boys all wonder what Abel Newt was up to now . 
Abel Newt , Muddock , Blanding , Tom Galt , Jim Greenidge , and the rest of the older boys , came rushing out of the school-room , and ran toward the barn , in which the boat was kept upon a truck . 
It was Abel Newt who spoke ; and as Gabriel stepped in , Newt asked , abruptly , `` What do you want ? '' 
`` Well , there he is , '' replied Newt , pointing to another bed . 
Gabriel hesitated , for Abel Newt was looking sharply at him . 
`` Well , Sir , the fact is that Abel Newt says she had a purple ribbon on her bonnet -- '' `` She had n't , '' said Gabriel , breaking in , impetuously . 
`` She had a beautiful blue ribbon , and lilies of the valley inside , and a white lace vail , and -- '' Gabriel stopped and turned very red , for he caught Abel Newt 's eyes fixed sharply upon him . 
But Abel Newt only said , quietly : `` Oh well ! 
`` Thetruth is , Gyles , '' said Abel to Blanding , his chum , `` Gabriel Bennet 's mother ought to come and take him home for the summer to play with the other calves in the country . 
In the evening , as the pupils were sitting in the dining-room , as usual , some chatting , some reading , others quite ready to go to bed , `` Mr. Gray , '' said Abel to Uncle Savory , who was sitting talking with Mrs. Gray , whose hands , which were never idle , were now busily knitting . 
`` Well , Abel . '' 
But just as he was about to yield , and drop the tell-tale tear of a sensitive , mortified boy , he caught the eye of Abel Newt . 
It was calmly studying him as a Roman surgeon may have watched the gladiator in the arena , while his lifeblood ebbed away . 
Gabriel remembered Abel 's words in the play-ground -- `` There 's more than one kind of fagging . '' 
Thenext day when school was dismissed , Abel asked leave to stroll out of bounds . 
He pushed along the road , whistling cheerily , whipping the road-side grass and weeds with his little ratan , and all the while approaching the foot of the hill up which the road wound through the estate of Pinewood . 
As he turned up the hill he walked more slowly , and presently stopped and leaned upon a pair of bars which guarded the entrance of one of Mr. Burt 's pastures . 
Abel Newt opened the gate and passed in . 
He walked along the avenue , from which the lawn was still hidden by the skirting hedge , went up the steps , and rang the bell . 
he asked , quietly . 
Abel Newt was shown into a large drawing-room . 
A few pictures hung upon the wall -- family portraits , Abel thought ; at least old Christopher was there , painted at the age of ten , standing in very clean attire , holding a book in one hand and a hoop in the other . 
The picture was amusing , and looked to Abel symbolical , representing the model boy , equally devoted to study and play . 
That singular sneering smile flitted over his face as he muttered , `` The Reverend Gabriel Bennet ! '' 
Abel seated himself in an easy-chair , and was still smiling at the portrait of Master Christopher Burt at the age of ten , when that gentleman , at the age of seventy-three , was heard in the hall . 
Hiram had left the door open , so that Abel had full notice of his approach , and rose just before the old gentleman entered , and stood with his cap in his hand and his head slightly bent . 
Abel bowed . 
he repeated , more blandly , apparently mollified by something in the appearance of the youth . 
`` Mr. Burt , '' said Abel , `` I am sure you will excuse me when you understand the object of my call ; although I am fully aware of the liberty I am taking in intruding upon your valuable time and the many important cares which must occupy the attention of a gentleman so universally known , honored , and loved in the community as you are , Sir . '' 
The old gentleman began to warm up as he thought of it . 
Abel stood patiently and meekly under this gust of fury , and when it was ended , and Mr. Burt was a little composed , he began quietly , as if the indignation were the most natural thing in the world : `` No , Sir ; it is not a subscription paper -- '' `` Not a subscription paper ! '' 
`` Why , Sir , as I was just saying , '' calmly returned Abel , `` it is a personal matter altogether . '' 
`` I am one of Mr. Gray 's boys , Sir , '' replied Abel . 
thundered Grandpa Burt , springing up suddenly , his mind opening upon a fresh scent . 
`` Yes , Sir , '' answered the man , as he came across the hall . 
`` Mr. Burt , '' said Abel , with placid persistence , `` being one of Mr. Gray 's boys , I go of course to Dr. Peewee 's Church , and there I have so often seen -- '' `` Come , come , Sir , this is a little too much . 
Hiram , put this boy out , '' said the old gentleman , quite beside himself as he thought of his grand-daughter . 
`` So often seen your venerable figure , '' resumed Abel in the same tone as before , while Mr. Burt turned suddenly and looked at him closely , `` that I naturally asked who you were . 
But Abel continued : `` In your beautiful -- '' `` Do n't dare to say it , Sir ! '' 
cried the old man , shaking his finger . 
`` Place , '' said Abel , quietly . 
The old gentleman glared at him with a look of mixed surprise and suspicion . 
`` Really , Sir , '' replied Abel , `` I had no intention of asking you to-day ; and as I strolled out merely for a walk , I did not bring my drawing materials with me . 
Abel thought old men sometimes minced grammar a little , but he did not say so . 
He only looked respectful , and said , `` Yes , Sir . '' 
Abel bowed very respectfully and as if he were controlling a strong desire to kneel and kiss the foot of his Holiness , Christopher Burt , but he mastered himself , and Hiram opened the front door . 
`` Good-by , Hiram , '' said Abel , putting a piece of money into his hand . 
Abel walked sedately down the steps , and looked carefully around him . 
He scanned the windows ; he glanced under the trees ; but he saw nothing . 
He did every thing , in fact , but study the house which he had been asking permission to draw . 
He looked as if for something or somebody who did not appear . 
Abel 's first impulse was to strike ; but he restrained himself , and in the most contemptuous way said merely , `` Ah , the Reverend Gabriel Bennet ! '' 
He had scarcely spoken when Gabriel fell upon him like a young lion . 
So sudden and impetuous was his attack that for a moment Abel was confounded . 
He gave way a little , and was well battered almost before he could strike in return . 
Then his strong arms began to tell . 
He was confident of victory , and calmer than his antagonist ; but it was like fighting a flame , so fierce and rapid were Gabriel 's strokes . 
Abel , you 'll kill him ! '' 
For Abel was now fully aroused . 
He was seriously hurt by Gabriel 's blows . 
Gabriel was clearly flagging ; and Abel 's face was furious as he struck his heavy blows , under which the smaller boy staggered , but did not yet succumb . 
At that moment Abel Newt drew back , aimed a tremendous blow at Gabriel , and delivered it with fearful force upon his head . 
`` You 've killed him ! 
You 've killed him ! '' 
Abel Newt stood bareheaded , frowning under his heavy hair , his hands clenched , his face bruised and bleeding , his mouth sternly set as he looked down upon his opponent . 
Suddenly he heard a sound close by him -- a half-smothered cry . 
He looked up . 
Was she not trying somehow to help Abel by doing all she could to alleviate the harm he had done ? 
But all night long she dreamed of Abel Newt , with bare head and clustering black hair , gracefully bowing , and murmuring excuses ; and oh ! 
so heroic he looked as he carefully helped to lay Gabriel in the carriage . 
He tore it open and read it : `` My dear Abel , -- You have now nearly reached the age at which , by your grandfather 's direction , you were to leave school and enter upon active life . 
Your affectionate father , `` Dear Abel , -- I am very glad to hear from Mr. Gray of your fine progress in study , and your general good character and deportment . 
`` Now , Abel , my dear , do you know Miss Wayne ? 
However , my dear Abel of course cares nothing about such things , and , I have no doubt , is wickedly laughing at his mamma at this very moment for scribbling him such a long , rambling letter . 
I told Dr. Lush I was perfectly sure of it ; so he told your father , and he has consented . 
Take care of yourself , my dear Abel , and remember the religion and the solid reading . 
Abel read the letters , and stood looking at the floor , musingly . 
His school days , then , were numbered ; the stage was to be deepened and widened -- the scenery and the figures so wonderfully changed ! 
He was to step in a moment from school into the world . 
He was to lie down one night a boy , and wake up a man the next morning . 
Suddenly a shadow fell across the page , and looking up she saw Abel Newt standing beside her . 
He had his cap in one hand and a port-folio in the other . 
Abel saw it . 
`` Miss Wayne , '' said Abel , in a voice which was very musical and very low -- she stopped -- `` I hope you have not already convicted and sentenced me . '' 
He smiled a little as he spoke , not familiarly , not presumptuously , but with an air which indicated his entire ability to justify himself . 
`` Certainly not , if he knows you are here ; '' and Hope lingered to hear if he had any thing more to say . 
`` Yes -- to be sure -- in that case , '' said Hope , still lingering , and remarking the music of his voice . 
Abel continued -- while the girl 's eyes saw how well he looked upon that lawn -- the clustering black hair -- the rich eyes -- the dark complexion -- the light of intelligence playing upon his face -- his dress careful but graceful -- and the port-folio which showed this interview to be no design or expectation , but a mere chance -- `` I am very sorry you should have had the pain of seeing such a spectacle , and I am ashamed my first introduction to you should have been at such a time . '' 
`` I think , indeed , '' continued Abel , `` that you owe me an opportunity of making a better impression . '' 
`` Do you draw , Mr. Newt ? '' 
asked Hope Wayne , in a tone which seemed to Abel to trickle along his nerves , so exquisite and prolonged was the pleasure it gave him to hear her call him by name . 
thought he . 
`` Yes , I draw , and am very fond of it , '' he answered , as he untied his port-folio . 
Abel heard it -- perhaps Hope did not . 
He was busily opening his port-folio and turning over the drawings , and stepped closer to her , as he said : `` There ! 
and he handed her a sketch . 
You draw very well , Mr. Newt . '' 
He paused . 
`` Well , '' he answered , smiling , `` because life in books is always so much better than real life ! '' 
`` No , no , '' answered Abel , laughing , `` that should n't be in the book . 
I should slay the great dragon who would desolate all Delafield with the swishing of his scaly tail ; then you would place a wreath upon my head , and all the people would come out and salute me for saving the Princess whom they loved , and I '' -- said Abel , after a momentary pause , a shade more gravely , and in a tone a little lower -- `` and I , as I rode away , should not wonder that they loved her . '' 
He looked across the lawn under the pine-trees as if he were thinking of some story that he had been actually reading . 
Hope smiled no longer , but said , quietly , `` Mr. Newt , I am wanted . 
`` Perhaps your cousin Alfred Dinks has arrived , '' said Abel , carelessly , as he closed his port-folio . 
Hope Wayne stopped , and , standing very erect , turned and looked at him . 
`` I heard it somewhere , '' answered Abel , gently and respectfully , but looking at Hope with a curious glance which seemed to her to penetrate every pore in her body . 
Hope Wayne looked serious for a moment ; then she said , with a half smile , `` I suppose it is no secret that Alfred Dinks is my cousin ; '' and , bowing to Abel , she went swiftly over the lawn toward the house . 
Hope Waynedid not agree with Abel Newt that life was so much better in books . 
`` I saw you talking with Abel Newt on the lawn . 
Why did he strike that boy ? '' 
`` He had to defend himself , '' said Hope , rapidly . 
`` It was very unfortunate , and Mr. Newt says so ; but I do n't think he is to bear every thing . '' 
`` He insulted him . '' 
`` I do n't see why you should treat Mr. Newt in that manner , '' said she , haughtily . 
`` I mean , Hope , that you are in love with Abel Newt . '' 
`` Aunty , is it wrong to love him ? '' 
`` Abel ran against me , and I got very angry and struck him . 
Hope and Gabriel turned at the same moment , and beheld Abel Newt entering the room gayly , with a sketch in his hand . 
He nodded to Gabriel without speaking , but went directly to Hope and showed her the drawing . 
As he ran up the avenue he had not remarked Abel sketching on the lawn . 
But Abel , sketching on the lawn , had observed Gabriel running up the avenue , and therefore happened in to ask Miss Wayne 's opinion of his drawing . 
Good boy , very good boy , '' said Abel , laughing . 
There stood Hope : Abel at her side , in the merry midst of his talk , with his sketch in his hand , his port-folio under his arm , and his finger pointed toward the portrait ; Gabriel , at a little distance , confounded and abashed by an acquaintance between Hope and Abel of which he had no previous suspicion . 
forgotten by Hope , and purposely trampled down by the eager talk of Abel . 
He lifted his cane as he came toward them . 
`` Why , Sir , '' said Abel , `` you gave me leave to come here and sketch . '' 
`` I only thought , Sir -- '' began Abel . 
It was impossible to resist ; and Abel and Gabriel moved slowly toward the door . 
Abel turned to the door , and bowed gravely to Hope . 
`` I understand , Sir , '' replied Abel , bowing to him also . 
He closed the door ; and as he did so it seemed to Hope Wayne as if the sunshine were extinguished . 
Abel Newtwas fully aware that his time was short . 
Abel 's dislike of the other was deepened and imbittered by the ignominy of the expulsion by Mr. Burt , of which Gabriel had been not only a companion but a witness . 
It was an indignity that made Abel tingle whenever he thought of it . 
He fancied Gabriel thinking of it too , and laughing at him in his sleeve , and he longed to thrash him . 
Abel , into whose mind had stolen that thought of the possible laughter in Gabriel 's sleeve , pulled out his handkerchief suddenly , and waved it with an indignant movement in the air . 
Abel looked up , and saw that it was the Burt carriage dashing down the road . 
He flew after , and every boy followed . 
In her inmost heart she hoped it was Abel Newt who had saved them . 
But in all the throng she did not see his face . 
`` Abel Newt started them , '' said Mrs. Simcoe . 
Mrs. Simcoe was explaining , when Abel came up out of breath and alarmed . 
In a moment he saw that there had been no injury . 
Hope 's eyes met his , and the color slowly died away from her cheeks . 
He eagerly asked how it happened , and was confounded by hearing that he was the cause . 
`` How strange it is , '' said he , in a low voice , to Hope , as the people busied themselves in looking after the horses and carriage , and Gabriel talked to Mrs. Simcoe , with whom he found conversation so much easier than with Hope -- `` how strange it is that just as I was wondering when and where and how I should see you again , I should meet you in this way , Miss Wayne ! '' 
Abel watched every movement -- every look -- every fluctuating change of manner and color , as if he knew its most hidden meaning . 
He did not reply . 
She wished he would speak . 
`` I hope you are , '' he said , quietly , with a tone of sadness , not of reproach . 
`` I hope so , because I am going away , '' said Abel . 
whispered Abel . 
Abel Newt was disappointed . 
he said . 
He could not see Hope 's paler face as she heard the more formal address , and knew by it that he was offended . 
was all he caught as Hope Wayne took Mrs. Simcoe 's arm and walked away . 
Traditiondeclares that the family of Newt has been uniformly respectable but honest -- so respectable , indeed , that Mr. Boniface Newt , the father of Abel , a celebrated New York merchant and a Tammany Sachem , had a crest . 
There was old Mrs. Beriah Dagon -- dowager Mrs. Dagon , she was called -- aunt of Mr. Newt , who never said , `` I see the Magots have hired a hackney-coach from Jobbers to make calls in . 
It was Mrs. Dagon who sat with Mrs. Newt in her parlor , and said to her , `` So your son Abel is coming home . 
I hope he knows how to waltz , and is n't awkward . 
I think Maria Chubleigh would do very well for Abel . 
`` Yes , we shall go to Saratoga , '' began Mrs. Newt ; `` and I want Abel to come , so as to take him . 
`` Fanny dear , '' said her mother , as the door closed upon Mrs. Dagon , who departed speechless and in what may be called a simmering state of mind , `` Abel will be here in a day or two . 
`` Abel ! '' 
`` Mr. Wetherley , this is my brother , Mr. Abel Newt . '' 
`` How 'd he come here listening ? '' 
`` Sensible fellow , '' said Abel ; `` he flies the grandpas . '' 
Well , Abel , I 'm glad . 
said Abel , laughing , sinking into a chair . 
`` Mrs. Alfred Dinks , '' replied Fanny , carelessly , but looking with her keenest glance at Abel . 
He sprang up and began to say something ; but his sister 's eye arrested him . 
`` Oh yes , '' said he , hurriedly -- `` Dinks , I 've heard about Alfred Dinks . 
Abel went out of the room . 
`` Master Abel , then , does know Miss Hope Wayne , '' said she to herself . 
Miss Fanny was pleased with that thought , because she meant to be engaged to him herself , if it proved to be true , as every body declared , that he had ten or fifteen thousand a year . 
It was dark in that office when Mr. Newt first occupied the rooms , and Thomas Tray , the book-keeper , who had the lightest place , said that the eyes of Venables , the youngest clerk , were giving out . 
Will Mr. Venables call at Carville 's on his way up , have the book charged to Mr. Lawrence Newt , and present it , with Mr. Newt 's compliments , to his sister ? 
If it were summer he opened the window , when it happened to be closed , and stood by it , or drew his chair to it and looked at the ships and the streets , and listened to the sailors swearing when he might have heard merchants , worth two or three hundred thousand dollars apiece , talking about Mrs. Dagon 's cotton lace . 
One day he sat at his table writing letters . 
He was alone in the inner room ; but the sun that morning did not see a row of pleasanter faces than were bending over large books in odoriferous red Russia binding , and little books in leather covers , and invoices and sheets of letter paper , in the outer office of Lawrence Newt . 
`` May I see Mr. Newt , Sir ? '' 
Mr. Newt said , `` Come in , '' and , when the door opened , looked up , and still holding his pen with the ink in it poised above the paper , he said , kindly , `` Well , Sir ? 
asked Mr. Newt . 
Mr. Newt looked out of the window . 
asked Mr. Newt . 
asked Mr. Newt , abruptly . 
then you know my nephew Abel ? '' 
`` Abel is a smart boy , '' said Mr. Newt . 
`` Do you like Abel ? '' 
As they went out Mr. Newt opened a letter which had been brought in from the Post during the interview . 
Mr. Newt was engaged within . 
The boy had a vague feeling that he must shift for himself -- that every body was busy -- that play in this life had ended and work begun . 
The thought tasted to him much more like smelts than cake . 
And while he was wisely left by Thomas Tray to familiarize himself with the entire novelty of the situation his mind flashed back to Delafield with an aching longing , and the boy would willingly have put his face in his hands and wept . 
Abel Newtbelieved in his lucky star . 
thought Abel . -RRB- 
As a rule , Abel , men are rascals ; that is to say , they pursue their own interests . 
Life is a scrubrace -- melancholy , Abel , but true . 
You see , Abel ? '' 
`` Now , Abel , '' said his father , `` I 'll return in a moment . '' 
Just what I 've been looking for '' -LRB- renewed rubbing of hands on the part of Mr. Newt -RRB- -- `` very pretty . 
He shook his head negatively . 
`` Oh , that 's a yard , '' replied Mr. Newt ; `` certainly a full yard . '' 
He looked around inquiringly , as if for a yard-stick . 
said Mr. Newt to the boy , with a peculiar look . 
The boy disappeared and reappeared with a yard-stick , while Mr. Newt 's face underwent a series of expressions of subdued anger and disgust . 
`` Mr. Newt , '' said Hadley , stopping at another case , `` that is very handsome . '' 
well , send it round at once ; for I am sure -- '' `` Mr. Newt , '' said the unconscious boy , smiling with the satisfaction of one who is able to correct an error , `` you are mistaken , Sir . 
`` Good-morning , Mr. Newt ; sorry that I see nothing farther , '' said Mr. Hadley , and he went out . 
Mr. Newt turned fiercely to the unconscious boy . 
asked he , sharply . 
`` For business purposes it wasthe last , Sir , '' replied Mr. Newt . 
Mr. Boniface Newt , ruffled and red , went into his office , where he found Abel reading the newspaper and smoking a cigar . 
The clerks outside were pale at the audacity of Newt , Jun. . 
Mr. Abel Newt , to his father 's eyes , had the air of a man of superb leisure ; and as he sat reading the paper , with one leg thrown over the arm of the office-chair , and the smoke languidly curling from his lips , Mr. Boniface Newt felt profoundly , but vaguely , uncomfortable , as if he had some slight prescience of a future of indolence for the hope of the house of Newt . 
As his father entered , Mr. Abel dropped by his side the hand still holding the newspaper , and , without removing the cigar , said , through the cloud of smoke he blew , `` Father , you were imparting your philosophy of life . '' 
Mr. Boniface Newt discoursed warmly ; Mr. Abel Newt listened with extreme coolness . 
He whiffed his cigar , and leaned his head on one side as he hearkened to the wisdom of experience ; observing that his father put his practice into words and called it philosophy . 
Mr. Abel Newtwas not a philosopher ; he was a man of action . 
So Miss Grace , of whom his mother had written Abel , and who was just about leaving school , left school and entered society , simultaneously , by taking leave of Madame de Feuille and making her courtesy at Mrs. Boniface Newt 's . 
It was a Summer party , Abel said -- mere low-necked muslin , strawberries and ice-cream . 
The eyes of the strangers of the gentler sex soon discovered the dark , rich face of Abel , who moved among the groups with the grace and ease of an accomplished man of society , smiling brightly upon his friends , bowing gravely to those of his mother 's guests whom he did not personally know . 
`` That is my brother Abel , '' replied Miss Fanny . 
`` Your brother Abel ? 
How very like he is to Viscount Tattersalls . 
`` Well , Dolly dear , do you see how much Mr. Abel Newt resembles Lord Tattersalls ? '' 
`` Or now I look I think he is even more like the Marquis of Crockford . 
`` May I present my brother Abel , Miss Tully ? '' 
The voice of the singer was arch , and her eye flashed slyly on Abel Newt as she finished , and a murmur of pleasure rose around her . 
Abel leaned upon the piano , with his eyes fixed upon the singer . 
He was fully conscious of the surprise he had betrayed to sister Fanny when she spoke suddenly of Mrs. Alfred Dinks . 
If Mr. Abel Newt had intentions in which Miss Hope Wayne was interested , was there any reason why Miss Fanny Newt should mingle in the matter ? 
As Miss Plumer finished the song Abel saw his sister coming toward him through the little crowd , although his eyes seemed to be constantly fixed upon the singer . 
said he , ardently , in a low voice , looking Grace Plumer directly in the eyes . 
said Abel . 
`` Yes , '' said Abel . 
`` No , no , '' said Abel , `` we shall find the tropics in that conservatory . '' 
Abel offered his arm , and the young couple moved through the humming room . 
The voice of the youth was very low . 
He felt a touch , and turned . 
It was his sister . 
`` Abel , I want to present you to Miss Whetwood Tully . '' 
I would go with you with all my heart if I could , '' said he , smiling and looking at Miss Plumer ; `` but , you see , all my heart is going here . '' 
Grace Plumer blushed again . 
Fanny Newt , with lips parted , looked at him a moment and shook her head gently . 
Abel was sure she would happen to find herself in the conservatory presently , whither he and his companion slowly passed . 
said Miss Plumer , with the prettiest little rapture , and such a little spring that Abel was obliged to hold her arm more closely . 
`` Are you fond of flowers , Mr. Newt ? '' 
Abel saw somebody on the cane sofa under the great orange-tree , almost hidden in the shade . 
thought he . 
`` My dear Grace , '' began Abel , in his lowest , sweetest voice ; but the conservatory was so still that the words could have been easily heard by any one sitting upon the sofa . 
Abel smiled in his heart , and bent more closely to his companion . 
His manner was full of tender devotion . 
Abel raised his eyes smilingly to meet Fanny 's . 
When Mr. Newt was announced Hope Wayne felt as if she were suffocating . 
They had entered the room and made their bows to Mrs. Nancy ; and Mr. Lawrence , wishing to talk to Miss Hope , had led her by another way to the conservatory , and so Mr. Abel had failed to see them . 
She was in the house of Abel -- she should see him -- she should hear him ! 
And this dear gentleman -- not exactly like a father nor an uncle -- well , yes , perhaps a young uncle -- he is brother of Abel 's mother , and he mysteriously knows so much about Pinewood , and his smiling voice has a tear in it as he speaks of old days . 
But they saw some one approaching , and before they arose , while they were still silent , and Hope 's heart was like the dawning summer heaven , she suddenly heard Abel Newt 's words , and watched him , speechlessly , as he and his companion glided by her into the darkness . 
Abel had passed . 
He could no more have stopped and shaken hands with Hope Wayne than he could have sung like a nightingale . 
He could not even raise his head erect as he went by -- something very stern and very strong seemed to hold it down . 
Abel Newt was perfectly silent . 
He glided away with Grace Plumer into grateful gloom , and her ears , exquisitely apprehensive , caught from his lips not a word further . 
Hope Wayne 's impulse was to lay her head upon her new friend 's shoulder and cry ; for Hope was prostrated by the unexpected vision of Abel , as a strong man is unnerved by sudden physical pain . 
`` I find that Mr. Newt 's friends always prove to be mine , '' continued Amy . 
`` I am glad of it ; but I do n't know why I am his friend , '' said Hope . 
`` I never saw him until to-day . 
`` No ; but he seems to have lived every where , to have seen every thing , and to have known every body . 
She had seen Abel flirting with Grace , and was therefore satisfied that he cared nothing about her . 
But where was Abel ? 
But her only glimpse of him during the evening had been that glimmering , dreadful moment in the conservatory . 
There he had remained ever since . 
There he still stood gazing through the door into the drawing-room , seeing but not seen -- his mind a wild whirl of thoughts . 
thought Abel , bitterly . 
By skillful correspondence , alluding to the solitude of the country , et cetera , and his natural wish for society , and what pleasant people were there in Delafield , Fanny had drawn her lines around Abel to carry the fact of his acquaintance , if possible , by pure strategy . 
In reply , Abel wrote about many things -- about Mrs. Kingo and Miss Broadbraid -- the Sutlers and Grabeaus -- he praised the peaceful tone of rural society , and begged Fanny to beware of city dissipation ; but not a word of old Burt and Hope Wayne . 
So Fanny , knowing that Christopher Burt was the richest man in the village , and lived in a beautiful place , and that his lovely grand-daughter lived with him constantly , with which information in detail Alfred Dinks supplied her , and perceiving from Abel 's letter that he was not a recluse , but knew the society of the village , arrived very naturally and easily at the conclusion that brother Abel did know Hope Wayne , and was in love with her . 
She inferred the latter from the fact that she had long ago decided that brother Abel would not fall in love with any poor girl , and therefore she was sure that if he were in the immediate neighborhood of a lady at once young , beautiful , of good family and very rich , he would be immediately in love -- very much in love . 
To make every thing sure , Abel had not been at home half an hour before Fanny 's well-directed allusion to Hope as the future Mrs. Dinks had caused her brother to indicate an interest which revealed every thing . 
The head of Manfred was the head of Abel Newt . 
Abel Newtsmoked a great many cigars to enable him to see his position clearly . 
Look here , Abel ; if Jacob were not worth a million of dollars , he would be of less consequence than the old fellow who sells apples at the corner of his bank . 
And mark , Abel , if this were the Millennium , things would be very different . 
That 's what it is here ; and let him who wants to , kick against the pricks . '' 
Abel hung his legs over the arms of the office-chairs in the counting-room , and listened gravely . 
Upon which Mr. Abel Newt blew a prodigious cloud of smoke . 
Abel , put your legs down ! 
`` Good-mornin ' , Mr. Newt . 
`` And , Mr. Van Boozenberg , I am pleased to introduce to you my son Abel , who has just entered the house . '' 
Abel rose and bowed . 
`` Why , Mr. Newt , '' said Mr. Van B. , with the air of a man who is in entire perplexity , `` what on earth has your boy been doing at school until now ? '' 
`` It was his grandfather 's will , Sir , '' replied Boniface Newt . 
But the familiar style of the old gentleman 's conversation begot a corresponding familiarity upon the part of Mr. Newt . 
Mr. Van Boozenberg learned incidentally that Abel had never been in business before . 
He observed the fresh odor of cigars in the counting-room -- he remarked the extreme elegance of Abel 's attire , and the inferential tailor 's bills . 
He learned that Mrs. Newt and the family were enjoying themselves at Saratoga . 
He derived from the conversation and his observation that there were very large family expenses to be met by Boniface Newt . 
He had confessed to Abel that the old man was shrewd . 
But he is a dull , ignorant , ungrammatical , and ridiculous old ass for all that , thought Boniface Newt ; and the said ass sitting in Boniface Newt 's counting-room , and amusing and fatiguing Messrs. Newt & Son with his sez I 's , and sez shes , and his mas , and his done its , was quietly making up his mind that the house of Newt & Son had received no accession of capital or strength by the entrance of the elegant Abel into a share of its active management , and that some slight whispers which he had heard remotely affecting the standing of the house must be remembered . 
`` A werry pretty store you have here , Mr. Newt . 
Good-mornin ' , Mr. Newt , a werry good-mornin ' , Sir , '' said the old gentleman , as he stepped out . 
asked Abel , when Jacob Van Boozenberg had gone . 
`` My dear son , '' replied the older Mr. Newt , `` the world is made up of fools , bores , and knaves . 
`` Father , '' said Abel . 
Mr. Boniface Newt 's foot stopped , and , after looking at his son for a few moments , he answered : `` Abel , your Uncle Lawrence is a singular man . 
I do n't understand him , and he does n't help me to . 
When he was a boy he went to India and lived there several years . 
He came home once and staid a little while , and then went back again , although I believe he was rich . 
By-and-by he came home again , and has been in business here ever since . 
He 's a bachelor , you know , and his business is different from mine , and he has queer friends and tastes , so that I do n't often see him except when he comes to the house , and that is n't very often . '' 
`` He 's rich , is n't he ? '' 
asked Abel . 
`` Yes , he 's very rich , and that 's the curious part of it , '' answered his father , `` and he gives away a great deal of money in what seems to me a very foolish way . 
He 's a kind of dreamer -- an impracticable man . 
He pays lots of poor people 's rents , and I try to show him that he is merely encouraging idleness and crime . 
But I ca n't make him see it . 
You ought to go by the general rule , as I constantly tell him . 
` Yes , ' says he , in that smiling way of his which does put me almost beside myself , ` yes , you shall go by the general rule , and let people starve ; and I 'll go by particular cases , and feed 'em . ' 
Then he is just as rich as if he were an old flint like Van Boozenberg . 
Abel had relighted his cigar , after Mr. Van Boozenberg 's departure , and filled the office with smoke until the atmosphere resembled the fog in which his father seemed to be floundering . 
`` Abel , merchants ought not to smoke cigars in their counting-rooms , '' said his father , in a half-pettish way . 
`` No , I suppose not , '' replied Abel , lightly ; `` they ought to smoke other people . 
`` Pathetic and mysterious , '' rejoined Abel ; `` a case of unhappy love , I suppose . '' 
`` If it is so , '' said Mr. Newt , `` your Uncle Lawrence is the happiest miserable man I ever knew . '' 
asked Mr. Newt . 
`` Or like Boccaccio 's basil-pot , '' continued Abel , calmly ; pouring forth smoke , while his befogged papa inquired , `` What on earth do you mean by Boccaccio 's basil-pot ? '' 
`` Goodness me , Abel , what are you talking about ? '' 
`` Of Love , the canker-worm , Sir , '' replied Abel , imperturbable , and emitting smoke . 
`` Corlaer , I wish you would make the acquaintance of young Mr. Newt . 
I done it to-day . 
He is a well-edicated young p538-149 man ; I shall ask him to dinner next Sunday . 
I wonder if old Newt is rich . 
Then , with the old harshness stealing into her face again , she rose calmly , carrying the miniature in her hand , and went out of the room , and down the stairs into the library , which was opposite the parlor in which Abel Newt had seen the picture of old Grandpa Burt at the age of ten , holding a hoop and book . 
`` Mr. Newt , Mr. Newt , '' said she , hurriedly , in a thick voice , `` let us at least respect the dead ! '' 
She was silent for an instant ; then , leaning forward and reaching toward him , she took the miniature from Lawrence Newt , closed her hand over it convulsively , and gasped in a tone that sounded like a low , wailing cry : `` But of him . '' 
`` And why not of him ? '' 
`` Why not of him , who did not hesitate to marry the woman whom he knew loved another , and whom the difference of years should rather have made his daughter than his wife ? 
Why not of him , who brutally confessed , when she was his wife , an earlier and truer love of his own , and so murdered her slowly , slowly -- not with blows of the hand , oh no ! 
cried Lawrence Newt , warming into bitter vehemence , clenching his hand and shaking it in the air , `` but who struck her blows on the heart -- who stabbed her with sharp icicles of indifference -- who poisoned her soul with the tauntings of his mean suspicions -- mean and false -- and the meaner because he knew them to be false ? 
Why not of him , who -- '' `` Stop ! 
The sun shines bright in his eyes -- the street is gay -- he nods to his friends -- he admires the pretty faces -- he wonders at the fast men driving fast horses -- he sees the flowers in the windows , the smiling faces between the muslin curtains -- he gazes with a kind of awe at the funerals going by , and marks the white bands of the clergymen and the physicians -- the elm-trees in the hospital yard remind him of the woods at Delafield ; and here comes Abel Newt , laughing , chatting , smoking , with an arm in the arms of two other young men , who are also smoking . 
As Gabriel passes Abel their eyes meet . 
Abel nods airily , and Gabriel quietly ; the next moment they are back to back again -- one is going up street , the other down . 
And what has ever happened to Mr. Newt that he should wish to perpetuate a woman 's name ? 
remembers mamma , his mother 's name was Mary . 
Mamma merely replies that his mother 's name was Bunley -- Mary Bunley -- a famous belle of the close of the last century , when she was the most beautiful woman at President Washington 's levees -- Mary Bunley , to whom Aaron Burr paid his addresses in vain . 
Ellen shakes her head as her mother speaks , and Gabriel involuntarily thinks of Abel Newt . 
He inquires if Mr. Newt has returned , and learns that he has been at home for several days . 
He hopes that he has enjoyed his little journey ; then sips his tea , and looks to see if the windows are closed ; shakes himself gently , and says he feels chilly ; that the September evenings are already autumnal , and that the time is coming when we must begin to read aloud again after tea . 
I am sure , '' replied Mr. Bennet , with the nervous smile flitting across his face and apparently breaking out all over him ; and there he remained speechless and bowing , while Mr. Newt hastened to seat himself , that every body else might sit down also . 
Amy seated herself by Gabriel and Ellen , and talked very animatedly with them , while the parents and Mr. Newt sat together . 
But the Newt Family Bible was under a lock of which the key lay in Mrs. Boniface Newt 's bureau , who , in a question of age , preferred tradition , which she could judiciously guide , to Scripture . 
And when the bridegroom inquired whether the vulgarity were in the fact of being born or in recording it , she said : `` Mr. Newt , I am ashamed of you , '' and locked up the evidence . 
There was a vague impression in the Newt family -- Boniface had already mentioned it to his son Abel -- that there was something that Uncle Lawrence never talked about -- many things indeed , of course , but still something in particular . 
Then the good-hearted mother remarked that some men were delightfully faithful to old associations , and that it was really beautiful to see Mr. Newt keeping up the acquaintance so cordially , and complimenting his old friend so delicately by thinking of pleasing her daughter . 
What a pity he had never married , to have had daughters of his own ! 
Asthe world returned to town and the late autumnal festivities began , the handsome person and self-possessed style of Mr. Abel Newt became the fashion . 
Invitations showered upon him . 
No ball was complete without Abel Newt . 
Ladies , meditating parties , engaged him before they issued a single invitation . 
At dinners he was sparkling and agreeable , with tact enough not to extinguish the other men , who yet felt his superiority and did not half like it . 
They imitated his manner ; but what was ease or gilded assurance in him was open insolence , or assurance with the gilt rubbed off , in them . 
The charm and secret of his manner lay in an utter devotion , which said to every woman , `` There 's not a woman in the world who can resist me , except you . 
In his dress Abel was costly and elegant . 
Mr. Newt , Jun. , was one of a small but influential set of young men about town who did all they could to repair the misfortune of being born Americans , by imitating the habits of foreign life . 
It was presently clear to him that residence under the parental roof was incompatible with the habits of a strictly fashionable man . 
So Abel Newt hired a pleasant set of rooms in Grand Street , near Broadway , in the neighborhood of other youth of the right set . 
Then there were little vases , and boxes , and caskets standing upon all possible places , with a rare flower in some one of them often , sent by some kind dowager who wished to make sure of Abel at a dinner or a select soiree . 
It was no wonder that the rooms of Abel Newt became a kind of club-room and elegant lounge for the gay gentlemen about town . 
He even gave little dinners there to quiet parties , sometimes including two or three extremely vivacious and pretty , as well as fashionably dressed , young women , whom he was not in the habit of meeting in society , but who were known quite familiarly to Abel and his friends . 
The `` buggy '' of Abel 's day was an open gig without a top , very easy upon its springs , but dangerous with stumbling horses . 
Abel Newt lost and won his money with careless grace -- always a little glad when he won , for somebody had to pay for all this luxurious life . 
Several times , instead of instantly filling out the checks as Abel directed , the book-keeper had delayed , and said casually to Mr. Newt during Abel 's absence at lunch , which was usually prolonged , that he supposed it was all right to fill up a check of that amount to Mr. Abel 's order ? 
inquired Mr. Abel , with composure , as he picked his teeth with one hand , and surveyed a cigar which he held in the other . 
asked his son , as he called to the boy in the outer office to bring him a light . 
Abel , you 're enough to make a man crazy ! 
Abel smoked calmly during this energetic discourse , and blew little rings from his mouth , which he watched with interest as they melted in the air . 
`` Certain things are inevitable , father . '' 
His parent , frowning and angry , growled at him as he made this remark , and muttered , `` Well , suppose they are . '' 
`` Now , father , '' replied his son , with great composure , `` let us proceed calmly . 
Here now -- '' And he opened his purse leisurely and drew out a five-dollar note of the Bank of New York , `` here is a promise to pay five dollars -- in gold or silver , of course . 
Abel knocked off the ash from his cigar , and took a long contemplative whiff , as if he were about making a plunge into views even more profound . 
Mr. Newt , half pleased with the show of philosophy , listened with less frowning brows . 
Mr. Newt shook his head affirmatively . 
Mr. Newt assented . 
`` Abel , what do you mean ? '' 
inquired his father . 
`` Clearly , '' answered Mr. Newt . 
`` No , '' said Mr. Newt , following his son closely . 
Every body says , ` Newt & Son are doing a thumping business . ' 
Before people know that we have been living up to our incomes -- quite up , father dear '' -- Mr. Newt frowned an entire assent -- `` we have plenty of money ! '' 
`` By my marriage , '' returned Abel , quietly . 
asked Mr. Newt , earnestly . 
`` Just what I am trying to find out , '' replied Abel , lightly , as he threw his cigar away . 
Mr. Newt was not sure . 
Mr. Abel did not happen to suggest to his father that , for the purpose of marrying an heiress , if he should ever chance to be so fortunate as to meet one , and , having met her , to become enamored so that he might be justified in wooing her for his wife -- that for all these contingencies it was a good thing for a young man to have a regular business connection and apparent employment -- and very advantageous , indeed , that that connection should be with a man so well known in commercial and fashionable circles as his father . 
It was a frequent joke of Abel 's with his father , after the recent conversation , that credit was the most creditable thing going . 
Duringthese brilliant days of young bachelorhood Abel , by some curious chance , had not met Hope Wayne , who was passing the winter in New York with her Aunt Dinks , and who had hitherto declined all society . 
The beautiful Boston heiress was often enough the theme of discourse among the youth at Abel 's rooms . 
inquired Abel , with the air of a naturalist pursuing his researches . 
One day , indeed , as he was passing Stewart 's , he saw Hope alighting from a carriage . 
He was not alone ; and as he passed their eyes met . 
It was not a `` cut , '' as Abel said to himself ; `` not at all . 
asked Corlaer , as he turned back to see her . 
But as the doubt only lasted while Lawrence Newt was unfolding a plan he had of reading books aloud with the ladies -- and -- in fact , a great many other praiseworthy plans which all implied a constant meeting with Miss Waring and Miss Wayne , Mr. Merlin did not delay his co-operation in all Mr. Newt 's efforts . 
Mrs. Waring often sat with the little party , and , as she worked , talked with Lawrence Newt of earlier days -- `` days when you were not born , dears , '' she said , cheerfully , as if to appropriate Mr. Newt . 
But Hope Wayne , remembering her first evening in his society , raised her eyes again with curiosity , and as she did so Lawrence smiled kindly and gravely , and his eyes hung upon hers as if he saw again what he had thought never to see ; while Hope resolved that she would ask him under what circumstances he had known Pinewood . 
`` Really , Mr. Newt , '' Arthur said to him one evening as they were dining together at Delmonico 's -- which was then in William Street -- `` if I were to paint a picture of Diana when she loved Endymion -- a picture , by-the-by , which I intend to paint -- I should want to ask Miss Wayne to sit to me for the principal figure . 
But at the same moment his eye fell upon his nephew Abel sitting with a choice company of gay youths at another table . 
Abel will be your Endymion , if you can get him . '' 
`` Who is Abel ? '' 
`` Why , my nephew , Abel Don Juan Pelham Newt , of Grand Street , and Boniface Newt , Son , & Company , Dry Goods on Commission , Esquire , '' replied Lawrence Newt , with perfect gravity . 
`` Do n't you know my nephew , Abel Newt ? '' 
I 've heard of him , of course . '' 
`` Well , he 's a very handsome young man ; and though he be dark , he may also be Endymion . 
Look at him ; there he sits . 
'T is the one just raising the glass to his lips . '' 
Abel was the leader , and at the moment Arthur Merlin and Lawrence Newt turned to look he was telling some anecdote to which they all listened eagerly , while they sipped the red wine of France , poured carefully from a bottle reclining in a basket , and delicately coated with dust . 
Abel , with his glass in his hand and the glittering smile in his eye , told the story with careless grace , as if he were more amused with the listeners ' eagerness than with the anecdote itself . 
The extreme gayety of his life was already rubbing the boyish bloom from his face , but it developed his peculiar beauty more strikingly by removing that incongruous innocence which belongs to every boyish countenance . 
As he looked at him , Arthur Merlin was exceedingly impressed by the air of reckless grace in his whole appearance , which harmonized so entirely with his face . 
Lawrence Newt watched his friend as the latter gazed at Abel . 
Perhaps he perceived the secret dissatisfaction and feeling of sudden alarm which , without any apparent reason , Arthur felt as he looked at Abel . 
But the longer Arthur Merlin looked at Abel the more curiously perplexed he was . 
The feeling which , if he had not been a painter so utterly devoted to his profession that all distractions were impossible , might have been called a nascent jealousy , was gradually merged in a half-consciousness that he had somewhere seen Abel Newt before , but where , and under what circumstances , he could not possibly remember . 
He watched him steadily , puzzling himself to recall that face . 
Suddenly he clapped his hand upon the table . 
But he could not forget how persistently Arthur had spoken of Hope only as a fine Diana ; and how , after evidently being struck with Abel Newt , he had merely exclaimed , with a kind of suppressed excitement , as if he saw what a striking picture he would make , `` Manfred in the Coliseum ! '' 
As he and his friend passed the other table , on their way out , Abel nodded to his uncle ; and as Arthur Merlin looked at him carefully , he was very sure that he saw the person whose face so singularly resembled that of Manfred 's in the picture he had given Hope Wayne . 
`` Abel Newt , then , is Hope Wayne 's somebody , '' thought Arthur Merlin , as he took his friend 's arm . 
The painter had been watching for Mr. Abel Newt 's entrance , and , after he saw him , turned to study the effect produced upon Miss Wayne by seeing him . 
But Abel , who saw as much in his way as Mrs. Dagon in hers , although without the glasses , had carefully kept in the other part of the rooms . 
He had planted his batteries before Mrs. Bleecker Van Kraut , having resolved to taste her , as Herbert Octoyne had advised , notwithstanding that she had no flavor , as Abel himself had averred . 
That lady clicked smoothly as Abel , metaphorically speaking , touched her . 
Louis Wilkottle , her cavalier , slipped away from her he could not tell how : he merely knew that Abel Newt was in attendance , vice Wilkottle , disappeared . 
`` Your son , Abel , seems to enjoy himself werry well , Mrs. Newt , '' said Mr. Van Boozenberg , as he observed that youth , in sumptuous array , dancing devotedly with Mrs. Bleecker Van Kraut . 
I s ` pose , now , your Abel do n't lay up no money -- ha ! 
`` It 's positively dreadful the way he spends money , '' replied she . 
I always sez to ma she need n't fret her gizzard . 
Mr. Newt knows that werry well . 
She answered , `` I do n't know about that ; but Mr. Newt shakes his head dismally nowadays about something or other , and he 's really grown old . '' 
Arthur Merlin had been very intently watching Hope Wayne , because he saw Abel Newt approaching with Mrs. Van Kraut , and he wished to catch the first look of Hope upon seeing him . 
Abel Newt , conscious master of the dance and chief of brilliant youth , waltzed with an air of delicate deference toward his partner , and gay defiance toward the rest of the world . 
The performance was so novel and so well executed that the ball instantly became a spectacle of which Abel and Mrs. Van Kraut were the central figures . 
The crowd pressed around them , and Abel gently pushed them back in his fluctuating circles . 
Hope Wayne had not met Abel Newt since they had parted after the runaway at Delafield , except in his mother 's conservatory , and when she was stepping from the carriage . 
As her eyes fell upon him now she remembered that day upon the lawn at Pinewood , when he stood suddenly beside her , casting a shadow upon the page she was reading . 
Of all those who stood by her Arthur Merlin was the only one who knew that she had ever known Abel , and Arthur only inferred it from Abel 's resemblance to the sketch of Manfred , which had evidently deeply affected Hope . 
Lawrence Newt , who knew Delafield , had wondered if Abel and Hope had ever met . 
Perhaps he had a little fear of their meeting , knowing Abel to be audacious and brilliant , and Hope to be romantic . 
Perhaps the anxiety with which he now looked upon the waltz arose from the apprehension that Hope could not help , at least , fancying such a handsome fellow . 
As she saw Abel and remembered the days that were no more , for a moment her cheek flushed -- not tumultuously , but gently -- and Lawrence Newt and the painter remarked it . 
Abel Newt had not lost Hope Wayne from his attention for a single moment during the evening ; and before the interest in the dance was palled , before people had begun to buzz again and turn away , while Mrs. Van Kraut and he were still the spectacle upon which all eyes were directed , he suddenly whirled his partner toward the spot where Hope Wayne and her friends were standing , and stopped . 
As for Abel , he turned and bowed profoundly to Miss Wayne . 
Abel said a few words , signifying nothing , to his partner , then he remarked to Miss Wayne that he was very glad indeed to meet her again ; that he had not called because he knew she had been making a convent of her aunt 's house -- making herself a nun -- a Sister of Charity , he did not doubt , doing good as she always did -- making every body in the world happy , as she could not help doing , and so forth . 
Abel rattled on , he did not know why ; but he did know that his Uncle Lawrence , and Amy Waring , and Mr. Merlin heard every thing he said . 
This movement had taken place as Abel was finishing his scattering volley of talk . 
`` Yes , '' said he , as he saw that he was not overheard , and sinking his voice into that tone of tender music which Hope so well remembered -- `` yes , making every body in the world happy but one person . '' 
`` I jes ' sez to Mrs. Dagon , you know , ma'am , sez I , I do n't like to see a young man like Mr. Abel Newt , sez I , wasting himself upon married women . 
In the eyes of the old gentleman it was another instance of imprudence on Abel 's part not to be already engaged to some rich girl . 
The Honorable Budlong Dinks bowed with dignity as if he understood Mr. Newt to compliment him by insinuating that he was the man who knew all about it , and would immediately enlighten him . 
And Alfred consoled himself by thinking of the style in which that worthy commission merchant lived , and especially of his son Abel 's expense and splendor . 
Her home had not been a Paradise to Fanny Newt -- nor were Aunt Dagon , Papa and Mamma Newt , and brother Abel altogether angels . 
Mr. Newt replies that it is at least very thoughtful in him . 
Then he dexterously leads the conversation into some other channel . 
I know all about it , thought Mr. Newt ; and now he lies there forlorn , but picturesque and very handsome , singing sweetly to his guitar , and reciting Petrarch 's sonnets with large , melancholy eyes . 
His manners refined and fascinating . 
Of course common humanity requires her to come and see that he does not suffer . 
Of course he is desperately in love , and she can only pity . 
It was the face of Abel Newt , who raised his hat and bowed to her with an admiration which he concealed that he took care to show . 
The next moment he was in the room , perfectly comme il faut , sparkling , resistless . 
I bow to Miss Plumer . '' 
Grace Plumer blushed , bowed , smiled , and met his offered hand half-way . 
Abel Newt knew perfectly what he was doing , and raised it respectfully , bowed over it , kissed it . 
`` The first rose of the year blooms in Mr. Moultrie 's button-hole , '' continued Abel , who galloped on , laughing , and seating himself upon an ottoman , so that his eyes were lower than the level of Grace Plumer 's . 
`` Better two more than too much , '' struck in Abel , who saw that Miss Plumer had put out her darling little foot from beneath her dress , and therefore had fixed his eyes upon it , with an admiration which was not lost upon the lady . 
applauded Abel ; `` and now , Miss Plumer , I submit that he has the floor . '' 
`` And so , Mr. Newt , I have the honor of seeing the gentleman of whom I have heard most this winter . '' 
I insist , '' said Abel , looking at Grace Plumer earnestly for a moment , then dropping his eyes upon her very pretty and very be-ringed white hands , where the eyes lingered a little and worshipped in the most evident manner . 
`` I do them no harm , '' replied Abel . 
it 's only of -- of -- of -- of what I hear from the girls , '' said Grace , fluttering a little , as she remembered the conservatory at Mrs. Boniface Newt 's , which also Abel had not forgotten . 
`` And what do you hear , Miss Grace ? '' 
`` I have no success with women , '' returned Abel Newt , in a half-serious way , and in his most melodious voice . 
What more could it be , Mr. Newt ? '' 
It is musty , but it is true , that fools rush in where angels fear to tread . '' 
He sat silent , gazing abstractedly at the two lovely feet of Miss Grace Plumer , with an air that implied how far his mind had wandered in their conversation from any merely personal considerations . 
Miss Grace Plumer had not made as much progress as Mr. Newt since their last meeting . 
Abel Newt seemed to her the handsomest fellow she had ever seen . 
What he had said both piqued and pleased her . 
`` Women are naturally noble , '' he continued , in a low , rippling voice . 
Yes , and a woman who really loves a man forgives him every thing . '' 
She smiled at the extravagant conceit , while he took her hand as he spoke , and admired the ring . 
The white , warm hand remained passive in his . 
`` Let me come nearer to Paradise , '' he said , half-abstractedly , as if he were following his own thoughts , and he pressed his lips to the fingers upon which the ruby gleamed . 
She felt as if she suggested , in some indescribable way , strange and beautiful thoughts to Abel Newt . 
He looked and spoke as if he addressed himself to the thoughts she had evoked rather than to herself . 
But when he went away she knew that Abel Newt was appointed first flirter , viceSligo Moultrie removed . 
Then Mr. Newt said , with a sneer , `` It seems to me that a mother whose daughter gets married without her knowledge is a very curious kind of mother -- an extremely competent kind of mother . '' 
He resumed his walking . 
Mr. Newt pondered for a little while . 
`` I thought Abel was trial enough ! '' 
Mr. Newt laughed mockingly , while the tears flowed fast from the eyes of his wife , who said at intervals , `` I vow , '' and `` I declare , '' with such utter weakness of tone and movement that her husband suddenly exclaimed , in an exasperated tone , `` Nancy , if you do n't stop rocking your body in that inane way , and shaking your hand and your handkerchief , and saying those imbecile things , I shall go mad . 
`` May , I forbid your going , '' said Mr. Newt , severely and loudly . 
`` A pretty family you have brought up , Mrs. Nancy Newt , '' said he , at length , looking at his wife with all the contempt which his voice expressed . 
`` A son who ruins me by his extravagance , a daughter who runs away with -- with '' -- he hesitated to remember the exact expression -- `` with a pauper-booby , and another daughter who defies and disobeys her father . 
Is there no younger brother of your son-in-law whom you might introduce to Miss May Newt ? 
`` The husband 's duty takes him away from home , '' continued Mr. Newt . 
`` Mr. Newt , '' said his wife , at length , `` perhaps Alfred Dinks is not poor . '' 
That was the chance , but Mr. Newt was skeptical . 
He was satisfied that the Newt family was not to be a gainer by the new alliance . 
Mr. Newt stopped in his walk , smiled contemptuously , and pointed to his wife , who sat with her handkerchief over her eyes . 
I 've seen her hugging him the whole winter , and so has every body else who has eyes . '' 
`` Mrs. Boniface Newt is unfortunately blind ; that is to say , she sees every body 's affairs but her own , '' said Mr. Newt , tauntingly . 
Mrs. Dagon , without heeding him , talked on . 
It 's a pity a Newt should marry a fool -- '' `` It is not the first time , '' interrupted her nephew , making a low bow to his wife . 
`` No , Aunt Dagon , '' said Mr. Newt . 
And he bowed again to his wife . 
Mr. Newt went out , and slammed the door behind him . 
But Mrs. Dinks , on her side , knowing the limitations of Alfred 's income , and believing in the Newt resources , did not wish to divert from him any kindness of the Newts . 
`` I am sure I know nothing , '' answered Mrs. Newt ; `` I only know that Mr. Newt is furious . '' 
I hope Mr. Newt wo n't suffer himself to be disturbed . 
`` No , '' returned Mrs. Newt , half-sobbing again , `` I have only just heard of it ; and -- and -- I do n't think Mr. Newt would wish me to go . '' 
`` I am sorry not to have seen Mr. Newt before he went down town , '' began Mrs. Dinks , after a pause . 
Mrs. Dinks , Mr. Newt wo n't give her a cent ! '' 
`` Because he said that , daughter or no daughter , she shall lie in the bed she has made . '' 
`` Very well , then , Mrs. Newt , '' said her visitor , rising , `` Mr. Newt will have the satisfaction of seeing his daughter starve . '' 
You can mention these facts to Mr. Newt . '' 
She was troubled , but not overwhelmed ; for she believed that the rich Mr. Newt would not , of course , allow his daughter to suffer . 
No Newt ought to be allowed to suffer if we can help it . 
That lady was satisfied , by her conversation with Mrs. Newt , that it would be useless for her to see Mr. Newt -- that it was one of the cases in which facts and events plead much more persuasively than words . 
Mr. Newt is of another kind . 
She had herself read his name as director of at least seven different associations for doing good to men and women . 
She did not know that it was a very different person who had done the work -- a person whose name was Abel Newt . 
For it was her changing character -- changing in consequence of her acquaintance with Abel -- which modified her opinions ; and Arthur arrived upon her horizon at the moment of the change . 
Has it any thing to do with that confounded sketch at Saratoga , and that -- equally confounded Abel Newt ? 
thought he . 
For the conversation at the Round Table sometimes fell upon Abel . 
`` He is certainly a handsome fellow , '' said Amy Waring . 
`` I do n't wonder at his success . '' 
Do n't you see , Abel Newt is a sort of Alcibiades ? '' 
`` No , for he has sense enough to conceal the coxcomb . 
But you ought to know your own nephew , Mr. Newt , '' answered Amy . 
`` Perhaps ; but I have a very slight acquaintance with him , '' said Mr. Newt . 
`` I do n't exactly like him , '' said Arthur Merlin , with perfect candor . 
`` I did n't know you knew him , '' replied Amy , looking up . 
`` No , no , '' said he , hastily ; `` I do n't know him , I believe ; but I know about him . '' 
`` I mean , '' said Arthur , quite confused , `` that I do n't -- somehow -- that is to say , you know , there 's a sort of impression you get about people -- '' Lawrence Newt interposed -- `` I suppose that Arthur does n't like Abel for the same reason that oil does n't like water ; for the same reason that you , Miss Amy , and Miss Wayne , would probably not like such a man . '' 
`` What kind of man is Mr. Newt ? '' 
`` Do n't you know him ? '' 
They both doubted how Abel might have impressed her . 
Lawrence Newt had not carelessly said that neither Amy nor Hope would probably like Abel . 
`` Miss Hope is right , Arthur , '' said he . 
`` I beg pardon , Mr. Newt , and Miss Wayne , '' said Arthur Merlin ; `` but how can a man have a high respect for women when he sees his sister do what Fanny Newt has done ? '' 
`` However , '' said he , `` Mr. Newt is a wealthy merchant . 
Major Scuppernong , of North Carolina , and Captain Lamb , of Pennsylvania , turned simultaneously to the young gentleman who sat between them , and who had been introduced to them by General Belch as Mr. Newt , son of our old Tammany friend Boniface Newt , and said to him , with hysterical fervor , `` By G -- , Sir ! 
Abel smiled and bowed on each side of him , filled his own glass and lighted a cigar . 
murmured , or rather gurgled , Major Scuppernong to Abel at his side . 
But when General Belch rose and said that eloquence was unnecessary when he mentioned one name , and that he therefore merely requested his friends to fill and pledge , without further introduction , `` The old North State , '' there was a prolonged burst of enthusiasm , during which Major Scuppernong tottered on to his feet and wavered there , blubbering in maudlin woe , and wiping his eyes with a napkin ; while the company , who perceived his condition , rattled the table , and shouted , and laughed , until Sligo Moultrie , who sat opposite Abel , declared to him across the table that it was an abominable shame , that the whole South was insulted , and that he should say something . 
`` Fiddle-de-dee , Moultrie , '' said Abel to him , laughing ; `` the South is no more insulted because Major Scuppernong , of North Carolina , gets drunk and makes a fool of himself than the North is insulted because General Smith , of Vermont , and the Honorable Dinks , of Boston , make fools of themselves without getting drunk . 
But the gallant Major did not get through his speech at all , because he never began it . 
The longer he stood the unsteadier he grew , and the more profusely he wept . 
Once or twice he made a motion , as if straightening himself to begin . 
There was a moment of silence , during which the eloquent and gallant Major mopped the lingering tears with his napkin , then his mouth opened in a maudlin smile ; the roar began again , until at last the smile changed into a burst of sobbing , and to Abel Newt 's extreme discomfiture , and Sligo Moultrie 's secret amusement , Major Scuppernong suddenly turned and fell upon Abel 's neck , and tenderly embraced him , whispering with tipsy tenderness , `` My dearest Belch , I love you ! 
Abel called the waiters , and had the gallant and eloquent Major removed to a sofa . 
`` He enjoys life , the Major , Sir , '' said Captain Lamb , of Pennsylvania , at Abel 's left hand ; `` a generous , large-hearted man . 
asked Captain Lamb of Abel , while the knife waited and rested a moment on the outside of the mouth . 
`` I believe he is , Sir , '' said Abel , at a venture . 
yes , '' replied Abel . 
Captain Lamb cocked his eye at Abel as if he had been a glass of wine . 
Abel rose , and , seating himself by Sligo Moultrie , entered into conversation . 
But his object in moving was not talk . 
It was to give the cue to the company of changing their places , so that he might sit where he would . 
He drifted and tacked about the table for some time , and finally sailed into the port toward which he had been steering -- an empty chair by Mr. Dinks . 
Mr. Dinks added , with a patronizing air , `` I presume you are not often at dinners of this kind , Mr. Newt ? '' 
`` No , '' replied Abel ; `` I usually dine on veal and spring chickens . '' 
said Mr. Dinks , who thought Abel meant that he generally ate that food . 
`` Yes , of course , I understand , '' replied Mr. Dinks , loftily , who had not the least idea what Abel meant ; `` young men must expect to begin at women 's dinners . '' 
`` They must , indeed , '' replied Abel . 
As he spoke the young gentleman filled a glass of wine , and looked over the rim at Mr. Dinks as he drained it . 
Abel smiled to himself . 
`` I suppose , '' said he , `` we ought to congratulate each other , Mr. Dinks . '' 
The honorable gentleman looked at Abel , paused a moment , then said : `` My son marries at his own risk , Sir . 
Mr. Abel Newt bowed to Mr. Dinks as he spoke , while that gentleman listened with the stately gravity with which a President of the United States hears the Latin oration in which he is made a Doctor of Laws . 
He bowed in reply to the little speech of Abel 's , as if he desired to return thanks for the combined intellects that had been complimented . 
`` And yet , Sir , '' continued Abel , `` if my father should unhappily conceive a prejudice in regard to this elopement , and decline to know any thing of the happy pair , six hundred dollars , in the present liberal style of life incumbent upon a man who has moved in the circles to which your son has been accustomed , would be a very limited income for your son and daughter-in-law -- very limited . '' 
Abel lighted another cigar . 
`` The father of the lady in these cases is very apt to be obdurate , '' said Abel . 
`` I think very likely , '' replied Mr. Dinks , with the polite air of a man assenting to an axiom in a science of which , unfortunately , he has not the slightest knowledge . 
`` Now , Sir , '' persisted Abel , `` I will not conceal from you -- for I know a father 's heart will wish to know to what his son is exposed -- that my father is in quite a frenzy about this affair . '' 
Abel puffed for a moment in silence . 
Abel blew his nose as if to command his emotion , and looked at Mr. Dinks . 
`` Mr. Newt , I should prefer to drop the subject . 
`` With all my heart , '' said Abel . 
He was satisfied . 
He had come to the dinner that he might discover , in the freedom of soul which follows a feast , what Alfred Dinks 's prospects really were , and what his father would do for him . 
Boniface Newt , upon coming to the store after the tte--ttewith his wife , had told Abel of his sister 's marriage . 
Abel had comforted his parent by the representation of the probable Burt inheritance . 
Therefore , when General Arcularius Belch requested the pleasure of Mr. Abel Newt 's company at dinner , to meet the Honorable B. Jawley Ele -- an invitation which was dictated by General Belch 's desire to stand well with Boniface Newt , who contributed generously to the expenses of the party -- the father and son both perceived the opportunity of discovering what they wished . 
`` Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Dinks will have six hundred a year , as long as papa Dinks chooses to pay it , '' said Abel to his father the day after the dinner . 
Mr. Newt clenched his teeth and struck his fist upon the table . 
cried he . 
Abel was not discomposed . 
He did not clench his teeth or strike his fist . 
`` I tell you what they can do , father , '' said he . 
Mr. Newt remembered every thing he had said of Mr. Van Boozenberg . 
But of late his hair was growing very gray , his brow very wrinkled , his expression very anxious and weary . 
When he remembered the old banker , it was with no self-reproach that he himself was now doing what , in the banker 's case , he had held up to Abel 's scorn . 
She told of her first encounter with Mr. Newt at the Widow Simmers 's -- she told of all that she had heard from her cousin , Gabriel Bennet . 
Aunt Martha , whose ecstasy had passed , seated herself , and p538-274 said she would go , as Mr. Newt requested , on the condition that neither he nor Amy , if they were there , would betray that they knew her . 
As he spoke he opened it , and read aloud : `` My dear Mr. Newt , -- Mrs. Simcoe writes me that grandfather has had a stroke of paralysis , and lies very ill . 
`` Oh yes , '' said Mr. Newt ; `` I see . 
please , Mr. Newt -- please -- '' she answered , hastily , in a tone of painful entreaty , withdrawing her hand from his grasp , confused and very pale . 
Abel Newt and Grace Plumer passed them , and opened their eyes ; and Grace said to Abel , `` How long has Amy Waring been engaged to your Uncle Lawrence ? '' 
He hurries up the street ; tossing many thoughts together -- calculating his losses , for the black-haired young man has lost heavily at Thiel 's faro-table -- wondering about payments -- remembering that it is Sunday morning , and that he is to attend a young lady from the South to church -- a young lady whose father has millions , if universal understanding be at all correct -- thinking of revenge at the table , of certain books full of figures in a certain counting-room , and the story they tell -- story known to not half a dozen people in the world ; the black-eyed youth , in evening dress , alert , graceful , but now meandering and gliding swiftly like a snake , darts up Broadway , and does not seem to hear the bells , whose first stroke startled him as he sat at play , and which are now ringing strange changes in the peaceful air : Come , Newt ! 
Come , Newt ! 
Abel Newt ! 
Come , Newt ! 
As he and his friends passed up Broadway toward Chambers Street they met Abel Newt hastening down to Bunker 's to accompany Miss Plumer to Grace Church . 
She remembered , too ; and as the lithe , graceful figure of the handsome and fascinating Mr. Abel Newt bent in passing , Arthur Merlin , who felt , at the instant Abel passed , as if his own feet were very large , and his clothes ugly , and his movement stupidly awkward -- felt , in fact , as if he looked like a booby -- Arthur Merlin observed that his companion went on speaking , that she did not change color , and that her voice was neither hurried nor confused . 
Nay , why in that moment was he almost willing to paint Abel Newt as the Endymion of his great picture ? 
In the large drawing-room , draped in cool-colored chintz , where once Gabriel Bennet and Abel Newt had seen Hope Wayne , on the table where books had lain like porcelain ornaments , lay a strange piece of furniture , long , and spreading at one end , smelling of new varnish , studded with high silverheaded nails , and with a lid . 
But as she bowed and looked at Hope that young lady visibly changed color , for in the glance which Fanny gave her she seemed to see the face of her brother Abel ; and she was not glad to see it . 
Toward sunset of that soft June day , when Uncle and Aunt Dinks -- the latter humiliated and alarmed -- were gone , and the honest neighbors were gone , Hope Wayne was sitting upon the very bench where , as she once sat reading , Abel Newt had thrown a shadow upon her book . 
And yet the words were heard : Ona pleasant evening in the same month of June Mr. Abel Newt entertained a few friends at supper . 
For , at the special solicitation of Mr. Abel Newt , Mrs. Plumer had consented to accept an invitation to a little supper at his rooms -- very small and very select ; Mrs. Newt , of course , to be present . 
The Plumers arrived , and Laura Magot ; but a note from mamma excused her absence -- papa somewhat indisposed , and so forth ; and Mr. Abel himself so sorry -- but Mrs. Plumer knows what these husbands are ! 
Prince Abel begins the little speech to the mother , but his voice and face turn toward the daughter as it ends . 
`` Really , Mr. Newt '' -- it is Mrs. Plumer , of New Orleans , who speaks -- `` you have created Paris in Grand Street ! '' 
Miss Plumer , of New Orleans , has read more French literature of the lighter sort -- novels and romances , for instance -- than most of the young women whom Abel Newt meets in society . 
Sligo Moultrie sits beyond Miss Plumer , who is at the left of Mr. Newt . 
Upon his right sits Mrs. Plumer . 
The friendly relations of Abel and Sligo have not been disturbed . 
In Abel 's room of an evening , at a late hour , when a party of youth are smoking , there are many allusions to the pretty Plumer -- to which it happens that Newt and Moultrie make only a general reply . 
The ripe mouth half smiles upon Prince Abel . 
He holds a porcelain plate with a peach upon it , and a silver fruit-knife in his hand . 
`` Well , Mr. Newt . '' 
`` But that its mere consciousness -- a sort of silent eloquence -- is pure happiness to him who feels it ? '' 
And the Princess came . '' 
`` Why , then , she had a very pleasant visit , '' he says , gayly . 
He has drunk wine enough to be bold , and calls out aloud from his end of the table , `` Mr. Abel Newt ! '' 
`` I am not her confidant , '' Abel answers ; and gallantly adds , `` I am sure , like every other man , I should be glad to be so . '' 
asks Abel , conscious that Grace Plumer is watching him closely . 
Abel bows smilingly . 
Grace Plumer waits to hear what Abel says , or to observe what he does . 
Abel Newt quietly turns to Grace Plumer , saying , `` Poor Corlaer ! 
As if money were all ! '' 
He looks her straight in the eyes as he says it . 
Perhaps it is some effort he is making which throws into his look that cold , hard blackness which is not beautiful . 
Perhaps it is some kind of exasperation arising from what he has heard Moultrie say privately and Van Boozenberg publicly , as it were , that pushes him further than he means to go . 
The gentle , rippling murmur of talk fills the room , and at a moment when Moultrie is speaking with his neighbor , Abel says , looking at the engraving of the Madonna , `` Miss Grace , I feel like those cherubs . '' 
`` Why so , Mr. Newt ? '' 
Abel , passing to and fro , looks at her occasionally , and can not possibly tell if her confusion is pain or pleasure . 
There is a reckless gayety in the tone with which he speaks to the other ladies . 
`` Surely Mr. Newt was never so fascinating , '' they all think in their secret souls ; and they half envy Grace Plumer , for they know the little supper is given for her , and they think it needs no sibyl to say why , or to prophesy the future . 
Sligo Moultrie feels and admires the audacious skill of Abel in crowning the feast with music . 
Abel Newt 's glittering eyes are upon them . 
She recoils from the cold blackness she has seen in his eyes . 
Mr. Newt , how much we are obliged to you ! '' 
says Mrs. Godefroi Plumer , as Abel hands her into the carriage . 
`` The pleasure is all mine , Madame , '' replies Mr. Newt , as he sees with bitterness that Sligo Moultrie stands ready to offer his hand to assist Miss Plumer . 
Miss Plumer can accept the assistance of but one , and Mr. Abel is resolved to know which one . 
`` Allow me , Miss Grace , '' says Abel . 
She feels , perhaps , that he has no rights of intimacy -- at least not yet -- or what does she feel ? 
But she gives her hand to Sligo Moultrie , and Abel bows . 
`` Thank you for a delightful evening , Mr. Newt . 
`` By-the-by , Mr. Moultrie , '' says the ringing voice of the clear-eyed girl , who remembers that Abel is listening , but who is sure that only Sligo can understand , `` I ought to have told you that the story ended differently . 
`` Good-night , Newt ; a very beautiful and pleasant party . '' 
Abel Newt stands at his door for a moment , remembering them also , and perfectly understanding them . 
The next instant he is shawling and cloaking the other ladies , who follow the Plumers ; among them Mrs. Dagon , who says , softly , `` Good-night , Abel . 
Yes , Abel remembers with singular distinctness that it was a word , only one word , just a year ago to Grace Plumer -- a word intended only to deceive that foolish Fanny -- which had cost him -- at least , he thinks so -- Hope Wayne . 
He bows his last guests out at the door with more sweetness in his face than in his soul . 
Returning to the room he looks round upon the ruins of the feast , and drinks copiously of the wine that still remains . 
Not at all inclined to sleep , he goes into his bedroom and finds a cigar . 
Returning , he makes a few turns in the room while he smokes , and stops constantly to drink another glass . 
He half mutters to himself , as he addresses the chair in which Grace Plumer has been sitting , `` Are you or I going to pay for this feast , Madame ? 
Yes , my dear Grace , you 'll pay by-and-by . '' 
He says these last words very slowly , with his teeth set , the head a little crouched between the shoulders , and a stealthy , sullen , ugly glare in the eyes . 
Yes , p538-320 Miss Grace Plumer ; you shall pay for to-night and for the evening in my mother 's conservatory . '' 
It is one o'clock , and he goes down stairs and out of the house . 
Still smoking , he passes along Broadway until he reaches Thiel 's . 
Abel himself looks a little wild and flushed . 
One by one the players drop away -- except those who remark Abel 's game , for that is so careless and furious that it is threatening , threatening , whether he loses or wins . 
The lights are steady . 
A fewevenings afterward , when Abel called to know how the ladies had borne the fatigues of the feast , Mrs. Plumer said , with smiles , that it was a kind of fatigue ladies bore without flinching . 
She emphasized the last words , and her bright black eyes opened wide upon Mr. Abel Newt , who could not tell if he saw mischievous malice or a secret triumph and sense of release is them . 
said he , gayly , `` it would be too much for me to hope to make any ladies , and especially young ladies , perfectly happy . '' 
And he returned Miss Plumer 's look with a keen glance masked in merriment . 
said Abel , with a laugh , as he pointed at Miss Plumer 's companion . 
Abel was very brilliant , and told more and better stories than usual . 
Mrs. Plumer listened and laughed , and declared that he was certainly the best company she had met for a long time . 
In fact , Abel was several times surprised by the uncommon spirit of Sligo 's replies . 
said Abel to himself , with a flash of the black eyes that was startling . 
All the evening he felt particularly belligerent toward Sligo Moultrie ; and yet a close observer would have discovered no occasion in the conduct of the young man for such a feeling upon Abel 's part . 
Mr. Moultrie sat quietly by the side of Grace Plumer -- `` as if somehow he had a right to sit there , '' thought Abel Newt , who resolved to discover if indeed he had a right . 
During that visit , however , he had no chance . 
Moultrie sat persistently , and so did Abel . 
It was fairly toward midnight when Abel rose to leave , and at the same moment Sligo Moultrie rose also . 
Abel bade the ladies good-evening , and passed out as if Moultrie were close by him . 
But that young man remained standing by the sofa upon which Grace Plumer was seated , and said quietly to Abel , `` Good-evening , Newt ! '' 
Grace Plumer looked at him also , with the bright black eyes , and blushed . 
For a moment Abel Newt 's heart seemed to stand still ! 
An expression of some bitterness must have swept over his face , for Mrs. Plumer stepped toward him , as he stood with his hand upon the door , and said , `` Are you unwell ? '' 
and he looked surprised , as if he could not imagine why any one should think so . 
Mrs. Plumer also left the room almost immediately after his departure . 
Abel more than suspected the truth . 
He was sure of it , and the certainty made him desperate . 
He had risked so much upon the game ! 
As he half ran along the street he passed many things rapidly in his mind . 
Turning out of Broadway he ran quickly to his door , opened it , and leaped up stairs . 
To his great surprise his lamp was lighted and a man was sitting reading quietly at his table . 
As Abel entered his visitor closed his book and looked up . 
His uncle said , only half smiling , `` Abel , we are both bachelors , and bachelors have no hours . 
Abel looked at his guest uneasily ; but he put down his hat and lighted a cigar ; then seated himself , almost defiantly , opposite his uncle , with the table between them . 
`` Abel , you are not a fool . 
But I do n't like your looks , Abel ; and I do n't like the looks of other people when they speak of you and your father . 
asked Abel , half-sneeringly , the smoke rising from his mouth . 
`` I am like other young men , '' continued Abel . 
Abel , when the prodigal son came to himself , he rose and went to his father . 
asked Abel , as he looked around his luxurious rooms , his eye falling last upon the French print of Lucille , fresh from the bath . 
There was a look of earnest , yearning entreaty in his eyes as he said , `` Abel , you remember Milton 's Comus ? '' 
Abel smiled , but did not answer . 
But after a few minutes he said , with a smile , `` I was not there . '' 
`` You arethere , '' answered Lawrence Newt , with uplifted finger , and in a voice so sad and clear that Abel started . 
`` Good-night , Abel . '' 
Abel sat in his chair , intently thinking . 
His uncle 's words rang in his memory . 
But as he recalled the tone , the raised finger , the mien , with which they had been spoken , the young man looked around him , and seemed half startled and frightened by the stillness , and awe-struck by the midnight hour . 
Mr. Newt found holes in the carpets , stains upon the cloths , knocks upon the walls , nicks in the glasses and plates at table , scratches upon the furniture , and defects and misfortunes every where . 
He went to bed without saying good-night , and came down without a good-morning . 
He sat at breakfast morose and silent ; or he sighed , and frowned , and muttered , and went out without a smile or a good-by . 
If May appeared in a new dress he frowned , and his wife trembled every time she put in a breast-pin . 
If any body had looked into it he would have seen only the traces of a careful and elegant hand , and often enough he would have seen a delicate girl-face , almost too thoughtful for so young a face , resting upon the hand , as if May Newt were troubled and perplexed by the gloom of the house and the silence of the household . 
Or fine fruit for Miss May Newt , with the same message . 
Mr. Abel Newt threw his leg over the arm of the chair and looked at his boot . 
`` He has sold out in the Mallow Mines to put in , '' said Abel , a little doggedly . 
`` He says so , '' returned Abel . 
said his father , tartly , turning back again to his desk . 
Abel put both hands in his pockets , and both feet upon the ground , side by side , and rocked them upon the heels backward and forward , looking all the time at his father . 
At length he said , `` I think we 'd better do it . '' 
His father did not speak or move . 
He seemed to have heard nothing , and to be only inwardly cursing the state of things revealed by the books and papers before him . 
Abel looked at him for a moment , and then , raising his voice , continued : `` As one of the firm , I propose that we sell out the Bilbo and buy into the Canal . '' 
Not a look or movement from his father . 
Abel jumped up -- his eyes black , his face red . 
He took his hat and went to the door , saying , `` I shall go and conclude the arrangement ! '' 
As he reached the door his father raised his eyes and looked at him . 
`` I believe I am one of the firm , '' said Abel , coldly . 
said the old man , disregarding Abel 's remark . 
Abel was conscious that his father had this game , at least , in his hands . 
You know who has brought us all to shame and disgrace -- to utter poverty ; '' and , rising from his chair , the father shook his clenched hands at Abel so furiously that the young man fell back abashed . 
Do n't dare to say a word , '' cried Mr. Newt , in a voice shrill with anger . 
I am a beggar , Sir ; so are you ! '' 
He sank back in his chair and covered his face with his hands . 
The hot debates of the private room were familiar to his ear . 
With the silent , sad fidelity of his profession he knew every thing , and was dumb . 
Not a turn of his face , not a light in his eye , told any tales to the most careful and sagacious inquirer . 
But he discovered that for the slightest hint of the condition of the Newt business he might as well have asked Boniface himself . 
Abel Newthad now had two distinct warnings of something which nobody knew must happen so well as he . 
`` Miss Grace , '' said Abel , in a low voice . 
`` Mr. Newt , '' said she , with a half smile , as if she accepted a contest of badinage . 
`` Do you remember I said I was perfectly happy ? '' 
He moved his chair a little nearer to hers . 
`` Mr. Newt . '' 
Grace Plumer remembered the evening , and she replied , more softly , `` I am very sorry , Mr. Newt , that I behaved so foolishly : I was young . 
`` No harm , I trust , indeed , Miss Grace , '' said Abel . 
`` It is surely no harm to love ; at least , not as I love you . '' 
She stepped back . 
said his companion , drawing herself up and waving him back ; `` I can not hear you talk so . 
Abel turned pale . 
Grace Plumer was frightened . 
As she looked in his face she saw there an expression which assured her that he was capable of saying any thing , of doing any thing ; and she trembled to think how much she might be -- how much any woman is -- in the power of a desperate man . 
`` Indeed , Mr. Newt , you must let me go ! '' 
Abel followed her , but the door opened , and Sligo Moultrie entered . 
Abel stopped and bowed . 
I am sorry , Sir , '' he said , turning to Sligo , `` that my ignorance of your relation to Miss Plumer should have betrayed me . 
I congratulate you both from my soul ! '' 
He bowed again , and before they could speak he was gone . 
The tone of his voice lingering upon their ears was like a hiss . 
`` Mr. Newt , '' said Aunt Martha , `` sit down . 
`` And how little I thought I was to see him when I came to Mr. Newt 's store , '' said the young man . 
So the hero of the day conducted Miss May Newt to the banquet . 
The hero of the day was so engaged in conversation with Miss May Newt that he said very little to his neighbor upon the other side , who was no other than Hope Wayne . 
`` He is as black as Abel Newt , '' said Gabriel , looking with his clear eyes at Hope Wayne . 
`` But much handsomer than Mr. Newt now is , '' she answered , with perfect unconcern . 
`` His eyes are softer ; and , in fact , '' she said , smiling pleasantly , `` I am not surprised to see what a willing listener his neighbor is . 
I do n't think that he resembles Mr. Newt at all , except in complexion . '' 
Gabriel said , in reply to it , `` The truth is , Miss Wayne , you have seen him before . 
The first time you ever saw me he was with me . '' 
`` He was your friend in that terrible battle with Abel Newt . 
Why did I not know that he must of course love her ? '' 
She knew that he could not but be honest ; and she said quietly in her soul , `` He did not know at that time how well worthy his love she was . '' 
Until that moment , and especially after the little conversation between Hope and Gabriel , in which Abel Newt 's name had been mentioned , Arthur had thought it , upon the whole , the pleasantest little dinner he had ever known . 
She had heard Abel in old days speak of Gabriel Bennet as a spooney -- a saint in the milk -- a goodsey , boodsey , booby -- a sort of youth who would turn pale and be snuffed out by one of her glances . 
said General Belch , as the messenger retired , `` old Newt 's smashed ! 
`` Abel Newt , '' replied General Belch . 
I did not know he was in political life , '' said he . 
Do you know Abel Newt ? '' 
`` I do . 
He is a gentleman without the slightest squeamishness . 
He is perfectly able to see things from particular points of view . 
He has great knowledge of the world , and he is a friend of the people , Sir . 
His politics are of the right kind , '' said General Belch , in a tone which seemed to be setting the tune for any future remarks Mr. Ele might have to make about Mr. Newt -- at public meetings , for instance , or elsewhere . 
`` I am glad to hear he is a friend of the people , '' returned Mr. Ele . 
`` Yes , Sir , he is the consistent enemy of a purse-proud aristocracy , Sir . '' 
`` Dandled in the lap of luxury , he does not hesitate to descend from it to espouse the immortal cause of popular rights . '' 
`` Animated by a glowing patriotism , he stands upon the people , and waves above his head the glorious flag of our country . '' 
`` The undaunted enemy of monopoly , he is equally the foe of class legislation and the friend of State rights . '' 
`` Well , now , do n't you see what kind of man Abel Newt is ? '' 
`` I tell you , if you fellows from the city do n't look out for yourselves , you 'll find him riding upon your shoulders . 
I will see Mr. Newt , and let you know . 
`` This way , '' said the book-keeper , suddenly , as he saw that he was going toward Mr. Newt 's room . 
`` I want Mr. Newt . '' 
`` The young one , Mr. Abel Newt . '' 
`` Where is he ? '' 
Before the book-keeper was aware the young man had opened the door that communicated with Mr. Newt 's room . 
There was something in the sitting figure that made the youth lift his hand and remove his cap , and say , in a low , respectful voice , `` Can you tell me , Sir , where to find Mr. Abel Newt ? '' 
`` Here 's a note for him from General Belch . '' 
It was very short and simple , as Abel found when he read it : `` My dear Sir , -- I have just heard of your misfortunes . 
Such men as Abel Newt are not made to fail . 
Where 's Abel ? '' 
I suppose Abel is down town . '' 
May paused for a moment , and then said : `` From what I have heard drop from father during the last few years since Abel has been in the business , I do n't believe that Abel has helped him -- '' `` Exactly , '' interrupted Mrs. Dagon , as if soliloquizing ; `` and why on earth did n't the fellow marry Hope Wayne , or that Southern girl , Grace Plumer ? '' 
`` Abel marry Hope Wayne ? '' 
But Gabriel 's story of school life also included her brother Abel , and what she heard of the boy agreed with what she knew and felt of the man . 
`` I presume , '' said May Newt , loftily , `` that Hope Wayne would be as likely to marry Aaron Burr as Abel Newt . '' 
`` And if '' -- continued Mrs. Dagon -- `` if it was so wonderfully impossible that Abel should marry Hope Wayne , why might he not have married Grace Plumer , or some other rich girl ? 
It was evidently the only thing for him , whatever it may be for other people . 
As she spoke the door opened , and Abel entered . 
His dress was disordered , his face was flushed , and his manner excited . 
She recoiled from the unaccustomed caress , and both she and Mrs. Dagon perceived in his appearance and manner , as well as in the odor which presently filled the room , that Abel was intoxicated . 
`` May , darling , '' he began in a maudlin tone , `` how 's our dear mother ? '' 
`` No , darling , I wo n't go if you say not . '' 
His eyes then fell uncertainly upon Mrs. Dagon , and he added , thickly , `` That 's only Aunt Dagon . 
How do , Aunt Dagon ? '' 
`` What do you want , Abel ? '' 
Abel had seated himself upon the sofa , with his hat still on his head . 
There was perhaps something in May 's tone that alarmed him , for he began to shed tears . 
May , do n't you love your poor Abel ? '' 
She looked at him without speaking . 
`` I 've been to General Belch 's , '' he sobbed , in reply ; `` and I do n't mind Aunt Dagon , if you do n't . '' 
Abel stopped and looked half angry , for a moment , but immediately fell into the old strain . 
Abel began to snivel . 
I mean for myself , May , for your poor brother Abel . 
You might just try . '' 
Abel , do n't you come up stairs while you are in this state . 
Abel raised himself fiercely , while the bad blackness filled his eyes . 
`` D -- d old hunks ! '' 
Mrs. Dagon and May Newt had closed the door , and Abel was left alone . 
`` It 's no use , '' he said , moodily and aloud , but still thickly . 
He says he can -- buy off -- Bodley -- and then -- why , then -- devil take it ! '' 
he said , vacantly , with heavy eyes , `` then -- then -- oh yes ! '' 
I shall be a great -- a great -- great -- man -- I 'll be -- rep -- rep -- sentive -- ofs -- ofs -- dear pe -- pe . '' 
His head fell like a lump upon the cushion of the sofa , and he breathed heavily , until the solemn , dark , formal parlor smelled like a bar-room . 
`` I thought Endymion only slept , '' continued Hope Wayne ; `` but Mr. Newt is a judge of pictures -- he knows . '' 
`` He certainly spoke as if he knew , '' persisted the painter , recklessly , as he saw and felt the usual calmness return to his companion . 
`` He said that if Endymion were not dead he could n't resist such splendor of beauty . '' 
`` Mr. Newt 's judgment seems to be better than his memory , '' said she , pleasantly . 
`` How ? '' 
`` He forgets that Endymion didawake . 
Abel Newt , in response to the General 's note , had already called at that gentleman 's office , and had received overtures from him , who offered him Mr. Bodley 's seat in Congress , upon condition that he was able to see things from particular points of view . 
`` By reputation , '' replied Abel . 
Abel was most happy to accept . 
The elegant youth of the town gradually fell off from frequenting Abel 's rooms , for he always proposed cards , and the stakes were enormous ; which was a depressing circumstance to young gentlemen who mainly depended upon the paternal purse . 
It was not pleasant for young Wetherley , and his friends in a similar situation , to sit down to a night at cards with such a desperate player as Abel Newt . 
Besides , his rooms had lost that air of voluptuous elegance which was formerly so unique . 
The decanters and bottles were no longer kept in a pretty side-board , but stood boldly out , ready for instant service ; and whenever one of the old set of men happened in , he was very likely to find a gentleman -- whose toilet was suspiciously fine , whose gold looked like gilt -- who made himself entirely at home with Abel and his rooms , and whose conversation indicated that his familiar haunts were race-courses , bar-rooms , and gambling-houses . 
It was unanimously decreed that Abel Newt had lost tone . 
Younger sisters , who had heard their elders -- who were married now -- speak of the fascinating Mr. Newt , perceived that the fascinating Mr. Newt was a little too familiar when he flirted , and that his breath was offensive with spirituous fumes . 
The stories he told there were of such a character , and he told them so loudly , that more than once some husband , whose wife was in the neighboring room , had remonstrated with him . 
Sligo Moultrie , during one of the winters that he passed in the city after his marriage , had a fierce quarrel with Abel for that very reason . 
Mr. Moultrie sent a friend with a note the following morning , and Mr. Newt acknowledged that he had been rude . 
In the evening , at General Belch 's , Abel was presented to all the guests . 
Every body had a little compliment , to which Abel bowed and smiled politely , while he observed that the residence was much more comfortable than the office of General Belch . 
Abel looked up and saw a man who seemed to be made of parchment , and his complexion , of the hue of dried apples , suggested that he was usually kept in a warm green satchel . 
`` He must , indeed , '' said Mr. Enos Slugby , whisking a little of the ash from his cigar off an embroidered shirt-bosom , in doing which the flash from a diamond ring upon his finger dazzled Abel , who had turned as he spoke . 
During the remarks that General Belch had been making his eyes were fixed upon Abel Newt , who understood that this was a political examination , in which the questions asked included the answers that were to be given . 
Mr. Bat 's eyes opened and saw Abel 's fixed upon him with a peculiar intelligence . 
But Abel relieved the embarrassment by quietly completing Mr. Bat 's sentence -- -- `` by the managers . '' 
His black eyes glittered around the table , and Mr. Ele remembered a remark of General Belch 's about Mr. Newt 's riding upon the shoulders of his fellow-laborers . 
General Belch looked at Abel , and said , `` Mr. Ele , whom do you mean ? '' 
`` I refer to Mr. Abel Newt , '' responded the Honorable Mr. Ele . 
`` Is Mr. Newt sound in the faith ? '' 
`` I answer for him , '' replied Mr. Ele . 
`` For instance , Mr. Newt , '' said Mr. Enos Slugby , who was interested in General Belch 's little plans , `` you have no doubt that Congress ought to pass the grant to purchase the land for Fort Arnold , which has been offered to it by the company of which our friend General Belch is counsel ? '' 
`` None at all , '' replied Abel . 
`` Shall it be Abel Newt ? '' 
`` I propose the health of the Honorable Abel Newt , whom I cordially welcome as a colleague , '' said Mr. Ele . 
They came to Abel and shook his hand ; then they swarmed into the hall and put on their hats and coats . 
`` Stay , Newt , '' whispered Belch , and Abel lingered . 
The Honorable B. J. Ele also lingered , as if he would like to be the last out of the house ; for although this distinguished statesman did not care to do otherwise than as General Belch commanded , he was anxious to be the General 's chief butler , while the remark about riding on his companions ' shoulders and the personal impression Abel had made upon him , had seriously alarmed him . 
Abel Newt was sitting with one leg over the back of the chair , and a tumbler of brandy before him , smoking . 
said Abel , laughing , as the General returned , `` I would n't treat a dog as you do that man . '' 
Drawinghis chair near to Abel 's , General Belch lighted a cigar , and said : `` You see it 's not so very hard . '' 
Abel looked inquiringly . 
asked Abel . 
`` My dear Newt , I was not aware that you had such a soft spot . 
`` Not that I am aware of , '' said Abel . 
`` I thought the people were the source of power , '' replied Abel , gravely . 
`` Not since school , '' replied Abel . 
inquired Abel . 
replied Abel . 
cried Abel ; `` milk for babes ! '' 
asked Abel , suddenly . 
continued Abel . 
His fat nose glistened for a moment , while his month twisted into a smile , and he answered , `` They 're only for Belch as far as Belch is for them -- '' `` Or as far as Belch makes them think he is , '' answered Abel , smiling . 
`` Now , Newt , the thing 's in your own hands . 
`` Too many rivals , '' said Abel , curtly . 
said Abel . 
Abel had to begin very soon . 
The members of the committee , each in his own district , consulted with various people , whom they found generally at corner groceries . 
`` Mr. Abel Newt has been mentioned , '' replied the gentleman with the diamond ring , which he had slipped into his waistcoat pocket before the interview . 
`` Son of old Newt that bust t ` other day ? '' 
And you need n't say any thing about Abel Newt , because that will all be settled in the Convention ; and the delegates of the people will express their will there as they choose . 
After these speeches the Convention proceeded to the ballot , when it was found that nine-tenths of all the votes cast were for Abel Newt , Esquire . 
Mr. Enos Slugby rose , and called for three cheers for `` the Honorable Abel Newt , our next talented and able representative in Congress . '' 
On the wings of the newspapers the nomination of Abel Newt reached Delafield , where Mr. Savory Gray still moulded the youthful mind . 
`` Well , it is Abel Newt , who used to sit at this very table . 
Abel Newt , one of Mr. Gray 's boys . '' 
Think , boys , any one of you , if you are good , may one day get nominated to Congress , as the Honorable Mr. Newt is , who was once a scholar here , just like you . 
`` AndBoniface Newt has failed , '' said Mr. Bennet to his wife , in a low voice . 
Suddenly a gentleman took off his hat and waved it violently in the air , and a superb diamond-ring flashed in the torch-light as he did so , while he shouted , `` Three cheers for Newt ! '' 
`` Newt ! 
Newt ! 
Newt ! '' 
When they reached Mr. Newt 's room they found him lying upon a sofa , while Musher and the Honorable B. J. Ele were trying to get him up . 
`` No , I ca n't , '' replied Abel , with a half-humorous maudlin smile . 
`` Newt ! 
Newt ! 
Newt ! '' 
`` Newt ! 
Newt ! 
Newt ! '' 
Abel looked sleepily round , with his eyes half closed and his under lip hanging . 
`` ` Tai n't no use , '' said he , thickly ; `` ` tai n't no use . '' 
The perspiring and indignant politicians grasped him -- Slugby and William Condor under the arms , Belch on one side , and Ele ready to help any where . 
They were all holding him and looking very angry , while they heard the loud and imperative -- `` Newt ! 
Newt ! 
Newt ! '' 
Then suddenly General Belch laid his hands upon the sofa on which Abel was lying , and moved it toward the window . 
`` Now , '' cried he to the others , `` open the blinds , and we 'll make an end of it . '' 
There was a great shout , `` Three cheers for Newt ! '' 
`` ` Tai n't Newt , '' cried a sharp voice ; `` it 's Belch . '' 
During all this time General Arcularius Belch had been bowing profoundly and grimacing in dumb show to the crowd , pointing at Abel Newt , who stood , ingeniously supported , his real state greatly concealed by the friendly night . 
`` Gentlemen , I am very sorry to have to inform you that our distinguished fellow-citizen , Mr. Newt , to compliment whom you have assembled this evening , is so severely unwell -LRB- oh ! 
Let me , in conclusion , propose three cheers for our representative in the next Congress , the Honorable Abel Newt . 
And now -- '' he whispered to his friends as the shouts began , `` now lug him in again . '' 
The crowd cheered , the Honorable Mr. Newt was lugged in , the windows were closed , and General Belch and his friends withdrew . 
`` I tell you what it is , '' said he , as they passed up the street at a convenient distance behind the crowd , `` Abel Next is a man of very great talent , but he must take care . 
When they heard the shouts for Newt they had looked inquiringly at each other . 
But when the scene was closed , and the cheers for the Honorable Abel Newt , our representative in Congress , had died away , they stood for a few moments quite stupefied . 
`` What does it mean , Gerald ? '' 
`` Is Abel Newt in Congress ? '' 
I suppose he is only a candidate . '' 
He moved rapidly away , and his wife , who was not used to speed in his walking , smiled quietly , and , could he have seen her eye , a little mischievously . 
But she relentlessly continued , `` What a majestic thing the election of Abel Newt by the popular will will be ! '' 
`` Has he ever failed before ? '' 
When she had tied her sentence in an inextricable knot , she stopped and seated herself . 
The others fell into a fragmentary conversation , constantly recurring with their eyes to Mr. Newt . 
The talk went on in broken whispers , and it was quite late in the evening when a stumbling step advanced to the door , which was burst open , and there stood Abel Newt , with his hat crushed , his clothes soiled , his jaw hanging , and his eyes lifted in a drunken leer . 
`` How do ? '' 
he said , leaning against the door-frame and nodding his head . 
His mother , who had never before seen him in such a condition , glanced at him , and uttered a frightened cry . 
Abel had no kindly feeling for either of them . 
His brow lowered , and the sullen blackness shot into his eyes . 
`` Hands off ! '' 
They still urged him out of the room . 
`` Hands off ! '' 
Finding himself mastered , Abel swore and struggled with drunken frenzy . 
After a little while he was entirely exhausted , and sank upon the floor . 
Abel looked about stupidly , then crawled toward the staircase , laid p538-417 his head upon the lower step , and almost immediately fell into a deep , drunken slumber . 
Mrs. Simcoe beckoned him toward the parlor ; and as he went in she stepped to the library door and said , to avoid interruption , `` Hope , Mr. Newt and I are talking together in the parlor . '' 
`` Mr. Newt , '' she said , in a low voice , `` you can not wonder that I am anxious . '' 
Then she opened the miniature , and when she saw that he observed it she said , very slowly , `` Is it quite fair , Mr. Newt ? '' 
There sat Hope Wayne , reading ; but as she heard him she raised the head of golden hair , the dewy cheeks , the thoughtful brow , and as she bowed to him the clear blue eyes smiled the words her tongue uttered -- `` Good-by , Mr. Newt , good-by ! '' 
He heard no noise of carriages , no loud city hum ; he only heard , fainter and fainter , softer and softer , sadder and sadder , and ever following on , `` Good-by , Mr. Newt , good-by ! '' 
`` Mydear Newt , as a friend who has the highest respect for you , and the firmest faith in your future , I am sure you will allow me to say one thing . '' 
certainly , my dear Belch ; say two , '' replied Abel , with the utmost suavity , as he sat at table with General Belch . 
`` And it is trained for that service by being merely a synonym for a knowledge of all the sins and rascalities , '' said Abel , smiling , as he blew rings of smoke and passed the decanter to General Belch . 
I see , my dear Newt , that you have had your eyes and your mind open . 
And since we are going to act together -- since , in fact , we are interested in the same plans -- '' `` And principles , '' interrupted Abel , laying his head back , and looking with half-closed eyes at the vanishing smoke . 
General Belch paused , looked at Abel , and took snuff . 
`` I think we do already , '' replied Abel . 
inquired Abel . 
`` An ass , a sheep , and a cow , '' said Abel . 
asked Abel , amused . 
`` As when , for instance , '' returned Abel , `` the Honorable Watkins Bodley , having faithfully served his constituency , is turned adrift by -- by -- the people . '' 
`` Until somebody knocks off your hand , '' said Abel . 
such a pretty flower , all broadcloth , kid gloves , and affability -- contemplate the superb machinery , '' continued the General , warming , `` the primaries , the ward committees , the -- in fact , all the rest of it -- see how gloriously it works -- the great result of the working of the whole is -- '' `` To establish justice , insure domestic tranquillity , promote the general welfare , and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity , '' interrupted Abel , who had been scanning the Constitution , and who delivered the words with a rhetorical pomp of manner . 
Abel looked inquiringly . 
`` Of course , '' replied Abel , in a tone that General Belch did not entirely comprehend -- `` of course no gentleman knows any thing of politics . 
`` I 'm dreadfully hard up , '' said Abel . 
asked Abel , surprised . 
certainly , '' answered Abel . 
`` Give me your hand , Newt . 
The General then wrote a check and a little series of instructions , which he gave to Abel , while Abel himself scribbled an I.O.U. , which the General laid in his pocket-book . 
`` Certainly -- two if you want , '' answered Abel , lazily , repeating the joke . 
Hail Newt ! 
Left to himself , Abel walked for some time up and down his room , with his hands buried in his pocket and a sneering smile upon his face . 
He suddenly drew one hand out , raised it , clenched it , and brought it down heavily in the air , as he muttered , contemptuously , `` What a stupid fool ! 
For the sagacious and fat-nosed General had omitted to look at the little paper Newt handed to him , thinking it would be hardly polite to do so under the circumstances . 
But if he had looked he would have seen that the exact sum they had spoken of had been forgotten , and a very inconsiderable amount was specified . 
It had flashed across Abel 's mind in a moment that if the General subsequently discovered it and were disposed to make trouble , the disclosure of the paper of instructions which he had written , and which Abel had in his possession , would ruin his hopes of political financiering . 
Graduallythe sneer faded from Abel 's face , and he walked up and down the room , no longer carelessly , but fitfully ; stopping sometimes -- again starting more rapidly -- then leaning against the mantle , on which the clock pointed to midnight -- then throwing himself into a chair or upon a sofa ; and so , rising again , walked on . 
His head bent forward -- his eyes grew rounder and harder , and seemed to be burnished with the black , bad light ; his step imperceptibly grew stealthy -- he looked about him carefully -- he stood erect and breathless to listen -- bit his nails , and walked on . 
Abel Newt went into his chamber and put on his slippers . 
He lighted a candle , and looked carefully under the bed and in the closet . 
Then he drew the shades over the windows and went out into the other room , closing and locking the door behind him . 
He glided noiselessly to the door that opened into the entry , and locked that softly and bolted it carefully . 
Then he turned the key so that the wards filled the keyhole , and taking out his handkerchief he hung it over the knob of the door , so that it fell across the keyhole , and no eye could by any chance have peered into the room . 
He saw that the blinds of the windows were closed , the windows shut and locked , and the linen shades drawn over them . 
He also let fall the heavy damask curtains , so that the windows were obliterated from the room . 
Then , moving upon tip-toe , he drew a key from his pocket and fitted it into the lid of a secretary . 
As he turned it in the lock the snap of the bolt made him start . 
He was haggard , even ghastly , as he stood , letting the lid back slowly , lest it should creak or jar . 
With another key he opened a little drawer , and involuntarily looking behind him as he did so , he took out a small piece of paper , which he concealed in his hand . 
Seating himself at the secretary , he put the candle before him , and remained for a moment with his face slightly strained forward with a startling intentness of listening . 
There was no sound but the regular ticking of the clock upon the mantle . 
He had not observed it before , but now he could hear nothing else . 
Every moment it appeared to be louder and louder . 
His brow wrinkled and his head bent forward more deeply , while his eyes were set straight before him . 
The solemn beat became human as he listened . 
He could not raise his head -- he could not turn his eyes . 
He felt as if some awful shape stood over him with destroying eyes and inflexible tongue . 
Abel Newt had unexpectedly seen the reflection of his own face in the mirror that covered the chimney behind the clock . 
Then with sullen bravado , still staring at his reflection in the glass , he took off the glass shade of the clock , touched the pendulum and stopped it ; then turning his back , crept to his chair , and sat down again . 
The silence was profound , not a sound was audible but the creaking of his clothes as he leaned heavily against the edge of the desk and drew his agitated breath . 
He raised the candle and bent his gloomy face over the paper which he held before him . 
It was a note of his late firm indorsed by Lawrence Newt & Co. . 
Abel Newt grinned ; his lips moved : he was muttering `` Dear Uncle Lawrence . '' 
Then covering his face with his hands as he sat , he said to himself , as the hot , hurried thoughts flickered through his mind , `` Yes , yes , Mrs. Lawrence Newt , I shall not be master of Pinewood , but I shall be of your husband , and he will be master of your property . 
Dear Uncle Lawrence shall be my banker . '' 
His brain reeled and whirled as he sat . 
He remembered the words of his friend the General : `` Abel Newt was not born to fail . '' 
`` No , by God ! '' 
he shouted , springing up , and clenching his hands . 
The walls of the room , the floor , the ceiling , p538-433 the furniture heaved and rolled before his eyes . 
In the wild tumult that overwhelmed his brain as if he were sinking in gurgling whirlpools -- the peaceful lawn of Pinewood -- the fight with Gabriel -- the running horses -- the `` Farewell forever , Miss Wayne '' -- the shifting chances of his subsequent life -- Grace Plumer blazing with diamonds -- the figure of his father drumming with white fingers upon his office-desk -- Lawrence and Gabriel pushing him out -- they all swept before his consciousness in the moment during which he threw out his hands wildly , clutched at the air , and plunged headlong upon the floor , senseless . 
Onthe very evening that General Belch and Abel Newt were sitting together , smoking , taking snuff , sipping wine , and discussing the great principles that should control the action of American legislators and statesmen , Hope Wayne and Mrs. Simcoe sat together in their pleasant drawing-room talking of old times . 
It was the moment when Abel Newt was stealing through his rooms , fastening doors and windows . 
It was the very moment when Abel Newt was starting with horror as he saw his own reflection in the glass . 
-- It was the moment when Abel sat at his desk writing the name that Mrs. Simcoe had pronounced . 
As she went she heard Mrs. Simcoe repeating , in the old murmuring sunset strain , TheHonorable Abel Newt was elected to Congress in place of the Honorable Watkins Bodley , who withdrew on account of the embarrassment of his private affairs . 
General Belch then rose and offered a resolution : `` Resolved -- That in the Honorable Abel Newt , our representative , just elected by a triumphant majority of the votes of the enlightened and independent voters of the district -- a constituency of whose favor the most experienced and illustrious statesmen might be proud -- we recognize a worthy exemplar of the purest republican virtues , a consistent enemy of a purse-proud aristocracy , the equally unflinching friend of the people ; a man who dedicates with enthusiasm the rare powers of his youth , and his profoundest and sincerest convictions , to the great cause of popular rights of which the Party is the exponent . 
`` Resolved -- That the Honorable Abel Newt be requested , at the earliest possible moment , to unfold to his fellow-citizens his views upon State and National political affairs . '' 
Such I am proud and happy to declare my friend , your friend , the friend of all honest men , to be ; and I call for three cheers for Honest Abel Newt ! '' 
`` Shall we go to Newt 's ? '' 
`` Yes , I told him we should be round after the meeting , '' replied Mr. Condor ; and the party were presently at his rooms . 
The Honorable Abel had placed several full decanters upon the table , with a box of cigars . 
`` Mr. Newt , '' said Enos Slugby , after they had been smoking and drinking for some time . 
Abel turned his head . 
Abel nodded . 
replied Abel , in a thick voice , and with a look and tone which suggested to his friends that he was rapidly priming himself . 
But , of course , as the brother of Boniface Newt and the uncle of the Honorable Abel Newt '' -- here Mr. Slugby bowed to that gentleman , who winked at him over the rim of his glass -- `` he is naturally a friend of the people . '' 
`` Yes , '' returned Abel . 
It 's a clear case of apple of the eye , '' answered Abel , chuckling . 
As they whispered , and smiled , and nodded together , Abel Newt glanced around the circle with sullen , fiery eyes . 
`` Uncle Lawrence is worth a million of dollars , '' said he , carelessly . 
`` Of course , '' said William Condor , `` a man of Mr. Lawrence Newt 's experience and knowledge of the world is aware that there are certain necessary expenses attendant upon elections -- such as printing , rent , lighting , warming , posting , etc. -- '' `` In fact , sundries , '' said Abel , smiling with the black eyes . 
Your uncle , I presume , Mr. Newt , would not be unwilling to contribute a certain share of the expense of your election ; and indeed , now that you are so conspicuous a leader , he would probably expect to contribute handsomely to the current expenses of the Party . 
`` Oh , clearly , of course , '' answered Abel , still thickly , and in a tone by no means agreeable to his companions . 
At this distinct little speech the whole company lifted their glasses that they might more conveniently watch Abel . 
With a half-maudlin grin he looked along the line . 
`` By-the-by , Condor , how much do you give a year ? '' 
`` Good for Newt ! '' 
`` As for Belch , '' continued Abel , with what would be called in animals an ugly expression -- `` Belch is the clown , and they left him off easy . 
The Party is like the old kings , it keeps a good many fools to make it laugh . '' 
asked Abel . 
He paused , and glared around him . 
shouted Abel , in a voice harsh and hoarse with liquor . 
`` No offense , '' resumed Abel . 
`` I do n't mean he despises you in particular , but all bar-room bobtails . '' 
Abel added , with a fierce hiss . 
Abel ceased , and passed the decanter , which they did not decline ; for they all felt as if the Honorable Abel Newt would probably throw it at the head of any man who said or did what he did not approve . 
There was a low anxious murmur of conversation among them until Abel was evidently very intoxicated , and his head sank upon his breast . 
It is clear that if our dear friend Newt has a weakness it is the bottle ; and if our enemies at Washington , who want to head off this Grant , have a strength , it is finding out an adversary 's soft spot . 
`` Exactly , '' said Condor ; `` we are the Honorable Abel 's Jim . 
Jim makes us go ; we make Abel go . 
Then the General continued : `` We 're going to send Newt to look after Ele , and I rather think we shall have to send somebody to look after Newt . 
Did you say , '' he added , looking at Abel , who lay huddled , dead drunk , in his chair , `` that he dedicated to his country his profoundest and sincerest , or sincerest and profoundest convictions ? '' 
They went down stairs laughing and chatting ; and the Honorable Abel Newt , the worthy exemplar of the purest republican virtues -- as the resolution stated when it appeared in the next morning 's papers -- was left snoring amidst his constituency of empty decanters and drained glasses . 
`` My dear Arthur , '' said Mr. Newt , gravely , `` I told you long ago that he was dead to all that heavenly splendor . '' 
As Lawrence Newt spoke the word the air far off and near seemed to him to ring again with that pervasive murmur , sad , soft , infinitely tender , `` Good-by , Mr. Newt , good-by ! '' 
WhileArthur and Lawrence were conversing in the office of the latter , Abel Newt , hat in hand , stood in Hope Wayne 's parlor . 
His hair was thinner and grizzled ; his face bloated , and his eyes dull . 
she asked , observing that Abel merely stared at her stupidly . 
He bowed his head in assent . 
Abel Newt was evidently abashed by the reception . 
`` Miss Hope , I -- '' `` Mr. Newt , you have no right to address me in that way . '' 
`` Miss Wayne , I have come to -- to -- '' He stopped , embarrassed , rubbing his fingers upon the palms of his hands . 
She looked at him steadily . 
Hope Wayne stood pale , incredulous , and confounded while Abel Newt , with some of the old fire in the eye and the old sweetness in the voice , poured out these rapid words , and advanced toward her . 
`` Do n't drive me to despair , '' he said , suddenly , in reply , and so fiercely that Hope Wayne started . 
`` Listen . '' 
Hope stood before him silent . 
A newelement had forced itself into the life of Hope Wayne , and that was the fate of Abel Newt . 
There was something startling in the direct , passionate , personal appeal he had made to her . 
`` I came to ask you if you know any thing about Abel ? '' 
`` No ; nothing in particular , '' replied Fanny ; `` I believe he 's going to Congress ; but I never see him or hear of him . '' 
I remember some time ago I saw he had a black eye , and he said that he and my ` d -- brother Abel , ' as he elegantly expressed it , had met somewhere the night before , and Abel was drunk and gave him the lie , and they fought it out . 
I think , by-the-way , that 's the last I 've heard of brother Abel . '' 
`` Fanny , I wish I could do something for Abel . '' 
Fanny Dinks looked at Hope Wayne with an incredulous smile , and said , `` I thought once you would marry him ; and so did he , I fancy . '' 
`` What does he do ? 
and how can I reach him ? '' 
asked Hope , entirely disregarding Fanny 's remark . 
Abel and father used to say that no gentleman would ever have any thing to do with politics ; so I never heard any thing , and I 'm sure I do n't know what he 's going to do . '' 
After sitting silently for some minutes , during which Alfred Dinks sprawled in a chair , and yawned , and whistled insolently to himself , while Fanny sat without looking at him , as if she were deaf and dumb , Hope Wayne said to the husband and wife : `` Abel Newt is ruining himself , and he may harm other people . 
If there is any thing that can be done to save him we ought to do it . 
Fanny , he is your own flesh and blood . '' 
`` Save Abel Newt ! '' 
`` And now , '' said Hope , `` will you help me about Abel ? '' 
`` I really do n't see that you can do any thing , '' said Fanny , `` nor any body else . 
I can only be ready to befriend him if the chance offers . '' 
`` And I will make him understand about it , '' she said , as she went down the steps . 
If Miss Wayne calls , tell her I 've gone to tell Mr. Abel Newt that she repents , and wants to marry him ; and I shall add that , having been through the wood , she picks up a crooked stick at last . 
Then Amy discovered me among the poor souls she visited , and through Amy Lawrence Newt ; and by them I have been led out of the valley of the shadow of death , and see the blessed light of love once more . '' 
Mr. Newt ` spolitical friends in New York were naturally anxious when he went to Washington . 
They had constant communication with the Honorable Mr. Ele in regard to his colleague ; for although they were entirely sure of Mr. Ele , they could not quite confide in Mr. Newt , nor help feeling that , in some eccentric moment , even his interest might fail to control him . 
There was something grateful to Abel Newt in the wide sphere and complicated relations of the political capital , of which the atmosphere was one of intrigue , and which was built over the mines and countermines of selfishness . 
He hoodwinked all Belch 's spies , so that the Honorable Mr. Ele could never ascertain any thing about his colleague , until once when he discovered that the report upon the Grant was to be brought in within a day or two by the Committee , and that it would be recommended , upon which he hastened to Abel 's lodging . 
Mr. Ele seated himself carelessly , so carelessly that Abel saw at once that he had come for some very particular purpose . 
He offered his friend a tumbler and a cigar , and they talked nimbly of a thousand things . 
To Abel Newt , General Belch wrote : `` My dear Newt , the lady to whom I have given a letter to you is daughter of an old friend of my family . 
Abel Newt , when he received this letter , looked over his books of reports and statistics . 
`` Captain Jones -- Brazil station , '' he said , skeptically , to himself . 
But he found no such name or event in the obituaries ; and he was only the more amused by his friend Belch 's futile efforts at circumvention and control . 
`` My dear Belch , '' he replied , after he had made his investigations , `` I have your private note , but I have not yet encountered the superb Delilah ; nor have I forgotten what you said to me about working 'em through their wives , and sisters , etc. . 
Yours , A. Newt . '' 
I believe you , '' said Belch to himself , inwardly chuckling as he read and folded Abel 's letter . 
Well , that isgood , '' he continued , the chuckle rising into a laugh . 
`` Well , well , I thought Abel Newt was smart ; but he does n't even suspect , and I have played a deeper game than was needed . '' 
`` I guess that will fix him , '' said Abel , as he looked over his letter , laughed , folded it , and sent it off . 
Mr. Ele by many a devious path at length approached the object of his visit , and hoped that Mr. Newt would flesh his maiden sword in the coming fray . 
Abel said , without removing his cigar , `` I think I shall speak . '' 
`` Likely , '' replied Newt . 
laughed Abel Newt to himself , as he said `` Good-night , Ele . '' 
Yes he did . 
He had followed up his note to General Belch by calling upon the superb Mrs. Delilah Jones . 
But neither the skillful wig , nor the freshened cheeks , nor the general repairs which her personal appearance had undergone , could hide from Abel the face of Kitty Dunham , whom he had sometimes met in other days when suppers were eaten in Grand Street and wagons were driven to Cato 's . 
Abel was intensely amused by the espionage of the Honorable Mr. Ele and the superb Jones . 
He told his colleague how greatly he had been impressed by the widow -- that she was really a fascinating woman ; and , by Jove ! 
Mr. Ele smiled , and said , in a serious way , that she was a splendid woman , and if Abel persisted he must look out for a rival . 
`` For I thought it best to lead him on , '' he wrote to his friend Belch . 
As for the lady herself , Abel was so dexterous that she really began to believe that she might do rather more for herself than her employers . 
He brought to bear upon her the whole force of the fascination which had once been so irresistible ; and , like a blowpipe , it melted out the whole conspiracy against him without her knowing that she had betrayed it . 
The point of her instructions from Belch was that she was to persuade him to be constant to the Grant at any price . 
`` To-morrow , then , Mr. Newt , '' she said to him , as they stood together in the crush of a levee at the White House -- `` to-morrow ourbill is to be reported , and favorably . '' 
She was dressed in the extreme of the mode , and drew Mr. Newt 's arm very close to her as she spoke . 
She observed that Mr. Newt was more than usually disposed to chat . 
Thank you for that , '' said Abel , in a low voice , and almost pressing the hand that lay upon his close-held arm . 
The reply was a slow turn of the head , and a half languishment in the eyes as they sought his with the air of saying , `` Would you deceive a woman who trusts in you utterly ? '' 
`` I hoped , by this time , that you dared every thing , '' replied Abel , with a vague reproach in his tone . 
Mrs. Jones looked at him for a moment with a look of honest inquiry in her eyes . 
`` May I then ask , '' she said , earnestly , and raising her other hand as if to lay it imploringly upon his shoulder , but somehow it fell into his hand , which was raised simultaneously , and which did not let it go -- `` For my sake , will you speak in favor of it ? '' 
`` For your sake , Delilah , '' he said , in a musical whisper , and under the rouge her cheeks tingled -- `` for your sake I will make a speech -- my maiden speech . '' 
When Abel returned from the levee he threw himself into his chair , and said , aloud , `` Is n't a man lucky who is well paid for doing just what he meant to do ? '' 
For Abel Newt intended to get all he could from the Grant , and to enjoy himself as fully as possible while getting it ; but he had his own work to do , and to that his power was devoted . 
To make a telling speech upon the winning side was one of his plans , and accordingly he made it . 
When the bill was reported as it had been drafted by his friends in New York , it had been arranged that Mr. Newt should catch the speaker 's eye . 
His figure and face attracted attention , and his career in Washington had already made him somewhat known . 
During the time he had been there his constant employment had been a study of the House and of its individual members , as well as of the general character and p538-484 influence of the speeches . 
For he had shown so clearly that it was one of the cases in which patriotism and generosity -- the finer feelings and only a moderate expense -- were all one , that the majority , who were determined to pass the Grant in any case , were charmed to have the action so imposingly stated ; and the minority , who knew that it was useless to oppose it , enjoyed the rhetoric of the speech , and , as it was brief , and did not encroach upon dinner-time , smiled approval , and joined in the congratulation to Mr. Newt upon his very eloquent and admirable oration . 
In the midst of the congratulations Abel raised his eyes to Mrs. Delilah Jones , who sat conspicuous in the gallery . 
TheHonorable Abel Newt was the lion of the hour . 
The days of dinner invitations and evening parties suddenly returned . 
It helped to float him more securely to the fulfillment of his great work . 
The report of his speech was scattered abroad in the papers . 
The great moral was duly impressed upon the scholars that Mr. Newt was a great man because he had been one of Mr. Gray 's boys . 
The Washington world soon knew his story , the one conspicuous fact being that he was the favorite nephew of the rich merchant , Lawrence Newt . 
One thing only Abel really wanted . 
He wanted money -- money , which could buy the only pleasures of which he was now capable . 
The woman looked at him inquiringly . 
`` It is n't for you to know how he will pay , '' said Abel , `` but to enjoy the fruits . '' 
The woman , in whose face there were yet the ruins of a coarse beauty , which pleased Abel now as the most fiery liquor gratified his palate , looked at him , and said , `` Abel , what are we to do ? '' 
`` To be happy , '' he answered , with the old hard , black light in his eyes . 
She almost shuddered as she heard the tone and saw the look , and yet she did not feel as if she could escape the spell of his power . 
She knew Abel from old days . 
She saw him now , sodden , bloated -- but he fascinated her still . 
We go to New York a day or two before she sails . 
`` And then ? '' 
`` Then Hell -- if you are anxious for it , '' said Abel , in a sharp , sudden voice . 
Abel Newt looked at her , surprised and pleased . 
The tone of his voice had a lingering music of the same kind as the lingering beauty in her face . 
`` No , I am not afraid , '' she answered , turning to him . 
Hope Waynehad not forgotten the threat which Abel had vaguely thrown out ; but she supposed it was only an expression of disappointment and indignation . 
Could she have seen him a few evenings after the ball and his conversation with Mrs. Delilah Jones , she might have thought differently . 
she said , looking at him , hesitatingly . 
`` To-morrow , '' he answered , grimly . 
`` All what ? '' 
`` Abel Newt was not born to fail , '' he replied ; `` or at least General Belch said so . '' 
His companion had no knowledge of what Abel really meant to do . 
She only knew that he was capable of every thing , and as for herself , her little mask had fallen , and she did not even wish to pick it up again . 
They sat together silently for a long time . 
Ele had come during the evening and knocked at the door , but Abel did not let him in . 
He and his companion sat silently , and heard the few bells strike . 
`` Well , Kitty , '' he said at last , thickly , and with glazing eye . 
`` Oh , we shall be very happy , '' she replied , in a low , wild tone , as if it were the night wind that moaned , and not a woman 's voice . 
He looked at her for a few moments . 
He saw how entirely she was enthralled by him . 
`` I wonder if I care any thing about you ? '' 
She rose quietly and carried the candle to Abel . 
As Abel watched her he remembered the women whom he had tried to marry . 
His memory scoured through his whole career . 
to think I should come to you ! '' 
he said at length , looking at his companion , with an indescribable bitterness of sneering . 
Kitty Dunham sat at a little distance from him on the end of a sofa . 
She understood perfectly what he meant . 
asked Abel , suddenly and angrily . 
Abel glanced at her , from time to time , with maudlin grins and sneers . 
`` Go to bed , '' he said at length ; `` I 've something to do . 
good-night , Mrs. De-de-liah -- superb Jo-Jones ! '' 
He laughed as she went -- sat ogling the fire for a little while , and then unsteadily , but not unconsciously , drew a pocket-book from his pocket and took out a small package . 
Abel looked at them carefully , and leered and glared upon them as if they had been windows through which he saw something -- sunny isles , and luxury , and a handsome slave who loved him to minister to every whim . 
The carriage came as Abel had ordered , a private conveyance to take them quite through to New York . 
The solemnity fretted Abel . 
`` What are you so sober about ? '' 
`` Perhaps not so long , '' he said , sharply -- `` not if I choose to leave you behind . '' 
Abel knew perfectly well that she spoke the truth , but he had never thought of it before . 
Was he then going so long a journey without a friend , unless she went with him ? 
Was she the only one left of all the world ? 
As his mind pondered the question his eye fell upon a newspaper of the day before , in which he saw his name . 
He took it up mechanically , and read a paragraph praising him and his p538-491 speech ; foretelling `` honor and troops of friends '' for a young man who began his public career so brilliantly . 
`` There ; hear this ! '' 
said he , as he read it aloud and looked at his companion . 
It was melancholy merriment . 
`` For the present , then , Mr. Speaker and fellow-citizens , '' said Abel Newt , waving his hand as he saw that every thing was ready , and that the carriage waited only for him and his companion , `` I bid these scenes adieu ! 
Boo -- hoo ! '' 
Then offering his arm with grave ceremony to his companion as if a crowd had been looking on , he went down stairs . 
The very day of the wedding Abel Newt and his companion arrived at Jersey City . 
Leaving Kitty in a hotel , he crossed the river , and ascertained that the vessel on which he had taken two berths under a false name was full and ready , and would sail upon her day . 
He showed himself in Wall Street , carefully dressed , carefully sober -- evidently mindful , people said , of his new position ; and they thought his coming home showed that he was on good terms with his family , and that he was really resolved to behave himself . 
For a day or two he appeared in the business streets and offices , and talked gravely of public measures . 
General Belch was confounded by the cool sobriety , and superiority , and ceremony of the Honorable Mr. Newt . 
When he made a joke , Abel laughed with such patronizing politeness that the General was frightened , and tried no more . 
When he treated Abel familiarly , and told him what a jolly lift his speech had given to their common cause -- the Grant -- the Honorable Mr. Newt replied , with a cold bow , that he was glad if he had done his duty and satisfied his constituents ; bowing so coldly that the General was confounded . 
When Abel had gone , General Belch was profoundly conscious that King Log was better than King Stork , and thought regretfully of the Honorable Watkins Bodley . 
After a day or two the Honorable Mr. Newt went to his Uncle Lawrence 's office . 
Abel had not often been there . 
He had never felt himself to be very welcome there ; and as he came into the inner room where Lawrence and Gabriel sat , they were quite as curious to know why he had come as he was to know what his reception would be . 
Abel bowed politely , and said he could not help congratulating his uncle upon the news he had heard , but would not conceal his surprise . 
What his surprise was he did not explain ; but Lawrence very well knew . 
Abel had the good sense not to mention the name of Hope Wayne , and not to dwell upon any subject that involved feeling . 
He said that he hoped by-gones would be by-gones ; that he had been a wild boy , but that a career now opened upon him of which he hoped to prove worthy . 
`` There was a time , Uncle Lawrence , '' he said , `` when I despised your warning ; now I thank you for it . '' 
Abel spoke of public affairs ; and after a short time he took leave . 
Returning to Wall Street , the Honorable Abel Newt met Mr. President Van Boozenberg . 
Mr. Abel , Sir , I congratilate ee , Sir . 
I allers knowed Mr. Abel Newt would turn up trumps . 
You allers did have the women , Mr. Newt ; and so I told ma . '' 
`` I think he takes it , '' said Abel to himself , with the feeling of an angler , as he watched the other . 
Just before they parted Abel took out his pocket-book and told Mr. Van Boozenberg that he should like to negotiate a little piece of paper which was not altogether worthless , he believed . 
Mr. Newt ? '' 
He asked Abel to walk with him to the bank . 
`` Well , well , '' said Mr. Zephyr Wetherley as he skimmed up Wall Street from the bank , where he had been getting dividends , `` I did n't think to see the day when Abel Newt would be a solid , sensible man . '' 
And Mr. Wetherley wondered , in a sighing way , what was the secret of Abel 's success . 
`` Plenty of time -- plenty of time , '' answered Abel . 
Yes , I am going on a long journey . '' 
Kitty did not smile ; but she took his hand gently . 
Abel shook his head , mockingly . 
That 's what I believe in , '' said he , as he opened his pocket-book and showed her the bills . 
`` Those are the delicate little keys of the Future , '' chuckled Abel , as he gloated over the paper . 
The woman raised her eyes and looked into his . 
Then with the same low tone , as if the wind were wailing , she asked , `` Abel , tell me , before we go upon this long journey , do n't you love me in the least ? '' 
Abel turned and looked at her , gayly . 
I 'll be your friend , and you 'll be mine , and this shall be the friend of both , '' said he , as he raised the bills in his hands . 
She sat beside him silent , and her eyes were hot and dry , not wet with tears . 
There was a look of woe in her face so touching and appealing that , when Abel happened to see it , he said , involuntarily , `` Come , come , do n't be silly . '' 
The evening came , and the Honorable Mr. Newt rose and walked about the room . 
`` How slowly the time passes ! '' 
It was nine o'clock . 
`` No , '' said he , `` I really can not stand it . 
I do want to see the old place once more before that long journey , '' he added , with emphasis , as he put on his coat and hat . 
He ran from the room , and was just going out of the house when he heard a muffled voice calling to him from up stairs . 
`` Why , Kitty , what is it ? '' 
he asked , as he stopped . 
Alarmed for a moment , he leaped up the stairs . 
She stood waiting for him at the door of the room . 
`` Well ! '' 
`` You forgot to kiss me , Abel , '' she said . 
He took her by the shoulders , and looked at her before him . 
`` Fool ! '' 
Abel Newtran to the ferry and crossed . 
Abel Newt smiled : his face was red , his eyes glaring . 
`` I 've played enough , '' he said ; `` the luck 's against me ! '' 
He passed his hands rapidly through his hair . 
`` Cash I can not pay , '' he said ; `` but here is my I O U , and a check of my Uncle Lawrence 's in the morning ; for I have no account , you know . '' 
It was two o'clock in the morning ; and the lonely woman he had left sat waiting and wondering : stealing to the front door and straining her eyes into the night : stealing softly back again to press her forehead against the window : and the quiet hopelessness of her face began to be pricked with terror . 
`` Good-night , gentlemen , '' said Abel , huskily and savagely . 
There was a laugh around the table at which he had been playing . 
`` Takes it hardly , now that he 's got money , '' said one of his old cronies . 
Hope he 'll come often , hey ? '' 
It was after two , and Abel burst into the street . 
He had been drinking brandy , and the fires were lighted within him . 
Pulling his hat heavily upon his head , he moved unsteadily along the street toward the ferry . 
The night air struck cool upon his face and into his lungs . 
His head was light . 
`` Mus ha ' some drink , '' he said , thickly . 
The two or three guests were huddled about a stove -- one asleep upon a bench , the others smoking short pipes ; and their hard , cadaverous faces and sullen eyes turned no welcome upon Abel when he entered , but they looked at him quickly , as if they suspected him to be a policeman or magistrate , and as if they had reason not to wish to see either . 
Abel tried to stand erect , to look dignified , to smooth himself into apparent sobriety . 
He vaguely hoped to give the impression that he was a gentleman belated upon his way home , and taking a simple glass for comfort . 
said one , in a low voice , to his neighbor . 
That ai n't nobody else but Abel Newt . '' 
`` Well , '' muttered Jim , sullenly , as he surveyed the general appearance of Abel while he stood drinking a glass of brandy -- `` pure as imported '' -- at the counter -- `` well , we 've done lots for him : what 's he going to do for us ? 
We 've put that man up tremendious high ; d'ye think he 's going to kick away the ladder ? '' 
He half grumbled to himself , half asked his neighbor Dick . 
`` Well , Newt , how air ye ? '' 
Abel Newt was confounded at being accosted in such a place at such an hour . 
He raised his heavy eyes as he leaned unsteadily against the counter , and saw two beetle-browed , square-faced , disagreeable-looking men looking at him with half-drunken , sullen insolence . 
`` Hallo , Newt ! 
Abel looked at him with shaking head , indignant and scornful . 
`` Who the devil are you ? '' 
he asked , at length , blurring the words as he spoke , and endeavoring to express supreme contempt . 
`` We 're Jim and Dick , and Ned 's asleep yonder on the bench ; and we 're come to drink a glass with yer , Honorable Abel Newt ! '' 
There was a menacing air in his eye as he glanced at Abel , who felt himself quiver with impotent , blind rage . 
`` I dun -- dun -- no ye ! '' 
`` The Honorable Abel Newt 's the row , '' said Jim , pointing at him . 
There was something peculiarly irritating to Abel in the pointing finger . 
Holding by the counter , he raised his hand and struck at it . 
Jim and Dick stood hesitatingly , glaring at Abel . 
Ned joined them , and they surrounded Abel . 
half hiccuped Dick , shaking his head threateningly , and stiffening his arm and fist at his side as he edged toward Abel . 
The hard black eyes of Abel Newt shot sullen fire . 
His rage half sobered him . 
He threw his head with the old defiant air , tossing the hair back . 
The old beauty flashed for an instant through the ruin that had been wrought in his face , and , kindling into a wild , glittering look of wrath , his eye swept them all as he struck heavily forward . 
The doctor 's name was Greenidge -- James Greenidge , and he had known Abel Newt at school . 
Thewoman Abel had left sat quivering and appalled . 
`` Abel , Abel ! '' 
`` But he kissed me before he went , '' she thought , wildly -- `` he kissed me -- he kissed me ! '' 
`` Abel ! 
Abel ! '' 
`` But he kissed me before he went , '' she said , pleadingly , to herself ; `` he kissed me -- he kissed me ! '' 
And when the full day broke , and she heard the earliest footfalls in the street , her heart clung to it as the only memory left to her of all her life : `` He kissed me ! 
Scarcelyhad Abel left the bank , after obtaining the money , than Gabriel came in , and , upon seeing the notes which Mr. Van Boozenberg had shown him , in order to make every thing sure in so large a transaction , announced that they were forged . 
The President was quite beside himself , and sat down in his room , wringing his hands and crying ; while the messenger ran for a carriage , into which Gabriel stepped with Mr. Van Boozenberg , and drove as rapidly as possible to the office of the Chief of Police , who promised to set his men to work at once ; but the search was suddenly terminated by the bills found upon the body of Abel Newt . 
They said they were deeply shocked to announce that a disgrace had befallen the whole city in the crime which had mysteriously deprived his constituency and his country of the services of the young , talented , promising representative , whose opening career had seemed to be in every way so auspicious . 
By what foul play he had been made way with was a matter for the strictest legal investigation , and the honor of the country demanded that the perpetrators of such an atrocious tragedy should be brought to condign punishment . 
The jury returned that the deceased Abel Newt came to his death by the hands of some person or persons unknown . 
`` Abel Newt would have made mince-meat of you and me and the rest of us if he had lived . 
Mr. Condor drew a piece of paper from his pocket , and , holding his cigar in one hand and whiffing at intervals , read : `` Whereas our late associate and friend , Abel Newt , has been suddenly removed from this world , in the prime of his life and the height of his usefulness , by the hand of an inscrutable but all-wise Providence , to whose behests we desire always to bow in humble resignation ; and `` Whereas , it is eminently proper that those to whom great public trusts have been confided by their fellow-citizens should not pass away without some signal expression of the profound sense of bereavement which those fellow-citizens entertain ; and `` Whereas we represent that portion of the community with whom the lamented deceased peculiarly sympathized ; therefore be it resolved by the General Committee , `` First , That this melancholy event impressively teaches the solemn truth that in the midst of life we are in death ; `` Second , That in the brilliant talents , the rare accomplishments , the deep sagacity , the unswerving allegiance to principle which characterized our dear departed brother and associate , we recognize the qualities which would have rendered the progress of his career as triumphant as its opening was auspicious ; `` Third , That while we humble ourselves before the mysterious will of Heaven , which works not as man works , we tender our most respectful and profound sympathy to the afflicted relatives and friends of the deceased , to whom we fervently pray that his memory may be as a lamp to the feet ; `` Fourth , That we will attend his funeral in a body ; that we will wear crape upon the left arm for thirty days ; and that a copy of these resolutions , signed by the officers of the Committee , shall be presented to his family . '' 
Abel Newt was buried from his father 's house . 
Abel 's mother , shrouded in black , sat in a dim corner of the room , nervously sobbing . 
Abel 's father , sitting in his chair , his white hair hanging upon his shoulders , looked curiously at all the people , while his bony fingers played upon his knees , and he said nothing . 
He romps with the children , has a perfectly regulated and triumphant sliding-scale of gifts and attentions ; and only this Christmas , although he is now -- well , Aunt Winnifred has locked up the Family Bible and begins to talk of Arthur as a young man -- yet only this Christmas , at Lawrence Newt 's family party , at which , so nimbly did they run round , it was almost impossible to compute the actual number of Newt , and Wynne , and Bennet children -- Arthur Merlin brought in , during the evening , with an air of profound secrecy , something covered with a large handkerchief . 
