It would be greatly for the public behoof , if we women , being of mature age and church-members in good repute , should have the handling of such malefactresses as this Hester Prynne . 
`` At the very least , they should have put the brand of a hot iron on Hester Prynne 's forehead . 
And never had Hester Prynne appeared more lady-like , in the antique interpretation of the term , than as she issued from the prison . 
But the point which drew all eyes , and , as it were , transfigured the wearer , -- so that both men and women , who had been familiarly acquainted with Hester Prynne , were now impressed as if they beheld her for the first time , -- was that Scarlet Letter , so fantastically embroidered and illuminated upon her bosom . 
Preceded by the beadle , and attended by an irregular procession of stern-browed men and unkindly-visaged women , Hester Prynne set forth towards the place appointed for her punishment . 
With almost a serene deportment , therefore , Hester Prynne passed through this portion of her ordeal , and came to a sort of scaffold , at the western extremity of the market-place . 
In Hester Prynne 's instance , however , as not unfrequently in other cases , her sentence bore , that she should stand a certain time upon the platform , but without undergoing that gripe about the neck and confinement of the head , the proneness to which was the most devilish characteristic of this ugly engine . 
The witnesses of Hester Prynne 's disgrace had not yet passed beyond their simplicity . 
Had a roar of laughter burst from the multitude , -- each man , each woman , each little shrill-voiced child , contributing their individual parts , -- Hester Prynne might have repaid them all with a bitter and disdainful smile . 
Be that as it might , the scaffold of the pillory was a point of view that revealed to Hester Prynne the entire track along which she had been treading , since her happy infancy . 
This figure of the study and the cloister , as Hester Prynne 's womanly fancy failed not to recall , was slightly deformed , with the left shoulder a trifle higher than the right . 
Lastly , in lieu of these shifting scenes , came back the rude market-place of the Puritan settlement , with all the townspeople assembled and levelling their stern regards at Hester Prynne , -- yes , at herself , -- who stood on the scaffold of the pillory , an infant on her arm , and the letter A , in scarlet , fantastically embroidered with gold thread , upon her bosom ! 
An Indian , in his native garb , was standing there ; but the red men were not so infrequent visitors of the English settlements , that one of them would have attracted any notice from Hester Prynne , at such a time ; much less would he have excluded all other objects and ideas from her mind . 
Although , by a seemingly careless arrangement of his heterogeneous garb , he had endeavoured to conceal or abate the peculiarity , it was sufficiently evident to Hester Prynne , that one of this man 's shoulders rose higher than the other . 
Again , at the first instant of perceiving that thin visage , and the slight deformity of the figure , she pressed her infant to her bosom , with so convulsive a force that the poor babe uttered another cry of pain . 
At his arrival in the market-place , and some time before she saw him , the stranger had bent his eyes on Hester Prynne . 
When he found the eyes of Hester Prynne fastened on his own , and saw that she appeared to recognize him , he slowly and calmly raised his finger , made a gesture with it in the air , and laid it on his lips . 
Then , touching the shoulder of a townsman who stood next to him , he addressed him in a formal and courteous manner . 
`` I pray you , good Sir , '' said he , `` who is this woman ? 
`` You must needs be a stranger in this region , friend , '' answered the townsman , looking curiously at the questioner and his savage companion ; `` else you would surely have heard of Mistress Hester Prynne , and her evil doings . 
Will it please you , therefore , to tell me of Hester Prynne 's , -- have I her name rightly ? 
While this passed , Hester Prynne had been standing on her pedestal , still with a fixed gaze towards the stranger ; so fixed a gaze , that , at moments of intense absorption , all other objects in the visible world seemed to vanish , leaving only him and her . 
Such an interview , perhaps , would have been more terrible than even to meet him as she now did , with the hot , midday sun burning down upon her face , and lighting up its shame ; with the scarlet token of infamy on her breast ; with the sin-born infant in her arms ; with a whole people , drawn forth as to a festival , staring at the features that should have been seen only in the quiet gleam of the fireside , in the happy shadow of a home , or beneath a matronly veil , at church . 
Dreadful as it was , she was conscious of a shelter in the presence of these thousand witnesses . 
It was better to stand thus , with so many betwixt him and her , than to greet him , face to face , they two alone . 
She fled for refuge , as it were , to the public exposure , and dreaded the moment when its protection should be withdrawn from her . 
Involved in these thoughts , she scarcely heard a voice behind her , until it had repeated her name more than once , in a loud and solemn tone , audible to the whole multitude . 
`` Hearken unto me , Hester Prynne ! '' 
It has already been noticed , that directly over the platform on which Hester Prynne stood was a kind of balcony , or open gallery , appended to the meeting-house . 
But , out of the whole human family , it would not have been easy to select the same number of wise and virtuous persons , who should be less capable of sitting in judgment on an erring woman 's heart , and disentangling its mesh of good and evil , than the sages of rigid aspect towards whom Hester Prynne now turned her face . 
There he stood , with a border of grizzled locks beneath his skull-cap ; while his gray eyes , accustomed to the shaded light of his study , were winking , like those of Hester 's infant , in the unadulterated sunshine . 
He looked like the darkly engraved portraits which we see prefixed to old volumes of sermons ; and had no more right than one of those portraits would have , to step forth , as he now did , and meddle with a question of human guilt , passion , and anguish . 
`` Hester Prynne , '' said the clergyman , `` I have striven with my young brother here , under whose preaching of the word you have been privileged to sit , '' -- here Mr. Wilson laid his hand on the shoulder of a pale young man beside him , -- `` I have sought , I say , to persuade this godly youth , that he should deal with you , here in the face of Heaven , and before these wise and upright rulers , and in hearing of all the people , as touching the vileness and blackness of your sin . 
Knowing your natural temper better than I , he could the better judge what arguments to use , whether of tenderness or terror , such as might prevail over your hardness and obstinacy ; insomuch that you should no longer hide the name of him who tempted you to this grievous fall . 
`` Hester Prynne , '' said he , leaning over the balcony , and looking down steadfastly into her eyes , `` thou hearest what this good man says , and seest the accountability under which I labor . 
Be not silent from any mistaken pity and tenderness for him ; for , believe me , Hester , though he were to step down from a high place , and stand there beside thee , on thy pedestal of shame , yet better were it so , than to hide a guilty heart through life . 
What can thy silence do for him , except it tempt him -- yea , compel him , as it were -- to add hypocrisy to sin ? 
Take heed how thou deniest to him -- who , perchance , hath not the courage to grasp it for himself -- the bitter , but wholesome , cup that is now presented to thy lips ! '' 
Even the poor baby , at Hester 's bosom , was affected by the same influence ; for it directed its hitherto vacant gaze towards Mr. Dimmesdale , and held up its little arms , with a half pleased , half plaintive murmur . 
So powerful seemed the minister 's appeal , that the people could not believe but that Hester Prynne would speak out the guilty name ; or else that the guilty one himself , in whatever high or lowly place he stood , would be drawn forth by an inward and inevitable necessity , and compelled to ascend the scaffold . 
Hester shook her head . 
replied Hester Prynne , looking , not at Mr. Wilson , but into the deep and troubled eyes of the younger clergyman . 
answered Hester , turning pale as death , but responding to this voice , which she too surely recognized . 
Hester Prynne , meanwhile , kept her place upon the pedestal of shame , with glazed eyes , and an air of weary indifference . 
She had borne , that morning , all that nature could endure ; and as her temperament was not of the order that escapes from too intense suffering by a swoon , her spirit could only shelter itself beneath a stony crust of insensibility , while the faculties of animal life remained entire . 
In this state , the voice of the preacher thundered remorselessly , but unavailingly , upon her ears . 
The infant , during the latter portion of her ordeal , pierced the air with its wailings and screams ; she strove to hush it , mechanically , but seemed scarcely to sympathize with its trouble . 
With the same hard demeanour , she was led back to prison , and vanished from the public gaze within its iron-clamped portal . 
It was whispered , by those who peered after her , that the scarlet letter threw a lurid gleam along the dark passage-way of the interior . 
Afterher return to the prison , Hester Prynne was found to be in a state of nervous excitement that demanded constant watchfulness , lest she should perpetrate violence on herself , or do some half-frenzied mischief to the poor babe . 
To say the truth , there was much need of professional assistance , not merely for Hester herself , but still more urgently for the child ; who , drawing its sustenance from the maternal bosom , seemed to have drank in with it all the turmoil , the anguish , and despair , which pervaded the mother 's system . 
It now writhed in convulsions of pain , and was a forcible type , in its little frame , of the moral agony which Hester Prynne had borne throughout the day . 
He was lodged in the prison , not as suspected of any offence , but as the most convenient and suitable mode of disposing of him , until the magistrates should have conferred with the Indian sagamores respecting his ransom . 
His name was announced as Roger Chillingworth . 
The jailer , after ushering him into the room , remained a moment , marvelling at the comparative quiet that followed his entrance ; for Hester Prynne had immediately become as still as death , although the child continued to moan . 
Hester repelled the offered medicine , at the same time gazing with strongly marked apprehension into his face . 
He presented the cup to Hester , who received it with a slow , earnest look into his face ; not precisely a look of fear , yet full of doubt and questioning , as to what his purposes might be . 
`` Drink , then , '' replied he , still with the same cold composure . 
`` Dost thou know me so little , Hester Prynne ? 
-- As he spoke , he laid his long forefinger on the scarlet letter , which forthwith seemed to scorch into Hester 's breast , as if it had been red-hot . 
He noticed her involuntary gesture , and smiled . 
-- `` Live , therefore , and bear about thy doom with thee , in the eyes of men and women , -- in the eyes of him whom thou didst call thy husband , -- in the eyes of yonder child ! 
Without further expostulation or delay , Hester Prynne drained the cup , and , at the motion of the man of skill , seated herself on the bed where the child was sleeping ; while he drew the only chair which the room afforded , and took his own seat beside her . 
She could not but tremble at these preparations ; for she felt that -- having now done all that humanity , or principle , or , if so it were , a refined cruelty , impelled him to do , for the relief of physical suffering -- he was next to treat with her as the man whom she had most deeply and irreparably injured . 
`` Hester , '' said he , `` I ask not wherefore , nor how , thou hast fallen into the pit , or say rather , thou hast ascended to the pedestal of infamy , on which I found thee . 
I might have known that , as I came out of the vast and dismal forest , and entered this settlement of Christian men , the very first object to meet my eyes would be thyself , Hester Prynne , standing up , a statue of ignominy , before the people . 
`` Thou knowest , '' said Hester , -- for , depressed as she was , she could not endure this last quiet stab at the token of her shame , -- `` thou knowest that I was frank with thee . 
replied he . 
And so , Hester , I drew thee into my heart , into its innermost chamber , and sought to warm thee by the warmth which thy presence made there ! '' 
`` I have greatly wronged thee , '' murmured Hester . 
`` We have wronged each other , '' answered he . 
But , Hester , the man lives who has wronged us both ! 
Who is he ? '' 
replied Hester Prynne , looking firmly into his face . 
rejoined he , with a smile of dark and self-relying intelligence . 
`` Never know him ! 
Believe me , Hester , there are few things , -- whether in the outward world , or , to a certain depth , in the invisible sphere of thought , -- few things hidden from the man , who devotes himself earnestly and unreservedly to the solution of a mystery . 
The eyes of the wrinkled scholar glowed so intensely upon her , that Hester Prynne clasped her hands over her heart , dreading lest he should read the secret there at once . 
Not the less he is mine , '' resumed he , with a look of confidence , as if destiny were at one with him . 
`` Thy acts are like mercy , '' said Hester , bewildered and appalled . 
Thou and thine , Hester Prynne , belong to me . 
My home is where thou art , and where he is . 
inquired Hester , shrinking , she hardly knew why , from this secret bond . 
`` It may be , '' he replied , `` because I will not encounter the dishonor that besmirches the husband of a faithless woman . 
`` I will keep thy secret , as I have his , '' said Hester . 
rejoined he . 
How is it , Hester ? 
inquired Hester , troubled at the expression of his eyes . 
`` Not thy soul , '' he answered , with another smile . 
Hester Prynne ` sterm of confinement was now at an end . 
It was as if a new birth , with stronger assimilations than the first , had converted the forestland , still so uncongenial to every other pilgrim and wanderer , into Hester Prynne 's wild and dreary , but life-long home . 
Over and over again , the tempter of souls had thrust this idea upon Hester 's contemplation , and laughed at the passionate and desperate joy with which she seized , and then strove to cast it from her . 
Hester Prynne , therefore , did not flee . 
In this little , lonesome dwelling , with some slender means that she possessed , and by the license of the magistrates , who still kept an inquisitorial watch over her , Hester established herself , with her infant child . 
Lonely as was Hester 's situation , and without a friend on earth who dared to show himself , she , however , incurred no risk of want . 
In the array of funerals , too , -- whether for the apparel of the dead body , or to typify , by manifold emblematic devices of sable cloth and snowy lawn , the sorrow of the survivors , -- there was a frequent and characteristic demand for such labor as Hester Prynne could supply . 
By degrees , nor very slowly , her handiwork became what would now be termed the fashion . 
Whether from commiseration for a woman of so miserable a destiny ; or from the morbid curiosity that gives a fictitious value even to common or worthless things ; or by whatever other intangible circumstance was then , as now , sufficient to bestow , on some persons , what others might seek in vain ; or because Hester really filled a gap which must otherwise have remained vacant ; it is certain that she had ready and fairly requited employment for as many hours as she saw fit to occupy with her needle . 
Hester sought not to acquire any thing beyond a subsistence , of the plainest and most ascetic description , for herself , and a simple abundance for her child . 
Except for that small expenditure in the decoration of her infant , Hester bestowed all her superfluous means in charity , on wretches less miserable than herself , and who not unfrequently insulted the hand that fed them . 
To Hester Prynne it might have been a mode of expressing , and therefore soothing , the passion of her life . 
In this manner , Hester Prynne came to have a part to perform in the world . 
Hester had schooled herself long and well ; she never responded to these attacks , save by a flush of crimson that rose irrepressibly over her pale cheek , and again subsided into the depths of her bosom . 
When strangers looked curiously at the scarlet letter , -- and none ever failed to do so , -- they branded it afresh into Hester 's soul ; so that , oftentimes , she could scarcely refrain , yet always did refrain , from covering the symbol with her hand . 
From first to last , in short , Hester Prynne had always this dreadful agony in feeling a human eye upon the token ; the spot never grew callous ; it seemed , on the contrary , to grow more sensitive with daily torture . 
Had Hester sinned alone ? 
Walking to and fro , with those lonely footsteps , in the little world with which she was outwardly connected , it now and then appeared to Hester , -- if altogether fancy , it was nevertheless too potent to be resisted , -- she felt or fancied , then , that the scarlet letter had endowed her with a new sense . 
Could they be other than the insidious whispers of the bad angel , who would fain have persuaded the struggling woman , as yet only half his victim , that the outward guise of purity was but a lie , and that , if truth were everywhere to be shown , a scarlet letter would blaze forth on many a bosom besides Hester Prynne 's ? 
would Hester say to herself . 
That unsunned snow in the matron 's bosom , and the burning shame on Hester Prynne 's , -- what had the two in common ? 
Or , once more , the electric thrill would give her warning , -- `` Behold , Hester , here is a companion ! '' 
Be it accepted as a proof that all was not corrupt in this poor victim of her own frailty , and man 's hard law , that Hester Prynne yet struggled to believe that no fellow-mortal was guilty like herself . 
They averred , that the symbol was not mere scarlet cloth , tinged in an earthly dye-pot , but was red-hot with infernal fire , and could be seen glowing all alight , whenever Hester Prynne walked abroad in the night-time . 
And we must needs say , it seared Hester 's bosom so deeply , that perhaps there was more truth in the rumor than our modern incredulity may be inclined to admit . 
-- For so had Hester called her ; not as a name expressive of her aspect , which had nothing of the calm , white , unimpassioned lustre that would be indicated by the comparison . 
Yet these thoughts affected Hester Prynne less with hope than apprehension . 
Her nature appeared to possess depth , too , as well as variety ; but -- or else Hester 's fears deceived her -- it lacked reference and adaptation to the world into which she was born . 
Hester could only account for the child 's character -- and even then , most vaguely and imperfectly -- by recalling what she herself had been , during that momentous period while Pearl was imbibing her soul from the spiritual world , and her bodily frame from its material of earth . 
Above all , the warfare of Hester 's spirit , at that epoch , was perpetuated in Pearl . 
Hester Prynne , nevertheless , the lonely mother of this one child , ran little risk of erring on the side of undue severity . 
After testing both smiles and frowns , and proving that neither mode of treatment possessed any calculable influence , Hester was ultimately compelled to stand aside , and permit the child to be swayed by her own impulses . 
It was a look so intelligent , yet inexplicable , so perverse , sometimes so malicious , but generally accompanied by a wild flow of spirits , that Hester could not help questioning , at such moments , whether Pearl was a human child . 
Beholding it , Hester was constrained to rush towards the child , -- to pursue the little elf in the flight which she invariably began , -- to snatch her to her bosom , with a close pressure and earnest kisses , -- not so much from overflowing love , as to assure herself that Pearl was flesh and blood , and not utterly delusive . 
Heart-smitten at this bewildering and baffling spell , that so often came between herself and her sole treasure , whom she had bought so dear , and who was all her world , Hester sometimes burst into passionate tears . 
Yet Hester was hardly safe in confiding herself to that gusty tenderness ; it passed , as suddenly as it came . 
And then what a happiness would it have been , could Hester Prynne have heard her clear , bird-like voice mingling with the uproar of other childish voices , and have distinguished and unravelled her own darling 's tones , amid all the entangled outcry of a group of sportive children ! 
Never , since her release from prison , had Hester met the public gaze without her . 
In all her walks about the town , Pearl , too , was there ; first as the babe in arms , and afterwards as the little girl , small companion of her mother , holding a forefinger with her whole grasp , and tripping along at the rate of three or four footsteps to one of Hester 's . 
All this enmity and passion had Pearl inherited , by inalienable right , out of Hester 's heart . 
Mother and daughter stood together in the same circle of seclusion from human society ; and in the nature of the child seemed to be perpetuated those unquiet elements that had distracted Hester Prynne before Pearl 's birth , but had since begun to be soothed away by the softening influences of maternity . 
Gazing at Pearl , Hester Prynne often dropped her work upon her knees , and cried out , with an agony which she would fain have hidden , but which made utterance for itself , betwixt speech and a groan , -- `` O Father in Heaven , -- if Thou art still my Father , -- what is this being which I have brought into the world ! '' 
-- the scarlet letter on Hester 's bosom ! 
Then , gasping for breath , did Hester Prynne clutch the fatal token , instinctively endeavouring to tear it away ; so infinite was the torture inflicted by the intelligent touch of Pearl 's baby-hand . 
From that epoch , except when the child was asleep , Hester had never felt a moment 's safety ; not a moment 's calm enjoyment of her . 
Once , this freakish , elvish cast came into the child 's eyes , while Hester was looking at her own image in them , as mothers are fond of doing ; and , suddenly , -- for women in solitude , and with troubled hearts , are pestered with unaccountable delusions , -- she fancied that she beheld , not her own miniature portrait , but another face in the small black mirror of Pearl 's eye . 
Many a time afterwards had Hester been tortured , though less vividly , by the same illusion . 
Hester 's first motion had been to cover her bosom with her clasped hands . 
At last , her shot being all expended , the child stood still and gazed at Hester , with that little , laughing image of a fiend peeping out -- or , whether it peeped or no , her mother so imagined it -- from the unsearchable abyss of her black eyes . 
asked Hester . 
said the child , seriously , coming up to Hester , and pressing herself close to her knees . 
answered Hester Prynne . 
But Hester could not resolve the query , being herself in a dismal labyrinth of doubt . 
Hester Prynnewent , one day , to the mansion of Governor Bellingham , with a pair of gloves , which she had fringed and embroidered to his order , and which were to be worn on some great occasion of state ; for , though the chances of a popular election had caused this former ruler to descend a step or two from the highest rank , he still held an honorable and influential place among the colonial magistracy . 
Another and far more important reason than the delivery of a pair of embroidered gloves impelled Hester , at this time , to seek an interview with a personage of so much power and activity in the affairs of the settlement . 
If the child , on the other hand , were really capable of moral and religious growth , and possessed the elements of ultimate salvation , then , surely , it would enjoy all the fairer prospect of these advantages by being transferred to wiser and better guardianship than Hester Prynne 's . 
At that epoch of pristine simplicity , however , matters of even slighter public interest , and of far less intrinsic weight than the welfare of Hester and her child , were strangely mixed up with the deliberations of legislators and acts of state . 
Full of concern , therefore , -- but so conscious of her own right , that it seemed scarcely an unequal match between the public , on the one side , and a lonely woman , backed by the sympathies of nature , on the other , -- Hester Prynne set forth from her solitary cottage . 
Often , nevertheless , more from caprice than necessity , she demanded to be taken up in arms , but was soon as imperious to be set down again , and frisked onward before Hester on the grassy pathway , with many a harmless trip and tumble . 
But it was a remarkable attribute of this garb , and , indeed , of the child 's whole appearance , that it irresistibly and inevitably reminded the beholder of the token which Hester Prynne was doomed to wear upon her bosom . 
But , in truth , Pearl was the one , as well as the other ; and only in consequence of that identity had Hester contrived so perfectly to represent the scarlet letter in her appearance . 
Lifting the iron hammer that hung at the portal , Hester Prynne gave a summons , which was answered by one of the Governor 's bond-servants ; a free-born Englishman , but now a seven years ' slave . 
inquired Hester . 
`` Yea , forsooth , '' replied the bond-servant , staring with wide-open eyes at the scarlet letter , which , being a new-comer in the country , he had never before seen . 
`` Nevertheless , I will enter , '' answered Hester Prynne ; and the bond-servant , perhaps judging from the decision of her air and the glittering symbol in her bosom , that she was a great lady in the land , offered no opposition . 
On the table -- in token that the sentiment of old English hospitality had not been left behind -- stood a large pewter tankard , at the bottom of which , had Hester or Pearl peeped into it , they might have seen the frothy remnant of a recent draught of ale . 
Hester looked , by way of humoring the child ; and she saw that , owing to the peculiar effect of this convex mirror , the scarlet letter was represented in exaggerated and gigantic proportions , so as to be greatly the most prominent feature of her appearance . 
That look of naughty merriment was likewise reflected in the mirror , with so much breadth and intensity of effect , that it made Hester Prynne feel as if it could not be the image of her own child , but of an imp who was seeking to mould itself into Pearl 's shape . 
The old clergyman , nurtured at the rich bosom of the English Church , had a long established and legitimate taste for all good and comfortable things ; and however stern he might show himself in the pulpit , or in his public reproof of such transgressions as that of Hester Prynne , still , the genial benevolence of his private life had won him warmer affection than was accorded to any of his professional contemporaries . 
Behind the Governor and Mr. Wilson came two other guests ; one , the Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale , whom the reader may remember , as having taken a brief and reluctant part in the scene of Hester Prynne 's disgrace ; and , in close companionship with him , old Roger Chillingworth , a person of great skill in physic , who , for two or three years past , had been settled in the town . 
The shadow of the curtain fell on Hester Prynne , and partially concealed her . 
I see , '' he added ; and , turning to Governor Bellingham , whispered , -- `` This is the selfsame child of whom we have held speech together ; and behold here the unhappy woman , Hester Prynne , her mother ! '' 
`` Hester Prynne , '' said he , fixing his naturally stern regard on the wearer of the scarlet letter , `` there hath been much question concerning thee , of late . 
answered Hester Prynne , laying her finger on the red token . 
Now Pearl knew well enough who made her ; for Hester Prynne , the daughter of a pious home , very soon after her talk with the child about her Heavenly Father , had begun to inform her of those truths which the human spirit , at whatever stage of immaturity , imbibes with such eager interest . 
Hester Prynne looked at the man of skill , and even then , with her fate hanging in the balance , was startled to perceive what a change had come over his features , -- how much uglier they were , -- how his dark complexion seemed to have grown duskier , and his figure more misshapen , -- since the days when she had familiarly known him . 
She met his eyes for an instant , but was immediately constrained to give all her attention to the scene now going forward . 
Hester caught hold of Pearl , and drew her forcibly into her arms , confronting the old Puritan magistrate with almost a fierce expression . 
`` God gave her into my keeping , '' repeated Hester Prynne , raising her voice almost to a shriek . 
At this wild and singular appeal , which indicated that Hester Prynne 's situation had provoked her to little less than madness , the young minister at once came forward , pale , and holding his hand over his heart , as was his custom whenever his peculiarly nervous temperament was thrown into agitation . 
He looked now more careworn and emaciated than as we described him at the scene of Hester 's public ignominy ; and whether it were his failing health , or whatever the cause might be , his large dark eyes had a world of pain in their troubled and melancholy depth . 
`` There is truth in what she says , '' began the minister , with a voice sweet , tremulous , but powerful , insomuch that the hall reëchoed , and the hollow armour rang with it , -- `` truth in what Hester says , and in the feeling which inspires her ! 
For Hester Prynne 's sake , then , and no less for the poor child 's sake , let us leave them as Providence hath seen fit to place them ! '' 
The affair being so satisfactorily concluded , Hester Prynne , with Pearl , departed from the house . 
There will be a merry company in the forest ; and I wellnigh promised the Black Man that comely Hester Prynne should make one . '' 
`` Make my excuse to him , so please you ! '' 
answered Hester , with a triumphant smile . 
But here -- if we suppose this interview betwixt Mistress Hibbins and Hester Prynne to be authentic , and not a parable -- was already an illustration of the young minister 's argument against sundering the relation of a fallen mother to the offspring of her frailty . 
It has been related , how , in the crowd that witnessed Hester Prynne 's ignominious exposure , stood a man , elderly , travel-worn , who , just emerging from the perilous wilderness , beheld the woman , in whom he hoped to find embodied the warmth and cheerfulness of home , set up as a type of sin before the people . 
Unknown to all but Hester Prynne , and possessing the lock and key of her silence , he chose to withdraw his name from the roll of mankind , and , as regarded his former ties and interests , to vanish out of life as completely as if he indeed lay at the bottom of the ocean , whither rumor had long ago consigned him . 
This purpose once effected , new interests would immediately spring up , and likewise a new purpose ; dark , it is true , if not guilty , but of force enough to engage the full strength of his faculties . 
In pursuance of this resolve , he took up his residence in the Puritan town , as Roger Chillingworth , without other introduction than the learning and intelligence of which he possessed more than a common measure . 
Looking instinctively from the open window , -- for it was summer-time , -- the minister beheld Hester Prynne and little Pearl passing along the footpath that traversed the inclosure . 
Hester did not pluck them off . 
Hester Prynne , likewise , had involuntarily looked up ; and all these four persons , old and young , regarded one another in silence , till the child laughed aloud , and shouted , -- `` Come away , mother ! 
Is Hester Prynne the less miserable , think you , for that scarlet letter on her breast ? '' 
But still , methinks , it must needs be better for the sufferer to be free to show his pain , as this poor woman Hester is , than to cover it all up in his heart . '' 
And now , through the chamber which these spectral thoughts had made so ghastly , glided Hester Prynne , leading along little Pearl , in her scarlet garb , and pointing her forefinger , first , at the scarlet letter on her bosom , and then at the clergyman 's own breast . 
Walkingin the shadow of a dream , as it were , and perhaps actually under the influence of a species of somnambulism , Mr. Dimmesdale reached the spot , where , now so long since , Hester Prynne had lived through her first hour of public ignominy . 
If the same multitude which had stood as eyewitnesses while Hester Prynne sustained her punishment could now have been summoned forth , they would have discerned no face above the platform , nor hardly the outline of a human shape , in the dark gray of the midnight . 
Whom , but the Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale , half frozen to death , overwhelmed with shame , and standing where Hester Prynne had stood ! 
cried he , after a moment 's pause ; then , suppressing his voice , -- `` Hester ! 
Hester Prynne ! 
`` Yes ; it is Hester Prynne ! '' 
`` Whence come you , Hester ? '' 
`` I have been watching at a death-bed , '' answered Hester Prynne ; -- `` at Governor Winthrop 's death-bed , and have taken his measure for a robe , and am now going homeward to my dwelling . '' 
`` Come up hither , Hester , thou and little Pearl , '' said the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale . 
And there stood the minister , with his hand over his heart ; and Hester Prynne , with the embroidered letter glimmering on her bosom ; and little Pearl , herself a symbol , and the connecting link between those two . 
Certainly , if the meteor kindled up the sky , and disclosed the earth , with an awfulness that admonished Hester Prynne and the clergyman of the day of judgment , then might Roger Chillingworth have passed with them for the arch-fiend , standing there , with a smile and scowl , to claim his own . 
`` Who is that man , Hester ? '' 
`` I shiver at him ! 
I hate him , Hester ! '' 
`` I tell thee , my soul shivers at him , '' muttered the minister again . 
`` Who is he ? 
Who is he ? 
Inher late singular interview with Mr. Dimmesdale , Hester Prynne was shocked at the condition to which she found the clergyman reduced . 
Little accustomed , in her long seclusion from society , to measure her ideas of right and wrong by any standard external to herself , Hester saw -- or seemed to see -- that there lay a responsibility upon her , in reference to the clergyman , which she owed to no other , nor to the whole world besides . 
Hester Prynne did not now occupy precisely the same position in which we beheld her during the earlier periods of her ignominy . 
As is apt to be the case when a person stands out in any prominence before the community , and , at the same time , interferes neither with public nor individual interests and convenience , a species of general regard had ultimately grown up in reference to Hester Prynne . 
In this matter of Hester Prynne , there was neither irritation nor irksomeness . 
It was perceived , too , that , while Hester never put forward even the humblest title to share in the world 's privileges , -- farther than to breathe the common air , and earn daily bread for little Pearl and herself by the faithful labor of her hands , -- she was quick to acknowledge her sisterhood with the race of man , whenever benefits were to be conferred . 
None so self-devoted as Hester , when pestilence stalked through the town . 
In such emergencies , Hester 's nature showed itself warm and rich ; a well-spring of human tenderness , unfailing to every real demand , and inexhaustible by the largest . 
They said that it meant Able ; so strong was Hester Prynne , with a woman 's strength . 
Interpreting Hester Prynne 's deportment as an appeal of this nature , society was inclined to show its former victim a more benign countenance than she cared to be favored with , or , perchance , than she deserved . 
The rulers , and the wise and learned men of the community , were longer in acknowledging the influence of Hester 's good qualities than the people . 
Individuals in private life , meanwhile , had quite forgiven Hester Prynne for her frailty ; nay , more , they had begun to look upon the scarlet letter as the token , not of that one sin , for which she had borne so long and dreary a penance , but of her many good deeds since . 
`` It is our Hester , -- the town 's own Hester , -- who is so kind to the poor , so helpful to the sick , so comfortable to the afflicted ! '' 
The effect of the symbol -- or rather , of the position in respect to society that was indicated by it -- on the mind of Hester Prynne herself , was powerful and peculiar . 
It was due in part to all these causes , but still more to something else , that there seemed to be no longer any thing in Hester 's face for Love to dwell upon ; nothing in Hester 's form , though majestic and statue-like , that Passion would ever dream of clasping in its embrace ; nothing in Hester 's bosom , to make it ever again the pillow of Affection . 
Some attribute had departed from her , the permanence of which had been essential to keep her a woman . 
We shall see whether Hester Prynne were ever afterwards so touched , and so transfigured . 
Much of the marble coldness of Hester 's impression was to be attributed to the circumstance that her life had turned , in a great measure , from passion and feeling , to thought . 
Hester Prynne imbibed this spirit . 
So it seemed to be with Hester . 
Providence , in the person of this little girl , had assigned to Hester 's charge the germ and blossom of womanhood , to be cherished and developed amid a host of difficulties . 
The child 's own nature had something wrong in it , which continually betokened that she had been born amiss , -- the effluence of her mother 's lawless passion , -- and often impelled Hester to ask , in bitterness of heart , whether it were for ill or good that the poor little creature had been born at all . 
Thus , Hester Prynne , whose heart had lost its regular and healthy throb , wandered without a clew in the dark labyrinth of mind ; now turned aside by an insurmountable precipice ; now starting back from a deep chasm . 
Hester could not but ask herself , whether there had not originally been a defect of truth , courage , and loyalty , on her own part , in allowing the minister to be thrown into a position where so much evil was to be foreboded , and nothing auspicious to be hoped . 
In fine , Hester Prynne resolved to meet her former husband , and do what might be in her power for the rescue of the victim on whom he had so evidently set his gripe . 
On my life , Hester , I made my entreaty to the worshipful magistrate that it might be done forthwith ! '' 
`` It lies not in the pleasure of the magistrates to take off this badge , '' calmly replied Hester . 
`` Nay , then , wear it , if it suit you better , '' rejoined he . 
All this while , Hester had been looking steadily at the old man , and was shocked , as well as wonder-smitten , to discern what a change had been wrought upon him within the past seven years . 
It was not so much that he had grown older ; for though the traces of advancing life were visible , he bore his age well , and seemed to retain a wiry vigor and alertness . 
But the former aspect of an intellectual and studious man , calm and quiet , which was what she best remembered in him , had altogether vanished , and been succeeded by an eager , searching , almost fierce , yet carefully guarded look . 
The scarlet letter burned on Hester Prynne 's bosom . 
`` When we last spake together , '' said Hester , `` now seven years ago , it was your pleasure to extort a promise of secrecy , as touching the former relation betwixt yourself and me . 
said Hester Prynne . 
`` I tell thee , Hester Prynne , the richest fee that ever physician earned from monarch could not have bought such care as I have wasted on this miserable priest ! 
For , Hester , his spirit lacked the strength that could have borne up , as thine has , beneath a burden like thy scarlet letter . 
What art can do , I have exhausted on him . 
That he now breathes , and creeps about on earth , is owing all to me ! '' 
`` Better he had died at once ! '' 
said Hester Prynne . 
cried old Roger Chillingworth , letting the lurid fire of his heart blaze out before her eyes . 
`` Better had he died at once ! 
said Hester , noticing the old man 's look . 
`` Dost thou remember me , Hester , as I was nine years agone ? 
`` All this , and more , '' said Hester . 
demanded he , looking into her face , and permitting the whole evil within him to be written on his features . 
cried Hester , shuddering . 
answered Hester Prynne . 
`` I must reveal the secret , '' answered Hester , firmly . 
`` And I thee , '' answered Hester Prynne , `` for the hatred that has transformed a wise and just man to a fiend ! 
`` Peace , Hester , peace ! '' 
He waved his hand , and betook himself again to his employment of gathering herbs . 
So Roger Chillingworth -- a deformed old figure , with a face that haunted men 's memories longer than they liked -- took leave of Hester Prynne , and went stooping away along the earth . 
He gathered here and there an herb , or grubbed up a root , and put it into the basket on his arm . 
His gray beard almost touched the ground , as he crept onward . 
Hester gazed after him a little while , looking with a half-fantastic curiosity to see whether the tender grass of early spring would not be blighted beneath him , and show the wavering track of his footsteps , sere and brown , across its cheerful verdure . 
She wondered what sort of herbs they were , which the old man was so sedulous to gather . 
`` Be it sin or no , '' said Hester Prynne bitterly , as she still gazed after him , `` I hate the man ! '' 
Attempting to do so , she thought of those long-past days , in a distant land , when he used to emerge at eventide from the seclusion of his study , and sit down in the fire-light of their home , and in the light of her nuptial smile . 
He needed to bask himself in that smile , he said , in order that the chill of so many lonely hours among his books might be taken off the scholar 's heart . 
She marvelled how she could ever have been wrought upon to marry him ! 
She deemed it her crime most to be repented of , that she had ever endured , and reciprocated , the lukewarm grasp of his hand , and had suffered the smile of her lips and eyes to mingle and melt into his own . 
repeated Hester , more bitterly than before . 
But Hester ought long ago to have done with this injustice . 
The emotions of that brief space , while she stood gazing after the crooked figure of old Roger Chillingworth , threw a dark light on Hester 's state of mind , revealing much that she might not otherwise have acknowledged to herself . 
He being gone , she summoned back her child . 
Just then , she heard her mother 's voice , and , flitting along as lightly as one of the little sea-birds , appeared before Hester Prynne , dancing , laughing , and pointing her finger to the ornament upon her bosom . 
`` My little Pearl , '' said Hester , after a moment 's silence , `` the green letter , and on thy childish bosom , has no purport . 
Hester looked steadily into her little face ; but , though there was that singular expression which she had so often remarked in her black eyes , she could not satisfy herself whether Pearl really attached any meaning to the symbol . 
asked Hester , half smiling at the absurd incongruity of the child 's observation ; but , on second thoughts , turning pale . 
The thought occurred to Hester , that the child might really be seeking to approach her with childlike confidence , and doing what she could , and as intelligently as she knew how , to establish a meeting-point of sympathy . 
But now the idea came strongly into Hester 's mind , that Pearl , with her remarkable precocity and acuteness , might already have approached the age when she could be made a friend , and intrusted with as much of her mother 's sorrows as could be imparted , without irreverence either to the parent or the child . 
With all these sterling attributes , thought Hester , the evil which she inherited from her mother must be great indeed , if a noble woman do not grow out of this elfish child . 
Hester had often fancied that Providence had a design of justice and retribution , in endowing the child with this marked propensity ; but never , until now , had she bethought herself to ask , whether , linked with that design , there might not likewise be a purpose of mercy and beneficence . 
Such were some of the thoughts that now stirred in Hester 's mind , with as much vivacity of impression as if they had actually been whispered into her ear . 
thought Hester to herself . 
In all the seven bygone years , Hester Prynne had never before been false to the symbol on her bosom . 
It may be that it was the talisman of a stern and severe , but yet a guardian spirit , who now forsook her ; as recognizing that , in spite of his strict watch over her heart , some new evil had crept into it , or some old one had never been expelled . 
Two or three times , as her mother and she went homeward , and as often at supper-time , and while Hester was putting her to bed , and once after she seemed to be fairly asleep , Pearl looked up , with mischief gleaming in her black eyes . 
Hester Prynneremained constant in her resolve to make known to Mr. Dimmesdale , at whatever risk of present pain or ulterior consequences , the true character of the man who had crept into his intimacy . 
But , partly that she dreaded the secret or undisguised interference of old Roger Chillingworth , and partly that her conscious heart imputed suspicion where none could have been felt , and partly that both the minister and she would need the whole wide world to breathe in , while they talked together , -- for all these reasons , Hester never thought of meeting him in any narrower privacy than beneath the open sky . 
Betimes , therefore , the next day , Hester took little Pearl , -- who was necessarily the companion of all her mother 's expeditions , however inconvenient her presence , -- and set forth . 
This hemmed it in so narrowly , and stood so black and dense on either side , and disclosed such imperfect glimpses of the sky above , that , to Hester 's mind , it imaged not amiss the moral wilderness in which she had so long been wandering . 
`` Nor ever will , my child , I hope , '' said Hester . 
Pearl set forth , at a great pace , and , as Hester smiled to perceive , did actually catch the sunshine , and stood laughing in the midst of it , all brightened by its splendor , and scintillating with the vivacity excited by rapid motion . 
answered Hester , smiling . 
Perhaps this too was a disease , and but the reflex of the wild energy with which Hester had fought against her sorrows , before Pearl 's birth . 
said Hester , looking about her , from the spot where Pearl had stood still in the sunshine . 
said Hester . 
asked Hester . 
`` Go now , child , and thou shalt tease me as thou wilt another time '' cried Hester Prynne . 
When her elf-child had departed , Hester Prynne made a step or two towards the track that led through the forest , but still remained under the deep shadow of the trees . 
To Hester 's eye , the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale exhibited no symptom of positive and vivacious suffering , except that , as little Pearl had remarked , he kept his hand over his heart . 
Slowlyas the minister walked , he had almost gone by , before Hester Prynne could gather voice enough to attract his observation . 
`` Hester ! 
Hester Prynne ! '' 
It was with fear , and tremulously , and , as it were , by a slow , reluctant necessity , that Arthur Dimmesdale put forth his hand , chill as death , and touched the chill hand of Hester Prynne . 
Without a word more spoken , -- neither he nor she assuming the guidance , but with an unexpressed consent , -- they glided back into the shadow of the woods , whence Hester had emerged , and sat down on the heap of moss where she and Pearl had before been sitting . 
After a while , the minister fixed his eyes on Hester Prynne 's . 
`` Hester , '' said he , `` hast thou found peace ? '' 
Hester , I am most miserable ! '' 
`` The people reverence thee , '' said Hester . 
`` More misery , Hester ! 
Canst thou deem it , Hester , a consolation , that I must stand up in my pulpit , and meet so many eyes turned upward to my face , as if the light of heaven were beaming from it ! 
`` You wrong yourself in this , '' said Hester , gently . 
`` No , Hester , no ! '' 
Happy are you , Hester , that wear the scarlet letter openly upon your bosom ! 
Hester Prynne looked into his face , but hesitated to speak . 
Yet , uttering his long-restrained emotions so vehemently as he did , his words here offered her the very point of circumstances in which to interpose what she came to say . 
Hester Prynne was now fully sensible of the deep injury for which she was responsible to this unhappy man , in permitting him to lie for so many years , or , indeed , for a single moment , at the mercy of one , whose purposes could not be other than malevolent . 
There had been a period when Hester was less alive to this consideration ; or , perhaps , in the misanthropy of her own trouble , she left the minister to bear what she might picture to herself as a more tolerable doom . 
Hester felt that the sacrifice of the clergyman 's good name , and death itself , as she had already told Roger Chillingworth , would have been infinitely preferable to the alternative which she had taken upon herself to choose . 
Never was there a blacker or a fiercer frown , than Hester now encountered . 
But his character had been so much enfeebled by suffering , that even its lower energies were incapable of more than a temporary struggle . 
He sank down on the ground , and buried his face in his hands . 
murmured he . 
O Hester Prynne , thou little , little knowest all the horror of this thing ! 
cried Hester , flinging herself on the fallen leaves beside him . 
With sudden and desperate tenderness , she threw her arms around him , and pressed his head against her bosom ; little caring though his cheek rested on the scarlet letter . 
He would have released himself , but strove in vain to do so . 
Hester would not set him free , lest he should look her sternly in the face . 
All the world had frowned on her , -- for seven long years had it frowned upon this lonely woman , -- and still she bore it all , nor ever once turned away her firm , sad eyes . 
But the frown of this pale , weak , sinful , and sorrow-stricken man was what Hester could not bear , and live ! 
`` I do forgive you , Hester , '' replied the minister , at length , with a deep utterance out of an abyss of sadness , but no anger . 
We are not , Hester , the worst sinners in the world . 
Thou and I , Hester , never did so ! '' 
`` Hush , Hester ! '' 
How dreary looked the forest-track that led backward to the settlement , where Hester Prynne must take up again the burden of her ignominy , and the minister the hollow mockery of his good name ! 
`` Hester , '' cried he , `` here is a new horror ! 
`` There is a strange secrecy in his nature , '' replied Hester , thoughtfully ; `` and it has grown upon him by the hidden practices of his revenge . 
exclaimed Arthur Dimmesdale , shrinking within himself , and pressing his hand nervously against his heart , -- a gesture that had grown involuntary with him . 
`` Think for me , Hester ! 
`` Thou must dwell no longer with this man , '' said Hester , slowly and firmly . 
said Hester , with the tears gushing into her eyes . 
`` Heaven would show mercy , '' rejoined Hester , `` hadst thou but the strength to take advantage of it . '' 
answered he . 
exclaimed Hester Prynne , fixing her deep eyes on the minister 's , and instinctively exercising a magnetic power over a spirit so shattered and subdued , that it could hardly hold itself erect . 
`` Yes , Hester ; but only under the fallen leaves ! '' 
continued Hester . 
In our native land , whether in some remote rural village or in vast London , -- or , surely , in Germany , in France , in pleasant Italy , -- thou wouldst be beyond his power and knowledge ! 
answered the minister , listening as if he were called upon to realize a dream . 
`` Thou art crushed under this seven years ' weight of misery , '' replied Hester , fervently resolved to buoy him up with her own energy . 
`` O Hester ! '' 
`` Alone , Hester ! '' 
Arthur Dimmesdalegazed into Hester 's face with a look in which hope and joy shone out , indeed , but with fear betwixt them , and a kind of horror at her boldness , who had spoken what he vaguely hinted at , but dared not speak . 
But Hester Prynne , with a mind of native courage and activity , and for so long a period not merely estranged , but outlawed , from society , had habituated herself to such latitude of speculation as was altogether foreign to the clergyman . 
Thus , we seem to see that , as regarded Hester Prynne , the whole seven years of outlaw and ignominy had been little other than a preparation for this very hour . 
Or , if this be the path to a better life , as Hester would persuade me , I surely give up no fairer prospect by pursuing it ! 
said Hester calmly , as he met her glance . 
The decision once made , a glow of strange enjoyment threw its flickering brightness over the trouble of his breast . 
O Hester , thou art my better angel ! 
I seem to have flung myself -- sick , sin-stained , and sorrow-blackened -- down upon these forest-leaves , and to have risen up all made anew , and with new powers to glorify Him that hath been merciful ! 
`` Let us not look back , '' answered Hester Prynne . 
The stigma gone , Hester heaved a long , deep sigh , in which the burden of shame and anguish departed from her spirit . 
She had not known the weight , until she felt the freedom ! 
By another impulse , she took off the formal cap that confined her hair ; and down it fell upon her shoulders , dark and rich , with at once a shadow and a light in its abundance , and imparting the charm of softness to her features . 
There played around her mouth , and beamed out of her eyes , a radiant and tender smile , that seemed gushing from the very heart of womanhood . 
A crimson flush was glowing on her cheek , that had been long so pale . 
Her sex , her youth , and the whole richness of her beauty , came back from what men call the irrevocable past , and clustered themselves , with her maiden hope , and a happiness before unknown , within the magic circle of this hour . 
Had the forest still kept its gloom , it would have been bright in Hester 's eyes , and bright in Arthur Dimmesdale 's ! 
Hester looked at him with the thrill of another joy . 
said she . 
Hester smiled , and again called to Pearl , who was visible , at some distance , as the minister had described her , like a bright-apparelled vision , in a sunbeam , which fell down upon her through an arch of boughs . 
The ray quivered to and fro , making her figure dim or distinct , -- now like a real child , now like a child 's spirit , -- as the splendor went and came again . 
She heard her mother 's voice , and approached slowly through the forest . 
Pearl had not found the hour pass wearisomely , while her mother sat talking with the clergyman . 
`` Thouwilt love her dearly , '' repeated Hester Prynne , as she and the minister sat watching little Pearl . 
`` Dost thou know , Hester , '' said Arthur Dimmesdale , with an unquiet smile , `` that this dear child , tripping about always at thy side , hath caused me many an alarm ? 
Methought -- O Hester , what a thought is that , and how terrible to dread it ! 
`` Let her see nothing strange -- no passion nor eagerness -- in thy way of accosting her , '' whispered Hester . 
`` Thou canst not think , '' said the minister , glancing aside at Hester Prynne , `` how my heart dreads this interview , and yearns for it ! 
By this time Pearl had reached the margin of the brook , and stood on the farther side , gazing silently at Hester and the clergyman , who still sat together on the mossy tree-trunk , waiting to receive her . 
Hester felt herself , in some indistinct and tantalizing manner , estranged from Pearl ; as if the child , in her lonely ramble through the forest , had strayed out of the sphere in which she and her mother dwelt together , and was now vainly seeking to return to it . 
There was both truth and error in the impression ; the child and mother were estranged , but through Hester 's fault , not Pearl 's . 
said Hester encouragingly , and stretching out both her arms . 
exclaimed Hester . 
cried Hester Prynne , who , however inured to such behaviour on the elf-child 's part at other seasons , was naturally anxious for a more seemly deportment now . 
Seen in the brook , once more , was the shadowy wrath of Pearl 's image , crowned and girdled with flowers , but stamping its foot , wildly gesticulating , and , in the midst of all , still pointing its small forefinger at Hester 's bosom ! 
`` I see what ails the child , '' whispered Hester to the clergyman , and turning pale in spite of a strong effort to conceal her trouble and annoyance . 
Hester turned again towards Pearl , with a crimson blush upon her cheek , a conscious glance aside at the clergyman , and then a heavy sigh ; while , even before she had time to speak , the blush yielded to a deadly pallor . 
said Hester . 
observed Hester aside to the minister . 
Hopefully , but a moment ago , as Hester had spoken of drowning it in the deep sea , there was a sense of inevitable doom upon her , as she thus received back this deadly symbol from the hand of fate . 
Hester next gathered up the heavy tresses of her hair , and confined them beneath her cap . 
answered the child , bounding across the brook , and clasping Hester in her arms . 
said Hester . 
`` Not now , dear child , '' answered Hester . 
She then remained apart , silently watching Hester and the clergyman ; while they talked together , and made such arrangements as were suggested by their new position , and the purposes soon to be fulfilled . 
As the minister departed , in advance of Hester Prynne and little Pearl , he threw a backward glance ; half expecting that he should discover only some faintly traced features or outline of the mother and the child , slowly fading into the twilight of the woods . 
But there was Hester , clad in her gray robe , still standing beside the tree-trunk , which some blast had overthrown a long antiquity ago , and which time had ever since been covering with moss , so that these two fated ones , with earth 's heaviest burden on them , might there sit down together , and find a single hour 's rest and solace . 
In order to free his mind from this indistinctness and duplicity of impression , which vexed it with a strange disquietude , he recalled and more thoroughly defined the plans which Hester and himself had sketched for their departure . 
Hester Prynne -- whose vocation , as a self-enlisted Sister of Charity , had brought her acquainted with the captain and crew -- could take upon herself to secure the passage of two individuals and a child , with all the secrecy which circumstances rendered more than desirable . 
The minister had inquired of Hester , with no little interest , the precise time at which the vessel might be expected to depart . 
he had then said to himself . 
The excitement of Mr. Dimmesdale 's feelings , as he returned from his interview with Hester , lent him unaccustomed physical energy , and hurried him townward at a rapid pace . 
The minister 's own will , and Hester 's will , and the fate that grew between them , had wrought this transformation . 
But , in spite of this outward show , the latter was almost convinced of the old man 's knowledge , or , at least , his confident suspicion , with respect to his own interview with Hester Prynne . 
Betimesin the morning of the day on which the new Governor was to receive his office at the hands of the people , Hester Prynne and little Pearl came into the market-place . 
On this public holiday , as on all other occasions , for seven years past , Hester was clad in a garment of coarse gray cloth . 
It was like a mask ; or rather , like the frozen calmness of a dead woman 's features ; owing this dreary resemblance to the fact that Hester was actually dead , in respect to any claim of sympathy , and had departed out of the world with which she still seemed to mingle . 
Nor were it an inconsistency too improbable to be assigned to human nature , should we suppose a feeling of regret in Hester 's mind , at the moment when she was about to win her freedom from the pain which had been thus deeply incorporated with her being . 
It would have been impossible to guess that this bright and sunny apparition owed its existence to the shape of gloomy gray ; or that a fancy , at once so gorgeous and so delicate as must have been requisite to contrive the child 's apparel , was the same that had achieved a task perhaps more difficult , in imparting so distinct a peculiarity to Hester 's simple robe . 
Children have always a sympathy in the agitations of those connected with them ; always , especially , a sense of any trouble or impending revolution , of whatever kind , in domestic circumstances ; and therefore Pearl , who was the gem on her mother 's unquiet bosom , betrayed , by the very dance of her spirits , the emotions which none could detect in the marble passiveness of Hester 's brow . 
`` He remembers thee a little babe , my child , '' answered Hester . 
`` They wait to see the procession pass , '' said Hester . 
It was as Hester said , in regard to the unwonted jollity that brightened the faces of the people . 
After parting from the physician , the commander of the Bristol ship strolled idly through the market-place ; until , happening to approach the spot where Hester Prynne was standing , he appeared to recognize , and did not hesitate to address her . 
As was usually the case wherever Hester stood , a small , vacant area -- a sort of magic circle -- had formed itself about her , into which , though the people were elbowing one another at a little distance , none ventured , or felt disposed to intrude . 
Now , if never before , it answered a good purpose , by enabling Hester and the seaman to speak together without risk of being overheard ; and so changed was Hester Prynne 's repute before the public , that the matron in town most eminent for rigid morality could not have held such intercourse with less result of scandal than herself . 
inquired Hester , startled more than she permitted to appear . 
`` They know each other well , indeed , '' replied Hester , with a mien of calmness , though in the utmost consternation . 
Nothing further passed between the mariner and Hester Prynne . 
Hester Prynne , gazing steadfastly at the clergyman , felt a dreary influence come over her , but wherefore or whence she knew not ; unless that he seemed so remote from her own sphere , and utterly beyond her reach . 
And thus much of woman was there in Hester , that she could scarcely forgive him , -- least of all now , when the heavy footstep of their approaching Fate might be heard , nearer , nearer , nearer ! 
When the whole had gone by , she looked up into Hester 's face . 
`` What should he say , Pearl , '' answered Hester , `` save that it was no time to kiss , and that kisses are not to be given in the market-place ? 
Seen in conjunction with Hester Prynne , -- kindly as so many now felt towards the latter , -- the dread inspired by Mistress Hibbins was doubled , and caused a general movement from that part of the market-place in which the two women stood . 
whispered the old lady confidentially to Hester . 
we know what that means , Hester Prynne ! 
But , truly , forsooth , I find it hard to believe him the same man . 
Couldst thou surely tell , Hester , whether he was the same man that encountered thee on the forest-path ! '' 
`` Madam , I know not of what you speak , '' answered Hester Prynne , feeling Mistress Hibbins to be of infirm mind ; yet strangely startled and awe-stricken by the confidence with which she affirmed a personal connection between so many persons -LRB- herself among them -RRB- and the Evil One . 
cried the old lady , shaking her finger at Hester . 
I know thee , Hester ; for I behold the token . 
Ha , Hester Prynne ! '' 
An irresistible feeling kept Hester near the spot . 
Muffled as the sound was by its passage through the church-walls , Hester Prynne listened with such intentness , and sympathized so intimately , that the sermon had throughout a meaning for her , entirely apart from its indistinguishable words . 
During all this time Hester stood , statue-like , at the foot of the scaffold . 
One of these seafaring men -- the shipmaster , indeed , who had spoken to Hester Prynne -- was so smitten with Pearl 's aspect , that he attempted to lay hands upon her , with purpose to snatch a kiss . 
Hester 's strong , calm , steadfastly enduring spirit almost sank , at last , on beholding this dark and grim countenance of an inevitable doom , which -- at the moment when a passage seemed to open for the minister and herself out of their labyrinth of misery -- showed itself , with an unrelenting smile , right in the midst of their path . 
These , after exhausting other modes of amusement , now thronged about Hester Prynne with rude and boorish intrusiveness . 
Even the Indians were affected by a sort of cold shadow of the white man 's curiosity , and , gliding through the crowd , fastened their snake-like black eyes on Hester 's bosom ; conceiving , perhaps , that the wearer of this brilliantly embroidered badge must needs be a personage of high dignity among her people . 
Lastly , the inhabitants of the town -LRB- their own interest in this worn-out subject languidly reviving itself , by sympathy with what they saw others feel -RRB- lounged idly to the same quarter , and tormented Hester Prynne , perhaps more than all the rest , with their cool , well-acquainted gaze at her familiar shame . 
Hester saw and recognized the self-same faces of that group of matrons , who had awaited her forthcoming from the prison-door , seven years ago ; all save one , the youngest and only compassionate among them , whose burial-robe she had since made . 
While Hester stood in that magic circle of ignominy , where the cunning cruelty of her sentence seemed to have fixed her for ever , the admirable preacher was looking down from the sacred pulpit upon an audience , whose very inmost spirits had yielded to his control . 
Meanwhile , Hester Prynne was standing beside the scaffold of the pillory , with the scarlet letter still burning on her breast ! 
And now , almost imperceptible as were the latter steps of his progress , he had come opposite the well-remembered and weather-darkened scaffold , where , long since , with all that dreary lapse of time between , Hester Prynne had encountered the world 's ignominious stare . 
There stood Hester , holding little Pearl by the hand ! 
`` Hester , '' said he , `` come hither ! 
Hester Prynne -- slowly , as if impelled by inevitable fate , and against her strongest will -- likewise drew near , but paused before she reached him . 
`` Hester Prynne , '' cried he , with a piercing earnestness , `` in the name of Him , so terrible and so merciful , who gives me grace , at this last moment , to do what -- for my own heavy sin and miserable agony -- I withheld myself from doing seven years ago , come hither now , and twine thy strength about me ! 
Thy strength , Hester ; but let it be guided by the will which God hath granted me ! 
Come , Hester , come ! 
They beheld the minister , leaning on Hester 's shoulder and supported by her arm around him , approach the scaffold , and ascend its steps ; while still the little hand of the sin-born child was clasped in his . 
`` Thanks be to Him who hath led me hither ! '' 
Yet he trembled , and turned to Hester with an expression of doubt and anxiety in his eyes , not the less evidently betrayed , that there was a feeble smile upon his lips . 
`` Is not this better , '' murmured he , `` than what we dreamed of in the forest ? '' 
she hurriedly replied . 
For , Hester , I am a dying man . 
Partly supported by Hester Prynne , and holding one hand of little Pearl 's , the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale turned to the dignified and venerable rulers ; to the holy ministers , who were his brethren ; to the people , whose great heart was thoroughly appalled , yet overflowing with tearful sympathy , as knowing that some deep life-matter -- which , if full of sin , was full of anguish and repentance likewise -- was now to be laid open to them . 
Lo , the scarlet letter which Hester wears ! 
`` It was on him ! '' 
He bids you look again at Hester 's scarlet letter ! 
Hester partly raised him , and supported his head against her bosom . 
`` Hester , '' said the clergyman , `` farewell ! '' 
`` Hush , Hester , hush ! '' 
Most of the spectators testified to having seen , on the breast of the unhappy minister , a SCARLET LETTER -- the very semblance of that worn by Hester Prynne -- imprinted in the flesh . 
Some affirmed that the Reverend Mr. Dimmesdale , on the very day when Hester Prynne first wore her ignominious badge , had begun a course of penance , -- which he afterwards , in so many futile methods , followed out , -- by inflicting a hideous torture on himself . 
Neither , by their report , had his dying words acknowledged , nor even remotely implied , any , the slightest connection , on his part , with the guilt for which Hester Prynne had so long worn the scarlet letter . 
The authority which we have chiefly followed -- a manuscript of old date , drawn up from the verbal testimony of individuals , some of whom had known Hester Prynne , while others had heard the tale from contemporary witnesses -- fully confirms the view taken in the foregoing pages . 
At old Roger Chillingworth 's decease -LRB- which took place within the year -RRB- , and by his last will and testament , of which Governor Bellingham and the Reverend Mr. Wilson were executors , he bequeathed a very considerable amount of property , both here and in England , to little Pearl , the daughter of Hester Prynne . 
Its spell , however , was still potent , and kept the scaffold awful where the poor minister had died , and likewise the cottage by the sea-shore , where Hester Prynne had dwelt . 
And Hester Prynne had returned , and taken up her long-forsaken shame . 
But , through the remainder of Hester 's life , there were indications that the recluse of the scarlet letter was the object of love and interest with some inhabitant of another land . 
In the cottage there were articles of comfort and luxury , such as Hester never cared to use , but which only wealth could have purchased , and affection have imagined for her . 
And , once , Hester was seen embroidering a baby-garment , with such a lavish richness of golden fancy as would have raised a public tumult , had any infant , thus apparelled , been shown to our sobre-hued community . 
But there was a more real life for Hester Prynne , here , in New England , than in that unknown region where Pearl had found a home . 
But , in the lapse of the toilsome , thoughtful , and self-devoted years that made up Hester 's life , the scarlet letter ceased to be a stigma which attracted the world 's scorn and bitterness , and became a type of something to be sorrowed over , and looked upon with awe , yet with reverence too . 
And , as Hester Prynne had no selfish ends , nor lived in any measure for her own profit and enjoyment , people brought all their sorrows and perplexities , and besought her counsel , as one who had herself gone through a mighty trouble . 
Women , more especially , -- in the continually recurring trials of wounded , wasted , wronged , misplaced , or erring and sinful passion , -- or with the dreary burden of a heart unyielded , because unvalued and unsought , -- came to Hester 's cottage , demanding why they were so wretched , and what the remedy ! 
Hester comforted and counselled them , as best she might . 
Earlier in life , Hester had vainly imagined that she herself might be the destined prophetess , but had long since recognized the impossibility that any mission of divine and mysterious truth should be confided to a woman stained with sin , bowed down with shame , or even burdened with a life-long sorrow . 
So said Hester Prynne , and glanced her sad eyes downward at the scarlet letter . 
