Mark Woolston came from a part of this great republic where the names are still as simple , unpretending , and as good Saxon English , as in the county of Kent itself . 
This had no effect on Mark , who went on talking of his uncles and aunts , `` Josy Wooster , '' and `` Tommy Wooster , '' and `` Peggy Wooster , '' precisely as if a New England academy did not exist on earth ; or as if Webster had not actually put Johnson under his feet ! 
The father of Mark Woolston -LRB- or Wooster -RRB- was a physician , and , for the country and age , was a well-educated and skilful man . 
Mark was born in 1777 , just seventy years since ; and only ten days before the surrender of Burgoyne . 
A good deal of attention was paid to his instruction , and fortunately for himself , his servitude under the eastern pedagogue was of very short duration , and Mark continued to speak the English language as his fathers had spoken it before him . 
Mark was the oldest of the family , and it was probably owing to this circumstance that he was so well educated , since the expense was not yet to be shared with that of keeping his brothers and sisters at schools of the same character . 
Such was the case with Mark Woolston , who would have taken his degree as a Bachelor of Arts , at Nassau Hall , Princeton , had not an event occurred , in his sixteenth year , which produced an entire change in his plan of life , and nipped his academical honours in the bud . 
In the year 1793 , when Mark Woolston was just sixteen , a full-rigged ship actually came up , and lay at the end of the wharf in Burlington , the little town nearly opposite to Bristol , where she attracted a great deal of the attention of all the youths of the vicinity . 
Mark was at home , in a vacation , and he passed half his time in and about that ship , crossing the river in a skiff of which he was the owner , in order to do so . 
From that hour young Mark affected the sea , and all the tears of his mother and eldest sister , the latter a pretty girl only two years his junior , and the more sober advice of his father , could not induce him to change his mind . 
After turning the thing well over in his mind , he determined to consult Mark 's inclinations , and to make a sailor of him . 
He had a cousin married to the sister of an East India , or rather of a Canton ship-master , and to this person the father applied for advice and assistance . 
Captain Crutchely very willingly consented to receive Mark in his own vessel , the Rancocus , and promised `` to make a man and an officer of him . '' 
The very day Mark first saw the ocean he was sixteen years old . 
He had got his height , five feet eleven , and was strong for his years , and active . 
In fact , it would not have been easy to find a lad every way so well adapted to his new calling , as young Mark Woolston . 
The three years of his college life , if they had not made him a Newton , or a Bacon , had done him no harm , filling his mind with the germs of ideas that were destined afterwards to become extremely useful to him . 
Long before the vessel reached the capes , he was at home in her , from her truck to her keelson , and Captain Crutchely remarked to his chief mate , the day they got to sea , that `` young Mark Woolston was likely to turn up a trump . '' 
As for Mark himself , he did not lose sight of the land , for the first time in his life , altogether without regrets . 
He had a good deal of feeling in connection with his parents , and his brothers and sisters ; but , as it is our aim to conceal nothing which ought to be revealed , we must add there was still another who filled his thoughts more than all the rest united . 
This person was Bridget Yardley , the only child of his father 's most formidable professional competitor . 
Anne Woolston , the oldest sister of Mark , and Bridget Yardley , were nearly of an age , and they were not only school-mates , but fast friends . 
The girls were about two and three years the juniors of Mark , but well grown for their time of life , and frank and affectionate as innocence and warm hearts could make them . 
As Mark was often sent to see his sister home , in her frequent visits to the madam 's house , where the two girls held most of their intercourse , he was naturally enough admitted into their association . 
The connection commenced by Mark 's agreeing to be Bridget 's brother , as well as Anne 's . 
The charming young thing declared that she would `` rather have Mark Woolston for her brother than any other boy in Bristol ; and that it was delightful to have the same person for a brother as Anne ! '' 
True as steel in all her impulses and opinions , in adopting Mark for a brother she merely yielded to a strong natural sympathy , without understanding its tendency or its origin . 
She would talk by the hour , with Anne , touching theirbrother , and what they must make him do , and where he must go with them , and in what they could oblige him most . 
The result of all this intercourse was to awaken a feeling between Mark and Bridget , that was far more profound than might have been thought in breasts so young , and which coloured their future lives . 
Mark first became conscious of the strength of this feeling when he lost sight of the Capes , and fancied the dear little Bucks county girl he had left behind him , talking with his sister of his own absence and risks . 
But Mark had too much of the true spirit of a sailor in him , to pine , or neglect his duty ; and , long ere the ship had doubled the Cape of Good Hope , he had become an active and handy lad aloft . 
When the ship reached the China seas , he actually took his trick at the helm . 
When Mark Woolston re-appeared in Bristol , after the arrival of the Rancocus below had been known there about twenty-four hours , he was the envy of all the lads in the place , and the admiration of most of the girls . 
There he was , a tall , straight , active , well-made , well-grown and decidedly handsome lad of seventeen , who had doubled the Cape of Good Hope , seen foreign parts , and had a real India handkerchief hanging out of each pocket of a blue round-about of superfine cloth , besides one around his halfopen well-formed throat , that was carelessly tied in a true sailor knot ! 
But Mark cared little for these interrogatories . 
He was happy ; happy enough , at being the object of so much attention ; happier still in the bosom of a family of which he had always been the favourite and was now the pride ; and happiest of all when he half ravished a kiss from the blushing cheek of Bridget Yardley . 
If they had not quite made a man of Mark , they had made him manly , and his soi-disantsister wondered that any one could be so much improved by a sea-faring life . 
Mark was more than delighted , he was fascinated ; and young as they were , the month he passed at home sufficed to enable him to tell his passion , and to obtain a half-ready , half-timid acceptance of the offer of his hand . 
Doctors Woolston and Yardley no longer met even in consultations ; or , if they did meet in the house of some patient whose patronage was of too much value to be slighted , it was only to dispute , and sometimes absolutely to quarrel . 
At the end of one short month , however , Mark was once more summoned to his post on board the Rancocus , temporarily putting an end to his delightful interviews with Bridget . 
The latter it certainly was , though Mark had shot up early , and was a man at a time of life when lads , in less genial climates , scarcely get tails to their coats ; but its impropriety must evidently be measured by the habits of the state of society in which the parties were brought up , and by the duties that had been inculcated . 
Mark went to sea this time , dragging after him a `` lengthening chain , '' but , nevertheless , filled with hope . 
His years forbade much despondency , and , while he remained as constant as if he had been a next door neighbour , he was buoyant , and the life of the whole crew , after the first week out . 
In obeying these instructions , he went from port to port ; and , as a sort of consequence of having Quaker owners , turning his peaceful character to great profit , thus giving Mark many opportunities of seeing as much of what is called the world , as can be found in sea-ports . 
While it would be folly to pretend that Mark , in his situation , obtained the most accurate notions imaginable of all he saw and heard , in his visits to Amsterdam , London , Cadiz , Bordeaux , Marseilles , Leghorn , Gibraltar , and two or three other ports that might be mentioned and to which he went , he did glean a good deal , some of which was useful to him in after-life . 
He lost no small portion of the provincial rust of home , moreover , and began to understand the vast difference between `` seeing the world '' and `` going to meeting and going to mill . '' 
-LSB- 3 -RSB- In addition to these advantages , Mark was transferred from the forecastle to the cabin before the ship sailed for Canton . 
The practice of near two years had made him a very tolerable sailor , and his previous education made the study of navigation easy to him . 
In that day there was a scarcity of officers in America , and a young man of Mark 's advantages , physical and moral , was certain to get on rapidly , provided he only behaved well . 
It followed that Mark wanted but a few weeks of being nineteen years old the day his ship passed Cape May , and , what was more , he had the promise of Captain Crutchely , of sailing with him , as his first officer , in the next voyage . 
With that promise in his mind , Mark hastened up the river to Bristol , as soon as he was clear of the vessel . 
Mark found her in black , however ; or , in mourning for her mother . 
As the dispute was wholly gratuitous on the part of the Doctor , Mark behaving with perfect propriety on the occasion , it may be well to explain its real cause . 
The fact was , that Bridget was an heiress ; if not on a very large scale , still an heiress , and , what was more , unalterably so in right of her mother ; and the thought that a son of his competitor , Doctor Woolston , should profit by this fact , was utterly insupportable to him . 
Accordingly he quarrelled with Mark , the instant he was apprised of the character of his attentions , and forbade him the house . 
To do Mark justice , he knew nothing of Bridget 's worldly possessions . 
That she was beautiful , and warm-hearted , and frank , and sweet-tempered , and feminine , and affectionate , he both saw and felt ; but beyond this he neither saw anything , nor cared about seeing anything . 
Still , Mark thought so much of that which was really estimable and admirable in Bridget , and so little of anything mercenary , that even after these revelations he could not comprehend the causes of Doctor Yardley 's harsh treatment of him . 
During the whole scene , which was purposely enacted in the presence of his wondering and trembling daughter , Mark behaved perfectly well . 
He had a respect for the Doctor 's years , as well as for Bridget 's father , and would not retort . 
But Mark Woolston was governed by no such design , as the sequel will show . 
Still , the law of God is there , and we are among those who believe that a neglect of its mandates is very apt to bring its punishment , even in this world , and we are inclined to think that much of that which Mark and Bridget subsequently suffered , was in consequence of acting directly in the face of the wishes and injunctions of their parents . 
The scene which had taken place under the roof of Doctor Yardley was soon known under that of Doctor Woolston . 
Bridget loved Anne almost as much as she loved Mark , and she began to pine and alter in her appearance , in a way to alarm her father . 
In order to divert her mind , he sent her to town , to the care of an aunt , altogether forgetting that Mark 's ship lay at the wharves of Philadelphia , and that he could not have sent his daughter to any place , out of Bristol , where the young man would be so likely to find her . 
When Mark joined his ship , of which he was now the first officer , he sought Bridget and found her . 
The aunt , however , administered to him the second potion of the same dose that her brother had originally dealt out , and gave him to understand that his presence in Front street was not desired . 
The idea of again going to sea , leaving his betrothed entirely in the hands of those who disliked him for his father 's sake , was intolerable to Mark , and it made him so miserable , that the tenderness of the deeply enamoured girl could not withstand his appeals . 
They agreed to get married , but to keep their union a secret until Mark should become of age , when it was hoped he would be in a condition , in every point of view , openly to claim his wife . 
Among Mark 's college friends was one who was a few years older than himself , and who had entered the ministry . 
Everything being previously arranged , Mark and Bridget were married , early one morning , during the time the latter was out , in company with a female friend of about her own age , to take what her aunt believed was her customary walk before breakfast . 
What was more , the best quarters were still near the river , and the distance between the Rancocus -- meaning Mark 's ship , and not the creek of that name -- and the house of Bridget 's aunt , was but trifling . 
The ceremony took place in the cabin of the vessel just named , which , now that the captain was ashore in his own house , Mark had all to himself , no second-mate having been shipped , and which was by no means an inappropriate place for the nuptials of a pair like that which our young people turned out to be , in the end . 
Captain Crutchely had a thrifty wife , who had contributed her full share to render her husband comfortable , and Bridget thought that the room in which she was united to Mark was one of the prettiest she had ever seen . 
At eight years of age he was placed , as cabin-boy , on board a coaster ; and from that time down to the moment when he witnessed the marriage ceremony between Mark and Bridget , he had been a sailor . 
It was to Bob that he had committed the instruction of Mark , when the latter first joined the ship , and from Bob the youth had got his earliest notions of seamanship . 
His attachment to Mark was signal , and he looked on the promotion of the young man much as he would have regarded preferment that befel himself . 
In the last voyage he had told the people in the forecastle `` That young Mark Woolston would make a thorough sea-dog in time , and now he had got to be Mr.Woolston , he expected great things of him . 
The happiest day of my life will be that on which I can ship in a craft commanded by CaptainMark Woolston . 
I teached him , myself , how to break the first sea-biscuit he ever tasted , and next day he could do it as well as any on us ! 
You see how handy and quick he is about a vessel 's decks , shipmates ; a ra'al rouser at a weather earin ' -- well , when he first come aboard here , and that was little more than two years ago , the smell of tar would almost make him swound away . '' 
The latter assertion was one of Bob 's embellishments , for Mark was never either lackadaisical or very delicate . 
Bob Betts was the only male witness of the marriage between Mark Woolston and Bridget Yardley , with the exception of the officiating clergyman ; as Mary Bromley was the only female . 
Duplicate certificates , however , were given to the young couple , Mark placing his in his writing-desk , and Bridget hers in the bosom of her dress . 
`` A trim-built and light-sailing craft , Mr. Woolston , '' he said , turning over the quid in his mouth ; `` one of these days she 'll make a noble vessel to command . '' 
`` She is my captain , and ever will be , Bob , '' returned Mark . 
`` Neither , '' answered Mark , smiling . 
All this was a proof of Mark 's entire disinterestedness . 
He did not know that his young bride had quite thirty thousand dollars in reversion , or in one sense in possession , although she could derive no benefit from it until she was of age , or married , and past her eighteenth year . 
Mark was very much in love , but this scheme scarce afforded him the satisfaction that one might have expected . 
He was attached to his profession , and scarce relished the thought of being dependent altogether on his wife for the means of subsistence . 
The struggle between love and pride was great , but Mark , at length , yielded to Bridget 's blandishments , tenderness and tears . 
They could only meet at the house of Mary Bromley , the bride 's - maid , but then the interviews between them were as frequent as Mark 's duty would allow . 
Doctor Woolston was sorely displeased , at first ; but the event had that about it which would be apt to console a parent . 
We are not quite certain that he did not feel a slight gratification at the thought of his son 's enjoying the fortune which his rival had received from his wife , and which , but for the will of the grandfather , would have been enjoyed by that rival himself . 
Both Mark and Bridget now felt that they had offended against one of the simplest commands of God . 
It was in Mark 's power , however , to go and claim his wife , and remove her to his father 's house , notwithstanding his minority and that of Bridget . 
In this last respect , the law offered no obstacle ; but the discretion of Doctor Woolston did . 
Then , Doctor Woolston was exceedingly polite , and spoke to his rival of a difficult case in his own practice , as if indirectly to ask an opinion of his competitor . 
It was decided that Mark should continue in the Rancocus for another voyage . 
It was known the ship was to proceed to some of the islands of the Pacific , in quest of a cargo of sandal-wood and bêche-lê-mar , for the Chinese market , and that her next absence from home would be longer , even , than her last . 
By the time the vessel returned , Mark would be of age , and fit to command a ship himself , should it be thought expedient for him to continue in his profession . 
During the period the vessel still remained in port , Mark was to pay occasional visits to his wife , though not to live with her ; but the young couple might correspond by letter , as often as they pleased . 
The intercourse between Bridget and Anne was renewed , just as if nothing had happened , and Mark 's letters to his virgin bride were numerous , and filled with passion . 
The ship was ` taking in , ' and he could only leave her late on Saturday afternoons , but each Sunday he contrived to pass in Bristol . 
On such occasions he saw his charming wife at church , and he walked with her in the fields , along with Anne and a facoured admirer of hers , of an afternoon , returning to town in season to be at his post on the opening of the hatches , of a Monday morning . 
In less than a month after the premature marriage between Mark Woolston and Bridget Yardley , the Rancocus cleared for the Pacific and Canton . 
The doctor even consented to visit the ship , which Captain Crutchely , laughing , called St. Mark 's chapel , in consequence of the religious rite which had been performed on board her . 
He made Bridget blush more than once , though her enduring tenderness in behalf of Mark induced her to sit out all the captain 's wit , rather than shorten a visit so precious , one moment . 
Even Mark 's young heart , manly , and much disposed to do his duty as he was , was near breaking ; while Bridget almost dissolved in tears . 
Bridget did not give up her hold upon Mark so long as even his vessel remained in sight . 
Mark felt his heart beat , when he saw a woman 's handkerchief waving to him from the shore , and a fresh burst of tenderness nearly unmanned him , when , by the aid of the glass , he recognised the sweet countenance and fairy figure of Bridget . 
A few days at sea restored the equanimity of Mark 's feelings , while the poignant grief of Bridget did not fail to receive the solace which time brings to sorrows of every degree and nature . 
Mark found in his state-room -- for , in the Rancocus , the cabin was fitted with four neat little state-rooms , one for the captain , and two for the mates , with a fourth for the supercargo -- many proofs of Bridget 's love and care . 
In that day , artists were not very numerous in America , nor is it very probable that Doctor Yardley would have permitted his daughter to take so decided a step as to sit for her miniature for Mark 's possession ; but she had managed to get her profile cut , and to have it framed , and the mate discovered it placed carefully among his effects , when only a week out . 
From this profile Mark derived the greatest consolation . 
Mark spent hours in gazing at and in admiring this inanimate shadow of his bride , which never failed to recall to him all her grace , and nature , and tenderness and love , though it could not convey any direct expression of her animation and spirit . 
In after-life Mark Woolston often thought of this , when reflection succeeded to action , and when he came to muse on the causes which may have led to his being the subject of the wonderful events that occurred in connection with his own fortunes . 
Mark , himself , was perfectly sober . 
The taste of rum was unpleasant to him , nor did his young blood and buoyant spirits crave its effects . 
If he touched it at all , it was in very small quantities , and greatly diluted with water . 
He saw the present condition of his superior , therefore , with regret ; and this so much the more , from the circumstance that an unpleasant report was prevailing in the ship , that white water had been seen ahead , during a clear moment , by a man who had just come from aloft . 
This man supported the captain in his contempt for the rumours and notions of the crew , and between them Mark found himself silenced . 
It being now six o'clock in the evening , and the second-mate having taken charge of the watch , Mark went up into the fore-top-gallant cross-trees himself , in order to get the best look ahead that he could before the night set in . 
At first , he could discern nothing ahead , at a distance greater than a mile , on account of the mist ; but , just as the sun went below the waters it lighted up to the westward , and Mark then plainly saw what he was perfectly satisfied must be breakers , extending for several miles directly across the vessel 's track ! 
This cry , coming from his first officer , startled even Captain Crutchely , who was recovering a little from the effect of his potations , though it was still treated with contempt by the second-mate , who had never forgiven one as young as Mark , for getting a berth that he fancied due to his own greater age and experience . 
He laughed openly at this second report of breakers , at a point in the ocean where the chart laid down a clear sea ; but the captain knew that the charts could only tell him what was known at the time they were made , and he felt disposed to treat his first officer , young as he was , with more respect than the second-mate . 
Mark came down to assist in this duty , while Captain Crutchely himself went aloft to look out for the breakers . 
For a few minutes after he reached the deck , Mark was fully employed in executing his orders . 
Although the vessel was under top-mast studding-sails when the command to take in the canvas was given , it was not long before Mark had her under her three topsails , and these with two reefs in them , and the ship on an easy bowline , with her head to the southward . 
Captain Crutchely had not been aloft five minutes before he hailed the deck , and ordered Mark to send Bob Betts up to the cross-trees . 
The second-mate stood waiting the further descent of the captain , with a sort of leering look of contempt on his hard , well-dyed features , which seemed to anticipate that it would soon be known that Mark 's white water had lost its colour , and become blue water once more . 
Bob Betts , too , was as much at fault as his captain , and a sarcastic remark or two of Hillson , the second-mate , were fast bringing Mark 's breakers into discredit . 
This told hard against Mark , and considerably in Hillson 's favour . 
demanded Mark , with an emphasis on the ` you ' which pretty plainly implied that the young man was not so much surprised that the captain had not seen them . 
`` Not a bit of it , Mr. Woolston , '' answered Bob , hitching up his trowsers , `` and I 'd a pretty good look ahead , too . '' 
This made still more against Mark , and Captain Crutchely sent for the chart . 
As Mark solemnly and steadily repeated his own belief that there were breakers ahead , he so far yielded to the opinions of his youthful chief-mate as to order the deep-sea up , and to prepare to sound . 
The ship must first be hove-to , and her way ought to be as near lost as possible before the cast is made . 
The misty , drizzling weather threatened to make the darkness intense , and Mark felt more and more impressed with the danger in which the ship was placed . 
Then Mark did not believe the ship to be within three leagues of the breakers he had seen , for they had seemed , both to him and to the seaman who had first reported them , to be several leagues distant . 
One on an elevation like that of the top-gallant cross-trees , could see a long way , and the white water had appeared to Mark to be on the very verge of the western horizon , even as seen from his lofty look-out . 
After a further consultation with his officers , during which Hillson had not spared his hits at his less experienced superior , Captain Crutchely came to a decision , which might be termed semi-prudent . 
With this plan Mark was compelled to comply , there being no appeal from the decrees of the autocrat of the quarter-deck . 
It was true , that under double-reefed topsails , and jib , which was all the canvas set , there was not half the danger there would have been under their former sail ; and , when Mark took charge of the watch , as he did soon after , or at eight o'clock , he was in hopes , by means of vigilance , still to escape the danger . 
The darkness , which was getting to be very intense , was now the greatest and most immediate source of his apprehensions . 
Could he only get a glimpse of the sea a cable 's - length ahead , he would have felt vast relief ; but even that small favour was denied him . 
As for Mark , he took his station between the knight-heads , where he remained most of the watch , nearly straining the eyes out of his head , in the effort to penetrate the gloom , and listening acutely to ascertain if he might not catch some warning roar of the breakers , that he felt so intimately persuaded must be getting nearer and nearer at each instant . 
At length Mark actually fancied he heard the dreaded sounds ; the warning , however , was not ahead , but well on his starboard beam . 
This he thought an ample justification for departing from his instructions , and he instantly issued an order to put the helm hard a-starboard , so as to bring the vessel up to the wind , on the contrary tack . 
Unfortunately , as the result proved , it now became his imperative duty to report to Captain Crutchely what he had done . 
With a slow step , therefore , and a heavy heart , Mark went into the cabin to make his report , and to give the second-mate the customary call . 
The latter , in particular , was like a man in a state of lethargy , and Mark had half a mind to leave him , and make his condition an excuse for not having persisted in the call . 
But he succeeded in arousing the captain , who soon found the means to bring the second-mate to a state of semi-consciousness . 
A grunt succeeded , which Mark scarce knew how to interpret . 
The after-part of the ship was now the best situation for watching , and Mark went up on the poop , in order to see and hear the better . 
No lower sail being in the way , he could look ahead almost as well from that position as if he were forward ; and as for hearing , it was much the best place of the two , in consequence of there being no wash of the sea directly beneath him , as was the case when stationed between the knight-heads . 
To this post he soon summoned Bob Betts , who belonged to his watch , and with whom he had ever kept up as great an intimacy as the difference in their stations would allow . 
`` Bob , your ears are almost as good as your eyes , '' said Mark ; `` have you heard nothing of breakers ? '' 
`` I have , Mr. Woolston , and now own I did see something that may have been white water , this arternoon , while aloft ; but the captain and second-mate seemed so awarse to believing in sich a thing , out here in the open Pacific , that I got to be awarse , too . '' 
`` It was a great fault in a look-out not to let what he had seen be known , '' said Mark , gravely . 
But it 's going right in the wind 's eye , Mr. Woolston , to go ag ` in captain and dickey ! '' 
`` As I ever was in my life , Mr. Mark . 
This was proof that the ship was actually among the breakers when Mark hauled up , and that she was now passing a danger to leeward , that she must have previously gone by , in running down on her course . 
These orders came out so fast , and in so peremptory a manner , that remonstrance was out of the question , and Mark set himself at work to obey them , in good earnest . 
Hewould have tacked in preference to waring , and it would have been much wiser to do so ; but it was clearly expedient to get the ship on the other tack , and he lent all his present exertions to the attainment of that object . 
Just as the ship had got dead before the wind , and was flying away to leeward , short as was the sail she was under , the atmosphere seemed to be suddenly filled with a strange light , the sea became white all around them , and a roar of tumbling waters arose , that resembled the sound of a small cataract . 
The ship was evidently in the midst of breakers , and the next moment she struck ! 
Hillson was ordered to clear away an anchor , while Mark was attending to the canvas . 
At the same time he issued an order to Mark to get up tackles , and to clear away the launch , preparatory to getting that boat into the water . 
Mark was soon apprised of the change that had occurred , and of the heavy responsibility that now rested on his young shoulders . 
A feeling of horror and of regret came over him , at first ; but understanding the necessity of self-command , he aroused himself , at once , to his duty , and gave his orders coolly and with judgment . 
Mark stood on the bowsprit , and saw them shoot past the bows of the vessel , and then , almost immediately , become lost to view in the gloomy darkness of the terrible scene . 
By this time the ship had beaten so far over the reef , as scarcely to touch at all , and Mark had everything ready for letting go his anchors , the instant he had reason to believe she was in water deep enough to float her . 
Under all the circumstances , Mark expected each instant , to find himself in four fathoms ' water , and he intended to let go the anchor the moment he was assured of that fact . 
In the mean time , he ordered the carpenter to sound the pumps . 
As yet her bottom was not injured , materially at least . 
While Mark stood with the lead-line in his hand , anxiously watching the drift of the vessel and the depth of water , Hillson was employed in placing provisions in the launch . 
There was a small amount of specie in the cabin , and this , too , was transferred to the launch ; everything of that sort being done without Mark 's knowledge , and by the second-mate 's orders . 
At length Mark found , to his great delight , that there were four good fathoms of water under the ship 's bows , though she still hung abaft . 
He ascertained this fact by means of Bob Betts , which true-hearted tar stood by him , with a lantern , by swinging which low enough , the marks were seen on the lead-line . 
After waiting patiently a quarter of an hour , Mark believed that the proper time had come , and he gave the order to ` let run . ' 
In swinging to her anchor , a roller came down upon her , however ; one that had crossed the reef without breaking , and broke on board her . 
Mark afterwards believed that the rush and weight of this sea , which did no serious harm , frightened the men into the launch , where Hillson was already in person , and that the boat either struck adrift under the power of the roller , or that the painter was imprudently cast off in the confusion of the moment . 
Even then Mark was by no means conscious of the extent of the calamity that had befallen him . 
It was only when he had visited cabin , steerage and forecastle , and called the crew over by name , that he reached the grave fact that there was no one left on board the Rancocus but Bob Betts and himself ! 
As Mark did not know what land was to be found to leeward , he naturally enough hoped and expected that the people in both boats might reach the shore , and be recovered in the morning ; but he had little expectation of ever seeing Captain Crutchely again . 
Fortunately , the anchor held , and , as the wind , which had never blown very heavily , sensibly began to lessen , Mark was sanguine in the belief it would continue to hold . 
In consequence of this bit of foresight , the Rancocus lay at a distance of less than forty fathoms from her anchor , which Mark knew had been dropped in four fathoms ' water . 
He now sounded abreast of the main-mast , and ascertained that the ship itself was in nine fathoms . 
This suggestion relieved Mark 's mind of a load of care , and he lent himself to the measures necessary to the continued safety of the vessel , with renewed animation and vigour . 
For this advantage Mark was deeply grateful , and could he only recover four or five of the people , and find his way out into open water , he might hope to live again to see America , and to be re-united to his youthful and charming bride . 
Mark now found new ground for apprehensions , even in these favourable circumstances . 
He supposed that the ship must feel the influence of the tides , so near the land , and was afraid she might tail the other way , and thus be brought again over the reef . 
In order to obviate this difficulty , he and Bob set to work to get another cable bent , and another anchor clear for letting go . 
As all the anchors of the Rancocus had been thus stowed , until Captain Crutchely got the one that was down , off the gunwale , and all the cables below , Mark and Bob had labour enough before them to occupy several hours , in the job thus undertaken . 
As soon as perfectly convinced of the existence of this favourable state of things , and of its being likely to last , Mark ceased to work , in order to wait for day , telling Bob to discontinue his exertions also . 
But the earth performed its usual revolution , and by degrees sufficient light was obtained to enable Mark and Bob to examine the state of things around them . 
Mark went up forward , while Bob ascended into the main-top . 
It is true , that it was still too dark to be certain of a fact of this sort , though Mark felt quite assured that if land was finally seen , it must be of no great extent , and quite low . 
He called to Bob , to ascertain what hethought of appearances to leeward , his reputation as a look-out being so great . 
But , one thing can be seen plain enough , Mr. Mark , and that 's the breakers . 
It often happens that there is an inner and an outer reef to the islands of the Pacific , particularly to those of coral formation ; but Mark began to doubt whether there was any coral at all in the place where the Rancocus lay , in consequence of the entire want of regularity in the position of these very breakers . 
`` It will need a reg ` lar branch here , Mr. Mark , to carry the old Rancocus clear of all them breakers to sea again , '' he cried . 
`` It is a most serious position for a vessel to be in , Bob , '' answered Mark , sighing -- `` nor do I see how we areever to get clear of it , even should we get back men enough to handle the ship . '' 
`` We will look for our boats , '' Mark gravely replied , the image of Bridget , just at that instant , appearing before his mind with a painful distinctness . 
Mark , however , could not make it out , until he had gone up into the cross-trees , when he , too , got a glimpse of what , under all the circumstances , he did not doubt was either a portion of the reef that rose above the water , or was what might be termed a low , straggling island . 
Both Mark and Bob remained aloft near an hour longer , or until they had got the best possible view of which their position would allow , of everything around the ship . 
Bob went down , and took a glass up to his officer , Mark sweeping the whole horizon with it , in the anxious wish to make out something cheering in connection with the boats . 
The drift of these unfortunate craft must have been towards the land , and that he examined with the utmost care . 
Aided by the glass , and his elevation , he got a tolerable view of the spot , which certainly promised as little in the way of supplies as any other bit of naked reef he had ever seen . 
The distance , however , was so great as to prevent his obtaining any certain information on that point . 
One thing , however , he did ascertain , as he feared , with considerable accuracy . 
After passing the glass along the whole of that naked rock , he could see nothing on it in motion . 
Of birds there were a good many , more indeed than from the extent of the visible reef he might have expected ; but no signs of man could be discovered . 
As the ocean , in all directions , was swept by the glass , and this single fragment of a reef , which was less than a mile in length , was the only thing that even resembled land , the melancholy conviction began to force itself on Mark and Bob , that all their shipmates had perished ! 
Mark and Bob Betts descended to the deck , after passing a long time aloft making their observations . 
As it was now getting past the usual breakfast hour , some cold meat was got out , and , for the first time since Mark had been transferred to the cabin , they sat down on the windlass and ate the meal together . 
After a good deal had passed between them , Mark suddenly asked -- `` Do you think it possible , Bob , for us two to take care of the ship , should we even manage to get her into deep water again ? '' 
`` Well , that is not so soon answered , Mr. Woolston , '' returned Bob . 
`` We 're both on us stout , and healthy , and of good courage , Mr. Mark ; but ' t would be a desperate long way for two hands to carry a wessel of four hundred tons , to take the old ` Cocus from this here anchorage , all the way to the coast of America ; and short of the coast there 's no ra'al hope for us . 
There 's the rub , Mr. Woolston ; but I fear ' t will never be ` rub and go . '' ' 
`` Such is just my notion , Mr. Woolston , on that subject , and I 've no wish to keep it a secret . 
`` I am sorry to hear you say this , '' answered Mark , gloomily , `` though I feared as much myself . '' 
`` I do n't exactly understand what you mean by attorneytives , Mr. Mark ; though it 's little harm , or little good that any attorney can do the old ` Cocus , now ! 
Did you just notice the tide-ripples , Mr. Mark , when you was up in the cross-trees ? '' 
I see no other hope for us , Mr. Mark , but to Robinson Crusoe it awhile , until our times come ; or , till the Lord , in his marcy , shall see fit to have us picked up . '' 
repeated Mark , smiling at the quaintness of Bob 's expression , which the well-meaning fellow uttered in all simplicity , and in perfect good faith -- `` where are we to find even an uninhabited island , on which to dwell after the mode of Robinson Crusoe ? '' 
`` Harkee , Mr. Mark ; I thought this matter over in my mind , while we was aloft , and this is my idee as to what is best to be done , for a start . 
This proposal struck Mark 's young mind as plausible , as well as discreet . 
First by slinging , it was swayed high enough to clear the rail , when Bob bore it over the side , and Mark lowered away . 
While Bob saw to provisioning the boat , and filling its breakers with fresh water , Mark attended to another piece of duty that he conceived to be of the last importance . 
As no immediate result was expected from the firing of these guns , Mark had no sooner discharged them , than he joined Betts , who by this time had everything ready , and prepared to quit the ship . 
Before he did this , however , he made an anxious and careful survey of the weather , it being all-important to be certain no change in this respect was likely to occur in his absence . 
When Mark had taken his seat in the dingui , Bob let go his hold of the ship , and set the sail . 
Previously to quitting the ship , Mark had taken a good look at the breakers to leeward , in order to have some general notion of the course best to steer , and he commenced his little voyage , but entirely without a plan for his own government . 
There was just about as much wind as so small a craft needed , and Bob soon began to sound , Mark preferring to steer . 
As they should be obliged to return with the oars , Mark observed that then he would feel his way back to the ship . 
Mark met with more difficulty than he had anticipated in keeping the dingui out of the breakers . 
So very smooth was the sort of bay he was in -- a bay by means of the reefs to windward , though no rock in that direction rose above the surface of the sea -- so very smooth , then , was the sort of bay he was in , that the water did not break , in many places , except at long intervals ; and then only when a roller heavier than common found its way in from the outer ocean . 
The appearances of the sunken reefs , over and among which he had just passed , had greatly shaken Mark 's hope of ever getting the ship from among them , and he even doubted the possibility of bringing her down , before the wind , to the place where he was then going . 
All these considerations , which began to press more and more painfully on his mind , each foot as he advanced , served to increase the intensity of the interest with which he noted every appearance on , or about , the reef , or island , that he was now approaching . 
Then he had left no virgin bride at home , to look for his return ; and had moreover made up his mind that it was the will of Providence that he and Mark were to ` Robinson Crusoe it ' awhile on ` that bit of a reef . ' 
Mark was at first surprised to find so little surf beating against even its weather side , but this was accounted for by the great number of the reefs that lay for miles without it ; and , particularly , by the fact that one line of rock stretched directly across this weather end , distant from it only two cables ' lengths , forming a pretty little sheet of perfectly smooth water between it and the island . 
It would be difficult to describe the sensations with which Mark first landed . 
In approaching the place , both he and Bob had strained their eyes in the hope of seeing some proof that their shipmates had been there ; but no discovery rewarded their search . 
Mark found that he was treading on naked rock when he had landed , though the surface was tolerably smooth . 
The rock itself was of a sort to which he was unaccustomed : and he began to suspect , what in truth turned out on further investigation to be the fact , that instead of being on a reef of coral , he was on one of purely volcanic origin . 
The utter nakedness of the rock both surprised and grieved him . 
Thither then they proceeded , accompanied by a large flight of the birds Neither Mark nor Bob , however , had neglected to turn his eyes towards the now distant ship , which was apparently riding at its anchor , in exactly the condition in which it had been left , half an hour before . 
In that quarter all seemed right , and Mark led the way to the mount , with active and eager steps . 
A place was found at length , however , and by lending each other a hand , Mark and Bob finally got on the summit . 
Here a surprise was ready for them , that drew an exclamation from each , the instant the sight broke upon him . 
Instead of finding an elevated bit of table-rock , as had been expected , a circular cavity existed within , that Mark at once recognised to be the extinct crater of a volcano ! 
After the first astonishment was over , Mark made a close examination of the place . 
When Mark got to it , which he did by descending the wall of the crater , not without risk to his neck , he found the surface of the crater very even and unbroken , with the exception of its having a slight descent from its eastern to its western side ; or from the side opposite to the outlet , or gateway , to the gateway itself . 
This inclination Mark fancied was owing to the circumstance that the water of the ocean had formerly entered at the hole , in uncommonly high tides and tempests , and washed the ashes which had once formed the bottom of the crater , towards the remote parts of the plain . 
Once or twice Mark broke through , as one would fall through rotten ice , when he found his shoes covered with a light dust that much resembled ashes . 
In other places he broke this crust on purpose , always finding beneath it a considerable depth of ashes , mingled with some shells , and a few small stones . 
Mark observed that , from some cause or other , the birds avoided the crater . 
It really seemed to him that their instincts warned them of the dangers that had once environed the place , and that , to use the language of sailors , `` they gave it a wide berth , '' in consequence . 
Havingcompleted this first examination of the crater , Mark and Bob next picked their way again to the summit of its wall , and took their seats directly over the arch . 
Mark now began to comprehend the character of the singular geological formation , into the midst of which the Rancocus had been led , as it might almost be by the hand of Providence itself . 
He was at that moment seated on the topmost pinnacle of a submarine mountain of volcanic origin -- submarine as to all its elevations , heights and spaces , with the exception of the crater where he had just taken his stand , and the little bit of visible and venerable lava , by which it was surrounded . 
It is true that this lava rose very near the surface of the ocean , in fifty places that he could see at no great distance , forming the numberless breakers that characterized the place ; but , with the exception of Mark 's Reef , as Bob named the principal island on the spot , two or three detached islets within a cable 's - length of it , and a few little more remote , the particular haunts of birds , no other land was visible , far or near . 
As Mark sat there , on that rock of concrete ashes , he speculated on the probable extent of the shoals and reefs by which he was surrounded . 
Judging by what he then saw , and recalling the particulars of the examination made from the cross-trees of the ship , he supposed that the dangers and difficulties of the navigation must extend , in an east and west direction , at least twelve marine leagues ; while , in a north and south , the distance seemed to be a little , and a very little less . 
There was necessarily a good deal of conjecture in this estimate of the extent of the volcanic mountain which composed these extensive shoals ; but , from what he saw , from the distance the ship was known to have run amid the dangers before she brought up , her present anchorage , the position of the island , and all the other materials before him to make his calculation on , Mark believed himself rather to have lessened than to have exaggerated the extent of these shoals . 
From the time of reaching the reef , which is now to bear his name in all future time , our young seaman had begun to admit the bitter possibility of being compelled to pass the remainder of his days on it . 
It is unnecessary to state with what bitter regrets the young bridegroom admitted this painful idea ; but Mark was too manly and resolute to abandon himself to despair , even at such a moment . 
He kept his sorrows pent up in the repository of his own bosom , and endeavoured to imitate the calm exterior of his companion . 
As for Bob , he was a good deal of a philosopher by nature ; and , having made up his mind that they were doomed to ` Robinson Crusoe it , ' for a few years at least , he was already turning over in his thoughts the means of doing so to the best advantage . 
`` We are fairly in for it , Mr. Mark , '' said Bob , `` and differ from Robinson only in the fact that there are two of us ; whereas he was obliged to set up for himself , and by himself , until he fell in with Friday ! '' 
Howsomever , the ship will be of use in a great many ways , Mr. Mark , if we can keep her afloat , even where she is . 
`` Courage , Mr. Mark , courage , sir . 
Mark smiled at this oblique compliment , but he felt well assured that Bob meant all for the best . 
Bob assented at once to this scheme , and suggested one or two ideas in approbation of it , that were new even to Mark . 
Thus , it was evident to both , that if the ship herself were ever to get clear of the reef , it must be by passing out to leeward ; and by bringing her down to the island so much would be gained on the indispensable course . 
Thus , added Bob , she might be securely moored in the little bay to windward of the island ; and , in the course of time it was possible that by a thorough examination of the channels to the westward , and by the use of buoys , a passage might be found , after all , that would carry them out to sea . 
Mark had little hope of ever getting the Rancocus extricated from the maze of rocks into which she had so blindly entered , and where she probably never could have come but by driving over some of them ; but he saw many advantages in this plan of removing the ship , that increased in number and magnitude the more he thought on the subject . 
Should it come on to blow , and the ship drift down upon the rocks to leeward of her , she would probably go to pieces in an hour or two , when not only all the other ample stores that she contained , but every drop of sweet water at the command of the two seamen , would inevitably be lost . 
So important did it appear to Mark to make sure of a portion of this great essential , at least , that he would have proposed towing down to the reef , or island , a few casks , had the dingui been heavy enough to render such a project practicable . 
After talking over these several points still more at large , Mark and Bob descended from the summit of the crater , made half of its circuit , and returned to their boat . 
As the day continued calm , Mark was in no hurry , but passed half an hour in sounding the little bay that was formed by the sunken rocks that lay off the eastern , or weather end of the Crater Reef , as , in a spirit of humility , he insisted on calling that which everybody else now calls Mark 's Reef . 
Here he not only found abundance of water for all he wanted , but to his surprise he also found a sandy bottom , formed no doubt by the particles washed from the surrounding rocks under the never-ceasing abrasion of the waves . 
After surveying the basin , itself , with sufficient care , Bob pulled the dingui back towards the ship , Mark sounding as they proceeded . 
Mark passed through the latter four several times , sounding it , as it might be , foot by foot , and examining the bottom with the eye ; for , in that pellucid water , with the sun near the zenith , it was possible to see two or three fathoms down , and nowhere did he find any other obstacle than this just mentioned . 
Mark and Bob did not get back to the Rancocus until near three o'clock . 
After Bob had attended to the wants of the brute animals , he and Mark again sat down on the windlass to make another cold repast on broken meat -- as yet , they had not the hearts to cook anything . 
As soon as this homely meal was taken Mark placed a couple of buoys in the dingui , with the pig-iron that was necessary to anchor them , and proceeded to the spot on the reef , where it was proposed to place them . 
Mark , young as he was , thought justly on most professional subjects . 
He knew that heavy rollers would come in across the reef where the vessel then lay , and was fearful that the cable would chafe and part , should it come on to blow hard for four-and-twenty hours continually . 
These rollers , he also knew by the observation of that day , were completely broken and dispersed on the rocks , before they got down to the island , and he believed the chances of safety much greater by moving the ship at once , than by trying the fortune of another night out where she then lay . 
Bob submitted to this decision precisely as if Mark was still his officer , and no sooner got his orders than he sprang from sail to sail , and rope to rope , like a cat playing among the branches of some tree . 
While he was thus busied , Mark was looking to the stopper and shank-painter of the sheet-anchor , which had been got ready to let go , before Captain Crutchely was lost . 
Once Mark changed his mind , determining to hold on , and let go the sheet-anchor where he was , should it become necessary ; but a lull tempted him to proceed . 
Bob shouted out that all was ready , and Mark lifted the axe with which he was armed , and struck a heavy blow on the cable . 
Mark now sprang to the jib-halliards , assisting Bob to hoist the sail . 
It was indispensable in such a navigation to make no mistake , and Mark enjoined the utmost vigilance on his friend . 
Twenty times did he hail to inquire if the buoys were to be seen , and at last he was gratified by an answer in the affirmative . 
`` Keep her away , Mr. Mark -- keep her away , you may , sir ; we are well to windward of the channel . 
Ay , that 'll do , Mr. Woolston -- that 's your beauty , sir . 
Mark was vexed that the change should be made just at that critical instant , but bounding forward , he was between the knight-heads in half a minute , looking out for the buoys . 
At first , he could not see them ; and then he most felt the imprudence of Bob 's quitting his post in such a critical instant . 
As soon as the ship was far enough ahead , Mark called out to Bob to put his helm hard up . 
This was done , and away the Rancocus went , Mark watching her with the utmost vigilance , lest she should sheer a little too much to the one side or to the other . 
He hardly breathed as the vessel glided down upon these two black sentinels , and , for an instant , he fancied the wind or the current had interfered with their positions . 
It was now too late , however , to attempt any change , and Mark saw the ship surging onward on the swells of the ocean , which made their way thus far within the reefs , with a greater intensity of anxiety than he had ever before experienced in his life . 
Presently the buoys were on her quarters , and then Mark knew that the danger of this one spot was passed ! 
A change had come over the spot within the last few hours , in consequence of the increase of wind , the water breaking all along the ledge , instead of on its end only ; but Mark cared not for this , once certain he had found that end . 
He was now half-way between his former anchorage and the crater , and he could distinguish the latter quite plainly . 
But sail was necessary to carry the ship safely through the channel ahead , and Mark called to Bob to lash the helm a-midships after luffing up to his course , and to spring to the main-topmast staysail halliards , and help him hoist the sail . 
Bob then flew to the wheel , and Mark to his knight-heads again . 
Contrary to Mark 's apprehensions , he saw that the ship was luffing up close to the weather ledge , leaving little danger of her going on to it . 
As soon as met by the helm , however , she fell off , and Mark no longer had any doubt of weathering the northern end of the inner ledge of this passage . 
In order to do this with success , Mark now commenced hauling down the jib . 
By the time he had that sail well in , the ship was off the end of the sunken reef , when Bob put his helm a-starboard and rounded it . 
Down came the main-topmast staysail , and Mark jumped on the forecastle , while he called out to Bob to lash the helm a-lee . 
This was successfully done also , and Mark let go the stopper within twenty feet of the wall of the sunken reef , just as the ship began to drive astern . 
Then Bob took off his tarpaulin and gave three cheers , while Mark walked aft , silently returning thanks to God for the complete success of this important movement . 
By getting down her spars and other hamper , the power of the winds would be much lessened , though Mark felt little apprehension of the winds at that season of the year , so long as the sea could not make a long rake against the vessel . 
He believed the ship safe for the present , and felt the hope of still finding a passage , through the reef to leeward , reviving in his breast . 
Well might Mark and Bob rejoice in the great feat they had just performed . 
That night it blew so heavily as to leave little doubt that the ship never could have been kept at her anchor , outside ; and had she struck adrift in the darkness , nothing could have saved them from almost immediate destruction . 
The rollers came down in tremendous billows , breaking and roaring on all sides of the island , rendering the sea white with their foam , even at midnight ; but , on reaching the massive , natural wall that protected the Rancocus , they dashed themselves into spray against it , wetting the vessel from her truck down , but doing her no injury . 
Mark remained on deck until past twelve o'clock , when finding that the gale was already breaking , he turned in and slept soundly until morning . 
Mark took another look at the sea , reefs and islands , from the main-topmast cross-trees of the ship , as she lay in her new berth . 
Of course , the range of his vision was somewhat altered by this change of position , and especially did he see a greater distance to the westward , or towards the lee side of the reefs . 
Nothing encouraging was made out , however ; the young man rather inclining more to the opinion than he had ever done before , that the vessel could not be extricated from the rocks which surrounded her . 
With this conviction strongly renewed , he descended to the deck , to share in the breakfast Bob had set about preparing , the moment he quitted his cat-tails ; for Bob insisted on sleeping in the forecastle , though Mark had pressed him to take one of the cabin state-rooms . 
`` By the manner in which it blew last night , '' Mark observed , `` I doubt if we should have had this comfortable cabin to eat in this morning , and these good articles to consume , had we left the ship outside until morning . '' 
`` I look upon it as a good job well done , Mr. Mark , '' answered Bob . 
We can hardly call this a shipwreck , Mr. Mark , though we have been ashore once ; it is more like being docked , than anything else ! '' 
`` I have heard , before , of vessels being carried over reefs , and bars of rivers , into berths they could not quit , '' answered Mark . 
`` I 'm glad to hear you talk in this rational way , Mr. Mark ; for it 's a sign you do not give up , or take things too deeply to heart . 
But there must be fish in plenty among these rocks , Mr. Mark , and we have a good stock of bread . 
As Mark felt all the importance of doing everything that lay in his power to ward off the scurvy , and knew that time was not to be lost , he determined that the very first thing he would now attend to , would be to get all the seed into as much ground as he could contrive to make . 
Accordingly , as soon as the breakfast was ended , Mark went to collect his seeds , while Bob set the breakfast things aside , after properly cleaning them . 
This manure Mark was about to put in a half-barrel , in order to carry it ashore , for the purpose of converting it into soil , when Bob suddenly put an end to what he was about , by telling him that he knew where a manure worth two of that was to be found . 
Bob , who had been several voyages on the western coast of America , told Mark that the Peruvians and Chilians made great use of the dung of aquatic birds , as a manure , and which they found on the rocks that lined their coast . 
Now two or three rocks lay near the reef , that were covered with this deposit , the birds still hovering about them , and he proposed to take the dingui , and go in quest of a little of that fertilizing manure . 
A very little , he said , would suffice , the Spaniards using it in small quantities , but applying it at different stages in the growth of the plant . 
Mark knew that Betts was a man of severe truth , and he was so much the more disposed to listen to his suggestion . 
While our young mate was getting the boat ready , therefore , Bob collected his tools , provided himself with a bucket , passed the half-barrel , into which Mark had thrown the sweepings of the decks , into the dingui , and descended himself and took the sculls . 
While the boat was at the rock , Mark saw that the pigs had run round to the western end of the island , snuffing at everything that came in their way , and trying in vain to root wherever one of them could insert his nose . 
As a hog is a particularly sagacious animal , Mark kept his eyes on them while Bob was picking out his guano , in the faint hope that they might discover fresh water , by means of their instinct . 
On landing , Mark took a part of the tools and the bucket of guano , while Bob shouldered the remainder , and they went up to the hole , and entered the crater together , having landed as near to the gate-way as they could get , with that object . 
To Mark 's great delight he found that the pigs were now actually rooting with some success , so far as stirring the surface was concerned , though getting absolutely nothing for their pains . 
Exposure to the air and water , with mixing up with sea-weed and such other waste materials as he could collect , the young man fancied would enable him to obtain a sufficiency of earthy substances to sustain the growth of plants . 
Mark now ascended the crater-wall with a pick on his shoulder , and a part of a coil of ratlin-stuff around his neck . 
As he went up , he used the pick to make steps , and did so much in that way , in the course of ten minutes , as greatly to facilitate the ascent and descent at the particular place he had selected . 
Once on the summit , he found a part of the rock that overhung its base , and dropped one end of his line into the crater . 
To this Bob attached the bucket , which Mark hauled up and emptied . 
Mark next looked about for the places which had seemed to him , on his previous visit , to have most of the character of soil . 
He found a plenty of these spots , mostly in detached cavities of no great extent , where the crust had not yet formed ; or , having once formed , had been disturbed by the action of the elements . 
These places he first picked to pieces with his pick ; then he stirred them well up with a hoe , scattering a little guano in the heaps , according to the directions of Betts . 
Nor was this all Bob had done , during the hour Mark was at work , in the sun , on the summit of the crater . 
He had found a large deposit of sea-weed , on a rock near the island , and had made two or three trips with the dingui , back and forth , to transfer some of it to the crater . 
After all his toil and trouble , the worthy fellow did not get more than a hogshead full of this new material , but Mark thought it well worth while to haul it up , and to endeavour to mix it with his compost . 
Mark certainly knew very little of gardening , but Bob could turn his hand to almost anything . 
Mark 's Reef lay just within the tropics , it is true -LRB- in 21 ° south latitude -RRB- , but the constant sea-breeze rendered its climate much cooler than would otherwise have been the case . 
In one respect Mark made a good gardener . 
He knew that moisture was indispensable to the growth of most plants , and had taken care to put all his seeds into cavities , where the rain that fell -LRB- and he had no reason to suppose that the dry season had yet set in -RRB- would not run off and be wasted . 
On this point he manifested a good deal of judgment , using his hoe in a way to avoid equally the danger of having too much or too little water . 
It was dinner-time before Mark and Betts were ready to quit the ` Summit , ' as they now began to term the only height in their solitary domains . 
With this , and two or three light spars , he contrived to make a sort of canopy , down in the crater , beneath which he and Mark dined , and took their siestas . 
Thus far Mark had been working under a species of excitement , that was probably natural enough to his situation , but which wanted the coolness and discretion that are necessary to render our efforts the most profitable to ourselves , or to others . 
Now , that the feverish feeling which set him at work so early to make a provision against wants which , at the worst , were merely problematical , had subsided , Mark began to see that there remained many things to do , which were of even more pressing necessity than anything yet done . 
So long as she rode at a single anchor , she could not be considered as absolutely safe ; for a shift of wind would cause her to swing against the ` sea-wall , ' as he called the natural breakwater outside of her , where , if not absolutely wrecked , she might receive material damage . 
Nevertheless , there was a good deal of truth in what Mark had said touching the plants growing while he and Bob were busy at other matters ; and this thought , of itself , formed a sufficient justification for what he had just done , much as it had been done under present excitement . 
At two o'clock Mark and Bob resumed their work . 
Mark assented as to the food , but was of opinion a thunder shower was about to pass over the reef . 
Seeing them at work in this manner , suggested to Mark to try another experiment , which certainly looked far enough ahead , as if he had no great hopes of getting off the island for years to come . 
Along this irregular row of hillocks did Mark bury his seeds , willing to try an experiment which might possibly benefit some other human being , if it never did any good to himself . 
When this was done , he and Betts left the crater , driving the hogs out before them . 
Having made his plantation , Mark felt a natural desire to preserve it . 
He got the royal , therefore , and succeeded in fastening it up as a substitute for a gate , in their natural gate-way . 
Mark was aware , by his previous sounding , that this wall rather impended over its base , being a part of an old crater , beyond a question , and that there was little danger of the vessel 's hitting the bottom , or taking harm in any other way than by friction against the upper part ; but this friction might become too rude , and finally endanger the safety of the vessel . 
Mark approved of this plan , and , it requiring a raft to carry ashore the kedge , the dingui being so light they were afraid to trust it , it was decided to commence that work in the morning . 
Mark was curious to look at the effect of the shower , both in reference to his plantations , and to the quantity of fresh water that might have lodged on the reef . 
Mark assented at once , and the coops were opened . 
To Mark 's surprise , no sooner did they reach the reef , than to work they went , and commenced picking up something with the greatest avidity , as if let loose in the best supplied poultry-yard . 
Confident there was nothing for even a hen to glean on the rocks when he left there , the young man could not account for this , until turning his eyes inboard , he saw the ducks doing the same thing on deck . 
Examining the food of these last-mentioned animals , he found there were a great number of minute mucilaginous particles on the deck , which no doubt had descended with the late rain , and which all the birds , as well as the hogs , seemed eager to devour . 
Nothing with life now remained in the ship but the goat , and Mark thought it best not to turn her ashore until they had greater facilities for getting the necessary food to her than the dingui afforded . 
As she was not likely to breed , there was no great use in keeping this animal at all , to say nothing of the means of feeding her , for any length of time ; but Mark was unwilling to take her life , since Providence had brought them all to that place in company . 
Then he thought she might be a pretty object leaping about the cliffs of the crater , giving the island a more lively and inhabited appearance , though he foresaw she might prove very destructive to his plantations , did his vegetables grow . 
This was encouraging for the future , at any rate ; the want of water , previously to this shower , appearing to Mark to be a more probable occurrence than the want of food . 
As Mark stood looking at them , a doubt first suggested itself to his mind concerning the propriety of men 's doing anything that ran counter to their instincts , with any of the creatures of God . 
In the cage in which he now found himself , though he could run , walk , leap , swim , or do aught that nature designed him to do , in the way of mere animal exploits , young Mark felt how bitter were the privations he was condemned to suffer . 
All the hills were entire , as Mark and Bob had left them , though well saturated with water . 
In a few , there might be even too much of the element , perhaps , but Mark observed that a tropical sun would soon remove that objection . 
His great apprehension was that he had commenced his gardening too late , and that the dry weather might set in too soon for the good of his vegetables ; if any of them , indeed , ever came up at all . 
Here was one good soaking secured , at all events ; and , knowing the power of a tropical sun , Mark was of opinion that the fate of the great experiment he had tried would soon be known . 
Could he succeed in producing vegetation among the débrisof the crater , he and Bob might find the means of subsistence during their natural lives ; but , should that resource fail them , all their hopes would depend on being able to effect their escape in a craft of their own construction . 
In no case , however , but that of the direst necessity , did Mark contemplate the abandonment of his plan for getting back to the inhabited world , his country , and his bride ! 
But Mark hit upon an expedient for getting the two kedges ashore , that prevented the necessity of having recourse to the raft on that occasion . 
Now Mark had ascertained that the rock of the Reef rose like a wall , being volcanic , like all the rest of the formation , and that the ship could float almost anywhere alongside of it . 
Notwithstanding the facility with which the kedges were got ashore , it took Mark and Bob quite half a day to plant them in the rock precisely where they were wanted . 
This left the vessel about a hundred feet from the island , a convenient , and if the anchor held , a safeposition ; though Mark felt little fear of losing the ship against rocks that were so perpendicular and smooth . 
On the stretchers planks were next laid and lashed , thus making a clear passage between the vessel and the shore , that might be used at all times , without recourse to the dingui ; besides mooring the ship head and stern , thereby keeping her always in the same place , and in the same position . 
It was Saturday , and Mark had determined to make a good beginning , and keep all their Sabbaths , in future , as holy times , set apart for the special service of the Creator . 
Mark had ever been inclined to soberness of thought on such subjects . 
His early engagement to Bridget had kept him from falling into the ways of most mariners , and , time and again , had a future state of being been the subject of discourse between him and his betrothed . 
While Mark , in this frame of mind , went rambling around his narrow domains , Bob got the dingui , and proceeded with his fishing-tackle towards some of the naked rocks , that lifted their caps above the surface of the sea , in a north-westerly direction from the crater . 
Every man on board the Rancocus , Mark alone excepted , made use of tobacco ; and , for so long a voyage , the provision laid in had been very abundant . 
With Mark it was very different . 
Mark was reminded of the goats of Crusoe , and his mind naturally adverted to the different accounts of shipwrecks of which he had read , and to a comparison between his own condition and those of other mariners who had been obliged to make their homes , for a time , on otherwise uninhabited islands . 
In this comparison , Mark saw that many things made greatly against him , on the one hand ; while , on the other , there were many others for which he had every reason to be profoundly grateful . 
In this he suffered a great privation , and it even remained to be proved by actual experiment , whether he was master of what might be considered the elements of soil . 
It occurred to him that something like vegetation must have shown itself , in or about the crater , did its débriscontain the fertilizing principle , Mark not being sufficiently versed in the new science of chemical agriculture , to understand that the admixtures of certain elements might bring to life forces that then were dormant . 
The advantages , on the other hand , Mark , in humble gratitude to God , admitted to be very great . 
In the first place , the ship and all she contained was preserved , giving them a dwelling , clothes , food and water , as well as fuel , for a long time to come ; possibly , aided by what might be gleaned on even that naked reef , sufficient to meet all their wants for the duration of a human life . 
The cargo of the Rancocus was of no great extent , and of little value in a civilized country ; but Mark knew that it included many articles that would be of vast service where he was . 
In striking the balance between the advantages and disadvantages of his own situation , as compared with that of other shipwrecked mariners , Mark confessed that he had quite as much reason to be grateful as to repine . 
The last he was resolved not to do , if possible ; and he pursued his walk in a more calm and resigned mood than he had been in since the ship entered among the shoals . 
Mark , naturally enough , cast his eyes around him , and asked himself the question what was to be done with the domestic animals they had now all landed . 
A little hay , however , remained ; and Mark was fully determined that Kitty , as the playful little thing was called , should live at least as long as that lasted . 
Mark could see absolutely nothing on the rocks for a bird to live on , yet were the fowls constantly picking up something . 
They probably found insects that escaped his sight ; while it was certain that the ducks were revelling in the pools of fresh water , of which there might , at that moment , have been a hundred on the reef . 
As all these creatures were , as yet , regularly fed from the supplies in the ship , each seemed to be filled with the joy of existence ; and Mark , as he walked among them , felt how profound ought to be his own gratitude , since he was still in a state of being which admitted of a consciousness of happiness so much beyond anything that was known to the inferior animals of creation . 
He had his mind , with all its stores gathered from study and observation , his love for God , and his hopes of a blessed future , ever at command . 
Even his love for Bridget had its sweets , as well as its sorrows . 
It was grateful to think of her tenderness to himself , her beauty , her constancy , of which he would not for a moment doubt , and of all the innocent and delightful converse they had had during a courtship that occupied so much of their brief lives . 
To Mark 's surprise , he saw that the dingui floated almost with her gunwale-to , and he hastened down to meet his friend , who came ashore in a little bay , quite near the gate-way , and in which the rock did not rise as much like a wall as it did on most of the exterior of the reef . 
asked Mark , after he had examined the dingui 's cargo , by sight , taste , and smell . 
`` Lord bless you , Mr. Mark , there is enough o n't to fill the old ` Cocus , ag ` in and ag ` in . 
`` To sea , Mr. Mark , neither you nor I , nor any mortal man will ever get , in the old ` Cocus ag ` in , as I know by the looks of things outside of us . ' 
`` All the seeds and roots are in two or three boxes , in the steerage , '' answered Mark . 
Mark threw the loam into a wheelbarrow , of which Friend Abraham had put no less than three in the ship , as presents to the savages , and he wheeled it , at two or three loads , into the crater , where he threw it down in a pile , intending to make a compost heap of all the materials of the sort he could lay his hands on . 
The other he fried , Mark and he making a most grateful meal on it , that evening . 
With feelings of this character , did Mark and Betts keep their first Sabbath on the reef . 
Notwithstanding Bob 's early familiarity with Mark , his greater age , and the sort of community of feeling and interest created by their common misfortune , the former had not ceased to treat the last with the respect due to his office . 
This deference never deserted him , and he had not once since the ship was embayed , entered the cabin without pulling off his hat . 
Mark also observed that , in the course of that Sabbath , Bob used the pronouns ` thee ' and ` thou , ' on two or three occasions , sounding oddly enough in the mouth of the old salt . 
Mark felt far more resigned to his fate than he could have believed possible , while Betts declared that he should be absolutely happy , had he only a better boat than the dingui ; not that the dingui was at all a bad craft of its kind , but it wanted size . 
Bob then told Mark , for the first time , that , in his opinion , there was the frame and the other materials of a pinnace , or a large boat , somewhere in the hold , which it was intended to put together , when the ship reached the islands , as a convenience for cruising about among them to trade with the savages , and to transport sandal-wood . 
Mark listened to all this patiently , though he firmly believed that the honest fellow was deceiving himself the whole time . 
Such a craft could scarcely be in the ship , and he not hear of it , if he did not actually see it ; though he thought it possible that the captain and owners may have had some such plan in contemplation , and conversed together on it , in Betts 's presence . 
As there were plenty of tools on board , however , by using stuff of one sort or another , that was to be found in the ship , Mark had strong hopes of their being able , between them , to construct , in the course of time -- though he believed a long time might be necessary -- a craft of some sort , that should be of sufficient stability to withstand the billows of that ordinarily mild sea , and enable them to return to their homes and friends . 
Bob was sensibly impressed with the pause in their ordinary pursuits , and lent himself to the proper feelings of the occasion with a zeal and simplicity that gave Mark great satisfaction ; for , hitherto , while aware that his friend was as honest a fellow as ever lived , in the common acceptation of such a phrase , he had not supposed him in the least susceptible of religious impressions . 
After breakfast , Mark walked round to examine his piles of loam , in the crater , while Bob pulled away in the dingui , to catch a few fish , and to get a new cargo of the earth ; it being the intention of Mark to join him at the next trip , with the raft , which required some little arranging , however , previously to its being used for such a purpose . 
The rain of the past night had thoroughly washed the pile of earth , and , on tasting it , Mark was convinced that much of the salt it contained had been carried off . 
This encouraged him to persevere in his gardening projects . 
As yet , the spring had only just commenced , and he was in hopes of being able to prepare one bed , at least , in time to obtain useful vegetables from it . 
With some of these planks , Mark made a staging for his raft . 
By the time he was ready , Bob returned with a load of loam , and , on the next outward voyage , the raft was taken as well as the dingui . 
Mark had fitted pins and grummets , by which the raft was rowed , he and Bob impelling it , when light , very easily at the rate of two miles in the hour . 
Mark found Bett 's deposit of decayed vegetable matter even larger and more accessible than he had hoped for . 
In the whole , by Mark 's computation , they got across about fifty of these cargoes , in the course of their twelve days ' work . 
Mark counted the full casks , and allowing ten gallons a day for Bob and himself , a good deal more than could be wanted , there remained in the ship fresh water enough to last them two years . 
Mark occasionally longed for one good drink at some gushing spring that he remembered at home , it is true ; and Bob was a little in the habit of extolling a particular well that , it would seem , his family were reputed to have used for several generations . 
Some of the time , moreover , Betts passed in fishing , supplying not only Mark and himself , but the pigs and the poultry , with as much food as was desired . 
He had been gone a couple of hours , when Mark , who was at work within the crater , picking up the encrusted ashes that formed its surface , heard Bob 's shout outside , as if he wished assistance . 
He was calling to Mark to come to his assistance , to help get the raft into a sort of bay , ahead of him , where it might be lodged ; else would there be the danger of its drifting past the Reef , after all his pains . 
Although it was getting to be late in the afternoon , Mark and Bob got two of Friend Abraham White 's pitchforks -LRB- for the worthy Quaker had sent these , among other implements of husbandry , as a peace-offering to the Fejee savages -RRB- , and went to work with a hearty good-will , landed all this weed , loaded it up , and wheeled it into the crater , leaving just enough outside to satisfy the pigs and the poultry . 
At the termination of the second week , Mark and Betts held a council on the subject of their future proceedings . 
Nothwithstanding their success in finding the loam , and this last discovery of a means of getting sea-weed in large supplies to the Reef , Mark was not very sanguine of success in his gardening . 
The loam appeared to him to be cold and sour , as well as salt , though a good deal freshened by the rain since it was put in the crater ; and he knew nothing of the effects of guano , except through the somewhat confused accounts of Bob . 
These ashes were deep enough for any agricultural purpose , it is true , for Mark could work a crowbar down into them its entire length ; but they appeared to him to be totally wanting in the fertilizing principle . 
Nor could he account for the absence of everything like vegetation , on or about the reef , if the elements of plants of any sort were to be found in the substances of which it was composed . 
He had read , however , that the territory around active volcanoes , and which was far enough removed from the vent to escape from the destruction caused by lava , scoriæ and heat , was usually highly fertile , in consequence of the ashes and impalpable dust that was scattered in the air ; but seeing no proofs of any such fertility here , he supposed that the adjacent sea had swallowed up whatever there might have been of these bountiful gifts . 
With these impressions , it is not surprising that Mark was disposed to satisfy himself with a moderate beginning , in preference to throwing away time and labour in endeavouring to produce resources which after all would fail them . 
Mark 's plan , as laid before his companion , on the occasion of the council mentioned , was briefly this : -- He proposed to pass the next month in preparing the half-acre they had commenced upon , and in getting in seed ; after which they could do no more than trust their husbandry to Providence and the seasons . 
As soon as done with the tillage , it was his idea that they ought to overhaul the ship thoroughly , ascertain what was actually in her , and , if the materials of the boat mentioned by Betts were really to be found , to set that craft up as soon as possible , and to get it into the water . 
After building such a boat , it was Mark 's opinion that he and Bob could navigate her across that tranquil ocean , until they reached the coast of South America , or some of the islands that were known to be friendly to the white man ; for , fifty years ago , it will be remembered , we did not possess the same knowledge of the Pacific that we possess to-day , and mariners did not trust themselves always with confidence among the natives of its islands . 
Mark was a little surprised by a proposal that he received from Bob , next morning , which was the Sabbath , of course . 
He was willing to keep Christmas , if Mark saw fit , but rather wished to pay proper respect to all the festivals and observances of Friends . '' 
Mark was secretly amused with this proposition , even while it pleased him . 
But Mark understood the feeling which dictated this request , and was disposed to deal gently by it . 
Mark promised to take the matter into consideration , and to come to some decision on it , at an early day . 
Mark was still of opinion no such articles would ever be found ; but Betts insisted on the conversation he had overheard , and on his having rightly understood it . 
In looking over the packages , Mark found white clover seed , and Timothy seed , among other things , in sufficient quantity to cover most of the mount of the crater . 
The weather temporarily clearing off , he called to Bob , and they went ashore together , Mark carrying some of the grass seed in a pail , while Betts followed with a vessel to hold guano . 
This was the first time either had ascended since the day they finished planting there , and Mark approached his hills with a good deal of freshly-revived interest in their fate . 
From themhe expected very little , having had no loam to mix with the ashes ; but , by dwelling so much of late on the subject of tillage , he was not without faint hopes of meeting with some little reward for the pains he had taken . 
The reader will judge of the rapture then , as well as of the surprise , with which he first saw a hill of melons , already in the fourth leaf . 
Vegetation had actually commenced on that hitherto barren mount , and the spot which had lain -- how long , Mark knew not , but probably for a thousand years , if not for thousands of years , in its nakedness -- was about to be covered with verdure , and blest with fruitfulness . 
So Mark reasoned , for he nothing doubted that it was Betts 's guano that had stimulated the otherwise barren deposit of the volcano , and caused his seed to germinate . 
It would not be easy to pourtray to the reader all thedelight which these specks of incipient verdure conveyed to the mind of Mark Woolston . 
Mark saw the necessity of keeping her off the elevation , which she would certainly climb the instant anything like verdure caught her eyes from below . 
He determined , therefore , to confine her to the ship , until he had taken the precautions necessary to prevent her ascending the mount . 
It appeared to Mark as if the sea had formerly washed around the crater , giving this form to its bottom , for so wall-like was the rock for these ten or twelve feet , that it would have defied the efforts of a man for a long time , to overcome the difficulties of the ascent . 
At this last place , Mark told Betts it would be necessary , for the moment , to make some sort of a fence . 
As soon as Mark had recovered a little from his first surprise , he sent Bob below to bring up some buckets filled with the earth brought from Loam Rock , or island . 
Mark did not know it at the time , but subsequent experience gave him reason to suspect , that this forethought saved most of his favourites from premature deaths . 
So convinced did Mark become , as the season advanced , of the prudence of what he then did out of a mere impulse , that he passed hours , subsequently , in raising loam to the summit of the mount , in order to place it in the different hills . 
When Mark was temporarily satisfied with gazing at his new-found treasures , he went to work to scatter the grass-seed over the summit and sides of the crater . 
Inside , there was not much motive for sowing anything , the rock being so nearly perpendicular ; but on the outside of the hill , or ` mountain , ' as Bob invariably called it , the first ten or twelve feet excepted , there could be no obstacle to the seeds taking ; though from the want of soil much of it , Mark knew , must be lost ; but , if it only took in spots , and gave him a few green patches for the eye to rest on , he felt he should be amply rewarded for his trouble . 
Bob scattered guano wherever he scattered grass-seed , and in this way they walked entirely round the crater , Mark using up at least half of Friend Abraham White 's provision in behalf of the savages of Fejee , in the way of the grasses . 
Mark manifested a good deal of ingenuity in this matter . 
Now , space being abundant , Mark drew lines , in fanciful and winding paths , leaving the crust for his walks , and only breaking into the loose materials beneath , wherever he wished to form a bed . 
This variety served to amuse him and Betts , and they worked with so much the greater zeal , as their labours produced objects that were agreeable to the eye , and which amused them now , while they promised to benefit them hereafter . 
Mark was fully aware that many of Friend Abraham White 's seeds , if they grew and brought their fruits to maturity , would necessarily change their properties in that climate ; some for the worse , and others for the better . 
From the Irish potato , the cabbage , and most of the more northern vegetables , he did not expect much , under any circumstances ; but , he thought he would try all , and having several regularly assorted boxes of garden-seeds , just as they had been purchased out of the shops of Philadelphia , his garden scarce wanted any plant that was then known to the kitchens of America . 
Our mariners were quite a fortnight preparing , manuring , and sowing their parterre , which , when complete , occupied fully half an acre in the very centre of the crater , Mark intending it for the nucleus of future similar works , that might convert the whole hundred acres into a garden . 
Mark now began to hope , as the spring advanced , that his little territory was to be exempt , in a great measure , from the curse of droughts , the trades , and some other causes that to him were unknown , bringing clouds so often that not only shed their rain upon his garden , but which served in a great measure to mitigate a heat that , without shade of some sort or other , would be really intolerable . 
This want of wind , or of air in motion , indeed , formed the most serious objection to the crater , as a place of residence , in the hot months ; and the want of breeze that was suffered in the tent , set Mark to work to devise expedients for building some sort of tent , or habitation , on the mount itself , where it would be always cool , provided one could get a protection from the fierce rays of the sun . 
After a good deal of search , Mark selected a spot on the ` Summit , ' as he began to term the place , and pitched his tent on it . 
These several arrangements occupied Mark and Bob another fortnight , completing the first quarter of a year they had passed on the Reef . 
Afterthe tent on the Summit was erected , Mark passed much of his leisure time there . 
Thither he conveyed many of his books , of which he had a very respectable collection , his flute , and a portion of his writing materials . 
There he could sit and watch the growth of the different vegetables he was cultivating . 
She loved to follow Mark , and cast many a longing look up at the Summit , whenever she saw him strolling about among his plants . 
Nor was this all ; Mark making a discovery about this time , that afforded him almost as much happiness as when he first saw his melons in leaf . 
He was seated one day , with the walls of his tent brailed up , in order to allow the wind to blow through , when something dark on the rock caught his eye . 
This spot was some little distance from him , and going to it , he found that large quantities of his grass-seed had actually taken ! 
Now he might hope to convert that barren-looking , and often glaring rock , into a beautiful grassy hill , and render that which was sometimes painful to the eyes , a pleasure to look upon . 
While Mark was thus employed at home , Bob rowed out to the reef , bringing in his fish in such quantities that it occurred to Mark to convert them also into manure . 
That season , however , did not prove by any means as formidable as Mark had anticipated , the sea-breezes keeping the place cool and refreshed . 
During the time it was too warm to venture out in the dingui , except for half an hour of a morning , or for as long a period of an evening , Mark turned his attention to the ship again . 
The onions and cucumbers both promising so well , Mark rejoiced at this discovery , determining at once to use some of the vinegar on a part of his expected crop of those two vegetables . 
One day as Bob was rummaging about in the hold , and Mark was looking on , that being the coolest place on the whole reef , the former got hold of a piece of wood , and began to tug at it to draw it out from among a pile that lay in a dark corner . 
After several efforts , the stick came , when Mark , struck with a glimpse he got of its form , bade Bob bring it under the light of the hatchway . 
The instant he got a good look at it , Woolston knew that Bob 's ` foolish , crooked stick , which was fit to stow nowhere , ' as the honest fellow had described it when it gave him so much trouble , was neither more nor less than one of the ribs of a boat of larger size than common . 
exclaimed Mark . 
`` You 're right , Mr. Mark , you 're right ! '' 
Neither Mark nor Betts was a boat-builder , or a shipwright ; but each had a certain amount of knowledge on the subject , and each well knew where every piece was intended to be put . 
Mark had lived a long time for his years ; had seen more and performed far more than usually falls to persons of his age , and he was , by character , prudent and practical ; but it would have been impossible for one who had lived as long and as well as himself , to give up every expectation of being restored to his bride , even in circumstances more discouraging than those in which he was actually placed . 
Still , he had been slowly accustoming himself to the idea of a protracted separation , and had never lost sight of the expediency of making his preparations for passing his entire life in the solitary place where he and Betts had been cast by a mysterious and unexpected dispensation of a Divine Providence . 
When Bob , from time to time , insisted on his account of the materials for the pinnace being in the ship , Mark had listened incredulously , unconscious himself how much his mind had been occupied by Bridget when this part of the cargo had been taken in , and unwilling to believe such an acquisition could have been made without his knowledge . 
Now that he saw it , however , a tumultuous rushing of all the blood in his body towards his heart , almost overpowered him , and the future entirely changed its aspects . 
He did not doubt an instant , of the ability of Bob and himself to put these blessed materials together , or of their success in navigating the mild sea around them , for any necessary distance , in a craft of the size this must turn out to be . 
Mark had never abandoned the thought of constructing a little vessel with materials torn from the ship ; but that would have been a most laborious , as well as a doubtful experiment , while here was the problem solved , with a certainty and precision almost equal to one in mathematics ! 
The agitation and revulsion of feeling produced in Mark by the discovery of the materials of the pinnace , were so great as to prevent him from maturing any plan for several days . 
He submitted to Mark 's superior information , however ; and when the latter told him that he could wait no longer for the return of cooler weather , or for the heat of the sun to become less intense before he began to set up the frame of his craft , as had been the first intention , Bob acquiesced in the change of plan , without remonstrance , bent on taking things as they came , in humility and cheerfulness . 
As Mark 's impatience would no longer brook delay , this artificial shade , therefore , was the first thing to be attended to . 
Although this choice imposed a good deal of additional labour on the two workmen , by compelling them to transport all the materials rather more than a mile , reflection and examination induced Mark to select the spot he did . 
The formation of the rock was more favourable there , he fancied , than in any other place he could find ; offering greater facilities for launching . 
By the wall-like appearance of the exterior base of the mount , by the smoothness of the surface of the Reef in general , which , while it had many inequalities , wore the appearance of being semi-polished by the washing of water over it ; and by the certain signs that were to be found on most of the lower half of the plain of the crater itself , Mark thought it apparent that the entire reef , the crater excepted , had been often covered with the water of the ocean , and that at no very distant day . 
Now , the winter was yet an untried experiment with our two ` reefers , ' as Bob sometimes laughingly called himself and Mark , and hurricanes were things that often raised the seas in their neighbourhood several feet in an hour or two . 
All these things Mark bore in mind , and he chose the spot he did , with an eye to these floods , altogether . 
Previously to laying the keel of the pinnace , Mark named it the Neshamony , after a creek that was nearly opposite to the Rancocus , another inlet of the Delaware , that had given its name to the ship from the circumstance that Friend Abraham White had been born on its low banks . 
Mark , too , was satisfied with the result , and the very next day after this task was completed , our shipwrights set to work to lay their keel . 
Bob had gone to the Summit in quest of a tool left there , in fitting up the boat of Mark , and while on the mount , he ascertained the important fact that the melons were beginning to ripen . 
He brought down three or four of these delicious fruits , and Mark had the gratification of tasting some of the bounties of Providence , which had been bestowed , as a reward of his own industry and forethought . 
It was not the melons alone , however , that were getting to be ripe ; for , on examining himself , among the vines which now covered fully an acre of the Summit , Mark found squashes , cucumbers , onions , sweet-potatoes , tomatoes , string-beans , and two or three other vegetables , all equally fit to be used . 
From that time , some of these plants were put into the pot daily , and certain slight apprehensions which Woolston had begun again to entertain on the subject of scurvy , were soon dissipated . 
As for the garden within the crater , which was much the most extensive and artistical , it was somewhat behind that on the Summit , having been later tilled ; but everything , there , looked equally promising , and Mark saw that one acre , well worked , would produce more than he and Betts could consume in a twelvemonth . 
On examining his materials , Mark ascertained that the boat-builders had marked and numbered each portion of the frame , each plank , and everything else that belonged to the pinnace . 
As soon as the keel was laid , Mark set up the frame , which came together with very little trouble . 
Aware that the parts had once been accurately fitted to each other , Mark was careful not to disturb their arrangement by an unnecessary use of the adze , or broad-axe , experimenting and altering the positions of the timbers and planks ; but , whenever he met with any obstacle , in preference to cutting and changing the materials themselves , he persevered until the parts came together as had been contemplated . 
As a vessel of eleven tons might make very good weather in a sea-way , if properly handled , the result gave great satisfaction , Mark cheering Bob with accounts of crafts , of much smaller dimensions , that had navigated the more stormy seas , with entire safety , on various occasions . 
Friend Abraham White had bethought him of the worms of the low latitudes , and had sent out enough of the refuse copper of a vessel that had been broken up to cover the bottom of this little craft fairly up to her bends To work , then , Mark and Bob went to put on the sheathing-paper and copper that had thus bountifully been provided for them , as soon as the seams were well payed . 
In all , Mark and Betts were eight weeks , hard at work , putting their pinnace together . 
The whole was got together , however , leaving Mark and Bob to rejoice in their success thus far , and to puzzle their heads about the means of getting their craft into the water , now she was built . 
Mark had laid the keel as near the water as he could get it , and by this precaution had saved himself a good deal of labour . 
At length Mark was of opinion they had taken all the necessary precautions , and told Betts that he thought they might venture to attempt launching the next day . 
Mark listened to the suggestion , and acquiesced . 
Mark now thought enough had been done , and that , the next day , they might undertake the launch . 
An hour of daylight remaining , Mark went up to the Summit to select a few melons , and to take a look at the state of the plantations and gardens . 
The sight of these fruits of his toil , and the luxuriance of the different plants , caused a momentary feeling of regret in Mark at the thought of being about to quit the place for ever . 
While strolling about the little walks of his garden , the appearance of verdure along the edge of the crater , or immediately beneath the cliff , caught Mark 's eye . 
Going hastily to the spot , he found that there was a long row of plants of a new sort , not only appearing above the ground , but already in leaf , and rising several inches in height . 
These were the results of the seeds of the oranges , lemons , limes , shaddocks , figs , and other fruits of the tropics , that he had planted there as an experiment , and forgotten . 
While his mind was occupied with other things , these seeds had sent forth their shoots , and the several trees were growing with the rapidity and luxuriance that distinguish vegetation within the tropics . 
As Mark 's imagination pictured what might be the effects of cultivation and care on that singular spot , a sigh of regret mingled with his hopes for the future , as he recollected he was so soon to abandon the place for ever ; while on the Summit , too , this feeling of regret was increased , rather than diminished . 
That night Mark and Betts both slept in the ship . 
Mark was awoke at a very early hour , by the howling of a gale among the rigging and spars of the Rancocus , sounds that he had not heard for many a day , and which , at first , were actually pleasant to his ears . 
Throwing on his clothes , and going out on the quarter-deck , he found that a tempest was upon them . 
The storm far exceeded anything that he had ever before witnessed in the Pacific . 
It was just light , and Mark called Bob , in alarm . 
Although intending so soon to abandon the Reef altogether , a sense of caution induced Mark to take everything he could within the crater . 
Mark pulled aside the curtain , and let all the animals into the crater . 
Now it was that Mark comprehended how the base of the crater had been worn by water , the waves washing past it with tremendous violence . 
Mark was fully half an hour engaged in looking to his marquee and its contents , all of which were exposed , more or less , to the power of the gale . 
After securing his books , furniture , & c. , and seeing that the stays of the marquee itself were likely to hold out , he cast an eye to the ship , which was on that side of the island , also . 
Mark would have been very , very sorry to see her lost , even though he did expect to have very little more use out of her ; for he loved the craft from habit . 
The distance between the point where Mark now stood and the Neshamony exceeded half a mile , and communication with the voice would have been next to impossible , had the wind not blown as it did . 
Mark , however , could see his friend , and see that he was gesticulating , in the most earnest manner , for himself to join him . 
Then it was he first perceived that the pinnace was in motion , seeming to move on her ways . 
Presently the blockings were washed from under her , and the boat went astern half her length at a single surge . 
Mark made a bound down the hill , intending to throw himself into the raging surf , and to swim off to the aid of Betts ; but , pausing an instant to choose a spot at which to get down the steep , he looked towards the ship-yard , and saw the pinnace lifted on a sea , and washed fairly clear of the land ! 
Itwould have been madness in Mark to pursue his intention . 
There was nothing like despair in his manner of proceeding ; but so coolly and intelligently did he set about taking care of his craft , that Mark soon found himself a curious and interested observer of all he did , feeling quite as much of admiration for Bob 's steadiness and skill , as concern for his danger . 
With stern-way on her , this caused the bows of the craft to fall off ; and , as she came broadside to the gale , Mark thought she would fall over , also . 
When she had got nearly before the wind , she came up and rolled to-windward like a ship , and Mark scarce breathed as he saw her plunging down upon the reefs , like a frantic steed that knows not whither he is rushing in his terror . 
From the elevated position he occupied , Mark could see the ocean as far as the spray , which filled the atmosphere , would allow of anything being seen at all . 
Twenty times did Mark expect to see the pinnace disappear in the foaming waves , as it drove furiously onward ; but , in each instance , the light and buoyant boat came up from cavities where our young man fancied it must be dashed to pieces , scudding away to leeward like the sea-fowl that makes its flight with wings nearly dipping . 
Mark now began to hope that his friend might pass over the many reefs that lay in his track , and gain the open water to leeward . 
Mark saw the Neshamony for about a quarter of an hour after she was adrift , though long before the expiration of even that brief period she was invisible for many moments at a time , in consequence of the distance , her want of sail , her lowness in the water , and the troubled state of the element through which she was driving . 
The last look he got of her was at an instant when the spray was filling the atmosphere like a passing cloud ; when it had driven away , the boat could no longer be seen ! 
Here was a sudden and a most unexpected change for the worse in the situation of Mark Woolston ! 
Not only had he lost the means of getting off the island , but he had lost his friend and companion . 
There was one point , in particular , on which Mark felt unusual concern . 
Twenty times had he asked Mark to give him the latitude and longitude of the crater ; twenty times had he been told what they were , and just as often had he forgotten them . 
When questioned by his young friend , twenty-four hours after a lesson of this sort , if he remembered the figures at all , he was apt to give the latitude for the longitude , or the longitude for the latitude , the degrees for the minutes , or the minutes for the degrees . 
Ordinarily , however , he forgot all about the numbers themselves . 
Mark had in vain endeavoured to impress on his mind the single fact that any number which exceeded ninety must necessarily refer to longitude , and not to latitude ; for Bob could not be made to remember even this simple distinction . 
On many occasions had Mark known him intimate that the ship was in a current , and had a weatherly or a lee set , when the fact had escaped not only the officers , but the manufacturers of the charts . 
He judged by ripples , and sea-weed , and the other familiar signs of the seas , and these seldom failed him . 
On this last peculiarity Mark hung all his hopes of seeing his friend again , when the gale should abate . 
Since the moment when all the charge of the ship fell upon his shoulders , by the loss of Captain Crutchely , Mark had never felt so desolate , as when he lost sight of Bob and the Neshamony . 
Finding it impossible to do any more , Mark descended into the crater , where it was a perfect lull , though the wind fairly howled on every side , and got into one of the South American hammocks , of which there had been two or three in the ship , and of which he had caused one to be suspended beneath the sort of tent he and poor Bob had erected near the garden . 
Here Mark remained all the rest of that day , and during the whole of the succeeding night . 
Fortunately , Mark had taken the precaution to give a low ridge to all his awnings and tent-coverings , which turned the water perfectly . 
When , therefore , he heard the pattering of the drops on the canvas , he did not rise , but remained in his hammock until the day returned . 
Previously to that moment , however , he dropped into a deep sleep , in which he lay several hours . 
When consciousness returned to Mark , he lay half a minute trying to recall the past . 
Then he listened for the sounds of the tempest . 
All was still without , and , rising , he found that the sun was shining , and that a perfect calm reigned in the outer world . 
A great many fish lay scattered about , on the island , and Mark hastened down to examine their qualities . 
The pigs and poultry were already at work on the game that was so liberally thrown in their way , and Mark felt indebted to these scavengers for aiding him in what he perceived was now a task indispensable to his comfort . 
After going to the ship , and breaking his fast , he returned to the crater , obtained a wheelbarrow , and set to work in earnest to collect the fish , which a very few hours ' exposure to the sun of that climate would render so offensive as to make the island next to intolerable . 
Never in his life did our young friend work harder than he did all that morning . 
Feeling the necessity of occupation to lessen his sorrow , as well as that of getting rid of pestilence , which he seriously apprehended from this inroad of animal substances , Mark toiled two whole days at this work , until fairly driven from it by the intolerable effluvium which arose , notwithstanding all he had done , on every side of the island . 
It is impossible to say what would have been the consequences had not the birds come , in thousands , to his relief . 
As it was , however , our young hermit was driven into the ship , where he passed a whole week , the steadiness of the trades driving the disagreeable odours to leeward . 
At the end of that time he ventured ashore , where he found it possible to remain , though the Reef did not get purified for more than a month . 
Finding a great many fish still remaining that neither hog nor bird would touch , Mark made a couple of voyages to Loam Island , whence he brought two cargoes of the deposit , and landed at the usual place . 
This he wheeled about the Reef , throwing two or three shovels full on each offensive creature , thus getting rid of the effluvium and preparing a considerable store of excellent manure for his future husbandry . 
It may be as well said here , that , at odd times , he threw these little deposits into large heaps , and subsequently wheeled them into the crater , where they were mixed with the principal pile of compost that had now been , for months , collecting there . 
So it proved with Mark , on this occasion ; for , much as he really regarded Bob , and serious as was the loss of his friend to himself , the effects of the inundation occupied his thoughts , and disturbed him more , just at that time , than the disappearance of the Neshamony . 
He passed much of the week he was shut up in the ship in her topmast-crosstrees , vainly examining the sea to leeward , in the hope of catching a distant view of the pinnace endeavouring to bear up through the reefs . 
Several times he actually fancied he saw her ; but it always turned out to be the wing of some gull , or the cap of a distant breaker . 
It was when Mark had come ashore again , and commenced the toil of covering the decayed fish , and of gathering them into piles , that these smaller matters supplanted the deep griefs of his solitude . 
This Mark knew , however , was an advantage to the grass , making it finer , and causing it to thicken at the roots . 
The success of this experiment , the annoyance to his eyes , and a feverish desire to be doing , which succeeded the disappearance of Betts , set Mark upon the project of sowing grass-seed over as much of the plain of the crater as he thought he should not have occasion to use for the purposes of tillage . 
To work he went then , scattering the seed in as much profusion as the quantity to be found in the ship would justify . 
While thus employed a heavy shower fell , and thinking the rain a most favourable time to commit his grass-seeds to the earth , Mark worked through the whole of it , or for several hours , perspiring with the warmth and exercise . 
That night Mark slept in his hammock , under the crater-awning , and when he awoke in the morning it was to experience a weight like that of lead in his forehead , a raging thirst , and a burning fever . 
Now it was that our poor solitary hermit felt the magnitude of his imprudence and the weight of the evils of his peculiar situation . 
That he was about to be seriously ill he knew , and it behoved him to improve the time that remained to him , to the utmost . 
Everything useful to him was in the ship , and thither it became indispensable for him to repair , if he wished to retain even a chance for life . 
Opening an umbrella , then , and supporting his tottering legs by a cane , Mark commenced a walk of very near a mile , under an almost perpendicular sun , at the hottest season of the year . 
No words of ours can describe the grateful sense of coolness , in spite of the boiling blood in his veins , that Mark Woolston experienced when he stepped beneath the shade of the poop-deck of the Rancocus . 
How long he remained in that berth , or near it rather -- for he was conscious of having crawled from it in quest of water , and for other purposes , on several occasions -- but , how long he was confined to his cabin , Mark Woolston never knew . 
The period was certainly to be measured by days , and he sometimes fancied by weeks . 
Most of that time his head was light with fever , though there were intervals when reason was , at least partially , restored to him , and he became painfully conscious of the horrors of his situation . 
Of food and water he had a sufficiency , the filterer and a bread-bag being quite near him , and he helped himself often from the first , in particular ; a single mouthful of the ship 's biscuit commonly proving more than he could swallow , even after it was softened in the water . 
At length he found himself indisposed to rise at all , and he certainly remained eight-and-forty hours in his berth , without quitting it , and almost without sleeping , though most of the time in a sort of doze . 
At length the fever abated in its violence , though it began to assume , what for a man in Mark Woolston 's situation was perhaps more dangerous , a character of a low type , lingering in his system and killing him by inches . 
Mark was aware of his condition , and thought of the means of relief . 
The ship had some good Philadelphia porter in her , and a bottle of it stood on a shelf over his berth . 
That his head was affected by these two glasses of porter , Mark himself was soon aware , and shortly after drowsiness followed . 
After lying in an uneasy slumber for half an hour , his whole person was covered with a gentle perspiration , in which condition , after drawing the sheet around him , the sick man fell asleep . 
The period certainly included part of two days and one entire night ; but , afterwards , when Mark endeavoured to correct his calendar , and to regain something like a record of the time , he was inclined to think he must have lain there two nights with the intervening day . 
When he awoke , Mark was immediately sensible that he was free from disease . 
He was not immediately sensible , nevertheless , how extremely feeble disease had left him . 
At first , he fancied he had only to rise , take nourishment , and go about his ordinary pursuits . 
But the sight of his emaciated limbs , and the first effort he made to get up , convinced him that he had a long state of probation to go through , before he became the man he had been a week or two before . 
It was well , perhaps , that his head was so clear , and his judgment so unobscured at this , his first return to consciousness . 
Mark deemed it a good symptom that he felt disposed to eat . 
How many days he had been altogether without nourishment he could not say , but they must have been several ; nor had he received more than could be obtained from a single ship 's biscuit since his attack . 
All this came to his mind , with a distinct recollection that he must be his own physician and nurse . 
For a few minutes he lay still , during which he addressed himself to God , with thanks for having spared his life until reason was restored . 
Then he bethought him , well as his feeble state would allow , of the course he ought to pursue . 
On a table in the cabin , and in sight of his berth , through the state-room door , was a liquor-case , containing wines , brandy , and gin . 
One swallow of the water was all Mark ventured on , but it revived him more than he could believe possible . 
Near the glass into which he had drawn the water , lay a small piece of pilot bread , and this he dropped into the tumbler . 
Then he ventured to try his feet , when he found a dizziness come over him , that compelled him to fall back on his berth . 
Here Mark sunk into a chair , as much exhausted as he would have been , previously to his illness , by a desperate effort to defend life . 
In Mark Woolston 's instance it proved , what it was designed to be , a blessing instead of a curse . 
That single sip of wine produced an effect on him like that of magic . 
It enabled him soon to obtain his tumbler of water , into which he poured the remainder of the liquor . 
With the tumbler in his hand , the invalid next essayed to cross the cabin , and to reach the berth in the other state-room . 
He was two or three minutes in making this passage , sustained by a chair , into which he sunk not less than three times , and revived by a few more sips of the wine and water . 
On these sheets Mark now sank , almost exhausted . 
He had made a happy exchange , however , the freshness and sweetness of the new bed , of itself , acting as delicious restoratives . 
He knew the importance of not over-exerting himself , but he also knew the importance of cleanliness and of a renovation of his strength . 
By this time the biscuit had got to be softened in the wine and water , and he took a piece , and after masticating it well , swallowed it . 
So strong was the temptation , and so sweet did that morsel taste , that Mark felt he might not refrain unless he had something to occupy his mind for a few minutes . 
Taking a small swallow of the wine and water , he again got on his feet , and staggered to the drawer in which poor Captain Crutchely had kept his linen . 
Beneath the awning Mark had kept the section of a hogshead , as a bathing-tub , and for the purpose of catching the rain-water that ran from the awning , Kitty often visiting the ship and drinking from this reservoir . 
The invalid found the tub full of fresh and sweet water , and throwing aside the shirt in which he had lain so long , he rather fell than seated himself in the water . 
After remaining a sufficient time to recover his breath , Mark washed his head , and long matted beard , and all parts of his frame , as well as his strength would allow . 
He must have remained in the water several minutes , when he managed to tear himself from it , as fearful of excess from this indulgence as from eating . 
After drying himself as well as he could with a towel , though the breeze and the climate did that office for him pretty effectually , Mark put on the clean , fresh shirt , and tottered back to his own berth , where he fell on the mattress , nearly exhausted . 
It was half-an-hour before he moved again , though all that time experiencing the benefits of the nourishment taken , and the purification undergone . 
It was near sunset when Mark lost his consciousness on this occasion , nor did he recover it until the light of day was once more cheering the cabin . 
He had slept profoundly twelve hours , and this so much the more readily from the circumstance that he had previously refreshed himself with a bath and clean linen . 
The first consciousness of his situation was accompanied with the bleat of poor Kitty . 
Mark held out his hand , and spoke to his companion , for such she was , and thought she was rejoiced to hear his voice again , and to be allowed to lick his hand . 
There was great consolation in this mute intercourse , poor Mark feeling the want of sympathy so much as to find a deep pleasure in this proof of affection even in a brute . 
Mark now arose , and found himself sensibly improved by his night 's rest , the washing , and the nourishment received , little as the last had been . 
His first step was to empty the tumbler , bread and all . 
Then he took another bath , the last doing quite as much good , he fancied , as his breakfast . 
It was thrice twenty-four hours after his first bath , before Mark Woolston had sufficient strength to reach the galley and light a fire . 
Mark scarce dared to look for his hogs , but there they were rooting and grunting about the Reef , actually fat and contented . 
It was a week later before Mark ventured to go as far as the crater . 
On entering it , he found that his conjectures concerning the garden were true . 
Two-thirds of it had been dug over by the snouts of his pigs , quite as effectually as he could have done it , in his vigour , with the spade . 
Mark found his awning standing , and was glad to rest an hour or two in his hammock , after looking at the garden . 
While there the hogs entered the crater , and made a meal before his eyes . 
To his surprise , the sow was followed by ten little creatures , that were already getting to be of the proper size for eating . 
A ravenous appetite was now Mark 's greatest torment , and the coarse food of the ship was rather too heavy for him . 
He had exhausted his wit in contriving dishes of flour , and pined for something more grateful than salted beef , or pork . 
Although he somewhat distrusted his strength , yet longing induced him to make an experiment . 
With the carcase of this pig , which was quite as much as he could even then carry back to the ship , though the animal was not yet six weeks old , Mark made certain savoury and nourishing dishes , that contributed essentially to the restoration of his strength . 
But Mark felt , now , as if he could eat the crater , though as yet he had not been able to clamber to the Summit . 
Ouryouthful hermit was quite two months in regaining his strength , though , by the end of one he was able to look about him , and turn his hand to many little necessary jobs . 
The first thing he undertook was to set up a gate that would keep the animals on the outside of the crater . 
The pigs had not only consumed much the largest portion of his garden truck , but they had taken a fancy to break up the crust of that part of the crater where the grass was showing itself , and to this inroad upon his meadows , Mark had no disposition to submit . 
He had now ascertained that the surface of the plain , though of a rocky appearance , was so far shelly and porous that the seeds had taken very generally ; and as soon as their roots worked their way into the minute crevices , he felt certain they would of themselves convert the whole surface into a soil sufficiently rich to nourish the plants he wished to produce there . 
Under such circumstances he did not desire the assistance of the hogs . 
In most places the crust of the plain was just thick enough to bear the weight of a man , and Mark , no geologist , by the way , came to the conclusion that it existed at all more through the agency of the salt deposited in ancient floods , than from any other cause . 
Mark made his gate out of the fife-rail , at the foot of the mainmast , sawing off the stanchions for that purpose . 
Having dug his roots so early , it occurred to Mark that , in so low a climate , and with such a store of manure , he might raise two crops in a year , those which came in the cooler months varying a little in their properties from those which came in the warmer . 
On this hint he endeavoured to improve , commencing anew beds that , without it , would probably have lain fallow some months longer . 
Mark had been carefully educated on the subject of religion , and was well enough disposed to enter into the inquiry in a suitable spirit of humility ; but , the grave circumstances in which he was now placed , contributed largely to the clearness of his views of the necessity of preparing for the final change . 
Cut off , as he was , from all communion with his kind ; cast on what was , when he first knew it , literally a barren rock in the midst of the vast Pacific Ocean , Mark found himself , by a very natural operation of causes , in much closer communion with his Creator , than he might have been in the haunts of the world . 
On the Reef , there was little to divert his thoughts from their true course ; and the very ills that pressed upon him , became so many guides to his gratitude by showing , through the contrasts , the many blessings which had been left him by the mercy of the hand that had struck him . 
In Mark Woolston 's youth , the great progress which has since been made in astronomy , more especially in the way of its details through observations , had but just commenced . 
Mark 's education had given him an outline of what Herschel and his contemporaries had been about , however ; and when he sat on the Summit , communing with the stars , and through those distant and still unknown worlds , with their Divine First Cause , it was with as much familiarity with the subject as usually belongs to the liberally educated , without carrying a particular branch of learning into its recesses . 
Hours at a time did Mark linger on the Summit , studying the stars in the clear , transparent atmosphere of the tropics , his spirit struggling the while to get into closer communion with that dread Being which had produced all these mighty results ; among which the existence of the earth , its revolutions , its heats and colds , its misery and happiness , are but specks in the incidents of a universe . 
The ship had two very good spy-glasses , and Mark himself was the owner of a very neat reflecting telescope , which he had purchased with his wages , and had brought with him as a source of amusement and instruction . 
To this telescope there was a brass stand , and he conveyed it to the tent on the Summit , where it was kept for use . 
Aided by this instrument , Mark could see the satellites of Jupiter and Saturn , the ring of the latter , the belts of the former , and many of the phenomena of the moon . 
For near a month , Mark almost passed the nights gazing at the stars , and reflecting on their origin and uses . 
He had no expectations of making discoveries , or of even adding to his own stores of knowledge : but his thoughts were brought nearer to his Divine Creator by investigations of this sort ; for where a zealous mathematician might have merely exulted in the confirmation of some theory by means of a fact , he saw the hand of God instead of the solution of a problem . 
By the time his strength returned , Mark had given up , altogether , the hope of ever seeing Betts again . 
Who would put sufficient faith in the story of a simple seaman , like Robert Betts , and send a ship to look for Mark Woolston ? 
Mark saw that it was time to re-commence his beds , selecting such seed as would best support the winter of that climate , if winter it could be called . 
In looking around him , he made a regular survey of all his possessions , inquiring into the state of each plant he had put into the ground , as well as into that of the ground itself . 
Mark gave each of them a dressing with the hoe , and manured all with a sufficient quantity of the guano . 
About half he transplanted to spots more favourable , putting the cocoa-nuts , in particular , as near the sea as he could get them . 
Mark took note of these facts , determining to cultivate those most which succeeded best . 
As for the soil , on examination Mark found it had been greatly improved by the manure , tillage and water it had received . 
Mark now made a voyage to Loam Island , in quest of a cargo , using the raft , and towing the dingui . 
Sure enough , on going to the spot , Mark found that the seed had taken well , and hundreds of young plants were growing flourishingly , while plants fit to eat had pushed their tops through the loam , from the roots . 
This was an important discovery , asparagus being a vegetable of which Mark was exceedingly fond , and one easily cultivated . 
In that climate , and in a soil sufficiently rich , it might be made to send up new shoots the entire year ; and there was little fear of scurvy so long as he could obtain plenty of this plant to eat . 
The melons and other vegetables , however , had removed all Mark 's dread of that formidable disease ; more especially as he had now eggs , chickens , and fresh fish , the latter in quantities that were almost oppressive . 
When Mark found his health completely re-established , he sat down and drew up a regular plan of dividing his time between work , contemplation , and amusement . 
Fortunately , perhaps , for one who lived in a climate where vegetation was so luxuriant when it could be produced at all , work was pressed into his service as an amusement . 
He studied the habits of the sea-birds that congregated in thousands around so many of the rocks of the Reef , though so few scarce ever ventured on the crater island . 
He made voyages to and fro , usually connecting business with pleasure . 
Taking favourable times for such purposes , he floated several cargoes of loam to the Reef , as well as two enormous rafts of sea-weed . 
Mark was quite a month in getting these materials into his compost heap , which he intended should lie in a pile during the winter , in order that it might be ready for spading in the spring . 
As the season advanced , Mark saw his grass very sensibly increase , not only in surface , but in thickness . 
There were now spots of some size , where a turf was forming , nature performing all her tasks in that genial climate , in about a fourth of the time it would take to effect the same object in the temperate zone . 
On examining these places , Mark came to the conclusion that the roots of his grasses acted as cultivators , by working their way into the almost insensible crevices of the crust , letting in air and water to places whence they had hitherto been excluded . 
It became desirable to keep this grass down , and Kitty being unable to crop a meadow of so many acres , Mark was compelled to admit his pigs and poultry again . 
This he did at stated times only , however ; or when he was at work himself in the garden , and could prevent their depredations on his beds . 
The rooting gave him the most trouble ; but this he contrived in a great measure to prevent , by admitting his hogs only when they were eager for grass , and turning them out as soon as they began to generalize , like an epicure picking his nuts after dinner . 
It was somewhere near mid-winter , by Mark 's calculations , when the young man commenced a new task that was of great importance to his comfort , and which mightaffect his future life . 
Mark had learned so much in putting the pinnace together , that he believed himself equal to this new undertaking . 
Materials enough remained in the ship to make half-a-dozen boats , and in tumbling over the lumber he had found a quantity of stuff that had evidently been taken in with a view to repair boats , if not absolutely to construct them . 
A ship 's hold is such an omnium gatherum , stowage being necessarily so close , that it usually requires time for one who does not know where to put his hand on everything , to ascertain how much or how little is to be found in it . 
Such was the fact with Mark , whose courtship and marriage had made a considerable inroad on his duties as a mate . 
As he overhauled the hold , he daily found fresh reasons for believing that Friend Abraham White had made provisions , of one sort and another , of which he was profoundly ignorant , but which , as the voyage had terminated , proved to be of the greatest utility . 
For the next two months , or until he had reason to believe spring had fairly set in , Mark toiled faithfully at his boat . 
Portions of his work gave him a great deal of trouble ; some of it on account of ignorance of the craft , and some on account of his being alone . 
Getting the awning up anew cost poor Mark the toil of several days , and this because his single strength was not sufficient to hoist the corners of that heavy course , even when aided by watch-tackles . 
He was compelled to rig a crab , with which he effected his purpose , reserving the machine to aid him on other occasions . 
Then the model of the boat cost him a great deal of time and labour . 
Mark knew a good bottom when he saw it , but that was a very different thing from knowing how to make one . 
Of the rules of draughting he was altogether ignorant , and his eye was his only guide . 
He adopted a plan that was sufficiently ingenious , though it would never do to build a navy on the same principle . 
Having a great plenty of deal , Mark got out in the rough about twice as many timbers for one side of his boat as would be required , in this thin stuff , when he set them up in their places . 
Satisfied , at length , with the bottom he had thus fashioned , Mark took out just one half of his pieces , leaving the other half standing . 
After these moulds did he saw and cut his boat 's timbers , making , in each instance , duplicates . 
When the ribs and floors of his craft were ready , he set them up in the vacancies , and secured them , after making an accurate fit with the pieces left standing . 
On knocking away the deal portions of his work , Mark had the frame of his boat complete . 
Mark had adopted a system of diet and a care of his person , that kept him in perfect health , illness being the evil that he most dreaded . 
His food was more than half vegetable , several plants having come forward even in the winter ; and the asparagus , in particular , yielding at a rate that would have made the fortune of a London gardener . 
It being a matter of some moment to save unnecessary labour , Mark seldom cooked more than once in twenty-four hours , and then barely enough to last for that day . 
In consequence of this rule , he soon learned how little was really necessary for the wants of one person , it being his opinion that a quarter of an acre of such soil as that which now composed his garden , would more than furnish all the vegetables he could consume . 
Although it had lain so long unproductive and seemingly barren , now that it had been stirred , and air and water were admitted , and guano , and sea-weed , and loam , and dead fish had been applied , and all in quantities that would have been deemed very ample in the best wrought gardens of christendom , the acre he had under tillage might be said to have been brought to the highest stage of fertility . 
As for the grass , Mark was convinced the guano was all-sufficient for that , and this he took care to apply as often as once in two or three months . 
The great frequency of the rains favoured their growth , and Mark was of opinion after the experience of one summer , that his little mountain might be green the year round . 
By actual measurement , Mark had ascertained that there was one knoll on the Summit which was just seventy-two feet above the level of the rock . 
Kitty had long since determined that the hill was more than large enough for all her wants ; and glad enough did she seem when Mark succeeded , after a great deal of difficulty , in driving the hogs up a flight of steps he had made within the crater , to help her crop the herbage . 
Mark had , of course , abandoned the idea of continuing to cultivate his melons , or any other vegetables , on the Summit , or he never would have driven his hogs there . 
He was unwilling , notwithstanding , to lose the benefit of the deposits of soil and manure which he and Bob had made there with so much labour to themselves . 
After reflecting what he could do with them , he came to the conclusion that he would make small enclosures around some fifteen or twenty of the places , and transplant some of the fig-trees , orange-trees , limes , lemons , & c. , which still stood rather too thick within the crater to ripen their fruits to advantage . 
In order to make these little enclosures , Mark merely drove into the earth short posts , passing around them old rope , of which there was a superabundance on board the ship . 
This arrangement suggested the idea of fencing in the garden , by the same means , in order to admit the pigs to eat the grass , when he was not watching them . 
On this occasion Mark determined to have a succession of crops , and not to bring on everything at once , as he had done the first year of his tillage . 
Accordingly , he would manure and break up a bed , and plant or sow it , waiting a few days before he began another . 
Experience had told him that there was never an end to vegetation in that climate , and he saw no use in pushing his labours faster than he might require their fruits . 
As this distribution of his time gave the young man a good deal of leisure , he employed it in the ship-yard . 
Mark had abundance of delicious salad , young onions , radishes that seemed to grow like mushrooms , young peas , beans , & c. , in quantities that enabled him to turn the hogs out on the Reef , and keep them well on the refuse of his garden , assisted a little by what was always to be picked up on the rocks . 
By this time Mark had settled on a system which he thought to pursue . 
There was no use in his raising more pigs than he could use . 
Taking care to preserve the breed , therefore , he killed off the pigs , of which he had fresh litters , from time to time ; and when he found the old hogs getting to be troublesome , as swine will become with years , he just shot them , and buried their bodies in his compost heap , or in his garden , where one commonsized hog would render highly fertile several yards square of earth , or ashes . 
This practice he continued ever after , extending it to his fowls and ducks , the latter of which produced a great many eggs . 
By rigidly observing this rule , Mark avoided an evil which is very common even in inhabited countries , that of keeping more stock than is good for their owner . 
There were moments , indeed , when Mark would have gladly yielded one-half of the advantages he actually possessed , to have a good spring of living water . 
Then he quelled the repinings of his spirit at this privation , by endeavouring to recall how many blessings were left at his command , compared to the wants and sufferings of many another shipwrecked mariner of whom he had read or heard . 
The spring passed as pleasantly as thoughts of home and Bridget would allow , and his beds and plantations flourished to a degree that surprised him . 
Nor was it grass alone that rewarded Mark 's labours and forethought in his meadows and pastures . 
Various flowers appeared in the herbage ; and he was delighted at fidning a little patch of the common wild strawberry , the seed of which had doubtless got mixed with those of the grasses . 
Instead of indulging his palate with a taste of this delicious and most salubrious fruit , Mark carefully collected it all , made a bed in his garden , and included the cultivation of this among his other plants . 
He would not disturb a single root of the twenty or thirty different shoots that he found , all being together , and coming from the same cast of his hand while sowing , lest it might die ; but , with the seed of the fruit , he was less chary . 
One thing struck Mark as singular . 
Thus far his garden was absolutely free from weeds of every sort . 
The seed that he put into the ground came up , and nothing else . 
This greatly simplified his toil , though he had no doubt that , in the course of time , he should meet with intruders in his beds . 
He could only account for this circumstance by the facts , that the ashes of the volcano contained of themselves no combination of the elements necessary to produce plants , and that the manures he used , in their nature , were free from weeds . 
Itwas again mid-summer ere Mark Woolston had his boat ready for launching . 
He had taken things leisurely , and completed his work in all its parts , before he thought of putting the craft into the water . 
Afraid of worms , he used some of the old copper on this boat , too ; and he painted her , inside and out , not only with fidelity , but with taste . 
Although there was no one but Kitty to talk to , he did not forget to paint the name which he had given to his new vessel , in her stern-sheets , where he could always see it . 
She was called the `` Bridget Yardley ; '' and , notwithstanding the unfavourable circumstances in which she had been put together , Mark thought she did no discredit to her beautiful namesake , when completed . 
When he had everything finished , even to mast and sails , of the last of which he fitted her with mainsail and jib , the young man set about his preparations for getting his vessel afloat . 
Until that instant , Mark had pursued his work on the Bridget as mechanically and steadily as if hired by the day . 
When , however , he perceived that he was so near his goal , a flood of sensations came over the young man , and his limbs trembled to a degree that compelled him to be seated . 
Who knew but the ` Bridget ' might prove the means of carrying him to his own Bridget , and restoring him to civilized life ? 
At that instant , it appeared to Mark as if his existence depended on the launching of his boat , and he was fearful some unforeseen accident might prevent it . 
He was obliged to wait several minutes in order to recover his self-possession . 
At length Mark succeeded in subduing this feeling , and he resumed his work with most of his former self-command . 
Everything being ready , he knocked away the spur-shores , and , finding the boat did not start , he gave it a blow with a mawl . 
Mark was delighted with his new vessel , now that it was fairly afloat , and saw that it sat on an even keel , according to his best hopes . 
Of course he had not neglected to secure it with a line , by which he hauled it in towards the rock , securing it in a natural basin which was just large enough for such a purpose . 
So great , indeed , were his apprehensions of losing his boat , which now seemed so precions to him , that he had worked some ringbolts out of the ship and let them into the rock , where he had secured them by means of melted lead , in order to make fast to . 
Nevertheless , she was a good boat ; and Mark , knowing that he must depend on sails principally to more her , had built a short deck forward to prevent the seas from breaking aboard her , as well as to give him a place in which he might stow away various articles , under cover from the rain . 
All these , as well as her masts , sails , oars , & c. , were in her when she was launched ; and that important event having taken place early in the morning , Mark could not restrain his impatience for a cruise , but determined to go out on the reef at once , further than he had ever yet ventured in the dingui , in order to explore the seas around him . 
Accordingly , he put some food on board , loosened his fasts , and made sail . 
The instant the boat moved ahead , and began to obey her helm , Mark felt as if he had found a new companion . 
As the wind usually blew in the same direction , and generally a good stiff breeze , Mark beat up between the Reef and Guano Island , working round the weather end of the former , until he came out at the anchorage of the Rancocus . 
After beating about in that basin a little while , as if merely to show off the Bridget to the ship , Mark put the former close by the wind , and stood off in the channel by which he and Bob had brought the latter into her present berth . 
Mark beat up , on short tacks , therefore , until he found the two buoys between which he had brought the ship , and passing to windward of them , he stood off in the direction where he expected to find the reef over which the Rancocus had beaten . 
He was not long in making this discovery . 
Mark ran the boat up to this well-tried sentinel , and caught the lanyard , holding on by it , after lowering his sails . 
Fishing-tackle was in the boat , and Mark let down a line . 
His success was prodigious . 
The fish were hauled in almost as fast as he could bait and lower his hook , and what was more they proved to be larger and finer than those taken at the old fishing-grounds . 
By the experience of the half hour he passed at the spot , Mark felt certain that he could fill his boat there in a day 's fishing . 
After hauling in some twenty or thirty , however , he cast off from the lanyard , hoisted his sails , and crossed the reef , still working to windward . 
It was Mark 's wish to learn something of the nature and extent of the shoals in this direction . 
With this object in view , he continued beating up , sometimes passing boldly through shallow water , at others going about to avoid that which he thought might be dangerous , until he believed himself to be about ten miles to windward of the island . 
The ship 's masts were his beacon , for the crater had sunk below the horizon , or if visible at all , it was only at intervals , as the boat was lifted on a swell , when it appeared a low hummock , nearly awash . 
As well as he could judge , Mark was of opinion that these shoals extended at least twenty miles in this direction , he having turned up fully five leagues without getting clear of them . 
At that distance from his solitary home , and out of sight of everything like land , did the young man eat his frugal , but good and nourishing dinner , with his jib-sheet to windward and the boat hove-to . 
It was now about the middle of the afternoon , and Mark thought it prudent to turn out his reef , and run down for the crater . 
In half an hour he caught a sight of the spars of the ship ; and ten minutes later , the Summit appeared above the horizon . 
Mark had indulged in no visionary hopes on this subject , for he knew he might keep in the offing a twelvemonth and see nothing ; but an additional twenty-four hours might realize all his hopes . 
The weather , however , on this his first experiment , did not encourage him to remain out the whole night . 
On the contrary , by the time the crater was in sight , Mark thought he had not seen a more portentous-looking sky since he had been on the Reef . 
There was a fiery redness in the atmosphere that alarmed him , and he would have rejoiced to be at home , in order to secure his stock within the crater . 
From the appearances , he anticipated another tempest with its flood . 
Mark was still two miles from the Reef , and the little wind there was soon came ahead . 
At first Mark ascribed this unusual behaviour of his feathered neighbours to the circumstance of their now seeing a boat for the commencement of such an acquaintance ; but , recollecting how often he had passed their haunts , in the dingui , when they would hardly get out of the way , he soon felt certain there must be another reason for this singular conduct . 
Then it was that Mark deeply felt how much had been left him , by casting his lot on that beautiful and luxuriant crater , instead of reducing him to those dregs of misery which so many shipwrecked mariners are compelled to swallow ! 
How much , or how many of the blessings that he enjoyed on the Reef , would he not have been willing to part with , that evening , in order to secure a safe arrival at the side of the Rancocus ! 
About nine o'clock , and not sooner , the boat was well secured , and Mark went into his cabin . 
Here he knelt and returned thanks to God , for his safe return to a place that was getting to be as precious to him as the love of life could render it . 
It was many hours ere Mark awoke , and when he did , it was with a sense of suffocation . 
At first he thought the ship had taken fire , a lurid light gleaming in at the open door of the cabin , and he sprang to his feet in recollection of the danger he ran from the magazine , as well as from being burned . 
But no cracking of flames reaching his ears , he dressed hastily and went out on the poop . 
He had just reached this deck , when he felt the whole ship tremble from her truck to her keel , and a rushing of water was heard on all sides of him , as if a flood were coming . 
Mark Woolston now comprehended his situation , notwithstanding the intense darkness which prevailed , except in those brief intervals of lurid light . 
He had felt the shock of an earthquake , and the volcano had suddenly become active . 
Smoke and ashes certainly filled the air , and our poor hermit instinctively looked towards his crater , already so verdant and lively , in the expectation of seeing it vomit flames . 
But the murky vapour which rendered breathing exceedingly difficult , also obstructed the view , and prevented his seeing where the explosion really was . 
Never did feverish tongue enjoy the cooling and healthful draught , more than Mark rejoiced in this change . 
The wind had got back to its old quarter , and the air he respired soon became pure and refreshing . 
Had the impure atmosphere lasted ten minutes longer , Mark felt persuaded he could not have breathed it with any safety . 
Naked rocks appeared in places where Mark was certain water in abundance had existed a few hours before . 
Mark was no sooner assured of this stupendous fact , than he hurried on to the poop , in order to ascertain what changes had occurred in and about the crater . 
Impatient to learn all , Mark ran ashore , for by this time it was broad daylight , and hastened into the crater , with an intention to ascend at once to the Summit . 
As he passed along , he could detect no change whatever on the surface of the Reef ; everything lying just as it had been left , and the pigs and poultry were at their usual business of providing for their own wants . 
Ashes , however , were strewn over the rocks to a depth that left his footprints as distinct as they could have been made in a light snow . 
This gave Mark very little concern , for he knew that the first rain would wash this drab-looking mantle into the earth , where it would answer all the purposes of a rich dressing of manure . 
It is true that ribands of water approached it on all sides , resembling creeks , and rivers and small sounds ; but , as Mark stood there on the Summit , it seemed to him that it was now possible to walk for leagues , in every direction , commencing at the crater and following the lines of reefs , and rocks , and sands , that had been laid bare by the late upheaving . 
The extent of this change gave him confidence in its permanency , and the young man had hopes that what had thus been produced by the Providence of God would be permitted to remain , to answer his own benevolent purposes . 
Somewhere within this cloud , how far or how near from him he knew not , Mark made no doubt a new outlet to the pent forces of the inner earth was to be found , forming another and an active crater for the exit of the fires beneath . 
Geology was a science that had not made its present progress in the day of Mark Woolston , but his education had been too good to leave him totally without a theory for what had happened . 
He supposed that the internal fires had produced so much gas , just beneath this spot , as to open crevices at the bottom of the ocean , through which water had flowed in sufficient quantities to create a vast body of steam , which steam had been the immediate agent of lifting so much of the rock and land , and of causing the earthquake . 
At the same time , the internal fires had acted in concert ; and following an opening , they had got so near the surface as to force a chimney for their own exit , in the form of this new crater , of the existence of which , from all the signs to the southward , Mark did not entertain the smallest doubt . 
At first sight , Mark had a good deal of difficulty in understanding the predominant nature of the very many bodies of water that were to be seen on every side of him . 
Such , Mark was induced to believe , was the fact with the belt of water that still surrounded , or nearly surrounded the Reef ; for , placed where he was , the young man was unable to ascertain whether the latter had , or had not , at a particular point , any land communication with an extensive range of naked rock , sand , mud , and deposit , that stretched away to the westward , for leagues . 
The situation of the ship next became the matter of Mark 's most curious and interested investigation . 
Mark could very distinctly perceive the sand beneath the Rancocus ' keel , and saw that the ship still floated two or three feet clear of the bottom . 
Having ascertained these facts , Mark provided himself with a fowling-piece , provisions , & c. , and set out to explore his newly acquired territories on foot . 
His steps were first directed to the point where it appeared to the eye , that the vast range of dry land to the westward , extending both north and south , had become connected with the Reef . 
Mark was walking , with an impatient step , towards the neck just mentioned , and which was at no great distance from the ship-yard , when his eye was attracted towards a sandy beach of several acres in extent , that spread itself along the margin of the rocks , as clear from every impurity as it was a few hours before , when it had been raised from out of the bosom of the ocean . 
To him , it appeared that water was trickling through this sand , coming from beneath the lava of the Reef . 
At first , he supposed it was merely the remains of some small portion of the ocean that had penetrated to a cavity within , and which was now trickling back through the crevices of the rocks , to find its level , under the great law of nature . 
Before quitting this new-found treasure , Mark opened a cavity in the sand to receive the water , placing stone around it to make a convenient and clean little basin . 
As soon as he had leisure , Mark resolved to sink a barrel in the sand , and to build a fence around it ; after which the stock might descend and drink at a pool he should form below , at pleasure . 
Mark proceeded . 
On reaching the narrowest part of the ` Neck , ' he found that the rocks did not meet , but the Reef still remained an island . 
These two discoveries induced Mark to return to the Reef again , in quest of the stock . 
After laying another plank at his bridge , he called every creature he had over into the new territory ; for so great was the command he had obtained over even the ducks , that all came willingly at his call . 
As for Kitty , she was never more happy than when trotting at his side , accompanying him in his walks , like a dog . 
Mark had no sooner set them at work on the sea-weed and shell-fish that abounded there , for the time being at least , than he foresaw he should have to erect a gate at his bridge , and keep the hogs here most of the time . 
This would enable him to increase the number kept , which he had hitherto been obliged to keep down with the most rigid attention to the increase . 
Mark now set out , in earnest , on his travels . 
He was absent from the Reef the entire day . 
At one time , he thought he was quite two leagues in a straight line from the ship , though he had been compelled to walk four to get there . 
Everywhere he found large sheets of salt water , that had been left on the rocks , in consequence of the cavities in the latter . 
Of course most of this rock had been above water previously to the late eruption , and Mark had often seen it at a distance , though he had never ventured through the white water near so far , in the dingui . 
When on its apex , Mark got an extensive view of the scene around him . 
In the first place , he traced the channel just mentioned , quite into open water , which now appeared distinctly not many leagues further , towards the north-west . 
Towards the southward , however , Mark found the objects of his greatest wonder and admiration . 
By the time he reached the apex of the rock , the smoke in that quarter of the horizon had , in a great measure , risen from the sea ; though a column of it continued to ascend towards a vast , dun-coloured cloud that overhung the place . 
To Mark 's astonishment he had seen some dark , dense body first looming through the rising vapour . 
He thought it arose at least a thousand feet above the ocean , and that it could not be less than a league in extent . 
Mark knew that there must have been a dislocation of the rocks , to produce such a change as that he saw to the southward . 
It was well for him it occurred there at a distance , as he then thought , of ten or fifteen miles from the Reef , though in truth it was at quite fifty , instead of happening beneath him . 
Not far from this mountain a column of smoke rose out of the sea , and Mark fancied that , at moments , he could discern the summit of an active crater at its base . 
About a mile short of home , Mark passed all the hogs , snugly deposited in a bed of mud , where they had esconced themselves for the night , as one draws himself beneath his blanket . 
Forthe next ten days Mark Woolston did little but explore . 
By crossing the channel around the Reef , which he had named the ` Armlet ' -LRB- the young man often talked to himself -RRB- , he reached the sea-wall , and , once there , he made a long excursion to the eastward . 
There was little difference in character between the newly-made land to windward and that which Mark had found in the opposite direction . 
For two days Mark explored in this direction , or to windward , reaching as far by his estimate of the distance , as the place where he had bore up in his cruise in the Bridget . 
Finding a great many obstacles in the way , channels , mud , & c. , he determined , on the afternoon of the second day , to return home , get a stock of supplies , and come out in the boat , in order to ascertain if he could not now reach the open water to windward . 
On the morning of the fourth day after the earthquake , and the occurrence of the mighty change that had altered the whole face of the scene around him , the young man got under way in the Bridget . 
When about three leagues from the crater , the ` Hope Channel , ' as Mark named this long and direct passage , divided into two , one trending still more to the northward , running nearly due north , indeed , while the other might be followed in a south-easterly direction , far as the eye could reach . 
Mark named the rock at the junction ` Point Fork , ' and chose the latter passage , which appeared the most promising , and the wind permitting him to lay through it . 
Various other channels communicated with this main passage , or the Hope ; and , about noon , Mark tacked into one of them , heading about north-east , when trimmed up sharp to do so . 
The bottom of this basin was a clear beautiful sand , and its depth of water , on sounding , Mark found was uniformly about eight fathoms . 
Mark had beaten about ` Oval Harbour , ' as he named the place , for half an hour , before he was struck by the circumstance that the even character of its surface appeared to be a little disturbed by a slight undulation which seemed to come from its north-eastern extremity . 
Tacking the Bridget , he stood in that direction , and on reaching the place , found that there was a passage through the rock of about a hundred yards in width . 
At first Mark was startled by the roar of the waves that plunged into the caverns of the rocks , and trembled lest his boat might be hove up against that hard and iron-bound coast , where one toss would shatter his little craft into splinters . 
Too steady a seaman , however , to abandon his object unnecessarily , he stood on , and soon found he could weather the rocks under his lee , tacking in time . 
After two or three short stretches were made , Mark found himself half a mile to windward of a long line , or coast , of dark rock , that rose from twenty to twenty-five feet above the level of the water , and beyond all question in the open ocean . 
He hove-to to sound , and let forty fathoms of line out without reaching bottom . 
But everywhere to leeward of him was land , or rock ; while everywhere to windward , as well as ahead and astern , it was clear water . 
Here the Rancocus had , unknown to her officers , first run into the midst of these shoals , by which she had ever since been environed . 
Mark thought it might be five-and-twenty miles , in a straight line , judging equally by the eye , and the time he had been in running it . 
The wind blew fresh , so much indeed as to induce Mark to reef , but there must always be a heavy swell rolling in upon that iron-bound shore . 
Mark had unwittingly omitted to take any land-marks to his inlet , or strait . 
He had no other means of finding it , therefore , than to discover a spot in which the line of white was broken . 
This inlet , however , he remembered did not open at right angles to the coast , but obliquely ; and it was very possible to be within a hundred yards of it , and not see it . 
The idea of remaining out in the open sea for the night , and to windward of such an inhospitable coast , was anything but pleasant to Mark , and he determined to stand to the northward , now , while it was day , and look for some other entrance . 
For four hours did Mark Woolston run along those dark rocks , whitened only by the spray of the wide ocean , without perceiving a point at which a boat might even land . 
As he was now running off the wind , and had turned out his reef , he supposed he must have gone at least five-and-twenty miles , if not thirty , in that time ; and thus had he some means of judging of the extent of his new territories . 
This , then , was the north-eastern angle of the entire formation , and Mark named it Cape North-East . 
Even the force of the wind was now much less felt , the Bridget carrying whole sail when hauled up , as Mark placed her several times , in order to examine apparent inlets . 
Just as the sun was setting , leaving the evening cool and pleasant , after the warmth of an exceedingly hot day , the boat doubled a piece of low headland ; and Mark had half made up his mind to get under its lee , and heave a grapnel ashore , in order to ride by his cable during the approaching night , when an opening in the coast greeted his eyes . 
It was just as he doubled the cape . 
For twenty minutes did Mark stand on through this passage , when suddenly it expanded into a basin , or bay , of considerable extent . 
A grapnel was thrown on the sands , and Mark leaped ashore . 
After drinking at the spring , and supping on the rocks above , Mark arranged a mattress , provided for that purpose , in the boat , and went to sleep . 
The late changes had given to Mark 's possession territory sufficient to occupy him months , even in exploring it thoroughly , as it was his purpose to do . 
God was there , also , as he is everywhere . 
Again and again , each day , was he now in the practice of communing in spirit , directly with his Creator ; not in cold and unmeaning forms and commonplaces , but with such yearning of the soul , and such feelings of love and reverence , as an active and living faith can alone , by the aid of the Divine Spirit , awaken in the human breast . 
After crossing Shell Bay , the Bridget continued on for a couple of hours , running south , westerly , through a passage of a good width , until it met another channel , at a point which Mark at once recognized as the Forks . 
When at Point Fork , he had only to follow the track he had come the previous day , in order to arrive at the Reef . 
Mark now began to think he had miscalculated its height , and that it might be twothousand feet , instead of one , above the water . 
That afternoon Mark made all his preparations for a voyage that he felt might be one of great moment to him . 
All the symptoms of convulsions in the earth , however , had ceased ; even the rumbling sounds which he had heard , or imagined , in the stillness of the night , being no longer audible . 
From that source , therefore , he had no great apprehensions of danger ; though there was a sort of dread majesty in the exhibition of the power of nature that he had so lately witnessed , which disposed him to approach the scene of its greatest effort with secret awe . 
So much did he think of the morrow and its possible consequences , that he did not get asleep for two or three hours , though he awoke in the morning unconscious of any want of rest . 
An hour later , he was in his boat , and under way . 
Mark had now to steer in an entirely new direction , believing , from what he had seen while aloft the day before , that he could make his way out into the open ocean by proceeding a due south course . 
In order to do this , and to get into the most promising-looking channel in that direction , he was obliged to pass through the narrow strait that separated the Reef from the large range of rock over which he had roamed the day succeeding the earthquake . 
Of course , the bridge was removed , in order to allow the boat 's mast to pass ; but for this , Mark did not care . 
He had seen his stock the previous evening , and saw that it wanted for nothing . 
As it approached the end of this piece of water , Mark saw that he must enter a bay of considerable extent ; one , indeed , that was much larger than any he had yet seen in his island , or , to speak more accurately , his group of islands . 
On one side of this bay appeared a large piece of level land , or a plain , which Mark supposed might cover one or two thousand acres . 
It was almost possible for Mark to walk on this weed , the green appearance of which induced him to name the place the Prairie . 
After working her way through a great many channels , some wide and some narrow , some true and some false , the Bridget reached the southern verge of the group , about noon . 
Mark then supposed himself to be quite twenty miles from the Reef , and the Peak appeared very little nearer than when he left it . 
This startled him on the score of distance ; and , after meditating on all his chances , the young man determined to pass the remainder of that day where he was , in order to put to sea with as much daylight before him as possible . 
He desired also to explore the coast and islands in that vicinity , in order to complete his survey of the cluster . 
He looked for a convenient place to anchor his boat , accordingly , ate his dinner , and set out on foot to explore , armed as usual with a fowling-piece . 
As there was abundance of room , Mark saw he should have no difficulty in getting out into open water , here , or in getting back again . 
Most of this hummock must have been above water previously to the late eruption , though it appeared to our explorer , that all the visible land , as he proceeded south , was lifted higher and on a gradually-increasing scale , as if the eruption had exerted its force at a certain point , the new crater for instance , and raised the earth to the northward of that point , on an inclined plane . 
Mark found even a little brook , of as perfectly sweet a stream as he had ever tasted in America , running into the little harbour where he had secured the boat . 
He followed this stream two miles , ere he reached its source , or sources ; for it came from at least a dozen copious springs , that poured their tribute from a bed of clean sand several miles in length , and which had every sign of having been bare for ages . 
Lava , known to have been ejected from the bowels of the earth thousands of years , has just as fresh an appearance , to the ordinary observer , as that which was thrown out ten years ago ; and , had it not been for the deposits of moist mud , the remains of fish , sea-weed that was still undecayed , pools of salt water , and a few other peculiarities of the same sort , Mark would have been puzzled to find any difference between the rocks recently thrown up , and those which were formerly exposed to the air . 
Those communications were now quite frequent with Mark , it being no unusual thing for him to hold them when sailing in his boat , on the deck of the ship , or in the soft salubrious air of the Summit . 
He slept none the less soundly for having commended his soul to God , asking support against temptations , and forgiveness for past sins . 
Mark arose , next morning , two hours before the light appeared , and at once left the group . 
Time was now important to him ; for , while he anticipated the possibility of remaining under the lee of the mountain during the succeeding night , he also anticipated the possibility of being compelled to return . 
The sun had no sooner risen , than Mark felt satisfied with his boat 's performance . 
He expected this , and was even disappointed that his eyes could not command more , for he now saw that he had materially underrated the distance between the crater and the Peak , which must be nearer sixty than fifty miles . 
These twelve leagues were now to be run , and our young navigator thought he had made fully three of them , when light returned . 
Each league that he advanced increased Mark 's admiration and awe ; and by the time that the boat was on the last of those leagues which had appeared so long , he began to have a more accurate idea of the sublime nature of the phenomenon that had been wrought so near him . 
of the millions on earth , Mark Woolston , alone , had been so situated as to become a witness of this grand display of the powers of the elements . 
The wind had been fresh in crossing the strait , and Mark was not sorry when his pigmy boat came under the shadow of the vast cliffs which formed the northern extremity of the Peak . 
When still a mile distant , he thought he was close on the rocks ; nor did he get a perfectly true idea of the scale on which this rare mountain had been formed , until running along at its base , within a hundred yards of its rocks . 
Coming in to leeward , as a matter of course , Mark , found comparatively smooth water , though the unceasing heaving and setting of the ocean rendered it a little hazardous to go nearer to the shore . 
For some time our explorer was fearful he should not be able to land at all ; and he was actually thinking of putting about , to make the best of his way back , while light remained to do so , when he came off a place that seemed fitted by art , rather than by nature , to meet his wishes . 
The water being quite smooth in this inlet , Mark ventured to enter it , the wind favouring his advance . 
On passing this gate-way , he found himself nearly becalmed , in a basin that might be a hundred yards in diameter , which was not only surrounded by a sandy beach , but which had also a sandy bottom . 
This was done , the sails were furled , and Mark sprang ashore , taking the grapnel with him . 
Like Columbus , he knelt on the sands , and returned his thanks to God . 
At first , Mark supposed this was sea-water , still finding its way from some lake on the Peak ; but , on tasting it , he found it was perfectly sweet . 
Provided with his gun , and carrying his pack , our young man entered this ravine , and following the course of the brook , he at once commenced an ascent . 
The route was difficult only in the labour of moving upwards , and by no means as difficult in that as he had expected to find it . 
Notwithstanding his great activity , Mark Woolston was just an hour in ascending to the Peak . 
In no place had he found the path difficult , though almost always upward ; but he believed he had walked more than two miles before he came out on level ground . 
When he had got up about three-fourths of the way , the appearances of things around him suddenly changed . 
The latter were still wet with a recent shower that Mark had seen pass over the mountain , while standing for the island ; and on examining them more closely , the traces of the former shower of volcanic ashes were yet to be seen . 
How these trees came there , Mark did not know . 
After resting himself for an hour in that delicious grove , Mark began to roam around the plain , to get an idea of its beauties and extent . 
There were birds innumerable , of the most brilliant plumage , and some that Mark imagined must be good to eat . 
In particular did he observe an immense number of a very small sort that were constantly pecking at a wild fig , of which there was a grove of considerable extent . 
The fig , itself , he did not find as palatable as he had hoped , though it was refreshing , and served to vary the diet ; but the bird struck him to be of the same kind as the celebrated reed-bird , of the Philadelphia market , which we suppose to be much the same as the becca fichiof Italy . 
Being provided with mustard-seed shot , Mark loaded his piece properly , and killed at least twenty of these little creatures at one discharge . 
After cleaning them , he struck a light by means of the pan and some powder , and kindled a fire . 
Here was wood , too , in any quantity , an article of which he had feared in time he might be in want , and which he had already begun to husband , though used only in his simple cookery . 
At the same time he roasted a bunch of plantain , and , being provided with pepper and salt in his pack , as well as with some pilot-bread , and a pint-bottle of rum , we are almost ashamed to relate how our young explorer dined . 
Mark fancied , as he sat enjoying that solitary repast , so delicious of itself , and which was just enough sweetened with toil to render it every way acceptable , that he could gladly give up all the rest of the world , for the enjoyment of a paradise like that before him , with Bridget for his Eve . 
The elevation of the mountain rendered the air far more grateful and cool than he was accustomed to find it , at mid-summer , down on the Reef , and the young man was in a sort of gentle intoxication while breathing it . 
Thepeak , or highest part of the island , was at its northern extremity , and within two miles of the grove in which Mark Woolston had eaten his dinner . 
Resuming his pack , our young adventurer , greatly refreshed by the delicious repast he had just made , left the pleasant grove in which he had first rested , to undertake this somewhat sharp acclivity . 
He was not long in effecting it , however , standing on the highest point of his new discovery within an hour after he had commenced its ascent . 
Here , Mark found all his expectations realized touching the character of the view . 
The whole plain of the island , with the exceptions of the covers made by intervening woods , lay spread before him like a map . 
All its beauties , its shades , its fruits , and its verdant glades , were placed beneath his eye , as if purposely to delight him with their glories . 
Mark next examined the peak itself . 
At one point , about two leagues from the Peak , there was actually a little lake visible , and Mark could even trace its outlet , winding its way beyond it . 
He supposed that the surplus tumbled into the sea in a cascade . 
It reminded Mark of the moon , with its ragged outlines of imaginary continents , as seen by the naked eye , while the island he was now on , bore a fancied resemblance to the same object viewed through a telescope ; not that it had the look of molten silver which is observed in the earth 's satellite , but that it appeared gloriously bright and brilliant . 
Mark could easily see many of the sheets of water that were to be found among the rocks , though his naked eye could distinguish neither crater nor ship . 
When he had taken a good look at his old possessions , Mark made a sweep of the horizon with the glass , in order to ascertain if any other land were visible , from the great elevation on which he now stood . 
While arranging the focus of the instrument , an object first met his eye that caused his heart almost to leap into his mouth . 
It was an island , mountainous , and Mark supposed it must be fully a hundred miles distant . 
The glass told him very little more than his eye , though he could discern a mountainous form through it , and saw that it was an island of no great size . 
It is not easy to give a clear idea of the tumult of feeling with which Mark Woolston beheld these unknown regions , though it might best be compared with the emotions of the astronomer who discovers a new planet . 
It appeared but a speck on the blue waves of the ocean , seen from that height , it is true ; but Mark was too well practised in his craft to be mistaken . 
It was a vessel , under more or less canvas , how much he could not then tell , or even see -- but it was most decidedly a vessel . 
Mark 's limbs trembled so much that he was compelled to throw himself upon the earth to find the support he wanted . 
There he lay several minutes , mentally returning thanks to God for this unexpected favour ; and when his strength revived , these signs of gratitude were renewed on his knees . 
Mark had , in fact , ascertained that the sail beneath the peak was no other than the little craft that had been swept away , as already described , with Betts in it . 
Mark adopted perhaps the best expedient in his power to attract attention to himself , and to let his presence be known . 
He fired both barrels of his fowling-piece , and repeated the discharges several times , or until a flag was shown on board the sloop , which was now just beneath the cliff , a certain sign that he had succeeded . 
That shout was returned , and Mark and Bob recognised each other at the next instant . 
As for the last , he just off tarpaulin , and gave three hearty cheers , while the former sank on a seat , literally unable to stand . 
The sheet of the sail got away from him , nor could he be said to know what he was about , until some little time after he was in the arms of his friend , and on board the pinnace . 
It was half-an-hour before Mark was master of himself again . 
At length tears relieved him ; nor was he ashamed to indulge in them , when he saw his old companion not only alive and well , but restored to him . 
He perceived another in the boat ; but as he was of a dark skin , he naturally inferred this second person was a native of some neighbouring island where Bob had been , and who had consented to come with him in this , his search after the shipwrecked mariner . 
`` Well , Mr. Mark , the sight of you is the pleasantest prospect that has met my eyes this many a day , '' exclaimed the honest fellow . 
Mark then briefly explained the great change that had actually occurred , and told his own story touching his boat and his late voyages of discovery . 
`` Well , this explains our ` arthquake , '' he answered , as soon as Mark was done . 
`` Sartain -- but , I may as well tell you my adventures at once , Mr. Mark ; though I own I should like to land first , as it is a long story , and take a look at this island that you praise so much , and taste them reed-birds of which you give so good an account . 
Mark was dying to hear Bob 's story , more especially since he understood a ship was connected with it , but he could not refuse his friend 's demand for sweet water and a dinner . 
The entrance of the cove was quite near , and the boats entered that harbour and were secured ; after which the three men commenced the ascent , Mark picking up by the way the spy-glass , fowling-piece , and other articles that he had dropped in the haste of his descent . 
While going up this sharp acclivity , but little was said ; but , when they reached the summit , or the plain rather , exclamations of delight burst from the mouths of both of Mark 's companions . 
cried Mark , almost gasping for breath -- `` whom have you here ? 
Mark knew them both very well , as a matter of course ; and Dido , with the archness of a favourite domestic , was often in the habit of calling him her ` young master . ' 
He saw that Mark must hear what he had to relate gradually , and was not sorry that the recognition of the negro had prepared him to expect something wonderful . 
Such , at least , was Bob 's account of his failure to find the Reef again ; though Mark thought it probable that he was a little out in his reckoning , and did not look in exactly the right place for it . 
On describing its appearance , and its bearings from the place where they then were , Mark had no doubt it was the island that was visible from the peak near them , and at which he had been gazing that very afternoon , for fully an hour , with longing eyes . 
Theories prevailed among the doctors concerning it , which were bitterly antagonistical to each other ; and Doctor Woolston headed one party in Bucks , while Doctor Yardley headed another . 
Doctor Yardley could not , and did not wholly agree with Doctor Heaton , because the latter was Doctor Woolston 's son-in-law , and he altered his theory a little to create a respectable point of disagreement ; while Doctor Woolston could not pardon a disaffection that took place , as it might be , in the height of a war . 
All these occurrences , united to the protracted absence of Mark , made Bridget and Anne extremely unhappy . 
She wished to meet Mark with a sum of money that would enable him , at once , to commence life respectably , and place him above the necessity of following the seas . 
Betts reached Bristol the very day that a decision was made , on a preliminary point , in the case of Yardley versus Woolston , that greatly encouraged the father in his hopes of final success , and as greatly terrified his daughter . 
Now , it was in Doctor Woolston 's power to be of great service to the young couple , by introducing the son-in-law to his own patients , but this he could not think of doing with a depletionist ; and John , as Anne affectionately styled her husband , was left to starve on his system of depletion . 
As Bob had been present at the wedding , and was known to stand high in Mark 's favour , he was believed , quite as a matter of course , and questioned in a thousand ways , until the poor fellow had not really another syllable to communicate . 
The sisters shed floods of tears at the thought of poor Mark 's situation . 
Not only was she determined on this , but , as a means of giving a death-blow to all expectations of a separation and to the hopes of her new suitor , she was resolved to go in a way that should enable her to remain on the Reef with Mark , and , if necessary , to pass the remainder of her days there . 
The idea pleased the former in particular , who had a love of adventure , and a desire to see other lands , while Anne was as ready to follow her husband to the ends of the earth , as Bridget was to go to the same place in quest of Mark . 
When Mark first discovered him , he had nearly made the circuit of Vulcan 's Peak , in a vain endeavour to land , and he would actually have gone on his way , had it not been for the firing of the fowling-piece , the report of which he heard , and the smoke of which he saw . 
Weleave the reader to imagine with what feelings Mark heard these facts . 
Bridget , for whom his tenderness was unabated ; Bridget , who had been the subject of so many of his thoughts since his shipwreck , had shown herself worthy to be thus loved , and was now on an island that he might easily reach in a run of a few hours ! 
The mode of proceeding was next discussed , in the course of doing which Mark communicated to Bob , somewhat in detail , the circumstance of the recent convulsion , and the changes which it had produced . 
While Mark and Bob were talking these matters over , Socrates had been shooting and cleaning a few dozen more of the reed-birds . 
It was near sunset when the Neshamony left Snug Cove , as Mark had named his little haven , at the foot of the ravine , which , by the way , he called the Stairs , and put to sea , on her way to Rancocus Island . 
Mark was delighted with the performances of the Neshamony . 
Accustomed , as he had been of late , to the little Bridget , the pinnace appeared a considerable craft to Mark , and he greatly exulted in this acquisition . 
Of course , Mark and Bob had much discourse , while running down before the wind that night , in which each communicated to the other many things that still remained to be said . 
Mark was never tired of asking questions about Bridget ; her looks , her smiles , her tears , her hopes , her fears , her health , her spirits , and her resolution , being themes of which he never got weary . 
A watch was set , nevertheless , and each person in the pinnace had his turn of sleep , if sleep he could . 
At the rising of the sun Mark was awake . 
Springing to his feet , he saw that Rancocus Island was plainly in view . 
Mark had never neglected his person , notwithstanding his solitude . 
Daily baths , and the most scrupulous attention to his attire , so far as neatness went , had kept him not only in health , but in spirits , the frame of the mind depending most intimately on the condition of the body . 
Among other habits , he preserved that of shaving daily . 
The cutting of his hair gave him the most trouble , and he had half a mind to get Bob to act as barber on the present occasion . 
Mark 's heart beat violently as Bob pointed out these little canvas dwellings to him . 
In two more minutes Mark Woolston had his charming young bride encircled in his arms . 
The delicacy which kept the others aloof from this meeting , was imitated by Bob , who , merely causing the boat to brush near the rock , so as to allow of Mark 's jumping ashore , passed on to a distant landing , where he was met by most of his party , including ` Friend Martha , ' who rejoiced not a little in the safe return of Friend Robert Betts . 
In half-an-hour Mark and Bridget came up to the marquees , when the former made the acquaintance of his brother-in-law , and had the happiness of embracing his sister . 
Mark had to recount all that had happened since Bob was taken from him , and not trifling was the trepidation created among his female listeners , when he related the history of the earthquake . 
At the end of that time , however , Anne was so far recovered that they began to talk of a voyage , Bridget , in particular , dying to see the place where Mark had passed so many solitary hours ; and , as he had assured her more than once , where her image had scarcely ever been absent from his thoughts an hour at a time . 
On the whole , therefore , it was determined to freight the pinnace with the most valuable of the effects , put all the females on board , and send her off under the care of Mark , Heaton , and Socrates , leaving Bob and Bigelow to look after the stock and the rest of the property . 
By Bob 's advice Mark reefed his mainsail , and took the bonnet of the jib . 
Following the same instructions , he stood away to the southward , letting the boat go through the water freely , intending to tack when he came near the volcano , and not before . 
Next morning Mark saw the smoke of the Volcano , and stood for it . 
After making two stretches , he came up within a league of this spot , when he tacked and stood to the northward and eastward , Vulcan 's Peak having been in plain view the entire day . 
One thing , moreover , Mark ascertained , which greatly increased his confidence in the permanency of the changes that had lately occurred in the physical formation of all that region . 
He found himself in comparatively shoal water , when fully a league from this new crater . 
Between the volcano and Vulcan 's Peak it blew quite fresh , and Mark had a good occasion to ascertain the qualities of the pinnace . 
She made fully two knots ' headway in the worst of it , and in general her rate of sailing , close on a wind and under pretty short canvas , was about three . 
Mark had been telling his companions what a secret place this haven was to conceal a vessel in , when he had a practical confirmation of the truth of his statement that caused him to be well laughed at . 
For ten minutes he could not discover the entrance himself , having neglected to take the proper land-marks , that he might have no difficulty in running for his port . 
After a time , however , he caught sight of an object that he remembered , and found his way into the cove . 
Here lay the little namesake of his pretty wife , just as he had left her , the true Bridget smiling and blushing as the young husband pointed out the poor substitute he had been compelled to receive for herself , only ten days earlier . 
Mark , and Socrates , and Dido , and Teresa , Bigelow 's wife , all carried up heavy loads ; while Heaton had as much as he could do to help Anne and the child up the sharp acclivity . 
Bridget , with her light active step , and great eagerness to behold a scene that Mark had described with so much eloquence , was the first , by a quarter of an hour , on the plain . 
Mark paused , as he gained the height , to gaze on this sight , so agreeable in his eyes , and which rendered the place so very different from what it had been so recently , while he was in possession of its glorious beauties , a solitary man . 
Then , he had several times likened himself to Adam in the garden of Eden , before woman was given to him for a companion . 
Mark had brought with him from the Reef , a basket of fresh eggs , and they had been Bridget 's load , in ascending the mountain . 
He had promised her an American breakfast , and these eggs , boiled , did serve to remind everybody of a distant home , that was still remembered with melancholy pleasure . 
By the end of the third day the whole party in Eden was comfortably established , and Mark took a short leave of his bride , to sail for Rancocus again . 
Mark learned a little every trip , of the courses to be steered , the peculiarities of the currents , and the height of the seas . 
He ran down to Rancocus , on this occasion , in three hours ' less time than he had done it before , sailing at dusk , and reaching port next day at noon . 
Bridget was standing on a rock , by the side of the limpid water of the cove , when the Neshamony shot through its entrance into the little haven , and her hand was in Mark 's the instant he landed . 
Tears gushed into the eyes of the young man as he recalled his year of solitude , and felt how different was such a welcome from his many melancholy arrivals and departures , previously to the recent events . 
Withinthe crater , Mark had often found the heat oppressive , even in the shade ; but , without , scarcely ever , provided his body was not directly exposed to the sun 's rays . 
Mark did not make the next trip to Rancocus . 
By this time Heaton himself was a reasonably good sailor , and to him Mark confided the instructions as to the course to be steered , and the distance to be run . 
Convinced he might now depend on Heaton and Socrates to sail the pinnace , and Anne expressing a perfect willingness to remain on the Peak , in company with Teresa and Dido , Mark resolved to proceed to the crater with his two Bridgets , feeling the propriety of no longer neglecting the property in that quarter of his dominions . 
For Kitty she really entertained a decided fondness , and even the pigs , as Mark 's companions , had a certain romantic value in her eyes . 
The morning was taken for the departure , and just as the little craft got out from under the lee of the Peak , and began to feel the true breeze , the sun rose gloriously out of the eastern waves , lighting the whole of the blue waters with his brilliant rays . 
Never did Vulcan 's Peak appear more grand or more soft -- for grandeur or sublimity , blended with softness , make the principal charm of noble tropical scenery -- than it did that morning ; and Bridget looked up at the dark , overhanging cliffs , with a smile , as she said -- `` We may love the Reef , dear Mark , for what it did for you in your distress , but I foresee that this Eden will eventually become our home . '' 
that Reef , that Reef -- how long will it be , Mark , before we see it ? '' 
Mark made a good land-fall coming in to leeward of the cape , or low promontory already mentioned -- Cape South he called it -- while there still remained several hours of day . 
When , however , she gave utterance to this feeling , one so natural to her situation , Mark told her to have patience until they reached the crater , when she would see that he had possessed a variety of blessings , for which he had every reason to be grateful to God . 
To Mark 's surprise , as they passed the Prairie , he saw all of his swine on it , now , including two half-unconsumed litters of well-grown pigs , some seventeen in number . 
So much of the water had already evaporated as to make it tolerable walking on the sea-weed ; and Mark , stopping to examine the progress of things , prognosticated that another year , in that climate , would convert the whole of that wide plain into dry land . 
About the middle of the day , Mark ran the boat alongside of the Reef , at the usual landing , and welcomed Bridget to his and her home , with a kiss . 
Everything was in its place , and a glance sufficed to show that no human foot had been there , during the weeks of his absence . 
At first , Mark had thought of transferring this gentle and playful young goat to the Peak , and to place her in the little flock collected there ; but he had been induced to change his mind , by recollecting how much she contributed to the beauty of the Summit , by keeping down the grass . 
He had therefore brought her a companion , which had no sooner been landed on the Reef , than it bounded off to make acquaintance with the stranger on the elevation . 
In the cabin of that vessel she had plighted her faith to Mark , and a flood of recollections burst upon her as she entered it . 
Mark was obliged to allow her to seek relief in tears . 
By the time Mark came back from his garden , whither he had gone to ascertain its condition , Bridget had his supper ready for him , prepared with a neatness and method to which he had long been a stranger . 
The husband had lighted a fire in the galley , where the wife had cooked the meal , which consisted principally of some pan-fish , taken in the narrow channels between the rocks , and which had been cleaned by Mark himself , as they sailed along . 
It was no wonder , then , that Mark found everything she touched , or prepared , good , as everything she said sounded pleasant and reasonable . 
To this great quality must be added affection , for she was devoted to Mark , and nothing he wished would she hesitate about striving to obtain , even at painful sacrifices to herself . 
Then Mark introduced his wife into his garden , and to his lawn . 
On the Summit Mark cut a couple of melons , which were of a flavour surpassing any he had ever before tasted . 
While on the Summit , Mark pointed out to his wife the fowls , now increased to something like fifty . 
As two or three flew across the narrow pass , however , he was aware that the state of his garden must be owing to the fact that they still found a plenty on those rocks for their support . 
In returning to the ship , he visited a half-barrel prepared for that purpose , and , as he expected , found a nest containing a dozen eggs . 
These he took the liberty of appropriating to his own use , telling Bridget that they could eat some of them for their breakfast . 
That night Mark and Bridget knelt , side by side , and returned thanks to God for all his mercies . 
Everything was visited , however , even to the abandoned anchor , and Mark made a trip to the eastward , carrying his wife out into the open water , in that direction . 
A ship was associated with all her earliest impressions of Mark ; on board that very ship she had been married ; and now it formed her home , temporarily , if not permanently . 
Mark had removed the house , the awning answering every purpose , and his wife declared that it was a pleasure to cook a meal for him , in so pleasant a place . 
The first dish Bridget ever literally cooked for Mark , with her own hands , or indeed for any one else , was a mess of ` grass , ' as it was the custom of even the most polished people of America then to call asparagus . 
Mark declared he had never tasted anything in his life half so good ! 
At the end of the week , the governor , as Heaton had styled Mark , and as Bridget had begun playfully to term him , gave the opinion that it was necessary for them to tear themselves away from their paradise . 
But it was prudent to return to the Peak , for Mark had never felt his former security against foreign invasion , since he was acquainted with the proximity of peopled islands . 
Bridget smiled when Mark suggested that Jones , who was a well-looking lad enough , would make a very proper husband for Joan , and that he doubted not his being called on , in his character of magistrate , to unite them in the course of the next six months . 
As Mark was considered the head of the colony , and had every way the most experience , his opinion swayed those of his companions , and all his recommendations were adopted . 
Mark proposed going over to the Reef with the Neshamony , the very next day , in order to transport two of the guns , with a proper supply of powder and shot , to the Peak . 
This gate Mark did not purpose to erect now , for he thought it unnecessary . 
All he intended was to plant the two guns at this pass ; one on a piece of level rock directly over it , and a little on one side , which would command the entrance of the cove , and the cove itself , as well as the whole of the path beneath , and the other on another natural platform , a short distance above , where it could not only command the pass , but , by using the last as a sort of embrasure , by firing through it , could not only sweep the ravine for some distance down , but could also rake the entrance of the cove , and quite half of the little basin itself . 
Bob greatly approved of this arrangement , though all the seamen were too much accustomed to obey their officers to raise the smallest objections to anything that Mark proposed . 
Betts was the only person who had made the circuit of the Peak ; but he , and Mark ; and Heaton , who had been a good deal round the cliffs , on the side of the water , all agreed in saying they did not believe it possible for a human being to reach the plain , unless the ascent was made by the Stairs . 
It was true , the Reef would remain exposed to depredations ; though Mark was of opinion that , by leaving a portion of their force in the ship , with two or three of the guns at command , it would not be difficult to beat off five hundred natives . 
The idea was favourably received , and Mark was unanimously chosen governor for life , the law being the rule of right , with such special enactments as might , from time to time , issue from a council of three , who were also elected for life . 
Mark now took the command , and issued his orders with a show of authority . 
His attention was first turned to rendering the Peak impregnable . 
This was to be lighted , at night , in the event of the canoes appearing while he was absent , Mark being of opinion that he could see such a beacon-fire from the Reef , whither he was about to proceed . 
This was a portion of his duty , when a solitary man , to which Mark was exceedingly averse , and having shirts almost ad libitum , Bridget had found nearly a hundred ready for the ` buck-basket . ' 
Mark had observed this circumstance when last at the crater , and Socrates had brought his scythe and forks , to cut and cure the hay . 
Mark scarcely ever touched this food now , the fish , eggs , chickens , and pigs , keeping his larder sufficiently well supplied . 
Mark shot one , and had it dressed , putting most of its meat into the pinnace . 
He also sent Bob out to his old place of resort , near Loam Island , whence he brought back near a hundred hog-fish . 
About ten at night the Neshamony sailed , Mark carrying her out into the open water , when he placed Bob at the helm . 
Before he lay down to catch his nap , Mark took a good look to the southward , in quest of the beacon , but it was not burning , a sign the savages had not appeared in the course of the day . 
With this assurance he fell asleep , and slept until informed by Bob that the pinnace was running in beneath the cliffs . 
Mark , himself , had caught a glimpse of this narrow entrance accidentally , on his first voyage , else might he have been obliged to abandon the hope of getting on the heights ; for subsequent examination showed that there was but that one spot , on the whole circuit of Vulcan 's Peak , where man could ascend to the plain , without having recourse to engineering and the labour of months , if not of years . 
This difficulty set Mark to work with his wits , and he found a shelf that overhung the landing , at a height of fully a hundred yards above it , where there was a natural platform of rock , that would suffice for the parade of a regiment of men . 
Here he determined to rig a derrick , for there was an easy ascent and descent to this ` platform , ' as the place was called , and down which a cart might go without any difficulty , if a cart was to be had . 
The ` platform ' might also be used for musketeers , in an action , and on examining it , Mark determined to bring over one of the two long sixes , and mount it there , with a view to command the offing . 
Heaton had seen no signs of the canoes , nor could Mark , at any time during the next four days after his return , though he was each day on the Peak itself , to examine the ocean . 
On the fifth day , therefore , he and Bob crossed over to the Reef again , taking Bridget along this time . 
He also trimmed their branches , and dug around the roots , which he refreshed with guano ; the use of which had been imparted by Mark to his fellow-colonists , though Bigelow knew all about it from having lived in Peru , and Bob had early let the governor himself into the secret . 
The governor and his lady , as the community now began to term Mr. and Mrs. Mark Woolston , were on the point of embarking in the Neshamony , to visit Vulcan 's Peak , after a residence on the Reef of more than a month , when the orders for sailing were countermanded , in consequence of certain signs in the atmosphere , which indicated something like another hurricane . 
Mark , on this occasion , for the first time , noted a change that was gradually taking place on the surface of the Reef , without the crater . 
As these cavities collected and retained the moisture , usually from rain to rain , Mark had some of Friend Abraham White 's grass-seed sown over them , in order to aid nature in working out her own benevolent designs . 
Nor did Mark 's provident care limit itself to this one instance of forethought . 
All the blacks remained at the Reef , where Mark himself passed a good deal of his time . 
Mark had some books on the draughting of vessels , and Bigelow had once before laid down a brig of more than a hundred tons in dimensions . 
Out of compliment to his old owner , Mark named this schooner in embryo , the ` Friend Abraham White , ' though she was commonly known afterwards as the ` Abraham . ' 
Past experience had told Mark that the winter months in his islands , if winter a season could be termed , during which most of the trees , all the grasses , and many of the fruits continued to grow and ripen as in summer , were not very formidable . 
Friend Martha had presented Friend Robert with a little Robert ; and Bridget made Mark the happy parent of a very charming girl . 
According to Mark 's prophecy , Jones had succeeded with Joan , and they were married even before the expiration of the six months mentioned . 
Mark knew how to feel for one in the poor fellow 's situation , and he could not think of letting him go alone on an expedition of so much peril . 
After deliberating on the matter , he determined to visit Rancocus Island himself -- not having been in that direction , now , for months -- and to go in the Neshamony , in order to take a couple of hogs over ; it having long been decided to commence breeding that valuable animal , in the wild state , on the hills of that uninhabited land . 
After canvassing the matter in the council , it was determined that , in addition to Mark and Peters , who went of course , the party should consist of Bob , Bigelow , and Socrates . 
Mark had been within a league of it , and Bob had passed quite near to it in his voyage to the Peak ; but no one had ever positively landed , or made any of those close examinations of the place , which , besides being of interest in a general way , was doubly so to those who were such near neighbours to a place of the kind . 
This visit Mark now decided to make on his way to leeward , taking the volcano in his course to Rancocus Island . 
The wind did not blow as fresh as in common , and the Neshamony did not draw near to the volcano until late in the afternoon of the day she sailed . 
Mark took the Neshamony to windward , and found a curvature in the rocks where it was possible to get ashore without having the boat knocked to pieces . 
He and Bob then went as near the cone as the falling stones would allow , and took as good a survey of the place as could be done under the circumstances . 
But that day was distant ; and Mark was soon satisfied that the great use of the spot was its being a vent to what would otherwise be the pent and dangerous forces that were in the course of a constant accumulation beneath . 
Mark questioned these two friends concerning the contemplated movement of Waally , with great minuteness , Unsus was intelligent for a savage , and appeared to understand himself perfectly . 
He was of opinion that his countrymen would endeavour to cross , the first calm day , or the first day when the breeze should be light ; and that was just the time when our colonists did not desire to meet the savages out at sea . 
He described the party as formidable by numbers and resolution , though possessing few arms besides those of savages . 
Even with the addition of Unus , who took service at once , with all his heart , among his new friends , Mark could muster but eight men ; viz. , himself , Heaton , Betts , Bigelow , Socrates , Peters , Jones and Unus . 
To these might possibly be added two or three of the women , who might be serviceable in carrying ammunition , and as sentinels , while the remainder would be required to look after the children , to care for the stock , & c. All these facts passed through Mark 's mind , as Peters translated the communication of Unus , sentence by sentence . 
She had not been seen to enter the cove , and the first intimation any one in the settlement had of such an occurrence , was the appearance of Mark before the door of the dwelling . 
Mark 's fears were always for the Reef , where there happened to be no one just at that moment but the black women , who were altogether insufficient to defend it , under the most favourable circumstances , but who were now without a head . 
Taking all things into consideration therefore , Mark adjourned the council to the Peak , a feverish desire to look out upon the sea , causing him to be too uneasy where he was , to remain there in consultation with any comfort to himself . 
Bob had seen Mark , when his attention was drawn to the spot by the report of the latter 's fowling-piece ; and the governor had often seen Bridget , on the look-out for him , as he left the island , though her fluttering dress probably made her a more conspicuous object than most persons would have been . 
From all this , then , the importance of directing the movements of the party that followed him became apparent to Mark , who took his measures accordingly . 
But Mark 's eyes were turned with the greatest interest to the northward , or in the direction of the Reef . 
As they came up the ascent , Bridget had communicated to him the fact that she expected Juno over that day , and that it was understood she would come quite alone . 
This command , most unfortunately , as Mark now felt , had not been given ; and great was his concern when Betts declared that he saw a white speck to the northward , which looked like a sail . 
Although Mark , and Heaton , and Bridget , and all present indeed , were fully aware that the natives of the South Seas could , and often did pass hours in the water , this proposal struck them all , at first , as so wild , that no one believed it could be accepted . 
He was accompanied by Mark , Peters and Peggy ; the former to give his instructions , and the two latter to act as interpreters . 
She and Peters repaired to the battery , which was the proper station of the man , while Mark went nimbly up the Stairs , on his way to the Peak . 
When Mark reached the Peak again , he found matters drawing near to a crisis . 
As the sailing directions were for every craft to fall in with the island rather to windward of the Peak , on account of the very current just mentioned , it was questionable with Mark and Betts whether any in the canoes could now perceive the boat , on account of the intervening heights . 
The moment Mark saw the canvas come in , he cried out ` all is well , ' and descended swiftly from the Peak , to hasten to a point where he could give the necessary attentions to the movements of Waally and his fleet . 
It might be that something like an echo had been heard at Rancocus Island , but it must have been of a very different calibre from that which Heaton and Mark were in the habit of making for the amusement of the females , by firing their fowling-pieces down the Stairs . 
For the time being , however , Woolston and his friends were left to their own conjectures on the subject ; which , however , were not greatly out of the way . 
Mark was greatly disappointed , nor did his regrets cease with disappointment only . 
Should Waally leave a portion of his people on that island , a collision must occur , sooner or later ; there being a moral impossibility of the two colonies continuing friends while so near each other . 
Supported by that vessel , indeed , matters would be changed ; and Mark thought it would be in his power to drive in Waally , and even to depose him and place Ooroony at the head of the natives once more . 
The labour requiring as much physical force as could be mustered , the arrangement was settled in council and approved by the governor , on the following plan , viz. : -- Mark was to proceed to the Reef with all the men that could be spared , and a portion of the females . 
Mark , Betts , Bigelow , Socrates , and Jones , formed the party for the Reef , to which were attached Bridget , Martha , Teresa , and the blacks . 
A very simple and ingenious expedient , nevertheless , was suggested by Mark , in connection with this matter . 
As the craft glided along , in perfectly smooth water now , Mark noted the changes that time was making on those rocks , which had so lately emerged from the depths of the ocean . 
The prairie , in particular , was every way worthy of his attention . 
In that climate the changes are very rapid , and Mark saw that another year or two would convert the whole of that vast range , which had been formerly computed at a surface of a thousand acres , into very respectable pastures , if not into meadows . 
So long as Mark had that island to himself , the present supply would more than equal the demand , but with the increase of the colony a greater number of the trees would become very desirable . 
Mark well knew the value of this tree , which was of use in a variety of ways , in addition to the delicious and healthful fruit it bears ; delicious and healthful when eaten shortly after it is separated from the tree . 
While Bridget was still confined to the ship , after the birth of her daughter , Mark had brought her a dish of greens , which she pronounced the most delicious of any thing in its way she had ever tasted . 
That afternoon Mark , accompanied by his wife , had gone in the Bridget , his favourite boat , to look for the signal tree . 
He went some distance into the strait , ere he was near enough to get a sight of it even with the glass ; when he did procure a view , there it was precisely as he had last seen it . 
Putting the helm of the boat up , the instant he was assured of his fact , the governor wore short round , making the best of his way back to the crater , again . 
The sun was setting as Mark was running along the channel to the Reef , the young man pointing out to his charming wife the growth of the trees , the tints of the evening sky , the drove of hogs , the extent of his new meadows , and such other objects as would be likely to interest both , in the midst of such a scene . 
The boat rounded a point where a portion of the hogs had been sleeping , and as it came sweeping up , the animals rose in a body , snuffed the air , and began scampering off in the way conformable to their habits , Mark laughing and pointing with his fingers to draw Bridget 's attention to their antics . 
echoed Mark ; `` that can hardly be , as we passed some thirty of them several miles to the southward . 
She trembled a little at first , and pressed her child to her bosom with more than the usual warmth , but her self-command was soon regained , and from that instant , Mark found in her a quick , ingenious , and useful assistant and counsellor . 
Her faculties and courage seemed to increase with the danger , and so far from proving an encumbrance , as might naturally enough have been expected , she was not only out of the way , as respects impediments , but she soon became of real use , and directed the movements of the females with almost as much skill and decision as Mark directed those of their husbands . 
Mark did not disturb the happy security in which he found his people by any unnecessary announcement of danger . 
On the contrary , he spoke cheerfully , complimented them on the advanced state of their work , and took an occasion to get Betts aside , when he first communicated the all-important discovery he had made . 
`` I think not , '' answered Mark . 
`` That puts me in mind , Mr. Mark , of telling you something that I have lately l'arn 'd from Jones , who was about a good deal among the savages , since his friend 's marriage with Peggy , and before he made his escape to join us . 
exclaimed Mark , with a tumult of feeling he had not experienced since he had reason to think that Bridget was about to be restored to him . 
The savages told Jones that the boat had a bird painted in its starn-sheets ; and that was the case with our launch , Mr. Mark , which was ornamented with a spread-eagle in that very spot . 
Then , one of the men was said to have a red mark on his face ; and you may remember , sir , that Bill Brown had a nat ` ral brand of that sort . 
Depend on it , Mr. Woolston , some of our chaps is still living . '' 
The time , the boat , the incidents of the wreck , meagre as the last were , as derived through the information of Jones , and all the other facts Mark could glean in a close examination of the man 's statements , went to confirm the impression that a portion of those who had been carried to leeward in the Rancocus 's launch , had escaped with their lives , and were at that moment prisoners in the power of the very savage chief who now threatened his colony with destruction . 
It was even polished in appearance , and in general was some eighteen or twenty feet in height , with the exception of the two or three places , by one of which Mark and Betts had clambered up on their first visit to the Summit . 
Mark divided his forces for the night . 
As Bridget habitually lived in the Rancocus ' cabins , he did not derange her household at all , but merely strengthened her crew , by placing Bigelow and Socrates on board her ; each with his family ; while Betts assumed the command of the crater , having for his companion Jones . 
Mark and Betts met , by agreement , alongside of the schooner , as soon as their respective duties elsewhere would allow . 
As the Reef , proper , was an island , they knew no enemy could find his way on it without coming by water , or by passing over the narrow bridge which has already been mentioned as crossing the little strait near the spring . 
This rendered them tolerably easy for the moment , though Mark had assured his companion it was not possible for the canoes to get to the Reef under several hours . 
All told , I do think , Mr. Mark , they might muster from twelve to fifteen hundred fighting men . '' 
`` I know that voice , '' said Mark , hurriedly : `` and the whole matter begins to clear up to me . 
`` The very same , God bless you , Mr. Woolston , for I now know yourvoice , too . 
No , Mr. Woolston ; no fear of them to-night , for they are miles and miles to leeward , bothered in the channels , where they 'll be pretty sartain to pass the night ; though you 'll hear from 'em in the morning . 
So give us a cast and take us aboard the old ship again , Mr. Woolston , if you love a fellow-creatur ' , and an old shipmate in distress . '' 
As Brown was a valuable man , and one whose word he had always relied on , Mark did not hesitate , but told him the direction to the bridge , where he and Betts met him and Wattles , after each of the parties had believed the others to be dead now fully three years ! 
The number of men with him , however , Brown assured Mark , was less than nine hundred , instead of exceeding a thousand , as had been supposed from the count made on the cliffs . 
He was master of a dozen old , imperfect muskets , and what was more , he had a four-pound gun . 
Ammunition , however , was very scarce , and of shot for his gun he had but three . 
Each of these shot had been fired several times , in his wars with Ooroony , and days had been spent in hunting them up , after they had done their work , and of replacing them in the chief 's magazine . 
Woolston viewed things a little differently . 
He loved the Reef ; it had become dear to him by association and history , and he did not relish the thought of abandoning it . 
In that ship he had sailed ; in that ship he had been married ; in that ship his daughter had been born ; and in that ship Bridget loved still to dwell , even more than she affected all the glories of the Eden of the Peak . 
Nor did Mark believe anything would be gained by depriving the men of their rest during the accustomed hours . 
Early in the morning , with the light itself , he did intend to have Bigelow under the schooner 's bottom ; but he saw no occasion for his working in the dark . 
Mark announced that there was no occasion to be in a hurry ; no canoes were in sight , and there was time to have everything done deliberately and in order . 
Bridget , for instance , could hardly be expected to eat with the wives of the seamen ; and Mark naturally wished to eat with his own family . 
On that occasion he had taken his meal in the cabin of the Rancocus , as usual , and had come down to the awning to see that the hands turned-to as soon as they were through with their own breakfasts . 
Just as he was about to issue the necessary order , the air was filled with frightful yells , and a stream of savages poured out of an opening in the rocks , on to the plain of the `` hog pasture , '' as the adjoining field was called , rushing forward in a body towards the crater . 
Mark now made the signal to Juno . 
Waally now saw that a crisis was reached , and his efforts to recover the ground lost were worthy of his reputation . 
Calling to the swimmers , he succeeded in getting them down into the water in scores . 
As for Mark himself , accompanied by Brown and Wattles , all well armed , he held his party in reserve , as a corps to be moved wherever it might be most needed . 
The reserve were under her bottom , intending to make a stand behind the covers of the yard , when Mark found himself at one of the spur-shores , just as Brown , armed to the teeth , came up to the other . 
The Abraham was brought up by a hawser , as is usual , and was immediately boarded by Mark , Bigelow and Wattles . 
To make sail required but two minutes , and Mark was soon under way , rounding Loam Island , or what had oncebeen Loam Island , for it was now connected with the hog pasture , in order to get into the reach where Waally had his forces . 
Although the schooner bore down to the assault with a very determined air , it was by no means Mark 's cue to come to close quarters . 
Being well to windward , with plenty of room , he kept the Abraham tacking , yawing , waring , and executing other of the devices of nautical delay , whilst his men loaded and fired her guns as fast as they could . 
Here was a most important conquest , and , Mark turned it to account . 
He selected a proper agent from among the captives , and sent him with a palm-branch to Waally himself , with proposals for an exchange . 
Nevertheless , he had not the art to conceal his strong affection for his son , and on that passion did Mark Woolston play . 
Waally offered canoes , robes of feathers , whales ' teeth , and every thing that was most esteemed among his own people , as a ransom for the boy . 
Agreeably to its conditions , the schooner was to pilot the fleet of canoes to Betto 's group , which could easily be done , as Mark knew not only its bearings , but its latitude and longitude . 
The chief wished to attach terms , by which the colonists were to aid him in more effectually putting down Ooroony , who was checked rather than conquered , but Mark refused to listen to any such proposition . 
He was more disposed to aid , than to overcome the kind hearted Ooroony , and made up his mind to have an interview with him before he returned from the intended voyage . 
Some delay would have occurred , to enable Mark to let Bridget know of his intended absence , had it not been for the solicitude of Betts . 
Woolston inquired of Waally , in what he should be benefited by such a policy ? 
when the wily savage told him , with the gravest face imaginable , that he , Mark , might retain , in addition to his territories at the Reef , Rancocus Island ! 
Mark now deliberated on the state of things around him . 
Care was taken to land at the right place , under cover of the Abraham 's guns , and in six hours Mark had the real gratification of taking Ooroony , good , honest , upright Ooroony , by the hand , on the quarter-deck of his own vessel . 
Mark thanked him for his kindness to his wife , to his sister , to Heaton , and to his friend Bob . 
In point of fact , without this kindness , he , Woolston , might then have been a solitary hermit , without the means of getting access to any of his fellow-creatures , and doomed to remain in that condition all his days . 
The obligation was now frankly admitted , and Ooroony shed tears of joy when he thus found that his good deeds were remembered and appreciated . 
When this touching scene was over , Mark held a council on the quarter-deck , in which the whole matter of the political condition of the group was discussed , and the wants and dangers of Ooroony laid bare . 
Instead of entangling himself in the channels to leeward , Mark made the land well to the northward , entering the group by a passage that led him quite down to the Reef , as the original island was now uniformly called , with a flowing sheet . 
Of course the schooner was seen an hour before she arrived , and everybody was out on the Reef to greet the adventurers . 
Mark had a delicious moment when he folded the sobbing Bridget to his heart , and Friend Martha was overcome in a way that it was not usual for her to betray feminine weakness . 
The other three engaged with Mark for a time , but expressed a desire to return to America , after awhile . 
In musing on all these plans , Mark had not the least idea of abandoning the scheme for colonizing . 
That was dearer to him now than ever ; nevertheless , he saw obstacles to their execution . 
No one could navigate the ship but himself ; in truth , he was the only proper person to carry her home , and to deliver her to her owners , whomsoever those might now be , and he could not conceal from himself the propriety , as well as the necessity , of his going in her himself . 
On the other hand , what might not be the consequences to the colony , of his absence for twelve months ? 
Could he take Bridget with him , or could he bear to leave her behind ? 
The use of this property was a very different thing , now , from what it was when Mark and Betts had every reason to consider themselves as merely shipwrecked seamen . 
But Mark saw what the wind had been doing for them , and he lost not a moment . 
Mark was quite taken by surprise by this heroic and conscientious act in his young wife , and he had a great struggle with himself on the subject of leaving her behind him . 
Heaton , however , was so very prudent , and the present relations with their neighbours -- neighbours four hundred miles distant -- were so amicable , the whole matter was so serious , and the duty so obvious , that he finally acquiesced , without suffering his doubts to be seen . 
He had a private interview with Mark , however , in which he earnestly requested that the governor would have the goodness `` to pick out for him the sort of gal that he thought would make a fellow a good and virtuous wife , and bring her out with him , in whatever way he might return . '' 
Mark made as fair promises as the circumstances of the case would allow , and Brown was satisfied . 
It was thought prudent to have eight white men on board the ship , Mark intending to borrow as many more of Ooroony 's people , to help pull and haul . 
With such a crew , he thought he might get along very well . 
Previously to departing , Mark had carried the ship through the channel , and she was anchored in a very good and safe roadstead , outside of everything . 
By this time , it was every way so obvious Mark 's presence would be indispensable in America , that his absence was regarded as a necessity beyond control . 
Even Waally was included in these arrangements ; and when Mark finally sailed , it was with a strong hope that in virtue of the taboo , of Ooroony 's power , and of his rival 's sagacity , he might rely on the colony 's meeting with no molestation during his absence . 
So very lucrative did Mark make this transaction , that , finding himself with assets after filling up with teas , he thought himself justified in changing his course of proceeding . 
She could run several years in a sea as mild as the Pacific , and Mark purchased her for a song . 
He put as many useful things on board her as he could find , including several cows , & c. Dry English cows were not difficult to find , the ships from Europe often bringing out the animals , and turning them off when useless . 
Mark was enabled to purchase six , which , rightly enough , he thought would prove a great acquisition to the colony . 
The whole outlay , including the cost of the vessel , was less than seven thousand dollars ; which sum Mark knew he should receive in Philadelphia , on account of the personal property of Bridget , and with which he had made up his mind to replace the proceeds of the sandal-wood , thus used , did those interested exact it . 
Saunders was two or three years Mark 's senior , and of an excellent disposition and character . 
When he heard the history of the colony , he professed a desire to join it , engaging to pick up a crew of Americans , who were in his own situation , or had no work on their hands , and to take the brig to the Reef . 
This arrangement was made and carried out ; the Mermaid sailing for the crater , the day before the Rancocus left for Philadelphia , having Bigelow on board as pilot and first officer ; while Woolston shipped an officer to supply his place . 
But the property had all been transferred to the insurers by the payment of the amount underwritten , and Mark made his report at the office . 
After deducting the sum paid the firm , principal and interest , the insurance company resolved to give the ship , and the balance of the proceeds of the sale , to Captain Woolston , as a reward for his integrity and prudence . 
Mark had concealed nothing , but stated what he had done in reference to the Mermaid , and told his whole story with great simplicity , and with perfect truth . 
It is scarcely necessary to say that his success made Mark Woolston a great man , in a small way . 
Not only was he received with open arms by all of his own blood ; but Dr. Yardley now relented , and took him by the hand . 
A faithful account was rendered of his stewardship ; and Mark received as much ready money , on account of his wife , as placed somewhat more than twenty thousand dollars at his disposal . 
With this money he set to work , without losing a day , to make arrangements to return to Bridget and the crater ; for he always deemed that his proper abode , in preference to the Peak . 
In this feeling , his charming wife coincided ; both probably encouraging a secret interest in the former , in consequence of the solitary hours that had been passed there by the young husband , while his anxious partner was far away . 
Themode of proceeding now required great caution on the part of Mark Woolston . 
His mind was fully made up not to desert his islands , although this might easily be done , by fitting out the ship for another voyage , filling her with sandal-wood , and bringing off all who chose to abandon the place . 
But Woolston had become infatuated with the climate , which had all the witchery of a low latitude without any of its lassitude . 
In this respect the climate did not vary essentially from that of Pennsylvania , the difference existing in the fact that there was no winter in his new country . 
But Mark Woolston had no thought of abandoning the crater and the Peak . 
Nor did he desire to people them at random , creating a population by any means , incorporating moral diseases in his body politic by the measures taken to bring it into existence . 
On the contrary , it was his wish , rather , to procure just as much force as might be necessary to security , so divided in pursuits and qualities as to conduce to comfort and civilization , and then to trust to the natural increase for the growth that might be desirable in the end . 
The reader will perceive that governor Woolston was not influenced by the spirit of trade that is now so active , preferring happiness to wealth , and morals to power . 
Among Woolston 's acquaintances , there was a young man of about his own age , of the name of Pennock , who struck him as a person admirably suited for his purposes . 
This allowed Mark to attend to his purchases , and to getting the ship ready for sea . 
Two of his own brothers , however , expressed a wish to join the new community , and Charles and Abraham Woolston were received in the colony lists . 
All was done with great secresy , it being Mark 's anxious desire , on many accounts , not to attract public attention to his colony . 
It was scarcely possible for man to possess any portion of this earth by a title better than that with which Mark Woolston was invested with his domains . 
Of his native country , so abused in our own times for its rapacity , and the desire to extend its dominions by any means , Mark felt no apprehension . 
Even her conquests in open was have been few , and are not yet determined in character . 
In the end , it will be found that little will be taken that Mexico could keep ; and had that nation observed towards this , ordinary justice and faith , in her intercourse and treaties , that which has so suddenly and vigorously been done , would never have even been attempted . 
Consequently Mark and his islands escaped . 
There was no necessity for his telling the insurers anything about the Peak , for instance , and on that part of the subject , therefore , he wisely held his tongue . 
The property used , Mark said had been appropriated to his wants , without going into details , and the main results being so very satisfactory , the insurers asked no further . 
Mark carried out , also , a couple of mares , for , while many horses could never be much needed in his islands , a few would always be exceedingly useful . 
Oxen were much wanted , but one of his new colonists had yoked his cows , and it was thought they might be made useful , in a moderate degree , until their stouter substitutes could be reared . 
Mark Woolston was much too sensible a man to fall into any of the modern absurdities on the subject of equality , and a community of interests . 
One or two individuals , even in that day , had wished to accompany him , who were for forming an association in which all property should be shared in common , and in which nothing was to be done but that which was right . 
Mark had not the least objection in the world to the last proposition , and would have been glad enough to see it carried out to the letter , though he differed essentially with the applicants , as to the mode of achieving so desirable an end . 
He was of opinion that civilization could not exist without property , or property without a direct personal interest in both its accumulation and its preservation . 
Mark Woolston had thought too much on the subject , to be the dupe of any of these visionary theories . 
Instead of fancying that men never knew anything previously to the last ten years of the eighteenth century , he was of the opinion of the wisest man who ever lived , that ` there was nothing new under the sun . ' 
That ` circumstances might alter cases ' he was willing enough to allow , nor did he intend to govern the crater by precisely the same laws as he would govern Pennsylvania , or Japan ; but he well understood , nevertheless , that certain great moral truths existed as the law of the human family , and that they were not to be set aside by visionaries ; and least of all , with impunity . 
Mark remembered the quarrels between his father and his father-in-law , and thought it better to die under one theory than under two . 
As regards a clergyman , Mark had greater difficulty . 
Bristol had a very ancient society , of the persuasion of the Anglican church , and Mark 's family belonged to it . 
One day , a little before noon it was , Mark appeared on deck with his quadrant , and as he cleaned the glasses of the instrument , he announced his conviction that the ship would shortly make the group of the crater . 
A current had set him further north than he intended to go , but having hauled up to southwest , he waited only for noon to ascertain his latitude , to be certain of his position . 
For one moment the dreadful apprehension of the group 's having sunk under another convulsion of nature crossed Mark 's mind , but he entertained that notion for a minute only . 
`` 'T is the Mermaid , '' said Mark to Betts , `` and it 's all right . 
`` She behaves very strangely , Betts , '' Mark , at length , said . 
`` Clear away a bow-gun , '' cried Mark , to Betts -- `` something dreadful must have happened ; that brig is in possession of the savages , who do not know how to handle her ! '' 
The next quarter of an hour was one of the deepest expectation with all in the ship , and of intense agony with Mark . 
Seeing the state of things on board the brig , Mark luffed up under her counter , and laid her aboard . 
In a minute , he and twenty chosen men were on her decks ; in another , the vessels were again clear of each other , and the Mermaid under command . 
One fact of importance , however , he could and did communicate , which was this : Instead of being to windward of the crater , as Mark supposed , he was to leeward of it ; the currents no doubt having set the ship to the westward faster than had been thought . 
No one had anticipated an invasion ; but , on the contrary , preparations were making at the Peak for the reception of Mark , whose return had now been expected daily for a fortnight . 
The first thing was to bring the vessels close by the wind , and to pass as near as possible over the ground where the swimmers were to be found ; for Mark could not bear the idea of abandoning a hundred of his fellow-creatures in the midst of the ocean , though they were enemies and savages . 
Mark chose that which came in from the northward , both because it was the nearest , and because he could lay his course in it , without tacking , for most of the way . 
Acquainted now with his position , Mark had no difficulty in finding the entrance of this channel . 
As it now appeared , Waally 's men had not yet shown themselves , and Socrates knew nothing at all of what had happened to the brig. Glad enough was the negro to shake hands with Betts , and to hear that Master Mark was so near at hand , with a powerful reinforcement . 
Unknown to all , though anticipated by Mark , the Mermaid had entered the western passage , and was beating up through it , closing fast also on Waally 's rear . 
Waally made his first push for the bridge , expecting to find it unguarded , and hoping to cross it unresisted . 
He knew that the ship was gone , and no longer dreaded herfire ; but he was fully aware that the Summit had its guns , and he wished to seize them while his men were still impelled by the ardour of a first onset . 
Those formidable engines of war were held in the most profound respect by all his people , and Waally knew the importance of success in a rapid movement . 
He had gleaned so much information concerning the state of the Reef , that he expected no great resistance , fully believing that , now he had seized the Mermaid , his enemies would be reduced in numbers to less than half-a-dozen . 
In all this , he was right enough ; and there can be no question that Socrates and his whole party , together with the Reef , and for that matter , the entire group , would have fallen into his hands , but for the timely arrival of the reinforcement . 
It was apparent that the danger was over , and Woolston was not sorry to find that success was obtained without recourse to his batteries . 
Here , then , was Mark once more at home , after so long a passage . 
There was his ship , too , well freighted with a hundred things , all of which would contribute to the comfort and well-being of the colonists ! 
At this point , then , Woolston took his station , waiting the arrival of the Neshamony , with an impatience he was a little ashamed of exhibiting . 
But the tender love which this young couple bore each other was soon to be rewarded ; for Mark sprang on board the Neshamony as she went through the narrow pass , and immediately he had Bridget folded to his heart . 
`` I understand you , Bill , '' answered Mark , smiling . 
`` Well , well , sir , I 'll not throw her on your hands , if she 's old enough to be my mother ; though I do rather suppose , Mr. Woolston , you stood by an old shipmate in a foreign land , and that there is a companion suitable for a fellow of only two-and-thirty sent out ? '' 
Mark longed to see his sister Anne , and his two brothers participated in this wish , if possible , in a still more lively manner . 
Seamen are accustomed to defer to station and authority , and are all the happier for the same ; and the thought of any jealousy on account of this privilege , which as yet was confined to Mark and Heaton , and their respective families , had not yet crossed the mind of any one on the island . 
But this was a state of things which the good sense of Mark told him could not , and ought not to last . 
If men have occasion for each other 's assistance to effect a particular object , let them unite , in welcome , for that purpose ; but Mark was fully determined that there should be but one government in his land , and that this government should be of a character to encourage and not to depress exertion . 
Such was Mark 's theory . 
Mark understood the great desideratum to be , not the setting up of theories to which every attendant fact gives the lie , but the ascertaining , as near as human infirmity will allow , the precise point at which concession to government ought to terminate , and that of uncontrolled individual freedom commence . 
He was not visionary enough to suppose that he was to be the first to make this great discoverty ; but he was conscious of entering on the task with the purest intentions . 
Mr. Secretary Woolston soon became a personage , accordingly , as did all the other considerable functionaries appointed by the governor . 
The new council was composed as follows , viz : -- Messrs. Heaton , Pennock , Betts , C. Woolston , A. Woolston , the governor 's brothers . 
Mark had no occasion for the money , owning all the vessels , with most of the cargo of the Rancocus , as well as having brought out with him no less a sum than five thousand dollars , principally in change -- halves , quarters , shillings and six-pences . 
Then a question might well arise , whether he did not own most of the stock ; a large part of it was his beyond all dispute , though some doubts might exist as to the remainder . 
Governor Woolston decided , that a man 's rights in his property were not to be limited by positive injuries to its market value . 
But Mark 's humility , not to say his justice , met this doctrine on the threshold . 
He admitted the sovereignty and its right , but placed it in the body of the colony , instead of in himself . 
As the party most interested took this view of the case , they who were disposed to regard his rights as more sweeping , were fain to submit . 
The grants to Governor Woolston included quite a thousand acres on the Peak , which was computed to contain near thirty thousand , and an island of about the same extent in the group , which was beautifully situated near its centre , and less than a league from the crater . 
He had never seen the Peak until Mark was in possession of it , and had no particular claim there . 
When the council came to make its general grants , he was willing to come in for his proper share with the rest of the people , and he wanted no more . 
Heaton had a special grant of two hundred acres made to him on the Peak , and another in the group of equal extent , as a reward for his early and important services . 
In time , however , all of these persons of mistaken ambition come to exclaim , with Shakspeare 's Wolsey -- Waally 's power , already tottering through the influence of evil fortune , crumbled entirely before the force Governor Woolston now brought against it . 
Although the latter had but forty whites with him , they came in ships , and provided with cannon ; and not a chief dreamed of standing by the offender , in this his hour of need . 
Within that time , Bridget made Mark the father of a fine boy , and Anne bore her fourth child to Heaton . 
A well-selected cargo of the coarse , low-priced articles most needed in such a colony , could easily have been purchased with far less than the proceeds of the cargo of tea that had been obtained at Canton , in exchange for the sandal-wood carried out ; and Saunders , accordingly , had filled the holds of both vessels with such articles , besides bringing home with him a considerable amount in specie , half of which went into the public coffers , and half into the private purse of governor Woolston . 
Instead of monopolizing the trade of the colony , which his superior wealth and official power would have rendered very easy , governor Woolston acted in the most liberal spirit to all around him . 
With the exception of the Anne , which was built by the colony , the council had decided , in some measure contrary to his wishes , though in strict accordance with what was right , that all the vessels were the private property of Mark . 
The Neshamony was presented , out and out , to Betts , who turned many a penny with her , by keeping her running through the different passages , with freight , & c. ; going from plantation to plantation , as these good people were in the practice of calling their farms . 
Indeed , Bob did little else , until the governor , seeing his propensity to stick by the water , and ascertaining that the intercourse would justify such an investment , determined to build him a sloop , in order that he might use her as a sort of packet and market-boat , united . 
Mark did not oppose this step in his friend , but rather encouraged it ; being persuaded nothing was gained by forcing upon a man duties he was hardly fitted to discharge . 
At that very moment , Mark was burning with the desire to have a hand in the sport , though he certainly had some doubts whether such an occupation would suitably accord with the dignity of his office . 
Before the first season was over , this expectation was fully realized ; Governor Woolston heading no less than four of what were called the colony boats , or boats that belonged to the state , and fished as much for honour as profit , taking a fine whale on each occasion . 
To me , yoube always , Mr. Mark , and Mr. Woolston , and we seem to sail along in company , much as we did the time you first went out a foremast-lad , and I teached you the difference between a flat-knot and a granny . '' 
`` Both flourish , '' answered Mark , smiling , `` as our reports show . 
Betts twisted about on his chair , and seemed at first unwilling to answer ; but his natural frankness , and his long habits of intimacy and confidence with Mark Woolston , both as man and boy , forbade his attempting anything seriously in the way of concealment . 
`` Well , governor , they dosay that ` many men , many minds , '' ' he replied , after a brief pause ; `` and I suppose it 's as true about religion , as in a judgment of ships , or in a ch ` ice of a wife . 
`` I can not say but there is , Mr. Mark . 
In this friendly and perfectly confidential way did Mark Woolston still act with his old and long-tried friend , Robert Betts . 
Now , Mark Woolston had seen enough of the fruits of a concentrated physical force , in Europe , to comprehend their value ; and he early set his face against the purely skimming process . 
He was resolved that the settlements should not extend faster than was necessary , and that as much of civilization should go with them as was attainable . 
There was another similar settlement at East Cove -- or Bay would be the better name -- which was at the place where Mark Woolston had found his way out to sea , by passing through a narrow and half-concealed inlet . 
It was the habit of the wife to divide her time between the two dwellings ; though Mark was so necessary to her as a companion , intellectually , and she was so necessary to Mark , for the same reason , that they were never very long separated . 
Anne she loved as a sister and as a friend ; but it would not have been impossible for Bridget to be happy , had her fortune been cast on the Reef , with no one else but Mark and her two little ones . 
Young Mark held by his mother 's hand , while the father led his little daughter . 
Mark had a council to consult , in matters of state , but most did he love to compare opinions with the sweet matronly young creature at his side . 
`` After all , religion is , and ought to be , more a matter of feeling , than of reason , Mark . '' 
`` Why should I have added to your other cares , by heaping this on your shoulder , dear Mark ? 
`` Not at all extraordinary , my dear Mark , when you come to consider the great diversity of opinion which exists among men , in other matters . 
`` Quite right , Mark , when it is necessary to say anything on the subject , at all . 
`` What is it , Mark ? '' 
`` It is not surprising that she should be armed , Mark . 
Accordingly , after taking a most tender leave of his wife and children , Governor Woolston left the cove , in the course of the forenoon , crossing in a whale-boat rigged with a sail . 
Glad enough was Mark Woolston to meet with the Anne , and to find so good an assistant on board her . 
`` Before interrogatories are thus put , it might be as well for me to know by what authority I am questioned at all , '' returned Mr. Woolston . 
The strangers were obviously disappointed at this answer , for the thoughtful , simple manner of Mark Woolston had misled them , and they had actually flattered themselves with obtaining all they wanted without a struggle . 
At first , the anger of the admiral threatened some treacherous violence on the spot , but the crews of the two boats were so nearly equal , that prudence , if not good faith , admonished him of the necessity of respecting the truce . 
This placed Mr. Mark Woolston on the shelf at the next election . 
All the Woolston connection were completely laid on the shelf . 
No sovereign on his throne , could write Gratiá Dei before his titles with stricter conformity to truth , than Mark Woolston ; but his right did not preserve him from the ruthless plunder of the demagogue . 
To his surprise , as well as to his grief , Pennock was seduced by ambition , and he assumed the functions of the executive with quite as little visible hesitation , as the heir apparent succeeds to his father 's crown . 
It would be untrue to say that Mark did not feel the change ; but it is just to add that he felt more concern for the future fate of the colony , than he did for himself or his children . 
Nor , when he came to reflect on the matter , was he so much surprised that he could be supplanted in this way , under a system in which the sway of the majority was so much lauded , when he did not entertain a doubt that considerably more than half of the colony preferred the old system to the new , and that the same proportion of the people would rather see him in the Colony House , than to see John Pennock in his stead . 
But Mark -- we must call him the governor no longer -- had watched the progress of events closely , and began to comprehend them . 
He had learned the great and all-important political truth , THAT THE MORE A PEOPLE ATTEMPT TO EXTEND THEIR POWER DIRECTLY OVER STATE AFFAIRS , THE LESS THEY , IN FACT , CONTROL THEM , AFTER HAVING ONCE PASSED THE POINT OF NAMING LAWGIVERS AS THEIR REPRESENTATIVES ; MERELY BESTOWING ON A FEW ARTFUL MANAGERS THE INFLUENCE THEY VAINLY IMAGINE TO HAVE SECURED TO THEMSELVES . 
At one time , Mark Woolston regretted that he had not established an opposition paper , in order to supply an antidote for the bane ; but reflection satisfied him it would have been useless . 
Forsome months after the change of government , Mark Woolston was occupied in attending to the arrangement of his affairs , preparatory to an absence of some length . 
Recent events probably quickened this intention , both as to feeling and time , for Mark was naturally much mortified at the turn things had taken . 
All the oil in the colony was purchased by Woolston , at rather favourable prices , the last quotations from abroad being low : the ex-governor disposed of most of his movables , in order to effect so large an operation . 
Previously to taking leave of a place that had become endeared to him by so many associations and interests , Mr. Woolston determined to take the Anne , hiring her of the government for that purpose -- Governor Pennock condescendingly deciding that the public interests would not suffer by the arrangement -- and going in her once more through the colony , on a tour of private , if not of official inspection . 
These were the descendants of the single pair Woolston had sent across , less than twelve years before , which had increased in an arithmetical proportion , care having been taken not to destroy any . 
As cows had been brought into the colony in every vessel that arrived , they were now in tolerably good numbers , Mark Woolston himself disposing of no less than six when he broke up his farming establishment for a visit to America . 
Something like a consciousness of having ill-treated Mark was to be traced among the people ; and this feeling was manifested under a well-known law of our nature , which rendered those the most vindictive and morose , who had acted the worst . 
But , notwithstanding all these errors of man , nature and time had done their work magnificently since the last `` progress '' of Woolston among the islands . 
The crater was the subject of what to Mark Woolston was a most painful lawsuit . 
From the first , he had claimed that spot as his private property ; though he had conceded its use to the public , under a lease , since it was so well adapted , by natural formation , to be a place of refuge when invasions were apprehended . 
But the crater he had found barren , and had rendered fertile ; the crater had even seemed to him to be an especial gift of Providence bestowed on him in his misery ; and the crater was his by possession , as well as by other rights , when he received strangers into his association . 
Woolston argued his own cause , making a clear , forcible and manly appeal to the justice and good sense of the jury , in vindication of his claims ; which , on every legal as well as equitable principle , was out of all question such as every civilized community should have maintained . 
The day after this fruitless trial , which left Mark 's claim in abeyance until the next court , a period of six months , the intended travellers repaired on board ship , and the brig , with her party , went to sea , under her owner , captain Betts , who had provided himself with a good navigator in the person of his mate . 
Nature had done so much for this place , that it had been the settled policy of Mark Woolston to suffer its native charms to be marred as little as possible . 
But , Mark and Bridget endeavoured to forget everything unpleasant in this visit to their much-loved home . 
Mark remembered it as he found it , a paradise in the midst of the waters , wanting only in man to erect the last great altar in his heart , in honour of its divine creator . 
It was , therefore , decided , that Mr. Mark Woolston should fill the Rancocus with such articles as were deemed the most useful to the colony , and go back in that vessel , leaving his wife and children at Bristol , with the understanding he would return and seek them the succeeding summer . 
A similar arrangement was made for the wife and children of Captain Betts , Friend Martha Betts being much in the practice of regulating her conduct by that of Friend Bridget Woolston . 
When the Rancocus sailed , therefore , she had no one on board her but Mark Woolston and Betts , with the exception of her proper crew . 
Here Mark Woolston received very favourable offers for most of his cargo , but , still feeling desirous to serve his colony , he refused them all , setting sail for the islands as soon as he had made a few repairs , and had a little refreshed his crew . 
Formerly , the vessels had fallen in with the Crater , between Betto 's group and the Reef , which was bringing them somewhat to leeward , and Mr. Woolston now thought he would try a more southern route , and see if he could not make the Peak , which would not only bring him to windward , but which place was certainly giving him a more striking object to fall in with than the lower islands of the group . 
As Mr. Woolston approached this as yet strange spot , something in its outlines recurred to his memory . 
The boat moved a little further north , and he beheld a solitary tree . 
Then a cry escaped him , and the whole of the terrible truth flashed on his mind . 
He beheld the summit of the Peak , and the solitary tree was that which he had himself preserved as a signal . 
The remainder of his paradise had sunk beneath the ocean ! 
The lead was kept going , and a good look-out was had for shoals ; for , by this time , Mr. Woolston was satisfied that the greatest changes had occurred at the southward , as in the former convulsion , the group having sunk but a trifle compared with the Peak ; nevertheless , every person , as well as thing , would seem to have been engulfed . 
The vessel was hove-to , and a boat went to examine the place , Woolston and his friend Betts going in her . 
Leaving handsome and useful presents with his friend , young Ooroony , and putting ashore two or three Kannakas who were in the vessel , Woolston now sailed for Valparaiso . 
Here he disposed of his cargo to great advantage , and purchased copper in pigs at almost as great . 
With this new cargo he reached Philadelphia , after an absence of rather more than nine months . 
Mark and Bridget , however , pondered deeply on these things ; the influence of which coloured and chastened their future lives . 
