The Author is carried into Algiers : Is brought before the Dey : Description of his Person , Court and Guards : Manner of selecting the Tenth Prisoner . 
The prisoners , thirty in number , were conveyed to the castle , where we were received with great parade by the Dey 's troops or cologlies , and guarded to a heavy strong tower of the castle . 
The Spaniards , whom the Dey 's subjects equally detest , and fear more , were confined with me in a grated room , on the second story . 
The next day , we were all led to a cleansing house , where we were cleared from vermin , our hair cut short , and our beards close shaved ; thence taken to a bath , and , after being well bathed , we were clothed in coarse linen drawers , a strait waistcoat of the same without sleeves , and a kind of tunic or loose coat over the whole , which , with a pair of leather slippers , and a blue cotton cap , equipped us , as we were informed , to appear in the presence of the Dey , who was to select the tenth prisoner from us in person . 
The next morning , the dragomen or interpreters , were very busy in impressing upon us the most profound respect for the Dey 's person and power , and teaching us the obeisance necessary to be made in our approaches to this august potentate . 
We were blind folded until we passed the fortifications , and then suffered to view the city , and the immense rabble , which surrounded us , until we came to the palace of the Dey . 
Here , after much military parade , the gates were thrown open , and we entered a spacious court yard , at the upper end of which the Dey was seated , upon an eminence , covered with the richest carpeting fringed with gold . 
The present Dey , Vizier Hassen Bashaw , is about forty years of age , five feet ten inches in height , inclining to corpulency , with a countenance rather comely than commanding ; an eye which betrays sagacity , rather than inspires awe : the latter is sufficiently inspired by the sierce appearance of his guards , the splendour of his attendants , the grandeur of his court , and the magnificence of his attire . 
Upon the Dey 's head was a turban with the point erect , which is peculiar to the royal family . 
When within thirty paces , we were made to throw ourselves upon the earth and creep towards the Dey , licking the dust as a token of reverence and submission . 
To some the Dey put questions by his drogoman , others were dismissed by a slight nod of his head . 
The Dey 's prerogative gives him the right to select the tenth of all prisoners ; and , as the service or ransom of them constitutes one part of his revenue , his policy is to choose those , whose friends or wealth would be most likely to enrich his coffers . 
The Dey , as I have already observed , selecting his tenth prisoner from those , who would most probably afford the richest ransom , those concerned in the captures are influenced by the same motive . 
He had been formerly an officer in the Dey 's troops , and , it was said , had rendered the Dey 's - father some important service in an insurrection , and was therefore highly respected ; though at that time he had no publick employment . 
My master had a wife , the daughter of a principal officer in the Dey 's court , and , to my surprise , had only one . 
Embraced and protected by the rich and powerful , I have now a house in the city , a country residence on the Saffran , two beautiful wives , a train of domestics ; and a respectable place in the Dey 's customs desrays the expense . 
The next year , Du Quesne cast anchor before Algiers with a larger fleet ; and , for forty eight hours , made such deadly discharges with his cannon , and showered so many bombs over this devoted city , that the Dey sued for peace . 
The French admiral with that generosity , which is peculiar to his nation , insisted , as an indispensable preliminary , that all the christian slaves should be sent on board his squadron , with Mezemorto the Dey 's admiral , as a hostage for the performance of this preliminary article . 
The Dey assembled his divan , or council of great officers , and communicated the French demands . 
Mezemorto immediately collected the sailors , who had manned the ramparts , and with whom he was a favourite ; and , accusing the Dey of cowardice , he so inflamed them that , being joined by the soldiers , they murdered the Dey , and elected Mezemorto in his stead . 
The narrow politics of Europe seek an individual not a common good ; for no sooner had France humbled the Algerines than England thought it more for her interest to enter into a treaty with the new Dey , and , by way of douceur , sent to Algiers a ship load of naval and military stores , to help them to rebuild their navy and strengthen their fortresses ; while France , jealous lest the affections of the monster Mezemorto , who barbarously murdered their fellow citizens , should be attached to their rival the English , immediately patched up a peace with the Algerines upon the most favourable terms to the latter ; and , to conclude the farce , sent them another ship load of similar materials of superious value to those , presented by the English . 
The interiour of the Dey 's palace , and the female apartment of every house are secluded even from the natives . 
At present , the Grand Seignior , fearful of losing the very shadow of authority , he has over them , contents himself with receiving a tribute almost nominal ; consisting chiefly of a present , towards defraying the expenses of the annual canopy , which is sent to adorn the prophet 's tomb at Medina : while , on the other hand , the Algerines , dreading the Grand Seignior 's interference in their popular commotions , allow the sublime Porte to confirm the election of their Dey , and to badge his name , by affixing and terminating it with those of the principal officers of the Turkish government . 
Hence the present Dey , whose real name is Hassan , is styled Vizier , which is also the appellation of the Grand Seignior 's first minister . 
As Bashaw , which terminates the Dey 's name , is the Turkish title of their viceroys and principal commanders , he makes war or peace , negotiates treaties , coins money , and performs every other act of absolute independence . 
Nor is the Dey less independent of his own subjects . 
If he inclines to interfere in the determination of a suit , upon his approach , the authority of the cadis cease , and is merged in that of the Dey . 
Some customs have been intimated , which restrain the Dey 's despotism . 
He will not condemn a priest to death ; and , although upon the decease of a subject , his landed property immediately escheats to the reigning Dey , yet he never seizes it , in the life of the possessor ; and , when a man is executed for the highest crime , the females of his family are treated with respect : nay , even in an insurrection of the soldiery , when they murdered their Dey , neither they nor his successour violated the female apartments of the slain . 
A mere love of novelty in the soldiery , the wish to share the largesses of a new sovereign , the policy of his courtiers , the ambition or popularity of his officers or children , have not unfrequently caused the dethroning of the Dey ; but the more systematic cause of his being so frequently dethroned shall be noticed in our next chapter . 
It is obviously the policy of the Dey , by frequently enfringing his treaties , to augment his finances , by new captures or fresh premiums for his friendship . 
A pacific Dey is sure not to reign long ; for , beside the disgust of the formidable body of sailors , who are emulous of employ , when the reigning Dey has once gone through the routine of seizing the vessels , receiving the presents , and concluding treaties with the usual foreign powers , he finds that the annual payments , secured by treaties , are insufficient for the maintenance of his necessary expenditures ; and is therefore constrained frequently to declare war as a principle of self preservation . 
I have been told , the present Dey condescended to explain these principles to an American agent in Algiers , and grounded his capturing the American shipping upon this necessity . 
I must , said the Dey , be at war with some nation , and yours must have its turn . 
When the Dey , from a pacific disposition or dread of foreign power , is at peace with the world , the disgusted sailor and avaricious soldier join to dethrone him ; having established it , as a maxim , that all treaties expire with the reigning Dey , and must be renewed with his successour . 
The Dey 's Forces . 
Thereare but few vessels actually belonging to the Dey 's navy . 
Three thousand soot are stationed in the fortifications , and marshalled as the Dey 's guards . 
Indeed , the expense of an efficacious armament would defray the price of the Dey 's friendship for years ; and the powers of Europe submit to his insults and injuries from a principle of economy . 
The Dey , who had , upon the first approach of the enemy , removed the aged , the females and his richest effects , coolly inquired of the officer how much the levelling his city to ashes would cost . 
The officer , thinking to encrease the Dey 's admiration of the power of the Grand Monarque , answered , two millions of livres . 
Tell your commander , said the Dey , if he will send me half the money I will burn the city to ashes myself . 
The usual punishments , he inflicts , are fines , beating on the soles of the feet , dismemberment of the right hand ; and , it is said , he has a power of taking life ; but , in such case , an appeal lies to the Dey . 
If complaint is made to him of the military , the priests or officers of the court , navy , or customs , or against persons attached to the families of the consuls , envoys , or other representatives of foreign powers , upon suggestion , the cause is immediately reported to the Dey , who hears the same in person , or deputes some officer of rank to determine it , either from the civil , military , or religious orders , as the nature of the cause may require . 
The Jews transact almost all the Dey 's private business , besides that of the negotiations of merchants . 
Nay , if an envoy from a foreign power comes to treat with the Dey , he may have the parade of a public audience ; but , if he wishes to accomplish his embassy , he must employ a Jew : and , it is said , the Dey himself shares with the Jew the very sums paid him for his influence with this politic despot . 
The Jews are also the spies of the Dey , upon his subjects at home , and the channels of intelligence from foreign powers . 
They are therefore allowed to assemble in their synagogues ; and have frequently an influence at the court of the Dey , with his great officers , and even before the civil judge , not to be accounted for from the morality of their conduct . 
Popular prejudice is generally against them ; and the Dey often avails himself of it by heavy amercements for his protection . 
This horrid tale , which should have been despised for its absurdity and inhumanity , the Dey affected to credit . 
Two houses were demolished , and several Jews assassinated before the arrival of the Dey 's guards , who quickly dispersed this outrageous rabble . 
The Dey , who desired nothing less than the destruction of so useful a people , was soon appeased by a large present , and declared them innocent : and , such is the power of despotic governments , that the Jews were soon received into general favour ; and the very men , who , the day before , proceeded to destroy the whole race , now saw , with tame inaction , several of their fellows executed for the attempt . 
To him I applied with great earnestness ; but all the information he would give was , that it was by the Dey 's order I was confined ; and that he , with the physicians and my friend the Mollah , were using all their influence to obtain my release . 
I could readily assure the Dey 's officers , that I had not conversed with my miserable countrymen ; but , while I spake , the idea of embracing a fellow citizen , a brother christian , perhaps some one , who came from the same state , or had been in the same town , or seen my dear parents , passed in rapid succession , and I was determined , betide what would , to seek them the first opportunity . 
He smiled at my surprise , shook me by the hand , and told me that he was a Jew ; assuring me , that he was with his brethren under the protection of the Dey . 
He told me , in much confidence , that soon after I was taken , a Jew and two Algerines made a tour of the United States , and sent home an accurate account of the American commerce ; and that the Dey was so impressed with the idea of our wealth , that he would never permit the American slaves to be ransomed under a large premium , which must be accompanied with the usual presents , as a purchase of peace , and an annual tribute . 
I accordingly addressed a letter to William Carmichael , Esq ; charge des affairs from the United States , at the court of Madrid , representing my deplorable circumstances , and the miserable estate of my fellow prisoners ; praying the interference of our government , stating the probable mode of access to the Dey , and enclosing a letter to my parents . 
I have sometimes heard this gentleman censured for failing to accomplish the object of his mission , but very unjustly ; as I well remember that I , who was much interested in his success , never blamed him at the time ; and , I know , the ransom , he offered the Dey , was ridiculed in the common coffee houses , as extremely pitiful . 
When this unsuccessful attempt failed , the prisoners were treated with greater severity ; doubtless with a design to affright the Americans into terms , more advantageous to the Dey . 
Here I received the agreeable intelligence , that the United States were about commencing a treaty with the Dey of Algiers , by the agency of Joseph Donaldson , jun. . 
