`` Your entrance was very natural , and quite pardonable , sir , '' said Lord Dunmore , with an expression of mingled hauteur and condescension ; and then extending his hand ceremoniously towards the young man , he added , `` Lady Dunmore , permit me to present to you , and my daughters , Mr. St. John , lieutenant of my guards . '' 
Lady Dunmore was about to speak , and from the amiable smile upon her countenance , to refer , doubtless , to the pleasant reception she had met with , and Mr. St. John 's part therein , when his Excellency forestalled such colloquy by recalling attention to Blossom . 
As he looked at the child there was as little evidence of courtesy or amiability as in his address to Mr. St. John , and he said , almost rudely -- `` Is this young person hurt , sir ? 
Mr. St. John 's brow clouded more and more ; for under the circumstances of the case , the tone of Lord Dunmore was as much an insult to himself as to the child ; and the young man did not seem to have been habituated to insult . 
Mr. St. John , whose brow had assumed a darker and darker cloud , as he stood listening to this conversation , would have hastened to her , but he was forestalled by one of the young ladies , who rose quickly , and in a moment was at the child 's side . 
Mr. St. John had apparently been in an ill-humor all day ; moreover , he seemed to be accustomed , himself , to courtesy at the very least , and the utter want of ceremony on the part of his lordship , added to the unfeeling insults directed toward his young protegeé , produced in Mr. St. John 's countenance an expression of impetuous anger and no little disdain . 
`` Perhaps your lordship is mistaken in the individual who is this child 's father , '' he now said , with cold courtesy . 
replied his Excellency , surveying the young man with a look which seemed to ask if he had the presumption to address him in that tone . 
Mr. St. John 's brow darkened more and more . 
`` At least this girl does not resemble a very dangerous rebel , '' he said , with an imperceptible shade of sarcasm in his voice , which made the Governor 's cheek flush with rage . 
`` Mr. St. John ! '' 
he said . 
`` I read no lecture to your lordship , '' replied the young man , with a haughty look , and without lowering his eyes ; `` my meaning simply is , that whatever may be the character of this child 's father -- his dangerous character -- your lordship ca n't possibly be afraid of the child herself . '' 
For a moment his Excellency 's countenance resembled a thunder-cloud from which a flash of lightning was about to dart . 
The vein in his forehead turned black , and his frame trembled with anger . 
But his prudence suddenly came to control him ; he seemed to feel the bad policy of a quarrel with Mr. St. John ; and passing from rage to hauteur , he endeavored to speak in a tone of insulted dignity . 
`` I am not in the habit of entering into debates with young men , sir , '' he said , `` and I must beg that this discussion may here end . 
I am sorry to say , Mr. St. John , that I find you , like other gentlemen of this colony , inclined to oppose my opinions and wishes , as well as strangely neglectful of that ceremony and respect which are due to myself , as a peer of the realm and the representative of his majesty ! 
replied Mr. St. John , flushing with anger and disdain at the tone of the Governor . 
Before Mr. St. John could speak , another voice was heard -- it was Blossom 's . 
The arms of Mr. St. John received her , and thus standing , with pale face and fiery eyes bent on the Governor , his indignation and disdain were imperial . 
In fifteen minutes a handsome chariot , with four splendid bay horses , stood before the door , and Mr. St. John deposited the child in the vehicle . 
Her delicate form sunk into the luxurious velvet seat as into a bed of down , and Mr. St. John took his place by her side . 
He then gave an order to the negro driver , and the chariot proceeded slowly out of the town in a westerly direction . 
It was Mr. St. John 's honest opinion of his Excellency Lord Dunmore . 
The anger and disdain of Mr. St. John slowly disappeared , and he seemed to enjoy the freshness and innocence of his little companion . 
Blossom had indeed told her companion that the cottage was called `` Roseland , '' and the name was perfectly appropriate . 
He had just returned to the cottage , hoping to find his companion , from whom he had been separated in the crowd , and not finding her was about to go back to the town , he declared , and find her or perish in the attempt . 
That was happily unnecessary , St. John said , with a smile ; and so , with mutual good will , the young man and the children parted . 
St. John returned in his chariot to Williamsburg . 
From every window along the main thoroughfare lights blazed in honor of his Excellency and his family . 
Dismissing his chariot , Mr. St. John went and gazed for some moments at the brilliant front of the palace . 
`` The silly masquerade may go on its way without my assistance , '' he muttered , coldly . 
let the rest pay him their respects -- I wo n't , and there 's an end on ` t. '' With these words Mr. St. John retraced his steps to the Raleigh Tavern , and sitting down , demanded a bottle of wine and some biscuits . 
Having finished his repast , he went out , passed down Gloucester street , and entered a house , whose second floor he occupied . 
Throwing himself upon a lounge , he tossed his hat and sword on the floor , and looked through the window . 
`` I 'm the only one who do n't illuminate , '' he said . 
And leaning back , he closed his eyes -- meditated , and from meditation glided into sleep . 
Henry St. Johnwas the only son of Colonel John St. John , of `` Flower of Hundreds , '' in the county of Prince George . 
This John was himself the only son of Henry St. John , Esquire , called `` King Harry , '' who having run through a fine estate in Hertfordshire , England , came to Virginia about the time of Bacon 's rebellion , in which he took part against the government , but , by good luck , escaped with the payment of a heavy fine . 
`` Not sleeping , Harry , my boy ? '' 
`` Very well -- but I do n't regret my absence , '' said Mr. St. John ; `` the fact is , Tom , I 'm tired of his lordship , and think I 'll resign my commission . 
Do proceed , Harry , my boy , and narrate from the beginning , with all the orations , like that tiresome old Thucydides . '' 
Mr. St. John was silent for a moment , and then said : `` I do n't care if I do , Tom . 
`` Well , you must know that there formerly resided in a country called Virginia a young man called Harry St. John . 
`` As to the luck , there 's the question , '' continued Mr. St. John , `` for nature had put a nail in the young man 's shoe -- restlessness . 
`` Well , '' proceeded Mr. St. John , `` this young fellow struggled with his passion for two or three years , but at the end of that time his predilection got the better of him . 
`` You 'll see before I end , if I am wrong in my characterization , Tom , '' continued Mr. St. John . 
Here commenced the connection of Mr. St. John with his Excellency . 
Introduced to him as one of the large landed proprietors of the colony , his Excellency treated him with much politeness , and finally requested private interviews . 
Would Mr. St. John accept the commission of lieutenant , commanding , for the present , this nucleus ? 
His friend nodded . 
`` The aforesaid Mr. St. John was then twenty-three or so , and had greater thirst for adventure than ever . 
Would he accept ? 
He leaves his estate , comes to the capital , establishes himself therein as becomes a soldier , and gloriously parades on horseback , in fine uniform , at the head of his troops . 
He enters into military affairs with ardor and enthusiasmhe trains his men in quick evolutions , in bush fighting , in rapid discharge of pistols , and in approved cut and thrust with the saber . 
He sees that their arms are as brilliant as silver ; their uniform and entire equipments perfect . 
He calls on his Excellency every day to inquire for news from the frontier , and receiving comforting answers , goes away twirling his mustaches , his sword clanking against his boots , his head full of martial glory , and conscious of the admiration of every urchin who beholds him . '' 
His lordship is a king , the young lieutenant a satrap of the provinces , and , contrary to the habit of Virginians , he has become an upper servant . 
Can you wonder that the result is distaste upon his part ; that he begins to think his Excellency insincere ? 
He finally concludes that he is tricked , and it is just at this moment that he receives orders to marshal `` My Guards , '' and go and receive the royal family on their entrance , which event occurred this morning . 
Well , he obeyed . 
They were ladies , and he was far from objecting to take part in the pageantry . 
But he found in this cortége other characters -- lords , honorables , captains , drivers , footmen , outriders -- it was his place to escort them all . 
He did do it . 
He mounted guard at the palace gate even , to keep the ill-bred Virginians at their proper distance . 
He succeeded . 
The young soldier rode a spirited horse ; the music of a band annoyed him , the animal became restive , and the result was the overthrow of a child , who rolled beneath his feet , and , when the young man raised her , fainted away . 
and Mr. Lieutenant St. John was requested to retire and make way for his betters ! 
cried St. John , flushing , and thus breaking forth with long-gathering indignation . 
At last he said : `` Throw it back , Harry ! 
Come , Harry , my boy , come with me . '' 
And Mr. St. John scowled in imagination at Lord Dunmore , with a sincerity that was very striking . 
May I make a second suggestion , however , Harry ? 
Mr. St. John turned his head quickly , and looked at his friend . 
As he encountered Mr. Alston 's eyes and smile , something almost like a blush diffused itself over his cheek . 
Mr. St. John blushed unmistakably this time , and then burst out laughing . 
`` Well if I did , Tom , '' he said , `` what 's the odds ? 
Mr. St. John sighed . 
`` I 'm afraid it 's no use , '' he said ; `` she loves me , but unfortunately she 's not in love with me . '' 
Mr. St. John pondered , and from the varying color of his tell-tale cheek , it was plain what he was thinking of . 
`` Well , '' he said at last , `` I 'll do so , Tom . 
`` Willingly , '' Mr. St. John replied , `` and my first stake shall be these tawdry epaulets of gold thread against sixpence -- the value I attach to them ! '' 
Earlyon the morning after their colloquy , Mr. St. John and his friend , Tom Alston , had left Williamsburg far in the distance , crossed the river , and were pursuing their way gayly through the spring forest , in the direction of Vanely . 
Mr. St. John had thrown aside his uniform , and wore a simple but elegant cavalier 's suit -- a coat of drab silk , pliable knee breeches of dressed buckskin , and fair-topped boots , fitting closely to the leg and ankle . 
He rode his fine sorrel `` Tallyho , '' and the animal champed the bit , and tossed his handsome head , with evident satisfaction at the breath of his native air . 
The simple landscape seems entertainment enough for Mr. St. John . 
He looks with joyous eyes upon the smooth road winding along beneath the budding foliage of the forest , and his impulsive nature fills with delight as he inhales the fresh air laden with the perfume of leaves and flowers . 
He is no longer lieutenant of his Excellency 's Body Guards -- only Henry St. John . 
The young men passed rapidly through the green forest , and at last , as they mounted a slope , Mr. St. John extended his hand and cried , `` There 's Vanely ! 
cried the young man , rising in his saddle , `` and welcome Vanely ! 
And putting spur to his horse , Mr. Harry St. John set forward at full gallop again . 
Every thing was bright with the youthful joy of spring , and as Mr. St. John and his friend dismounted before the old mansion , the very walls upon which the waving shadows of a thousand leaves were thrown seemed smiling , and prepared to greet them ; the open portal held imaginary arms of welcome to them . 
Mr. St. John patted their coats familiarly , and called them by name , and looking up to the old house said , smiling , `` Welcome , Vanely ! 
`` Stay here till I return , Tom , '' said St. John ; `` I 'm going to salute my respected aunt , and will announce our arrival to anybody else I see . '' 
The consequence was a collision with a lovely girl who had been combing her hair , apparently , before the mirror , as the profuse brown curls were hanging down on her bare white shoulders and silken dress , -- presenting to the eyes of Mr. Harry St. John a mass of shadowy , waving gold , which charmed him . 
St. John burst into a fit of laughter and cried , gayly , `` Let me in , Bonny ! '' 
cried St. John , with well affected surprise . 
she said , giving him her hand . 
`` It was by accident , '' said St. John , laughing , `` and I will make you as many apologies as you wish , to say nothing of as many compliments . '' 
St. John tried to make a jesting reply , but failed . 
St. John at last , when he ha recovered from his trance of admiration , replies that he likes her more than he can tell . 
`` Your arms are especially beautiful , Bonny , '' he says . 
`` Yes , '' replies St. John , looking with honest fondness straight into the girl 's eyes , `` I thought of you often . 
added St. John , returning to his light tone of jest . 
He took her hand , and Bonnybel , who had rapidly glanced at his face , yielded it without a word . 
In a moment Mr. St. John found himself affectionately embraced by a pair of thin arms , and received a kiss . 
`` You mean Bonny , I suppose , Harry , '' says Aunt Mabel , knitting busily . 
`` Let me assist you , '' said St. John , raising a mass of curls and smiling . 
`` Then I 'll go see Aunt Seraphina and Cousin Helen , '' said St. John , and with these words he descended to the sitting-room . 
An old sideboard , with some silver plate on it , a little table , covered with china figures and grotesque vessels of that hideous description fashionable at the period , and , between the windows looking on the lawn , an old harpsichord , tall , stately , and antique -- completed the accessories of the apartment in which Mr. St. John now found himself . 
Miss Seraphina , sister of Colonel Vane , and a lady of uncertain age , was working at the embroidery frame with sentimental smiles , as Mr. Tom Alston exchanged compliments ; and Mr. St. John had scarcely gotten through his greetings when Miss Helen Vane made her appearance , her waist encircled by the arm of Miss Bonnybel , a pretty picture which young ladies have affected in all ages . 
When Mr. St. John essays to `` salute '' Miss Helen , she draws back , turning away her head , and the young man is obliged to content himself with a salute bestowed upon the ribband of her head dress . 
The young men rise , and at the same moment old Colonel Vane appears at the door , and cries in a cheery voice , `` Good morrow , Tom , and welcome , Captain Harry ! 
`` Tom came with me from town , uncle , '' says Mr. St. John , shaking the fat hand , `` how is your health ? '' 
I think the devil 's in this foot , Harry ! 
We need scarcely say that she rose from the waves in the arms of Mr. St. John , who gallantly rescued her . 
`` Very gracefully , '' replied St. John . 
It was brought as she spoke , by a negro who had fished it out ; and Mr. St. John most gallantly replaced it upon the foot . 
It was doubtless owing to the moist state of the stocking that he consumed about twice as much time as was necessary . 
St. John turns quickly and sees the vivacious Miss Bonnybel , decked out for the evening , at his side . 
he replies ; `` it reminds me of old times . '' 
St. John sighed , and then laughed ; but he said nothing , and offering his arm , led the girl into the sitting-room . 
St. John leans on the carved back of Bonnybel 's chair , and makes himself generally agreeable . 
says Mr. St. John , laughing ; `` but , really now , just see . 
`` I know what I read , '' says St. John , taking up , with a smile , the `` Virginia Gazette ; '' `` see here the notice that Master Matthew Pate has for sale , ` Stays , twin and single ; jumps , half-bow stays , stays made to buckle before , pin or button , ' no doubt with diamond studs , like yours , madam ! '' 
It is next Bonnybel 's turn , and with a queenly air she says to Mr. St. John , who has engaged her hand , `` You 'll please ask me to dance formally , sir ? '' 
St. John smiles , deposits his cocked-hat on his heart , and bowing to the ground , requests the pleasure of a minuet . 
As this prettily clad little beauty bowed before him , Mr. St. John thought he had never seen a fairer sight , more dancing eyes , any thing at the same time half so feminine and mischievous . 
St. John and Bonnybel stood on the portico and watched them till they disappeared . 
She must have understood the long ardent look which he fixed upon her face , as she stood thus , bathed in the silver moonlight ; but Miss Bonnybel was sleepy and intent on bed . 
St. John remained alone , musing by moonlight for an hour , and then also retired to his chamber and his bed . 
Onthe morning following the scenes just narrated , St. John leaped out of bed at sunrise , and leaving Tom Alston still asleep , dressed quickly , and went down stairs ; thence he issued forth upon the lawn , and bent his steps toward the `` quarters . '' 
St. John hastens on , smiling , and his shadow falling before her , makes Mammy Liza lift her old face . 
For half an hour they thus sit side by side , and then Mr. St. John rises with the bright smile which makes his countenance at times singularly attractive . 
He has renewed with the old woman all those recollections of his youth and childhood , rapidly disappearing amid the dust of the arena , and the kind old voice has sounded to him like the softest music , the very echo of happiness . 
As he looks forth thus into the fields , he thinks he sees Bonnybel approaching , and soon this is confirmed . 
St. John , behind the door , laughs silently . 
Your great General Harry 's come back ! 
and now I suppose you think I 'm going to praise him ! 
He is terribly ugly ! 
just think of his lying in bed , with poor little me out here ! 
You want me to praise that stiff , awkward , lazy , odious , good-for-nothing Harry of yours , but I wo n't ! 
Do you believe that he had the audacity to kiss me ! 
he thinks I 'm a child still , does he ? 
I 'll make him know that I 'm a young lady ! 
says St. John , coming from his hiding place , with a laugh . 
`` I did , '' said St. John . 
Mr. Harry St. John is falling in love as rapidly as it is possible to go through that ceremony . 
St. John mixed a julep with the skill and rapidity of an old practitioner , and the ladies , having each taken a sip , the parties were soon seated around the board , Miss Bonnybel behind the urn . 
asked the young lady , innocently , of St. John , glancing , as she spoke , demurely at the stately Helen ; `` he takes as long to dress as a girl , and Bel Tracy said , the other day , that he was no better than one , with his curls and perfumes ! '' 
`` ' T was Miss Tracy 's epigram about you that was repeated , '' says St. John . 
replies his friend . 
says St. John ; `` pray why ? '' 
`` And I will ride out with you if you wish , '' says St. John to Bonnybel . 
St. John had that passion for fine horses characteristic of the soil , and with a corn-cob pipe between his lips , in the midst of a crowd of stable-boys , who respectfully greeted him as an old friend and favorite , discoursed at great length to Tom Alston on the points of the animals , as they were led out , and stepped proudly onward , in the sunshine . 
In the case of Harry St. John this proved true . 
After that ride , he felt with a sort of fearful happiness , a rueful delight , that his fate was sealed . 
As they galloped on , his eyes were unconsciously riveted on the mischievous little beauty , who , with rosy cheeks and rippling curls , and slender figure , undulating in the close-fitting riding-habit , resembled rather a wild nymph of the woods than a mortal maiden . 
Every word she uttered was a jest or an exclamation ; she performed a thousand anties on her steed ; the very spirit of the laughing audacious spring seemed to flush her blood . 
In helping the young lady to the ground , St. John did even more than his duty . 
He quietly took her in his arms and lifted her from the saddle , receiving a box on the cheek for his pains , given and received with laughter . 
`` But ' t is not in the last ` Gazette , ' '' says Mr. St. John . 
`` I think ' t is a despotic and base exercise of power '' says St. John , `` and I 'd resist at all hazards . '' 
`` And I agree with you , Harry , '' says Mr. Alston , `` to the letter . '' 
During the course of this explosive address , which was terminated by a sudden attack upon the colonel 's foot by his old enemy , Mr. St. John leaned back in his seat , and , with folded arms , revolved , in the depth of his mind , the significance of this new blow at the colonies . 
St. John stopped , red , angry and disdainful , thinking of the scene at the palace . 
`` Well , well , '' said the colonel , relieved by his explosion , `` let us not speak evil of dignitaries , Harry . 
St. John made a motion of his head , indicating his willingness to dismiss so distasteful a subject . 
`` All I have to say , sir , '' he added , `` is that things in Virginia seem to be progressing , and we 'll probably have an act of Parliament for our own special behoof ere long . '' 
`` Perhaps we will not find in his lordship a tool of the ministry , Harry , '' he said , `` and my old blood flushes up too hotly . 
`` Yes , sir , '' said St. John , `` and I predict that you 'll see a card up his sleeve . '' 
`` Well , well , Harry , '' he said , `` we wo n't charge him with cheating till we see it ; and then it will be time enough to outlaw him . 
But let us wait , Harry , and not try his Excellency before he is caught with the bloody hand -- an unfortunate illustration I have fallen on , but -- '' `` It 's apt , sir . '' 
`` No , no , Harry , '' he said , `` let us be just to all men ; let us not forget that moderation is the most fatal enemy of despotism , until it throws off its disguise . 
But the old hound growls the loudest , you know , because he 's got no teeth , and thinks every shadow reason for alarm . 
There , there , Harry , let us leave all this to the future , and to that Almighty Power in whose hand are the balances of fate -- the issue of peace and war ! '' 
St. John bowed his head , and was silent . 
After breakfast , Mr. St. John and the colonel went to witness some operations upon the lands , and Mr. Alston , as usual , betook himself to the sitting-room . 
Let us still forbear to intrude upon this gentleman 's private interviews with his friend ; let us respectfully retreat when he closes , on this eventful morning , the sitting-room door upon himself and that friend ; let us go and return with Mr. St. John and Colonel Vane , who get back in their light carriage after an hour or two . 
To the colonel 's question , whether Mr. Alston intends to depart , his friend , Mr. St. John , replies that he has not been advised of such intention ; and learning soon that his friend has gone up stairs , he follows him , and finds him there . 
St. John says , `` surely you 're not going away : seeing your sulky -- '' `` Yes , I think I 'll go , Harry , my boy , '' says Mr. Alston , leaning back easily . 
`` Do you think you 'll be able , Harry , my boy ? '' 
says St. John . 
`` I prefer mentioning them in succession , Harry , '' says Mr. Alston , `` if it 's all the same . '' 
`` Unfortunately your garments do not fit me , Harry , '' he replies , `` and nothing but regard for your feelings has prevented me from revealing the misery I 've experienced from the frill I borrowed of you yesterday . '' 
St. John laughs . 
`` Hang it , Tom , '' says St. John , laughing , `` you 're really the most perfect maccaroni I have ever seen . 
`` I will ask you a question first , my dear Harry , '' he says . 
`` You do n't mean to say -- '' cries St. John , with an outburst . 
St. John stands , for a moment , looking at his friend in silence ; his friend returns the look with pleasing smiles . 
`` Well , Tom , '' says St. John , `` I willsay that you are the most philosophical discarded lover I have ever seen . '' 
`` Why , Harry , my boy , you do n't think that propriety requires me to strew ashes on my head , do you ? 
cries his friend in admiration . 
St. John received this declaration with a burst of laughter . 
he says . 
Having delivered himself of these remarks , Mr. Alston rises and adds , `` I waited to see you , Harry , before going , and I hope you 'll come to Moorefield soon . 
And after the young men had exchanged some more conversation -- serene on Mr. Alston 's part , and full of pent-up laughter on St. John 's -- they descended to the hall . 
Bonnybel and St. John are talking together in the sitting-room -- a habit into which they have of late quietly and tacitly fallen . 
No word is uttered -- the volume lies on her lap -- St. John holds her unconscious hand , and the beautiful face , with its large eyes full of tender pity , droops slowly and unconsciously as it were , toward the picture of the woman weeping in her husband 's arms . 
Mr. Lindon , she believes , is acquainted with her cousin , Mr. St. John . 
The young lady pouted , but finding it would be discourteous to refuse , consented , hoping to induce Mr. St. John and Helen to accompany them . 
I shall be very happy to have your cousin , Mr. St. John , as my first groomsman , though he does not seem well affected toward the government , and may cause me some trouble with his Excellency . 
Her cheeks burnt with indignant fire , and her little foot almost ground itself into the carpet with anger as she murmured , `` He shall not think I 'm afraid to meet him ! '' 
Simple John Randolphis too short -- do n't you think so ? 
Please do n't stop loving your fond AlthoughMiss Bonnybel carefully forgot to state the fact , St. John had accompanied them on the visit to Jordan 's and Cawson 's , riding by the old chariot on his fine `` Tallyho , '' and adding very much to the zest of the journey by his wit and humor . 
St. John , when he came again to the familiar old mansion , saw , in place of a romping child , a beautiful young lady . 
He had left Bonnybel a girl , and found her , all at once , a woman . 
The personages of our history demand attention -- the scenes which attended Mr. Harry St. John 's visit to Vanely . 
It is a balmy morning , and unloosing a sail-boat from the Vanely wharf , St. John assists the girl to her seat , and spreads the white sail , which the wind fills immediately . 
St. John thinks that he never saw her look more lovely , and , in truth , the picture is attractive . 
Bonnybel leans lower over the boat 's side , and plays with her fingers in the water , and , with a smile , flirts some drops toward St. John . 
They came at last opposite the old island of Jamestown , and in obedience to the young lady 's wish , St. John ran the boat ashore , and they landed . 
Here lived and thought , and fought , and suffered , and triumphed , one of the noblest and truest gentlemen that ever walked the world -- Captain John Smith . 
The tide was favorable , as it was coming in , and taking in the sail , St. John plied his paddle , and slowly returned to the Vanely wharf . 
The affluent glory of the morning deepened , a languid pleasure seemed to brood over the landscape ; as St. John walked by Bonnybel 's side , he felt as if he were making a journey through fairy land . 
St. John left her side , and the young lady was strolling along the little stream , when her attention was attracted by a singularly brilliant object , apparently lying in the grass . 
She was aroused by the contact of cold water on her brow and hands , and opening her eyes , found herself lying in the arms of Mr. St. John . 
St. John had seen her attitude of horror , had heard the deadly rattle , and arrived just in time to strike the snake with a pliant stick , and prevent the girl from falling . 
She now lay on his bosom , panting and trembling , and hiding her face . 
She attempted to draw back , and half rose to her feet , but her eyes falling on the reptile , her strength was again paralyzed , and the second time she fainted in Mr. St. John 's arms . 
Mr. St. John was the hero of the hour for performing his duty . 
Bonnybel did not recover from her horror for a week , but at the end of that time her gaiety returned , and as she was going to retire one night , she told St. John , with an audacious look , that if he had asked her on the day of the accident , she would certainly have kissed him . 
St. John follows her example and dreams of her . 
And now mark my prediction , Kate -- sister Helen will end by marrying him ! 
It is such as we have described , on the morning of Mr. Lindon 's visit , when St. John and herself were reading from the book of ballads . 
As she reclines thus in the rich light of the balmy evening , which pours a flood of joyous splendor on her face , her hair , her dress , down to the rich rosettes , in bold relief against the slender little feet , Miss Bonnybel presents a picture of the most coquettish beauty ; at least this is the opinion of her lover , Mr. Harry St. John . 
He has been relating for her entertainment the legend of the trysting tree ; how a lovely little ancestress of the Vanely family met a youth here , who had lost his heart with her ; how the maiden played with him and amused herself , and gave him her brightest and most encouraging smiles , and ended by haughtily discarding him in the flattest and most surprisedway , when he said how madly he loved her . 
He had left her without a word , with only a profound , cold inclination of his head , and for a time the little beauty had not been able to realize the fact that his pride had been outraged . 
She expected him to return , but he did not come . 
She met him at public places , and beamed on him with her most coquettish sunshine ; he bowed and passed her without speaking . 
She came to love him with a love greater even than his own former sentiment for her ; he did not come . 
She wrote him a laughing , jesting note , inviting him to Vanely ; he excused himself . 
This was the legend of the trysting tree , related by St. John for his companion 's amusement . 
`` I think he was right , '' said St. John , `` because no man should suffer his self respect to be invaded even by the woman he loves . 
St. John quietly waited for her mood to change . 
He did not mistake in his calculation . 
Bonnybel played petulantly for some moments longer with the tassels , then stole a wary glance at her lover , writhed the small slippers around each other , and finally meeting Mr. St. John 's smiling eye , colored slightly , and burst out laughing . 
said St. John , bestowing upon the young lady a look so tender that she turned crimson , `` I should refuse it thus then ! '' 
And imprisoning not only one , but both of the soft hands in his own , the impulsive lover drew Bonnybel toward him , and seemed about to press his lips to her own . 
Then , after all , Mr. Harry St. John was her cousin and playmate , and in Virginia , ceremony of every sort falls to the ground before the magical spell of `` cousin . '' 
So Mr. Harry St. John applied himself assiduously , but not rapidly , to his task . 
Let not the cynical reader laugh when we relate that his pulse galloped fast as he took in his hands the bright , perfumed curls , and touched the rosy cheek by purest accident . 
St. John sighed . 
he whispered , taking her hand and gazing into her eyes , with a long , fixed look . 
With the beautiful head sorrowfully drooping over the right shoulder , and her large , sad eyes , fixed on his own , the young girl , not withdrawing her hand , murmured in a low voice , `` Yes . '' 
St. John held in his own the unresisting hand of the young lady , and those words which determine often the fate of a whole life , were on his lips . 
As he gazed upon the exquisite countenance ; upon the large eyes swimming in pensive sadness ; upon the graceful head , with its clustering curls drooping toward the shoulder ; upon the pouting lips , half parted , as in some dreamy reverie , his glance grew more fixed and tender , his cheek flushed impetuously , and he drew the hand he held toward him . 
Poor St. John ! 
Suddenly a voice greets him -- a voice from behind -- and Miss Seraphina , in capacious sunbonnet , and holding a bunch of May flowers , is added to the party . 
St. John utters an inaudible sigh , and as Bonnybel says that it is time for her to go in , accompanies the ladies to the house . 
The young man and Miss Bonnybel seemed both preoccupied throughout the early part of the evening , but toward bed-time the young lady 's gayety seemed to return , and she bade farewell to Mr. St. John , who was going with the Vanely race-horses to Richmond , at an ealy hour , with her former air of mischief and coquettish satire . 
And giving him her hand , with an audacious glance from her dangerous eyes , the young lady dashed up the broad stair-case , candle in hand , and disappeared . 
Mr. St. John was `` finished , '' but his smile seemed to indicate that he felt any thing but pain . 
The cavalcade traveled slowly in order that the horses might be in the best possible condition , and as the races did not take place till the next day , St. John stopped and spent the night at Cawson 's , the residence of his friend , Colonel Theodoric Bland . 
On the opposite hill , to the east , the old church of St. John peeped from the forest , and was gilded by the brilliant sunlight . 
Mr. St. John pushed his way onward , through men , and women , and children , and goats , and reached the door of the tavern , a long building overflowing with revelers . 
He had his animals baited , and then applied himself vigorously to the substantial viands set respectfully before him by mine host of the `` Rising Sun . '' 
Having satisfied his material wants , he issued forth and looked around him on the hubbub of the fair . 
Mr. St. John pushed his way through the crowd , exchanging greetings with a hundred acquaintances , and entered the grounds of the fair proper . 
A specimen brick , so to speak , had been brought from the edifices of dealers in all imaginable commodities , and Mr. St. John found himself assailed on a dozen sides , in as many moments , by the merchants . 
Would his honor like this fine saddle ? 
And no sooner had Mr. St. John declined the knee-breeches , than a country lass offered him a set of frilled shirts , which seemed to have been made with especial reference to the foam of the sea , so elaborate and immense were the ruffles . 
When this worthy saw Mr. St. John , he made him a profound bow , but immediately raised his head with dignity . 
`` Well , Mr. Lugg , '' said St. John , shaking hands in a friendly way , `` I have come to enter some horses . 
`` Pretty well filled , Mr. St. John , '' replied Mr. Lugg , saluting an humble passer by in a friendly and condescending way ; `` pretty full , sir , but we 're glad to have as many entries for the purse as possible . '' 
Mr. St. John smiled , and asked his companion to come and look at his horses , and see Mr. Gunn with him -- this latter gentleman being the manager of the races . 
Mr. Lugg obeyed with alacrity , and more than once returned a salute from a gentleman riding by -- holding Mr. St. John 's arm . 
Mr. Lugg , and his friend Gunn , expatiated at length upon the merits of the different horses , and bestowed discriminating praise upon Belsize and Serapis , who had already been entered by Mr. St. John 's servant . 
When Mr. St. John entered this apartment , his attention was attracted by a figure mounted on the great table , high above the immense roaring crowd , which figure shook in his hand a parchment , and , with violent gesticulations , demanded to be heard . 
At last Mr. St. John made out that the orator was offering the title deed of a lot in the town of Richmond , to any one who would treat the crowd , himself included , to a bowl of punch , of the best Scotch whiskey . 
Mr. St. John saw the gentleman in the tie-wig roll up the title-deed and retire , after speaking to the landlord ; and then the young man retired too , fatigued with his ride . 
Wehave said that nothing but the pencil of Hogarth could depict the humors of the streets of Richmond town , when Mr. St. John arrived . 
We add , that even this great humorist would have had his powers taxed to their utmost by the scenes on the race-course upon the following day . 
Mr. St. John , by express kindness of his friend , L. Lugg , Esquire , chief judge , was accommodated with a seat in the judges ' stand -- a little round tower , fronting the balcony , and looking down upon the concourse . 
If the reader would see that jolly period rise up from the mists of oblivion , renew its faded colors , and unroll its wide tapestry of fun and revelry ; if he would know how our ancestors amused themselves and carried on , he has only to consult the `` Virginia Gazette , '' and the advertisement of the frolic on St. Andrew 's day , at Captain John Bickerton 's old field in Hanover , to see the whole spectacle again . 
We shall not further dwell upon the races , or the fair , but simply say that , on the following morning , Mr. St. John ordered `` Tallyho , '' and turned his face toward Williamsburg . 
Having delivered this note to the negro , Mr. St. John got into the saddle , and pushed his way through the crowd , toward the hill upon which stood old St. John 's Church . 
Theroad which the young man pursued led around the hill in a sort of curving ascent , and passing by the church of St. John , debouched from the town in the direction of `` Bloody Run , '' where Bacon had defeated the Indian army a hundred years before . 
St. John found himself in an old edifice , almost dark , and at first he scarcely saw his way . 
At the same moment , a vivid flash of lightning lit up the building , and a step beneath him , in the door of the vestry-room , St. John discovered the figure of a man , clad in somber and severe black . 
St. John gazed for a moment at the pale face , and the nervous figure , which seemed like a collection of steel springs . 
He was trying to remember where he had met with the stranger before . 
That he had encountered him somewhere , he was perfectly well assured . 
The attempt to recall the time or place was vain ; he gave up the search . 
St. John 's look denoted that he had failed to understand . 
`` I have something to add , however , '' returned St. John , disdainfully , `` and it is this , sir : that I cordially despise his Excellency , and throw the commission I 've held in his face ! '' 
`` I know not what you mean by the word , '' returned St. John , coldly ; `` if , however , it signifies a man who regards the legislation of Parliament as odious and despotic ; who would war to the death against the tyrannical enactments let loose upon Virginia , like a brood of cormorants ; above all , who would gladly march at the head of a regiment to drive this man , Dunmore , from the capital of the province , and lash him like a hound from our borders -- if this is what you call being a patriot , sir , I 'm one to all lengths ! '' 
`` Perfectly , '' said St. John . 
said St. John , as coldly as before ; `` there you are mistaken , sir ! '' 
said St. John , carried away with rage ; `` if I 'm hanged for treatson it shall be for something ! 
`` You may , '' replied St. John , coldly ; `` I am not one to hide any thing . '' 
said St. John , mastered in spite of himself by the gloomy earnestness of the stranger ; `` is that your meaning , sir ? '' 
There was such profound and gloomy sadness in the tones of the deep voice , that St. John gazed at his companion with deep sympathy . 
he said . 
St. John was silent , and the stranger for some moments was silent too . 
He laid his hand upon St. John 's shoulder , and for some moments gazed at him with an expression at once so piercing and so sorrowful that the young man remembered it for years . 
St. John said , with great feeling , `` I have listened with respect , sir , and sympathy , and do not , I pray you , believe that your suffering finds an indifferent listener in myself . 
St. John mused with drooping head . 
This silence was unbroken by St. John , who , carried away p510-164 in spite of himself by the words to which he had listened , pondered the thoughts of his companion , and sent his mind , so to speak , through that future which had thus been unrolled before his eyes . 
He was aroused by the voice of the stranger , whose momentary excitement had yielded to his habitual expression of iron calmness . 
`` I see that the storm is over , '' he said , `` and now , sir , I must go on my way , for what purpose you know , for I have spoken without reserve . 
Having thus spoken in a tone of noble courtesy , the stranger bowed to St. John , and issuing forth , mounted his horse , which was tied near , and disappeared on the road to the northward . 
St. John , too , mounted , and overwhelmed with new thought , took his way toward Williamsburg , as the last mutterings of the storm died away in the distance . 
With head erect , lips smiling , and eyes full of light , Mr. St. John then went toward the front of the building , and here he was quickly accosted by a laughing and hearty voice , which uttered the words : `` Why morbleu!my dear fellow , you look like a conqueror . 
`` Good morrow , my dear captain , '' said St. John , shaking hands , `` how are Madame Waters and the little streamlets , and what brings you to Williamsburg ? '' 
cried the captain , curling his huge mustache ; `` the fact is , mon ami , your face seems made for smiling , you do it so well . '' 
`` Swear away then , '' said St. John , laughing , `` and draw on your assortment of French oaths . '' 
asked St. John , laughing ; `` I can understand then that you never utter a single ` morbleu . ' '' 
St. John 's eyes were directed down the street . 
`` The individual who 's as sharp as a razor , '' said St. John , laughing ; `` I hope he wo n't cut us . '' 
As the soldier uttered these words , Captain Foy , private secretary , confidential adviser , and general secret agent of his Excellency , Lord Dunmore , approached the spot where he stood with St. John . 
The secretary was richly clad , but wore no sword , not even a parade weapon , and as he approached , Mr. St. John felt as if a portion of Lord Dunmore himself were walking toward him . 
I am pleased to meet with you , and with you , Mr. St. John . '' 
I have the pleasure of informing you , my dear St. John , that Captain , or Secretary Foy , went through the ranks of the French at Minden like a flaming sword , and that he was publicly complimented by his commanding officer , on full parade , afterwards . '' 
`` You forget after Lissa , Captain Waters , '' he said , `` and for fear you will not mention it , I will inform Mr. St. John that youwere publicly thanked also , sir . '' 
`` A little duel , my dear friend , '' said the captain to St. John , by way of explanation ; `` a little bout between Foy and myself . 
Captain Ralph Waters looked after him for a moment in silence , and then moving his head up and down , said to St. John , `` My dear companion , there goes one of the most dangerous fellows under heaven ! 
`` Thanks for your warning , '' said St. John , laughing , `` but I 'm not afraid . '' 
St. Johnwas going along in a reverie , with his head hanging down , his hands idle at his side , his steps wandering and uncertain , as the steps of drunkards and lovers , those true brethren , are so apt to be , when suddenly he found himself arrested ; a gross material obstacle encountered him , his hat was thrust forcibly quite over his eyes , and he waked up , so to speak , from his dream . 
The first object which attracted his attention was a slight gentleman , clad in a suit of dark drab cloth , and carrying under his arm a bundle of papers , which gentleman , with a profusion of smiles and numerous deprecating waves of the hand , uttered a flood of apologies , accompanied by courteous bows . 
`` I beg you 'll not trouble yourself about such a trifle , Mr. Purdie , '' said St. John , shaking hands with the editor of the old `` Virginia Gazette , '' `` ' t was the most natural thing in the world . '' 
really now , excessively awkward , Mr. St. John ! '' 
And Mr. Purdie handed a letter to Mr. St. John . 
As his eyes fell upon the hand-writing , a slight color came to the young man 's cheek , and he smiled . 
These were the lines which caused Mr. St. John 's eyes to sparkle and his face to beam with smiles . 
`` I see not the least objection , my dear Mr. St. John -- pray keep them -- a friend eh ? '' 
The friends parted , and Mr. St. John hastened to his lodgings to make the copy he had promised . 
The communication was in these words : `` Mr. Secretary Foy presents his respects to Mr. St. John , and requests , on the part of his Excellency Lord Dunmore , that Mr. St. John will attend at the palace this afternoon , for conversation with his lordship on military affairs . '' 
Mr. St. John was ushered in with great form , and having attracted the Governor 's attention , made that dignitary a bow , which was perfectly courteous and stiff . 
His eye then made the circuit of the apartment -- dwelt on the members of the council , the secretary , the Governor in the center . 
`` Well , Mr. St. John , '' said Lord Dunmore , moving with dignity in his large throne-like chair , `` I see you received my message . '' 
Mr. St. John inclined , calmly . 
His Excellency did not seem pleased at the small effect produced upon his visitor by the solemnity and state of his reception . 
His brow clouded with its unpleasant frown , and his head rose more haughtily than ever . 
`` I wished to see you , sir , '' he said , almost rudely , `` to express my disapprobation of your lengthened absence from command of my guards . 
As the Governor spoke , the old flush of anger came to Mr. St. John 's face , and his head rose proudly erect as he listened to these words , even more insulting in tone than significance . 
The folly of any exhibition of ill temper seemed , however , to strike him at once , and he controlled himself in an instant . 
No , your Excellency , that is not my station in society , '' replied Mr. St. John , with calm politeness . 
Mr. St. John was motionless and silent for a moment , in presence of the man who was guilty of this immense exhibition of ill breeding . 
He surveyed Lord Dunmore with an expression of frigid surprise , which caused the vein in that gentleman 's forehead to distend itself hugely . 
And with the air of a nobleman who has been outraged , Mr. St. John made his lordship a low and exaggerated bow . 
His lordship was beaten with his own weapons , his rudeness failed , and his ill temper laughed at in the presence of his council , the most loyal of whom could not forbear smiling . 
His countenance colored with anger , and his eyes flashed . 
he said , `` you gentlemen of Virginia are extremely witty ! 
`` If your lordship will frame a distinct question , I will reply , '' said Mr. St. John . 
`` Mr. St. John ! '' 
The dark glance of the secretary and the slight movement of his pale lips , seemed to produce an instant effect upon Lord Dunmore , and he did not finish the sentence which doubtless would have ordered the arrest of Mr. St. John . 
Mr. St. John preserved the same attitude of coldness and disdain , and waited to be addressed . 
`` Young man , '' said his Excellency , with a bad affectation of dignified forbearance , `` you have in this conversation adopted a manner of speaking toward myself extremely irritating and wholly improper , coming from one of your age to myself . 
continued his Excellency , carried out of his assumed dignity , `` the sooner they become convinced of the fact , the better for them ! 
`` I desire to treat your Excellency with every particle of respect that is your due , '' replied Mr. St. John coldly . 
Mr. Lieutenant St. John -- '' `` Stop , sir ! 
interrupted the young man , rising to a loftier and colder attitude , `` I am no longer Lieutenant St. John -- I no longer hold a commission in the service of your Excellency , or the colony ; I resign that commission , and return it to your Excellency , and scorn it ! '' 
Mr. St. John 's sword -- a part of his full dress -- flashed p510-185 instantly from its scabbard , and he struck his hat down upon his brows furiously . 
he said ; `` I swore that I would first plunge this sword into your lordship 's breast ! 
As the weapon flashed before his eyes , and these furious words resounded through the room , Lord Dunmore trembled and drew back . 
With which words Mr. St. John left the room and the palace , unpursued and unmolested . 
Having thus relieved his feelings , St. John was about to fall into a reverie when his servant entered bearing the tall silver candlesticks . 
St. John took the letter , motioned the servant away , and glanced at the superscription . 
He had no sooner done so than his frowning brow cleared ; his compressed lips expanded with a smile . 
* But St. John did not look at the seal -- the direction was in a handwriting which he knew perfectly -- and carefully opening the letter , with a smile , and the murmured words , `` ` Neither rashly , nor fearfully ! ' 
he murmured ; `` so my friendship for that damsel has subjected us to the curious eyes , and the gossip of the tattling world ! 
And he reread the letter , thinking that her hand had lain upon the paper . 
Poor St. John ! 
Then carefully depositing the paper in the breast pocket of his doublet , he went and leaned from the open window , and surveyed the moonlit streets of the town , upon which the shades of night were descending . 
An irresistible desire took possession of him to wander out in the balmy night , and putting on his hat , he issued forth into the nearly deserted streets . 
Buried in thought , he went on , unconsciously , for some time . 
Suddenly he saw a grove of trees before him , and looking around , discovered that he had made his way , without knowing it , as far as the picturesque `` Indian Camp . '' 
St. John rose and leaned against the trunk of an oak , whose wide boughs cast an impenetrable shade , and thus elevated , as it were , above the scene , listened to the subdued and mysterious sounds of night . 
All at once to these stealthy noises was added another sound ; he thought at first that his fancy deceived him , but this impression soon disappeared . 
He heard cautious voices whispering . 
He bent forward , inclining his ear in the direction of the sound . 
He was not mistaken in his surmise . 
As he gazed and listened , holding his breath almost , two dark figures detached themselves , as it were , from the darkness , and advanced toward the spot which he occupied . 
With an unconscious movement he drew deeper into the shadow of the heavy boughs , and , blended with the shade which they cast , was lost completely to view . 
The figures passed so close to him that their garments almost touched his own , still whispering in a low and stealthy tone . 
They had gone but a few paces when the obscuring cloud passed from the moon , and St. John discerned them clearly . 
The taller of the two wore no wrapping , and Mr. St. John distinctly recognized the form of Lindon . 
He bent earnestly toward his companion , and seemed to be urging something which had been met with opposition . 
Mr. St. John could not catch the words , which were uttered in a low and cautious , though very excited tone , and he was glad that they did not reach him ; glad when the voice grew more and more a mere murmur , and Lindon , with his silent companion , disappeared in the distance and the darkness . 
St. John stood for an instant looking in the direction they had taken , and then , issuing forth from the shadow , calmly bent his way back to Williamsburg . 
`` That is really something more than I bargained for , '' he muttered as he went along . 
`` Well , '' continued the young man , after a pause , during which he looked thoughtfully toward the lights of the town , which were , one by one , disappearing , like fire-flies going to sleep , `` well , let this gentleman of the villainous countenance go on his way . 
With these words St. John returned to his chamber , and after a last look at the moon , fell asleep murmuring the motto of Bonnybel 's seal , `` Nec temere , nec timide ! '' 
Had Mr. St. John believed so , and acted upon his convictions , the whole current of this narrative would have been changed . 
At seven o'clock upon the following morning , he was pursuing , at full speed , the road to Vanely . 
St. John paused for a moment to take in fully the entire details of the pretty picture . 
Thus caught in the act , Mr. Harry St. John remained for a moment dumbfoundered . 
But recovering his equanimity , he said , laughing , `` Did you compose yourself in that pretty attitude to receive me , Bonnybel ? '' 
`` I feel profound remorse for my presumption , '' said Mr. St. John , in a contrite tone ; `` let me atone for my offense , most beautiful lady . 
She thrust out the extreme point of the slipper deprived of its rosette , and Mr. St. John secured the ornament in its place . 
He was so long doing so , however , that the young lady tapped her foot impatiently , and then the wide folds of her dress swept over foot and slipper . 
`` Flower of Hundreds , '' Mr. St. John 's mansion , stood on an elevated plateau , near the river . 
`` See the small discrimination of the canine species , '' said St. John , `` they neglect ` Beauty ' for the notice of the ` Beast . ' '' 
he said . 
St. John looked steadily at his companion , to discover if the words meant more than was expressed . 
But she darted from him , and ran into the great sitting-room . 
there 's my favorite portrait , '' she cried ; `` the picture of Sir Arthur St. John , is n't it , of the time of his Majesty Charles II. , who died for love ? 
`` Pity you did n't live in his Majesty 's times , '' said St. John , with a glance of admiration ; `` the Arthurs have all gone , and our hair to-day is cut close . 
St. John related the scene at the Governor 's , with many amusing exaggerations , but he was glad at last to steal away into a corner with Bonnybel , who drew him toward her with laughing glances . 
By good fortune , he has a letter from St. John to his friend Mr. Alston , and this will tell the tale . 
Really , my dear Harry , you are a perfect ogre . 
`` These few words , Harry my boy , must suffice . 
* On the margin , we find in his , St. John 's , hand-writing : `` If I do , I 'll be hanged . 
Theviews of his friend had little effect upon St. John . 
It was not his pride which was so deeply wounded ; it was his heart . 
His letter was one of those tissues of self-deception , which are woven to blind their eyes by the most clear seeing . 
He loved the girl more than ever when he found her beyond his reach , and his faint flush of anger gave way to misery . 
The first pangs of his disappointment gradually became less poignant . 
He coolly set about seeing to his neglected affairs on the estate , and having attended to every thing , and wound up the machine , cast about him for some occupation to divert his thoughts . 
`` I 'll go to town , '' he said , with a sardonic smile ; `` I 'll go give his Excellency a chance to arrest me ! 
What an admirable scene will be enacted if he tries it ; perhaps the cause will be affected by my act , and historians will put my name in their books ! '' 
St. John smiled . 
`` Oh it 's nothing but running about playing , '' said Blossom , blushing , `` I run sometimes as far as town , sir , you know -- as I did that day -- '' `` When my horse nearly killed you -- yes , '' said St. John ; `` well he 'll never do so any more . 
said St. John , with his sardonic smile , `` what put such a thought in your head ? 
Having made this elaborate jest , St. John smiled on Blossom . 
In the father of the child whom he had so nearly crushed beneath the hoofs of his horse , St. John recognized the stranger of the old church at Richmond . 
Thestranger was clad in black , as formerly , and his face wore the same expression of iron calmness . 
His penetrating eyes were full of collected strength , and when he greeted St. John in his deep and resounding voice , the young man felt again that he was in the presence of a remarkable individual . 
`` I am glad to see you again , Mr. St. John , '' said the stranger , with an iron-like grasp of the slender white hand . 
`` Yes , Mr. Waters , '' returned St. John , `` and we can not meet as strangers . ' 
`` Do not speak of that , '' he said , `` ' t was no fault of yours . 
There was so much simplicity and nobility in the air of the speaker that St. John , unconsciously , held out his hand . 
`` You did me an honor , sir , '' he said , `` in confiding your misfortunes to me . 
`` We are such already , I am sure , '' said his companion ; `` your words in the old church yonder stirred my pulses , and your reply to the insults of Dunmore , in his palace , was the reply of a fearless patriot and gentleman . '' 
St. John bowed low . 
he said , `` but I merely defended myself . 
St. John 's head fell , and his brows contracted . 
he said . 
St. John was silent , only assenting with a thoughtful movement of his head . 
he said , looking at his companion . 
Blossom took the hand and pressed it to her lips , at the moment when Mr. St. John rose to depart . 
To the stranger 's courteous invitation to remain , he urged business in town , and so they separated , appointing to meet at the capitol . 
As though to cheer and embolden the hearts of patriots , the great orb of day rose clear and brilliant , and mounted to his noon unobscured by clouds , as on that occasion in the old church of St. John , when the stranger had pointed to it , soaring above the retreating thunder storm , and called it `` the Sun of America . '' 
But let us follow St. John . 
St. John was carried onward by the crowd to the base of Lord Botetourt 's statue , where the waves of the multitude were divided , and flowed right and left . 
He turned , and found himself face to face with the stranger , who added with a grave inclination , as he leaned against a pillar , and thoughtfully surveyed the crowd , `` We are punctual to our appointment , Mr. St. John ; I have been awaiting you , however , as the Burgesses are awaiting the Governor . '' 
St. John pressed the extended hand , and said , `` I should like to look at the House . 
`` Strange to say I have not before visited the present House , '' said St. John ; `` ' t is my loss , for they have a most imposing air . '' 
St. John looked at the ungainly figure , and could not realize the truth of what he heard . 
It was simply a slouching county court lawyer that he saw . 
* `` I know Colonel Bland , '' said St. John , `` and his companion -- '' `` Is Mr. George Wythe , one of the most learned gentlemen of the province . 
† `` Yes , '' said St. John , `` that is true , every word , of Mr. Harrison . 
‡ `` I do not know Mr. Marshall , but his face is attractive , '' returned St. John . 
* `` Absolutely , '' said St. John . 
* `` ' T is truly an admirable head , '' said St. John . 
you spoke warmly of him , sir , when we talked , '' said St. John . 
said the stranger , taking St. John 's arm , `` let us go look on ; but first , see that great figure which has risen but now , the man who stands surrounded by Henry , Mason , and Nelson , and Jefferson , and young Marshall , who is as tall as the lofty General Lewis , of Botetourt , beside him . 
At the head of the troop in front rode a tall and magnificently accoutred gentleman , and as the cavalcade drew on , St. John started slightly . 
The new commander of his Excellency 's guards was Mr. Lindon . 
he said , carelessly , `` I congratulate his Excellency on securing such a fine captain , and Mr. Lindon on entering the service of such a master . 
Having thus expressed his view of the matter , St. John continued to gaze at the procession with a curling lip and a sort of wonder , as he thought that , but a short time before , Lindon 's position was his own . 
`` Come , '' said the stranger to St. John , `` let us see the rest ; there is a gallery I know of from which we may see all . '' 
And with a rapid step he led the way up a narrow and winding stair , and with a key which he took from his pocket , opened a low door beneath the ceiling . 
St. John exchanged a glance with the stranger , who moved his head slightly , but again riveted his cold look on the Governor . 
A grim and disdainful smile seemed to flit across the countenance of the stranger as he and St. John exchanged glances . 
The stranger laid his hand on St. John 's arm and said , in a low voice , `` Now it 's your turn , friend , but do n't move or speak -- let us listen . '' 
`` Yes , '' said St. John , coldly , `` I understand ! '' 
`` All these outrages and commotions , '' he said , `` indicate , on the part of the people of this colony , a tendency to tumult and rebellion . 
said the stranger , in a low voice , to St. John ; `` see how this coarse little terrier will snarl at the lions of Virginia ! '' 
said the stranger to St. John , whom he drew away , `` the first scene is played , and the rest will rapidly follow ! '' 
The great waves rolled , and muttered , and dashed themselves about with somber menace , and at times the long procession , so to speak , lining the whole of Gloucester street , writhed to and fro , resembling , in the brilliant sunshine , a great serpent with glittering scales , his body agitated and lustrous as that of the cobra or the rattlesnake , when about to raise his crest and strike with his fangs . 
said St. John . 
As the stranger spoke , his brilliant and fiery eye embraced the whole spectacle , and his body bent forward like that of the hunter , when he finds himself in the presence of the lion at bay . 
`` You say , the ` tenth wave , ' '' said St. John , gazing on the stranger 's pale countenance with its sparkling eyes . 
At this moment the agitation of the crowd grew even greater , and the guards of his Excellency were hemmed in on every side by the waves , from which issued threatening murmurs . 
St. John gazed after him with thoughtful eyes , and asked himself if this man really could be the thunderbolt of oratory , the genius of the rising storm . 
The stranger then descended the steps , followed by St. John , and they both disappeared in the crowd . 
As the stranger and St. John disappeared , the girl slid down from the statue , was caught gallantly in the arms of p510-234 her escort , and they wandered away -- the boy 's arm round the neck of the child , and her own resting innocently on his shoulder . 
`` Wellfriend , '' said the stranger , issuing forth with St. John from the Apollo chamber of the `` Raleigh , '' `` you see the game 's afoot ! 
And saluting his companion , the stranger turned away and was lost in the depths of the crowd . 
St. John returned slowly to his lodgings , and sitting down remained for a long time buried in thought . 
In the two days which had just elapsed he had received so many new and vivid impressions that he needed silence and reflection . 
He had heard the moving accents of a mysterious agent of revolution ; he had seen the representatives of the people defy the authority of the government ; he felt the ground shake beneath him as it were , with the tramp of a nation slowly advancing toward the gulf of war . 
St. John returned to his sofa and his reflections . 
They busied themselves with the query whether he should attend the assembly . 
At last he seemed to have made up his mind . 
`` Yes , I 'll go , '' he muttered , `` and not act the part of the Knight of the Forlorn Countenance ! 
From his post in a corner , St. John sees Colonel Vane and his family enter . 
The colonel limps , leaning on his gold-headed cane , erect Aunt Mabel at his side . 
St. John does not look at Mr. Burwell 's party , he gazes calmly at Bonnybel . 
It is Mr. St. John , who approaches in the most courteous way , and pays his respects to the party . 
A slight color comes to the girl 's cheek as he bows , and she holds out her hand and presses his own warmly . 
The pressure is not returned , and St. John , bowing low , makes way for the gentlemen who hasten to pay their respects to the little beauty . 
St. John , who was talking with his friend , Mr. Hamilton , felt a hand on his arm from behind . 
He started , and turning , saw Bonnybel leaning on the arm of a gentleman . 
There was a color in her cheeks , and something like a pout upon her lips , but the eyes of the young lady were very sad as she gazed at St. John . 
he said recovering from his momentary surprise ; `` by no means ; why should you think so ? '' 
she murmured , in a tone which he alone caught , `` you look at me as though I were the most indifferent person in the world to you . '' 
And the large sad eyes dwelt pensively upon his countenance . 
His pulse throbbed , but that was all . 
He did not speak . 
`` I have just engaged myself to my cousin , Mr. St. John , sir , '' she replied , coldly . 
`` Then I trust I may have the pleasure of presenting Miss Vane to the countess and his Excellency , '' continued Lindon . 
St. John had been chafing for some moments at Lindon 's tone . 
said St. John to that gentleman who stood near ; `` something seems to amuse the company . '' 
cried the captain , twirling his huge mustache , and making a low salute to Bonnybel , `` do you deny that you are the originator of this comedy -- this excellent , admirable comedy ? '' 
As he spoke , all eyes were turned upon St. John . 
The young man 's brows contracted , and desiring that Bonnybel might not share this strange publicity , he surrendered her to the protection of the other . 
And pushing through the crowd , St. John gained the door of the apartment . 
He stopped suddenly . 
In the door of the ball-room , with the serene air of one who considers himself worth looking at , stood St. John 's servant , Julius . 
St. John could not repress a grim smile at the superb attitude of Julius , but this instantly gave way to displeasure . 
said St. John . 
St. John immediately sought with his eye for Mr. Lindon ; his intention being to make that gentleman an explanation and apology . 
He saw his rival glaring at him with a face pale with rage , but the crowd separated them . 
St. John was borne to the side of Lord Dunmore . 
his lordship was saying to a gentleman near at hand . 
`` I will , my lord , '' said St. John , approaching and bowing . 
-- you , Mr. St. John ! '' 
St. John was standing listlessly looking on , when Captain Waters drew his arm into his own , and suggested the propriety of a glass or a dozen of Canary . 
To let you into a secret , my dear St. John , Madam Henriette 's a terrible personage , and makes me behave myself . 
Good evening , Mr. St. John . '' 
St. John bowed courteously . 
The secretary 's keen eye rested steadily for a moment upon the face of his interlocutor , and then was withdrawn . 
`` My work is indeed sometimes very exhausting , sir , '' he said . 
said the captain , p510-250 looking after him as he was lost in the brilliant undulations of the excited and uproarious crowd ; `` I 'll yet cross your sword , and show you something better than the coup de Reinfels!Come , my dear St. John , let 's get a cup of Canary . 
Lindon seemed to hesitate between two courses -- to throw into Mr. St. John 's face the glass of wine which he held in his hand , or publicly strike and outrage him . 
said St. John , with cold politeness . 
Lindon looked around , and seeing that the crowd were completely absorbed in drinking healths and dispatching the viands , advanced another pace toward St. John , and said , `` I was looking for you in order to join me in making some arrangements , sir . '' 
said St. John ; `` pray explain yourself , Mr. Lindon . '' 
said St. John , coldly , `` you mean a duel ? '' 
St. John returned the cold gaze with a look as cold , and said , `` May I ask , Mr. Lindon , why you consider it necessary to take my life , or for me to take yours ? '' 
`` Mr. St. John , do you refuse my defiance ? 
A flash darted from the young man 's eyes , and he raised his head with an air so proud , that it far exceeded the stateliness of his adversary . 
For a moment he made no reply to these words , but controlling himself at length , said , calmly , `` I also have been looking for you , sir . '' 
St. John listened to these insulting words with an air of stupefaction almost . 
He seemed scarcely to realize that fatuity could proceed so far . 
`` Mr. Lindon , '' he said , at length , with eyes which seemed to blaze , `` are you demented , out of your senses , lunatic , or is it your intention to act a comedy ? '' 
St. John stood for a moment pale and silent , confronting his insulting opponent . 
He scarcely seemed to realize that hatred could go so far upon a basis so trifling . 
St. John turned paler than ever , and his eyes filled with blood . 
`` Mr. Lindon , '' he said , sternly , `` I will first ask youa question . '' 
said St. John , in profound astonishment . 
The profound and violent passion of the young man 's nature , upon which he had heretofore placed a resolute curb , began to rise and foam , as he listened to these repeated insults . 
he said , with increasing anger . 
If you choose to put on a mask , and act your part , and pretend ignorance , '' he continued , white with rage , `` then I will not explain myself ! 
St. John advanced a step , with a countenance as pale as death , in which his dark eyes burned like coals of fire . 
he said , in a voice low and distinct ; `` you have accomplished your purpose , which was doubtless to drive me beyond all patience . 
Will I act for you , my dear St. John ? 
`` Come , my dear St. John , '' he said , `` as this little affair 's arranged , let us get our Canary and -- '' `` No , I believe I 'll return , captain , but I wo n't take you . 
St. John nodded , and they parted . 
His interview with Lindon had passed unnoticed almost . 
As St. John left his side , the captain muttered , with a smile , `` Lieutenant St. John and Lieutenant Lindon ! 
As St. John appeared in the dancing room , the assembly was coming to an end . 
Two hours after the breaking up of the assembly , St. John was looking pensively through his window , when he saw a light glimmer in a window opposite , and in an instant Bonnybel appeared in the luminous circle of rays . 
Onthe next morning , St. John made the Vanes a visit , at Mr. Burwell 's , and found them all ready to depart . 
A ride of an hour brought St. John in front of a fine old building crowning a bluff of the James , and surveying , from its lofty position , the wide expanse of field , and stream , and forest . 
St. John had scarcely drawn rein at the door of `` Flodden , '' when the voice of Captain Waters , from within the hall , greeted him jovially , and the next moment saw the figure of the soldier advance , with a smile of welcome on the bold features . 
St. John 's horse was led away , and they entered . 
`` You have seen him of course , '' said St. John , `` as he acts for Mr. Lindon ? '' 
Opposite this domestic group sat old John Waters , the captain 's father , in his wide , softly-cushioned chair , with his benignant smile , his gray , thin locks , and his empty pipe carelessly resting against his knee . 
Mrs. Waters advanced , with her courtly and graceful case , to press St. John 's hand , the old man rose erect in his chair , and smiled more benignantly than ever , and even the little girls rose too , and came , bashfully peering from their showers of golden curls , to receive their share of the young man 's attention . 
`` Is he not a shameful man , Mr. St. John ? '' 
said the lady , laughing ; `` he has not the least regard for our feelings . '' 
`` Yes ; only the other day I requested him to buy me a set of pearls at Rowsay 's , in town , and he absolutely refused . '' 
said St. John ; `` could you resist ? '' 
`` Is that not dreadful , Mr. St. John ? '' 
said the lady ; `` there is only one excuse that he gives ; can you divine it ? '' 
`` This excuse is , that he bought me some diamonds ! 
But he knew that I did not wish to be so extravagant , and like an unfeeling man , he went and bought the diamonds ! '' 
`` Mr. St. John I hope you will pardon me , '' she said , struggling with her mirth , `` but this gentleman , Captain Waters , always sets me off ! 
`` Now , my dear comrade , '' said the captain , when he and St. John were alone over their wine , `` now we can come to our little arrangements , and I can report progress . '' 
`` Thanks , my dear captain , '' replied St. John , `` and first , what time is fixed on ? '' 
St. John smiled . 
`` Why , captain , '' said St. John , smiling , `` that seems to me nothing more nor less than an insult ! '' 
And the soldier burst out laughing , in which laughter St. John united . 
`` Well , '' said St. John , laughing , `` after that the interview was more friendly ? '' 
His Excellency will not inquire very closely , for you know , my dear Captain Waters , ' adds Foy , with a tiger smile , ` you know my principal , Mr. Lindon , is a perfect master of every weapon , and he 'll be sure to kill Mr. St. John ! 
You will understand , in the present state of affairs betwen Mr. St. John and his Excellency , ' adds Foy , smiling , ` that Mr. Lindon or myself will not be very severely scolded ! ' '' 
said St. John , `` your hero turns out a boaster , and a mere blood-thirsty calculator of chances ! '' 
p510-267 It had been arranged that St. John should remain at Flodden for convenience , and accompany his host in his own carriage , and every detail being thus determined on , even down to the hour to awake , the subject was for the moment dismissed . 
It was the stranger , the friend of St. John . 
`` Friends , '' he said , in his calm , deep voice , `` he has not followed the high road further . 
And getting into his saddle again , he took the lead , and the whole troop disappeared in the foliage . 
Onthe next morning , after a sound night 's rest on the captain 's part , and much tossing to and fro , in his dreams , on St. John 's , the friends met and greeted each other . 
`` This is not court day , I believe , Mr. St. John ? '' 
Thereafter , his carriage was ordered at once , and he and St. John put on their hats . 
`` Did you say it was a fine morning , my dear St. John ? 
I asked you to be so good as to tell me where you and Mr. St. John are going ? '' 
But you shalltell me where you 're going with Mr. St. John , sir ! '' 
And the captain examined St. John 's sword as carefully as his opponent had tested Lindon 's . 
And turning to hand Mr. St. John his sword , Captain Waters muttered to himself , `` Ah , rascal ! 
`` All 's ready , my dear St. John , '' the captain said , `` and I have only to add a word . 
`` Thanks , captain , '' said St. John ; `` I shall simply endeavor to protect myself , having not the least desire to shed this gentleman 's blood . 
`` My dear St. John , '' he said , `` you will kill him ! 
This affair , gentlemen , as I need scarcely say , has arisen from a difference of opinion upon the quality of the Canary supplied to the late assembly , Mr. St. John having declared the said Canary wretched , and unworthy to be drunk by a gentleman , Mr. Lindon having taken the opposite view , and offered Mr. St. John a glass , which that gentleman declined . 
St. John was perfectly calm and cool . 
The combatants stopped and drew back -- Lindon pale with rage , St. John growing gradually hot . 
St. John again parried it perfectly . 
Suddenly St. John struck his foot against a stone , and thrown off his guard for an instant , could not parry the furious lunge of his opponent . 
said St. John , hoarsely , his breast streaming with blood . 
Captain Waters then gave his whole attention to St. John . 
With which St. John endeavored to point to the circular blood-stain , gradually extending upon his white linen bosom . 
As he spoke , the captain felt the young man 's form weigh heavily upon his arm ; and the head fell like a wounded bird 's . 
Captain Waters bound it up with the rapidity and skill of an experienced hand , and St. John opened his eyes . 
`` I will -- go -- to Flower of Hundreds -- captain , '' said St. John , faintly . 
The soldier gently deposited his burden upon the sward again , and hastening to the point of the island running out into the stream , hailed the boatman . 
`` An exquisite tune , '' says Mr. Alston , `` and ' t is Harry 's great favorite . 
By the bye , Miss Bonnybel , where is Harry ? '' 
`` I really do not know , sir , '' is the reply ; `` in town , I suppose , where we left him , or rather he left us . '' 
`` Harry 's not in town , my child , '' says the voice of Colonel Vane , behind them , `` and I 'm sorry to say that his life is in danger . '' 
`` He is at ` Flower of Hundreds , ' '' continued the colonel , sorrowfully , `` and he was brought thither yesterday , by Captain Waters , in one of the sail-boats . 
The account is , that the boatman was hailed by Captain Waters , at Jamestown , and going ashore found Harry lying on the grass , bleeding from a wound in the breast . 
The colonel and Aunt Mabel went to St. John 's chamber , the young ladies remaining in the sitting-room . 
It was a great favor , which he at last obtained , to be permitted to rise , and lie , in his dressing gown , on a couch in the drawing-room , and while Lindon was still turning and tossing with fever , in his close quarters in town , St. John was inhaling the breath of leaves and flowers . 
Many friends flocked to cheer his hours of weariness , and we need not say that the Vanely family were not remiss . 
Claiming her privilege of cousin and old playmate , the young lady , throwing aside all ceremony , came almost daily , with her mother and sisters , to see the invalid , and St. John experienced in her society a charm which seemed to make him stronger day by day , as though by the influence of magic . 
All around them soon perceived what they thought so wholly concealed , and by a series of accidents , Mr. St. John 's visitors were all called away when Bonnybel came to see him . 
It was one evening when , having arisen from his sick couch , and received permission to ride out , St. John went with Bonnybel to Vanely , that he found the moment . 
In a moment , the two hearts beat together ; he understood what had angered and pained him so much ; she had loved him and expected him to return ; her suffering had been greater than his own . 
They reached the old hall , and now , when the pale , weak young man assisted her from the saddle , she did not pout or reprimand him . 
St. John would be remembered as one happy in the possession of a truehearted woman ; Bonnybel , as the bride of the man whom she preferred , above all the world , for her husband . 
For a month , St. John was wholly and completely happy . 
If , before , the whole world appeared brighter and lovelier in his eyes , it was now wholly transfigured , for he was blessed with the fruition of his dearest wish . 
Like the sun shining out after a storm , his present joy was more fresh and brilliant for the hours of gloom which had preceded it . 
The woman whom he loved , loved him in return , and every one at Vanely sincerely rejoiced . 
It was at last decided that , after a month spent at Vanely , they should go to `` Flower of Hundreds , '' and settle down permanently ; thus Mr. St. John would be what he wished to be , an honest country gentleman . 
Let us now leave the happy fields of Vanely , and its cheerful faces , and following St. John , reënter the old capital . 
It was the afternoon of the first of August when St. John rode into Williamsburg and stopped at the Raleigh tavern . 
As he approached the door , a concourse of gentlemen were issuing forth , and he recognized the members of the House of Burgesses , which Dunmore had dissolved more than two months before . 
The stranger was talking with one of the members , but his clear , penetrating eye having caught sight of St. John , he ended his colloquy and approached the young man . 
`` You are right , '' said St. John , thoughtfully , `` it is really England which these instructions defy . '' 
`` Nothing less , '' replied the stranger , opening a pamphlet which he carried folded in his hand , `` and here is the defiance at greater length . '' 
`` You speak in a voice which leaves no room for answer , '' said his companion . 
St. John smiled . 
he said . 
`` You have been frank with me , friend , '' he said to the stranger ; `` you unrolled before me your whole past life -- I will not be so unfriendly as to conceal my own . 
asked St. John ; `` speak out your thoughts . '' 
said St. John , `` I wish to hear your thought . '' 
The stranger shook his head . 
`` I thought so once , too , '' he muttered , `` but it came . 
St. John smiled . 
`` You speak to a man demented by a possessing thought , a single image , '' he said ; `` your words do not convince me . '' 
And exchanging a grasp of the hand with St. John , the stranger left him , and disappeared in the moving throng before the door of the tavern . 
Itwas on the afternoon of the next day that St. John , while going along with his head bent down , struck suddenly against an object approaching , as he was leaving , the Raleigh tavern . 
He raised his head and found that the object was Captain Waters , who had been going along in the same thoughtful way . 
There was this difference , however , between the musings of the friends ; those of St. John were happy , while Captain Ralph was evidently sad . 
`` I 'm delighted to see you , my dear captain , '' said St. John , holding out his hand , `` and must beg your pardon for nearly knocking you down . 
The captain pressed his friend 's hand with melancholy pleasure , and with a countenance elongated to an extent really deplorable , replied , sadly , `` Absolutely nothing , my dear comrade , unless you call the convention here , and a dreadful disappointment I have suffered , news . '' 
`` You pain me , '' said St. John , scanning the mortified face of his companion ; `` come , be friendly , and tell me your trouble as I told you mine . 
With which words Captain Ralph led the way into the domain of mine host of the Raleigh , and being supplied with what he demanded , drew St. John into a corner of the apartment , and sitting down , proceeded to his disappointment . 
`` Fancy me lounging yonder at home , mon ami , '' he said , `` after seeing you well through that little affair with Lindon , and behold me , as the French lingo has it , idle , sombre , becoming gradually a prey to the blue devils . 
The captain stopped to sip his Canary , in the midst of smiles from Mr. St. John . 
`` My dear St. John , '' continued the captain , smiling , `` when Foy said that , growing red as he spoke , I felt a happiness which I have not before experienced for a long time . 
The captain finished his Canary , and rose , St. John , having listened with the utmost attention , and not without laughter , to his narrative . 
`` Perhaps resignation is the best , my dear captain , '' he said , `` and I can feel for you in your distress . 
And , laughing , St. John rose and followed the soldier to the street . 
As they reached the portico of the tavern , St. John saw Lindon pass , and the two adversaries exchanged a ceremonious salute . 
On the part of St. John , this salute was perfectly polite and frank ; on the part of Lindon , formal and almost haughty , his dark eyes glittering with a sinister ex p510-304 pression in his pale , cold face , as he passed on and disappeared . 
And the friends separated -- the captain to mount his horse , St. John to attend to the business which brought him to Williamsburg . 
St. John ` sbusiness was nothing more nor less , says our author , than some pecuniary arrangements in connection with his proposed embarkation upon the seas of matrimony , and the agent in these arrangements was a certain Mr. A. Z. Smith , factor . 
Mr. St. John was with Mr. A. Z. Smith a portion of every day , and the smiling little factor made him his best bows when he appeared , and went away ; that salute of familiar respect which the wealthy bourgeoisbestowed at the period on one of the gentry . 
After these business interviews Mr. St. John was idle for the rest of the day , and one morning he thought he would take a gallop into the country for the benefit of the air . 
He accordingly mounted Tallyho , and putting spur to that spirited animal , was soon beyond the limits of the town , carcering through the summer forest , in the direction of Captain Ralph 's . 
Mr. Hamilton received his friend with great cordiality , and laughed heartily when , over a bottle of claret , Mr. St. John related the interview between Captain Waters and the secretary . 
`` The fact is , my dear St. John , '' he said , `` our friend , Waters , is a trump , and sooner or later , I predict , will run the secretary through the body . 
St. John stopped blushing , and smiled . 
`` See how the world is given to scandal , '' he said . 
`` Scandal , '' exclaimed his friend ; `` do you deny it ? '' 
`` Ask it , Harry , my boy . '' 
And Mr. St. John concluded with a burst of laughter which caused Jack Hamilton to look rather sheepish . 
`` I 've plainly got the better of you , my dear fellow , '' said St. John , `` and now I shall leave you to continue my ride . 
Mr. St. John assented , and very soon the two friends were in the saddle and on their way to Effingham Hall . 
We should extract the author 's account of Mr. St. John 's visit to Effingham Hall , which he describes at length , repeating all the conversation of the personages , but unfortunately our narrative leads us to more important scenes . 
The friends remained to dinner , which was served at an p510-309 early hour , and then departing , the two gentlemen returned homeward -- Mr. Hamilton to the `` Trap , '' and Mr. St. John toward Williamsburg . 
His route lay in the direction of the old field school , and just as he came opposite that sylvan academe , Uncle Jimmy Doubleday terminated the toil of the day , and gave the summons of dismissal to his flock of chirping youngsters , male and female . 
It was not long before a figure detached itself from the merry flock of boys and girls , and this little figure approached the fence , and made Mr. St. John a smiling curtesey . 
Seeing Mr. St. John , Uncle Jimmy came toward that gentleman , walking , with the dignity of a patriarch , in the midst of his family and tribe . 
`` You behold a pleasing sight , my dear Mr. St. John , '' said Uncle Jimmy , taking off his great goggles , and extending the hand holding them toward the flocks of children . 
`` Yes , that is true , '' said Uncle Jimmy , placing a fatherly hand on the sunny curls of little Blossom , who stood demurely by him , one foot based firmly on the ground , the other poised upon the toe of her slipper -- the neat stockings , without crease or fold , beneath the short skirt ; `` that is true , Mr. St. John , and in my little friend , Blossom , here , who seems to know you , I recognize a treasure of goodness and affection . 
`` Behold , Mr. St. John , the depravity of the character of children , '' said Uncle Jimmy , with philosophic severity ; `` this youth is really incorrigible ; reproving does not affect him in the least ; he always begs off in a way which indicates a natural genius for the forum . '' 
`` I think ' t is a better philosophy than groaning , '' said St. John . 
St. John smiled . 
`` Then your theory questions the possibility of perfect happiness to adults , '' he said . 
`` Some are , '' said St. John , laughing at his companion 's ignorance ; `` others are the pole stars of the earth . '' 
In taking the box from his pocket , he dropped a letter , which came out with it , and as this circumstance did not attract his attention , St. John pointed to it . 
`` Well , yes , my dear Mr. St. John , but the affair is simply -- Platonic -- simply that , upon my word , sir . '' 
St. John did not say that the preaching and practicing of the philosopher badly agreed , but he thought so , and thus triumphed . 
Mr. St. John continued his way back to Williamsburg , smiling . 
he said , `` but how strange that thus , for the second time in three or four days , I have listened to a voice unconsciously bidding me distrust my happiness , and prepare for a change , for misery . 
I hear you say , St. John become superstitious , trembling at such bugbears of the fancy as are only fit to frighten nervous women ! 
St. John , the careless fellow with the stalwart shoulders , the iron nerves , the smiling lips ; who touched his sword hilt , and boasted that he was ready to meet any foe , and would have laughed in derision at the very intimation of imaginary disquietude ! 
St. John , now crouching and shrinking under an invisible lash , wielded by airy hands ! 
St. John a-trembling , like a baby , at the sight of a buggaboo , and whining out mysterious influences ! 
`` To be serious , and stop my jesting , my dear Harry , pray tell me what , in the name of all the gods at once , has thrown you into this nervous state of mind ? 
Fie , Harry ! ' 
It is my intention , throughout the two following pages , to dwell upon this subject of the young lady 's constraint , which you , yourself , acknowledge no one observed but a certain Mr. St. John , gifted , for the nonce , with nautical penetration to discern distant clouds , and atmospheric phenomena , invisible to landsmen ; it is my intention to proceed at length to the refutation of your fancies on this point , and then I shall handle more briefly the phantom appearances . 
My dear Harry , can you seriously believe in those idle stories ? 
I 'm none the less obliged to you , Harry my boy , for the trouble you were put to . 
`` On the very day of my arrival I encountered at the Raleigh tavern that strange man of whom I have spoken to you more than once -- the stranger of the old church of St. John , at Richmond town . 
We talked of political matters , and when he came to allude to the assistance the province demanded from all her patriotic inhabitants , I returned his strange confidence up yonder , by speaking of myself , and saying that I would be able to do little , since I had received from a woman an avowal of her affection , and was happy and content , and disposed to think all things in the world just as they should be . 
He replied , with a strange look , ` Do not think that Heaven will permit you to withdraw yourself from the contest . ' 
Those were his very words , and though I listened to them then with careless inattention , I now remember them , and find them echoing , like his deep voice , in my mind and my heart . 
She was unwell , Helen said , and begged Cousin Harry to excuse her not coming down to bid him good-bye . 
On the next morning , just as Mr. St. John had finished his toilet , he entered the young man 's chamber , having traveled all night . 
Up to the moment when his foot touched the threshold , Mr. Alston 's face had worn an expression of anxiety and care , very unusual with him , but no sooner had he entered the presence of his friend , than this changed to an appearance of the most careless humor . 
`` Well , Harry , my boy , '' said Mr. Alston , `` how is it this morning ? 
Instead of resenting this banter or expressing any surprise , Mr. St. John merely held out his hand , rising for that purpose from the sofa upon which he lay , with drooping head , and then having given this evidence of welcome , he sank back as cold and silent as before . 
`` Come , Harry , my dear fellow , '' he said , rapidly changing his expression , and speaking in a tone of careless good humor , `` this is a poor greeting , and you have not replied to my question . '' 
asked Mr. St. John , waking up , as it were , and looking absently at his friend . 
His friend looked at him with an expression of inquiry . 
St. John sat down and leaned his head upon his hand . 
`` Pardon my coldness and irritation , Tom , '' he said , `` I ca n't afford to lose any friends now . '' 
`` Wretched folly it indeed is , Harry my boy , to say that you are wretched -- or rather , to proceed logically , to say that you have any reason to be wretched . '' 
said St. John , suppressing a groan . 
St. John made a movement with his head , signifying plainly , `` You are at liberty to laugh . '' 
`` I understand very well , '' said his friend ; `` you mean by that lordly nod to grant me permission to think as I may . 
St. John was silent . 
What he had said in his letter was true . 
He no longer cared to discuss the strange presentiments , and the dream , if it were a dream . 
In his agony all other things were swallowed up , and after the momentary outbreak he felt no anger even at the rough address of his friend . 
`` Come , '' he said , returning to the attack , `` confess , my dear Harry , that you are a baby . '' 
St. John made no reply . 
Mr. St. John nodded his head . 
Mr. St. John had even ceased to hear the voice of his friend ; stretched upon a lounge , he was thinking , with far away eyes set in a face as pale as death . 
`` Harry St. John , '' said Mr. Alston , suddenly dropping his tone of banter , `` do you wish to hear my real opinion of you ? '' 
Mr. St. John turned toward his friend , looked at him for a moment , intently , and said : `` I will listen . '' 
Mr. St. John only looked at him more attentively . 
St. John scarcely raised his head , and for a moment did not speak . 
A long silence followed -- it was broken by Mr. St. John . 
He rose wearily from the sofa , passed his hand over his forehead and said , `` You 're a good friend , Tom . 
And Mr. St. John sank back again , and was silent . 
An expression of real pain diffused itself over Mr. Alston 's countenance , and gazing at his friend , he said , `` Harry , you afflict me to the heart . '' 
St. John looked at his friend . 
he said . 
And Mr. St. John pointed to a flower in Mr. Alston 's button hole , plucked at Vanely as he departed . 
And he was silent . 
Mr. St. John shook his head . 
And Mr. St. John sank back again , silent and despairing . 
We shall not repeat the conversation , for it consisted only of a description , in all their details and ramifications , of the events which have been described in Mr. St. John 's letters . 
Mr. St. John only shook his head , making no reply . 
`` For Heaven 's sake , Harry ! '' 
said his friend , `` do n't meet my arguments with that eternal gesture of simple dissent . 
`` It hugs me , '' said St. John , groaning . 
And St. John covered his face , and uttered a moan which made honest Tom Alston turn away his head and remain for some time silent . 
St. John shook his head . 
he said ; `` it will only make two persons more miserable still . '' 
said St. John , with a cruel groan . 
`` You must not , Harry ! '' 
At the end of an hour , during which Tom Alston thus dwelt upon the effects of such a proceeding as his friend had decided on , with the greatest earnestness -- at the end of this long and elaborate expostulation , St. John , weak and undecided , promised to think of the matter . 
He replied , with a cheerful look , `` Be easy , Harry . 
Add that to your speech , Harry , and if you do not move her , and make her return to her old affection , then I will really sympathise with you , for I shall have reason . '' 
St. John scarcely touched his food , and had never changed his expression of cold despair . 
An hour afterwards he bade his friend good-bye , and they separated -- Mr. Alston to return to Moorefield , where he was to receive a letter from his friend ; Mr. St. John to seek p510-348 his lounge , where he now spent hour after hour steeped in gloomy reverie . 
His friend 's visit had been like a ripple on the surface of a dark tarn -- the waters again closed over its gloomy depths , silent and motionless . 
Ordinary persons quarrel and fall out , but the very idea of Bonnybel and Harry being any thing but friends ! 
I told him that it was absolutely silly , and the grounds of his opinion are the silliest part of it . 
He thinks , because you were unwell the other day , when I was at Vanely , and did not come down , that for this reason you do not like me . 
I wrote him word , on my return that night , or rather early in the morning , for I preferred traveling in the night , as the weather was warm -- I wrote him word about the visit , and said I had not seen you , because you were sick . 
My letter had scarcely reached Moorefield , I thought , when he broke into my chamber here in the strangest manner , with tears in his eyes , crying , most singularly , ` O , Harry ! 
Harry ! ' 
and sitting down with his hands over his face . 
He then came and put his arm around me and asked me how I felt , as though I had been sick . 
I was not at all sick then , but became unwell that evening , strange to say ; I believe it was on account of his visit . 
He persuaded me that I must be sick , or I never would have written him such a letter , when my letter was the simplest in the world , and just such as I generally write to him . 
The sound of his footsteps did not arouse Mr. St. John , who continued to gaze at the paper . 
It was this letter which Mr. St. John was gazing at with wide eyes . 
His friend took it out of his hand and placed it in his own pocket . 
Mr. St. John did not move . 
St. John remained for nearly an hour perfectly motionless , his shoulders drooping , his head bent down , his eyes fixed upon the floor , across which a long bar of sunshine ran like a stream of gold . 
`` It was a glorious sail we had upon the river , '' he at length murmured with a smile . 
continued St. John , laughing . 
`` Harry ! 
Harry ! '' 
And with the air of a man who tries to recall something , Mr. St. John touched his forehead and was silent . 
he murmured at length , in a low , measured voice , `` I can not remember -- it was very long ago . 
St. John continued for some moments gazing wildly at the picture , and , as he gazed , a shudder ran through his frame , his eyes expanded with a sort of dread , and , rising violently from his seat , he drew his sword , shouting : `` Who are you that stand beside the picture of my love and darken it ? 
And with a fiery flash from his haughty eyes , the young man cut at the air with his sword . 
`` Oh , Harry ! 
Harry ! 
my poor , poor Harry ! '' 
St. John looked with a dreamy , absent air into the face of his friend , and then turned away . 
His momentary excitement soon disappeared , and , reclining now against the tall , carved back of his chair , his shoulders drooped , and he traced figures idly with the point of his scabbard on the floor . 
As he did so , his excitement seemed completely dissipated , and , with a smile , he murmured to himself : `` Yes , yes ! 
A single glance at Mr. St. John told him all : he shook his head . 
Formore than two weeks , Mr. St. John remained thus prostrated in body and mind , by the burning delirium which had seized upon him . 
St. John sank into a gentle slumber soon after his friend 's departure ; and he had a happy dream , he thought . 
It seemed to him that he was awake and gazing at the picture resembling Bonnybel , when the door opened noiselessly , a light footfall rustled on the carpet , and the figure on the wall , as he continued to gaze , slowly became living , advanced from its frame , and stood at the foot of the bed , looking at him . 
Mr. St. John was entirely uncomplaining now -- he was also entirely hopeless . 
Threedays after the morning ride of the friends , and about midnight , a man was seated in the upper room of the tall house pointed out by the stranger to St. John , and bending over a great table covered with papers , was writing rapidly . 
He found himself opposite to Mr. St. John . 
he said ; `` welcome ! 
St. John inclined his head , slowly , and took the seat toward which the stranger motioned him . 
`` Yes , perfectly , '' said St. John . 
`` Yes , I saw all that , sir , '' said St. John , `` and I feel for you . '' 
St John inclined his head , calmly . 
St. John remained silent . 
St. John listened in the same gloomy silence , and said at last , `` I know not if I even believe in a God , but I do in my destiny . '' 
`` I did not mean to say that I doubted the existence of a supreme Being , '' said St. John gloomily ; `` I only say that this Being , if he exists , has made my life darkness . '' 
`` My reason tells me so -- to answer you philosophically , '' said St. John . 
`` Faith and reason are implacable enemies , '' said St. John struggling gloomily against hope , `` the encyclopæ dists prove that -- -- '' `` Man is a machine . 
`` There is nothing for me to pardon , '' said St. John , in the same cold and gloomy tone ; `` I should rather return you my thanks , friend . 
asked St. John , who had never for a moment lost his cold and gloomy air , and seemed indeed to move and speak like a lifeless automaton ; `` is it revolutionary ? '' 
Mr. St. John read , `` Thoughts on the Present Aspect of Affairs , by a Man of the Times . '' 
As he was reading the commencement of the pamphlet , a tap at the door announced a visitor , and without waiting for permission , a printer 's boy entered . 
St. John , for a moment interrupted , again returned to the pamphlet , and having read the two or three sheets , said , as he laid them down , `` That seems to me treason , friend -- it will be seized . '' 
St. John reflected for some moments without speaking , and then said , `` I came to offer you a gift for the cause , friend . ' 
The stranger presented his view at great length and earnestly , but St. John did not seem in the least moved by his arguments . 
`` Well , friend , '' he said , with gloomy calmness and the same measured , automaton-like movement of the head , `` well , be it as you wish . 
St. John paused a moment , and suppressed the groan which struggled for utterance -- in an instant he was again calm . 
`` Since I last saw you , friend , '' he said , coldly , `` I have suffered a misfortune which henceforth renders me the victim of an incurable despair . 
With these words , he took a piece of paper , wrote some lines on it , and received in exchange for it the papers which St. John still held in his hand . 
And the stranger again looked earnestly and compassionately at St. John , and was silent . 
Onthe next day Mr. St. John presented himself , clad with the most scrupulous ceremony , at the door of Governor Dunmore 's palace . 
There was another personage seated at some distance , whom Mr. St. John had never before seen , and this man attracted perforce , as it were , his attention . 
St. John exchanged a glance with the individual as he entered , and remembered afterwards the penetrating eyes which flashed beneath the shaggy brows . 
`` I have indicated it in the paper which lies before your Excellency , '' returned St. John , coldly , pointing to the table , and again bowing . 
`` The signature of ` H. St. John , ' I believe , '' said the Governor , coldly . 
Mr. St. John replied , with his old gloomy calmness , `` Precisely , my lord . '' 
said St. John . 
The flush on Lord Dunmore 's brow grew deeper , and the vein in his forehead swelled . 
`` Mr. St. John , '' he said , with a scowl , `` you seem to think it necessary to bandy reproaches with me whenever you appear before me . 
And Mr. St. John bowed , and was silent . 
said his Excellency , suppressing his anger , and speaking in a tone of striking coldness and spitefulness , if we may use the word . 
Mr. St. John accompanied these words with a low bow , and went out of the apartment and the palace . 
On the same afternoon he was going along Gloucester street , in front of the Raleigh tavern , when he heard a grave , deep voice utter the words : `` Give you good day , Mr. St. John . '' 
As to the tall personage who thus saluted Mr. St. John , he was clad , as before , in his rude costume of the backwoods , and carried in his hand the short pipe , which now , however , was smoking . 
As he stood erect , apart from the rest , his stature appeared more gigantic than before ; and the young man saw that his vigorous frame was moulded with extraordinary symmetry . 
`` Give you good day , Mr. St. John , '' repeated the stranger , in his deep voice . 
`` Do you still hold to your determination , expressed this morning to his lordship , of going to the frontier ? '' 
`` I do , sir , '' said St. John , inclining his head . 
St. John bowed to the man of whom he had so often heard -- the commissioner for Virginia in the treaty of Fort Stanwix -- of whom the Governor of New York declared that `` the earth seemed to tremble under him as he walked along . '' 
* After some more arrangements , Mr. St. John took his leave , and went to his lodgings . 
`` Well , '' he murmured , as he stretched himself upon the sofa , `` that is the first step toward the struggle and oblivion . 
As he spoke , Tom Alston entered , and his friend laid before him all his plans , which he had hitherto concealed . 
Two days afterward , Mr. St. John and his friend exchanged a silent grasp of the hand . 
In March , the second Virginia convention met at the old church of St. John in Richmond town , crowning to-day , as it then did , the summit of the hill , from which the eye embraces the city below , the foaming falls , the glittering current of the river , and the beautiful expanse of field and forest . 
AtVanely all is bright and beautiful again , as on that morning when St. John and Tom Alston cantered to the door , together , on the day succeeding Lady Dunmore 's entry . 
These men were Tom Alston and St. John . 
Mr. St. John was but the ghost of himself . 
Since those bright and happy days when inhaling the breath of love and living a life full of splendid and joyful emotions -- since those hours at Vanely , which now seemed to have shone for him , in the long past years of centuries that had fled , the young man appeared to have become another being -- to have changed the very foundations of his identity . 
Tom Alston was the same nearly as before , though somewhat more subdued , and as the two friends rode along , he gazed at Mr. St. John with an air of the deepest regret and compassion . 
Then he raised his head , uttered a deep sigh , and said , `` Harry , I think I am growing old . '' 
said St. John ; `` you are young both in years and character . '' 
I mean , Harry , that between last year and to-day a great gulf seems to have been thrown for me , and I add that ' t is you who have opened it . '' 
`` Yes , Harry , it is even worse ! 
`` Do not use the word faithless , '' said St. John , with tranquil sadness . 
Mr. St. John gazed at him with sad surprise . 
`` You 're a good friend , Tom , '' he said ; `` you are faithful to the end , and I thank you . 
said St. John haughtily ; then with a sorrowful smile , `` I ought not to , '' he added . 
St. John shook his head . 
`` The time for such a thing is past , '' he said , `` she no longer thinks of me . 
And Mr. St. John made a movement with his hand which indicated a desire on his part that the subject should be abandoned . 
That honest heart was pained by the despair of his friend ; and in the conflict with the settled sadness of Mr. St. John , he gave way and said nothing more . 
Mr. St. John had not spoken of the visit to Mammy Liza 's cabin ; for that encounter had produced a more powerful effect upon his feelings than he cared to own . 
The sight of her pale white face , her haunting eyes , her thin form -- this sad vision had left him strangely affected , and he had ridden slowly back to Williamsburg , musing gloomily . 
They had met but for a moment , yet in that instant all the past had seemed to rush upon him again , with its smiles and hppiness , its joy and beauty . 
As he gave her the letter which had saved his life , as he looked at the flower which she held in her and , as he took in at a glance all the details of that countenance , toward which his heart still turned , as the Chaldean turns to his star , his resolution had almost melted -- his strength had nearly given way as he bowed to her , it had required all his selfcontrol not to seize her thin hand and press it to his trembling lips , and moisten it with his tears . 
He had not done so , he had only bowed and came away ; and now he was more sad than before , almost yielding to his emotion , and uttering a groan as he finally bade adieu to all his hopes and his love . 
Blossom played as of old upon the grassplat ; and , as she recognized her friend , the child 's face filled with blushes of happiness , and she ran toward him . 
`` Let us dismount a moment , Tom , '' said St. John , `` I must not neglect my friends . '' 
As he spoke , the young man affixed the bridle of his horse to the fence , and accompanied by Tom Alston , slowly entered the grounds of the cottage . 
Blossom had for visitor , her friend and admirer , Paul Effingham , Esquire -- and this young gentleman now abandoned an immense pile of flowers which he was weaving into a garland , intended to encircle Miss Blossom 's shoulders and waist , to come and welcome his friends . 
He shook hands with Mr. St. John and Mr. Alston with great good feeling , and with an impressive air asked them how they were . 
As for Blossom , she held Mr. St. John 's other hand tightly , looking sadly into his thin pale face , and seemed to prefer that gentleman 's society to her admirer 's . 
St. John looked at the child with a smile which was not so sad . 
said St. John , caressing kindly the soft hair . 
St. John smiled sadly and shook his head . 
he said . 
And St. John gazed calmly on the great orb sinking in the forest . 
`` The sun may rise again , '' murmured St. John , as he p510-402 sought his lodgings , `` and the flowers may blossom again , but my sunshine and flowers are all gone . 
Itwas nearly midnight , and St. John was standing listlessly on the door-step of the house he occupied , when raising his eyes , he saw the glimmer of a light in the tall tower where the stranger pursued his labors . 
St. John returned the iron grasp of the slender hand , and took the seat which was offered him . 
he said ; `` how is that ? 
St. John nodded . 
`` I see , '' he said , `` and it will make an account of my sickness unnecessary ; perhaps I need not even speak of my adventures on the border . '' 
St. John nodded again . 
`` Well , '' he said , `` so I come back . 
And St. John sat down opposite the stranger . 
That personage , for some reason , did not seem disposed to combat the resolution of his companion ; he did not reply even to his last observation . 
He remained motionless for a moment , leaning his pale face on his hand , and then taking a letter from a drawer , carefully read it . 
He then returned it , and said , `` Well , friend , we wo n't discuss your movements at present ; the future can take care of itself . 
St. John looked at the stranger . 
he said . 
`` Friend , '' said his companion , leaning back in his chair , and gazing thoughtfully at Mr. St. John , `` to an eye so practiced as my own , ' t is not a difficult thing to penetrate that calmness which envelops grief and hopelessness . 
`` Well , yes , '' said St. John , `` I am as much . '' 
St. John nodded . 
`` So be it , '' he said ; `` I am no longer brave . '' 
St. John said nothing for some minutes ; then , raising his head : `` Do you know , friend , '' he said , `` that life no longer affects me -- its sorrows or joys , or good or evil ? 
He was silent , and the stranger seemed to acquiesce in his plain wish to change the subject . 
`` Yes , '' said St. John . 
said St. John , rising . 
But as St. John and the stranger leaned forth and listened , a second neigh , much closer than the first , was borne on the night wind to their ears . 
From their lofty post the stranger and St. John witnessed the silent advance of the company , and soon saw a light glimmer in a window of the palace , before which the men halted . 
said St. John , `` these are -- '' `` Marines from the schooner Magdalen , which lies at Burwell 's Ferry on James river , yonder . 
St. John leaned further out and listened , a color for the first time invading his pale cheek , and his eyes ardently plunging into half darkness . 
As the stranger spoke , he extended his hand in the moonlight , and St. John saw the troop of men march to the powder magazine , rapidly place fifteen or twenty barrels of powder in carts , and then quickly retrace their steps in the direction from which they had come . 
cried St. John , starting up , and drawing his sword ; `` give the alarm , friend , or they will escape ! '' 
And he threw himself toward the door , with flashing eyes , and cheeks crimson with passion . 
St. John looked impatiently at the hand on his shoulder , at the cold and collected face . 
he said . 
St. John fell back , murmuring . 
St. John retired to his lodgings , making an appointment to meet the stranger at the Raleigh at sunrise , and soon the town was as silent as before . 
Atsunrise the stranger and St. John met in front of the Raleigh , and in fifteen minutes the intelligence of the removal of the powder had run like wildfire through the town . 
A sword flashed in the air -- a vigorous arm hurled back the assailants , who were the mere scum of the multitude , that vulgar froth , so to speak , which floats on the purest waters -- and looking up , Lady Dunmore and her daughters encountered the pale face of St. John , which was cold , but fiery with indignation . 
And confronting the assailants , Mr. St. John met their furious glances with a look which indicated that he was both ready and willing to carry out his threat . 
`` That 's the word , Harry my boy ! '' 
said Captain Waters , pushing through to his side . 
Lady Dunmore , still trembling , got into the carriage , followed by her daughters , and assisted by Mr. St. John : and then the crowd opening , the chariot was permitted to proceed . 
St. John exchanged a glance with young Lady Augusta , who thanked him with that grateful look for his devotion . 
But he had only repaid her kindness to Blossom , when the child nearly fainted , and was cheered by the girl . 
Amelia county , William Archer , chairman , resolved , first , on a general muster of the militia ; next , that each member of the committee should provide `` half a pound of gunpowder and one pound of lead , a stand of arms and ammunition ; '' and John Tabb and Everard Meade were appointed to purchase `` eight hundred pounds of gunpowder and three thousand two hundred pounds of lead . '' 
Atthe moment when Colonel Patrick Henry arrived with his troop in front of Doncastle 's Ordinary , the company commanded by Captain John Hamilton made their appearance , at full gallop , coming to meet them . 
I thought he would bolster me up , but he ca n't protect himself from these canaille!This fine hero , St. John , this Lord Bolingbroke ! 
We were about to return when suddenly we heard a low sigh , and a figure , which had been kneeling in the shadow upon the grave of Aunt St. John , rose erect in the moonlight . 
In an instant , however , I recognized him , and my terror yielded to sorrow . 
He leaned upon the tall tombstone in the moonlight , and rested his forehead on the cold marble . 
I shall never forget his figure as he stood thus . 
His right arm encircled the weeping willow cut on the top of the stone , his long dark hair fell upon the white surface , and only the movement of his breast proved that he himself was not a form of marble . 
He remained thus for about a quarter of an hour , and then , raising his head , looked in succession at every object in the graveyard , apparently bidding them farewell , one after another . 
He then stooped and plucked a wild rose from the turf on his mother 's grave , stood looking at it for a moment , and then slowly passed through a cleft in the wall and disappeared . 
We heard his horse neigh from a copse near by , and then the sound of hoof-stokes dying gradually into silence . 
He was gone , and we came home without a word -- I think Helen was crying too . 
`` I thought I would write of these two meetings , my own Kate , because it affords me a painful consolation to speak of him . 
O , why will he leave us ? 
for he came to bid farewell thus to his mother , I know , before going to foreign lands , whither , I 'm told , he would long since have gone but for the late troubles and the sickness of his friend , Mr. Alston . 
He leaves many who love him , and ask only that he will come back again . 
My wounded pride is no longer mistress of me , and though he can never be the same to me , I should love and cherish him still -- though I never could be his wife . 
That horseman was Mr. St. John , who , having bid adieu to his friend , Tom Alston , now came to make his preparations to leave Virginia , as he had said , `` never to return . '' 
Bonnybelhad rightly supposed that nothing but the sickness of Mr. Alston had detained Mr. St. John in Virginia . 
That sickness having now yielded , he rapidly made every preparation , and paid his adieus to the places , the things , the personages of his youth . 
She had chanced to meet him as he bade farewell to the tombs of his mother and his father -- that was the last and saddest of all . 
From that moment his heart was dissevered from the soil , and he no longer thought of any thing but another land where he might forget his sufferings and his misfortunes . 
`` I would willingly defer my departure to see him , '' said St. John , sadly , `` but I have staid longer now than I intended owing to Tom Alston 's sickness . 
St. John inclined his head . 
`` Yonder is Jack Hamilton , '' he said , gazing sadly at the approaching figure , `` I will bid him farewell again ; a long farewell , for I shall never return . '' 
`` Something 's right with you , friend , '' said St. John , again smiling , as he looked at the honest soldier ; `` ' t is your heart ! '' 
And leading Tallyho by the bridle , he went to meet Jack Hamilton , whose face at sight of St. John clouded over , and lengthened deplorably . 
To all the protestations and persuasive arguments of his friends the young man made brief replies . 
He must go ; all was ended . 
`` Could any thing induce me to continue in Virginia , '' he said , `` ' t would be the true hearts of men like you -- faces I would not go away from but for an inexorable destiny which drives me . 
he said , holding a hand of each . 
`` Under other stars I will think of you , '' and pressing the hands of the two men , who looked at him with drooping heads , the young man made a movement to get into the saddle . 
The child was almost breathless with the haste she had used to reach him , and her bosom labored heavily for a moment . 
Then , regaining her breath , she said , looking at Mr. St. John with deep affection , `` You will not leave us , will you , sir ? '' 
Take my love and this kiss , '' he added , stooping and pressing his lips to those of the child , `` and pray for me . '' 
The tears rushed to Blossom 's eyes , and she clung to his hand obstinately . 
she said , sobbing , `` please do not go , sir ! '' 
Blossom seemed to be too much overcome to speak , but , seeming suddenly to remember something , put her hand into her pocket and took therefrom a letter . 
`` Papa told me to give you this or make Uncle Ralph give it to you , '' she said , blinded with tears ; then , bursting into sobs again , she cried , `` Oh , do not go away ! 
Mr. St. John finished the letter , and , looking from Blossom to Captain Waters , and from the soldier to Hamilton , with blank , wondering eyes , seemed for a time speechless with astonishment at the contents of the stranger 's letter . 
These were the words which made St. John turn pale and crimson , and his eyes blaze as with lightning . 
Captain Waters had scarcely read five lines before St. John seized the letter and pointed hoarsely to the last paragraph , then to the postscript . 
St. John was well acquainted with the district , and chose , with unerring precision , the shortest roads . 
Leaning forward in his saddle , the young man seemed to be devoured by a terrible passion , and , at every bound , he struck his horse furiously with the spur , and shouted hoarsely to him , as though he were a human being . 
Tallyho responded nobly to his master 's will , and the man and the animal fled onward like a single body . 
The captain and Hamilton were at St. John 's side . 
Riding Selim , that noble Arabian who , in old days , had distanced the best steeds of Virginia , and whose speed age had not diminished , leaning over , as did St. John , and impelled by the same passion which drove his friend on like a tempest , the worthy soldier kept pace with the most furious rush of his companion , and strained his eyes forward into the distance . 
`` I 'll plunge my sword into his heart , as I would into a dog 's . '' 
Suddenly they issued forth into the open country , and St. John stretched out his hand and said , hoarsely , `` There is the house ! '' 
Had not the captain laid a violent hand on the shoulder of St. John , the young man would have burst into the room . 
The sight was enough to arouse him . 
With his back to the door , Lindon stood with one arm . 
The girl had scarcely uttered these words , and still writhed to get free , when St. John broke from his companions and threw himself , like a wild beast , upon Lindon . 
So tremendous was the blind passion of the young man , that , great as was the strength and bulk of his adversary , he was hurled to the ground like a child -- St. John falling with his enemy , locked in a mortal embrace . 
St. John 's struggle with Lindon was not protracted . 
The murderous weapon hung fire , and a blow on the head , from the sword hilt of St. John , made him relax his grasp , and fall back stunned and senseless . 
St. John rose to his feet , pale and bleeding from a wound in his temple , and seeing the girl totter , at the moment , toward a chair , he placed his arm round her , and prevented her from falling . 
She clung to him in an agony of terror , with the wild agitation of a child who flies to a protector , and at the contact of those arms , at that face again laid near his own , the young man felt a thrill of bitter delight run through his frame . 
St. John raised the girl in his arms like a child , and just as the flame rushed roaring upon them , bore her forth into the storm , the whole broadside of the edifice bursting into flame . 
Captain Waters and St. John set out at once for Williamsburg in pursuit of Lindon , who had bent his steps thither . 
`` Time enough afterward for explanations , '' said St. John , as they departed at full gallop ; `` come , captain , and see me excute my private vengeance ! '' 
St. John followed the pointed finger , and saw that the Governor 's guards , mounted and fully equipped , were drawn up before the gate of the palace . 
St. John pushed his horse through the agitated mass , and riding up to the cannon , followed close by Waters , said to one of the men who recognized him , `` Where is your captain -- Mr. Lindon ? '' 
`` Come friend , '' cried St. John , throwing himself from his horse , the bridle of which he hastily affixed to the wall ; `` let us enter ! 
St. John heard the voice of Dunmore , however , in the great apartment which he knew so well ; and without ceremony threw open the door . 
As he did so , Captain Foy , who was rushing out , struck against him . 
said St. John . 
And as the two men disappeared , he hastily entered the apartment of the Governor . 
But he recoiled from the threshold . 
At the sight which greeted him , he turned pale and trembled ; a cold sweat burst from his forehead , looking around as though seeking for some means of escape from the spectacle which riveted his staring , and horror-struck eyes . 
St. John recoiled in irresistible horror . 
As he did so , Dunmore , who was surrounded by his crouching and terrorstricken family , rose wrathfully to his feet . 
cried the Governor , looking at the dusty garments and horseman 's boots of St. John ; `` you would say that the death of this person was unknown to you ! 
St. John almost recoiled from the speaker , as he had done from the dead body -- with a sentiment of awful horror and disgust . 
Then his mind 's eye , with a lightning-like glance , saw Lindon again rushing , without his sword , from the burning house -- he imagined the unfortunate man flying to Williamsburg -- he saw him stop at the magazine , the key of which he carried , to procure a sword ; he heard the tremendous explosion , and saw them bear the shattered and bleeding body to the palace . 
St. John had no time to reply . 
St. John looked away from the speaker with a curl of the lip which he could not repress ; his gaze fell upon the ladies , and he saw Lady Augusta , the friend of Blossom , gazing into his face , with so helpless and beseeching a glance , that his heart melted in his breast . 
`` Fear nothing , madam , '' he said , replying in words to the look , and bowing with grace and ceremonious courtesy ; `` the men of Virginia do not make war on women . 
Lady Augusta entered last , and St. John long remembered the sweet look of gratitude which she bestowed upon him . 
`` Thanks , Mr. St. John , '' she said , hurriedly pressing his hand ; `` you are truly a gentleman . 
And , whether by design or accident , she dropped one of her small gloves at his feet , which he raised and placed in his bosom , with a low bow of thanks and farewell . 
The door closed -- the coachman , trembling with fear , lashed his terrified horses ; they started at a gallop , and the chariot disappeared at the moment when another roar shook the palace . 
St. John hastened to the great gateway -- saw a wild , terrible tumult -- was mounted , and spurring his animal into the meleé , before he knew it , almost , the guards of the Governor had charged the crowd . 
Then St. John saw , raised above the heads of the crowd , two men clash together with a noise like thunder -- two swords gleamed aloft -- the combatants grappled , as it were , for an instant , breast to breast , face to face , and then , as the sudden blast of a trumpet , and the sound of galloping horses resounded from the other end of Gloucester street , the combat came to its termination . 
As Foy thus vanished , an immense roar of victory resounded , and borne on by the tumultuous and shouting multitude , St. John found himself suddenly by the side of the commander of the reinforcement . 
As his horse and that of St. John came in collision , the young man found his hand enclosed in the vice-like grasp of the stranger 's . 
`` Yes , '' replied St. John , gazing with absorbing interest at the pale martial face , `` yes ! 
We shall therefore add a few words in relation to Mr. St. John , the family at Vanely , and some other personages of the history . 
He never for a moment had any such intention , and soon after the departure of St. John for the Indian wars , had entrusted the entire sum to Colonel Vane , with a statement of the circumstances under which he had received it . 
Soon after the flight of Dunmore , however , and when St. John went again to Vanely , and dissipated with a word the long misunderstanding , the old gentleman returned the twenty thousand pounds , and in the presence of the young man , burned , smiling , the deed by which he had conveyed to Colonel Vane all his servants . 
One thing only remained to be done -- to repurchase `` Flower of Hundreds '' from Mr. Smith , the factor -- and in this St. John did not experience any difficulty . 
The worthy factor was quite content to receive back the money , with interest , having found that residing at `` Flower of Hundreds '' was neither in consonance with his habits , which were those of a town-dweller , or his interests , which made his presence necessary in Williamsburg . 
On the same morning Mr. St. John had been invited to the wedding of James Doubleday , Esq. , who was about to espouse the lady for whom he had only a `` Platonic regard , '' and we may add that there were present at Vanely , in the party of Captain Waters and his wife , who possessed but a single failing , two young people who , perhaps , looked forward to the day upon which they , also , would be married . 
St. John did not remain many days with his bride . 
He again girt on his sword , exchanged his buckled shoes for heavy horseman 's boots , and went to join the troops that were marching against Dunmore . 
St. John fought throughout the Revolution , and was known to enjoy the confidence and warm personal regard of the friend of Colonel Vane , the great leader of the armies of America . 
St. John reëntered the familiar old hall in the midst of p510-493 a joyful paean from a multitude of Africans with grinning and delighted faces ; and then the old chariot from Vanely was described ascending the hill , the day of his return having been announced in a letter . 
John Marshall , afterwards Chief Justice of the United States , was at the battle of `` Great Bridge '' -- not then twenty-one . 
Among the proscribed were Peyton Randolph , John Adams , Samuel Adams , John Hancock and Patrick Henry . '' 
`` Patrick Henry desired , '' says Mr. Wirt , in his Life , `` that the blow which must be struck , sooner or later , should be struck at once.These sentiments were then avowed by him to two confidential friends -LRB- Colonel Richard Morris , and Captain John Dabney -RRB- , to whom he further declared that he considered the outrage on the magazine a most fortunate circumstance , and as one which would rouse the people from north to south . '' 
