`` They call me Paul Ardenheim . '' 
`` This Paul -- how do you name him ? 
You surely know him -- certainly can give a reason for the terror which overspreads your faces , when you hear his voice , and feel his eye upon you ! 
An old man with white hair -- alone in a big house -- and a daughter -- poor David 's brain is very -- very dark -- '' `` There is some dark truth in this chaos of confused memories '' -- the thought flashed over the mind of Paul Ardenheim -- `` Robbers , did you say ? 
Where , David -- speak to Paul -- he is your friend . 
In his compassion for the wandering intellect , the bodily and mental decrepitude of Black David , Paul was wont to speak to him as to a way-ward child . 
`` It was -- it was -- '' and the hunchback laid his hand upon his forehead , as if in the attempt to fix some vagrant memory . 
`` Yes -- the robbers -- the old man -- '' gasped Paul , with impatient earnestness . 
asked Paul , laying his hand on the hunchback 's arm . 
Paul is strong . 
And the words had not passed his lips , when Paul disappeared among the shadows of the leafless trees . 
Erewe follow the footsteps of Paul Ardenheim , let us turn back in our history , and behold a scene which occurred some months before , when the blush of June was upon the Wissahikon woods . 
While the guests are feasting in the farm-house and dancing the old year to his grave , while Gilbert goes on his way of Blood , and Paul on his errand of Peace , the moon rises higher in the cloudless sky , and bathes the winding gorge -- the snowy hills -- the wilderness of leafless trees , in light , at once sad and sepulchral . 
Paul started at the sight . 
He was entangled in some bewildering dream . 
He could not believe that it was a reality -- that beautiful girl , kneeling at his feet , tossing her hair back from her shoulders , raising to his gaze her voluptuous face , and whispering -- like a Bride who welcomes her Lover -- `` You have come ! '' 
He tottered to a chair , and hid his burning forehead in his clasped hands . 
There was fire in his veins . 
His brain seemed to throb with the intensity of a new existence . 
His ears were filled with a lulling murmur , as though the voices of Angels had mingled with the echo of a distant waterfull . 
`` Paul ! '' 
He heard the voice , but dared not raise his head . 
And then a hand trembled among the locks of his hair ; he felt the pressure of soft , warm fingers upon his forehead . 
He raised his eyes . 
She was there , kneeling by his side , her hair floating over her robe , her face upturned , one arm resting upon his shoulder , that soft , warm hand pressed against his brow . 
And again , raising her lustrous eyes , she murmured his name -- `` Paul ! '' 
It confused , it bewildered him . 
This young girl , -- whose cheek flushed with passion through the intervals of her dark hair , whose large eyes grew dim with moisture beneath the fringed lids , -- kneeling by his side , looking into his face , winding her arm about his neck , her fingers trembling among the brown locks about his forehead -- it fired his veins with new madness . 
he wildly gasped . 
And with that look of boundless passion , she panted at his side . 
These words , uttered with a child-like faith , and yet with the tremulous accent of passion , completed the bewilderment of Paul Ardenheim . 
he exclaimed -- and his hand touched the forehead of the young girl -- `` You that are so beautiful -- you , whose dark eyes fill my soul with light -- you , that speak to me in tones that madden -- you , whose very touch thrills me with a mad delight ! 
And , darting from the chair , he fled affrighted from that beautiful girl . 
As he stands by the window , gazing out into the wintry night -- the waste of snow , silvered by the rising moon , sparkles before him -- the young girl , kneeling where he left her , covers with her hands that face , now crimsoned with blushes and wet with tears . 
echoed Paul -- `` There is a love which I feel when I gaze upon my sister 's face . 
his voice sunk into a whisper -- `` I dare not turn and gaze into your face , lest I should blaspheme my God ! '' 
But he did turn and gaze . 
As though an irresistible influence swayed his every motion , he turned , and beheld her panting before him , her limbs trembling beneath the robe , while her bared arms gathered it to her passionate breast . 
It seemed to him as though a golden mist floated in waves about her form , as she stood there , with those large eyes flashing amid their tears , while the dark hair , waving to her shoulders , gave an indescribable grandeur to the white forehead , seamed by that darkly swelling vein . 
And she came toward him , with a gliding motion . 
and her white arms were upon his shoulder . 
was still her exclamation , breathed through her passionate lips , as he felt her arms around his neck , her form quivering upon his breast . 
And her cheek was against his own , and over his arms and shoulders her unbound hair streamed , in waves of jetty blackness . 
His brain reeled -- the antique room , with its quaint wainscot , floated round him like the phantom of some unearthly dream -- from head to foot , in every nerve he trembled like a dying man . 
But still her arms were about his neck , still she panted on his breast , her warm bosom rising , from its sable veil , in passionate throbs , while her breath mingled with his own , as their lips trembled together . 
There was a moment which seemed an Eternity to him ; not an Eternity of calm rapture , but of passionate tumult , of voluptuous madness . 
It was when her eyes shone their deep brightness into his own , when lip and breath were one , when , trembling in her embrace , he felt his consciousness gliding from him , in a languor that stole upon his senses , like some enchanter 's spell . 
and the burden of that virgin form was in his arms , the wild beauty of that face glowed in burning blushes beneath his gaze . 
he exclaimed in broken tones , and his eyes answered her with a gaze as passionate as her own . 
But even as she clung to him , he wound his hands around her wrists , he held her from him , and -- while a frown gathered in sudden darkness on his brow -- saw at a glance her heaving breast , her naked feet , her round , white arms . 
Saw the face , whose brown hues were lighted with warm vermilion on the cheek and on the lip , while the languor of dewy eyes came through the meshes of her streaming hair . 
cried Paul -- `` The knell of my lost soul ! '' 
As he spoke he withdrew his hands from her wrists ; with the gesture of a madman , he dashed her arms from his grasp ; and tottered backward , gazing vacantly into her face . 
She trembled for a moment -- grew pale and fell . 
Her long black hair , strown over the floor , with the golden fringe of her mantle glittering against the transparent whiteness of her shoulders . 
She lay there like a dead woman , pale and unconscious , the blood starting from the wound upon her brow , a wound which she received , as her sudden fall dashed her head against the floor . 
And yonder , hurrying from the room , mad with passion , the blood boiling like molten fire in every vein -- yonder , behold Paul Ardenheim , his head bent on his breast , as he flies from the beautiful woman , as from a fiend . 
He does not seek the shadow of the recess . 
Without turning his head , without one backward look , he grasps the door in the southern wall -- it yields at his touch -- he is in the corridor , with the light of the lamp , which shines there , glowing over his brow . 
But as his foot is on the first step , even in the moment of passionate delirium , when the face , the form of the beautiful girl , floats before him in a veil of misty light , he is conscious of the presence of a far different face , a widely contrasted form . 
Black David heard the voices in a dream ; forgive , Master Paul , if Black David was foolish -- '' No reply came from the lips of Paul . 
He looked in the face of the deformed man , as though he saw him not ; he dashed his hand aside , and plunged down the stairs with a madman 's step . 
As his face glowed into the light , ere it passed into the darkness , Black David saw it distorted by a convulsive emotion ; as his step was heard in the hall beneath , Black David also heard his incoherent cry : `` Air ! 
Paul goes from the wizard 's house , flushed with agony , and shrieking for light , for air ! 
You have seen Paul ! '' 
`` Seen him , '' she answered , as though speaking to some person by her side -- `` Seen him , and he has dashed me at his feet , in scorn ! '' 
`` But he loves you , maiden -- '' `` Loves ! 
`` Loves you , to madness , and will come again , and kneel at your feet , and bathe them with his tears ! '' 
`` Will seal his love with a vow in the sight of God , and lead you from this lonely valley into the great world . 
Yonder , through the dark hangings of the bed , turn your gaze , and behold a gush of light trembling over that face , sunken deep into the silken pillow , with black hair floating all around it ; a face whose lids are closed , while the lips are parted , murmuring , even in slumber , some treasured name -- `` Paul ! '' 
`` But a Devil that comes panting on your senses from a white bosom ; that kisses you with warm , voluptuous lips ; that fires you with the brightness of eyes languid with passion ; a beautiful Devil altogether , who wears , on her fair brow , a single black and serpent like vein -- `` Fear Satan at all times , brave Paul of Ardenheim , but kneel to God , and pray for mercy , when he comes to you in a shape like this ! '' 
It is Paul , with the kiss of the Wizard 's child yet warm upon his lip , her words of delirious passion yet echoing in his ears . 
As Paul beheld the pale face of his father , with the high forehead and dreamy eyes , all memory of the Wizard 's daughter rushed suddenly from him . 
-- Speak , Paul , and answer me , why do we dwell together , the father and his children , in this wild forest of a strange land ? '' 
whispered Paul , raising his head from his clasped hands . 
`` You have become part of my soul , '' said the Priest of Wissahikon , in a softened voice , as he laid his withered hand upon the white forehead of his son : `` you might have been noble in your native land ; yes , your sword might have carved for you a gory renown from the corses of dead men , butchered in battle : or the triumphs of poetry and art might have clothed your brow in laurel , and yet you have chosen your lot with me ; with me , devoted life and soul to the perusal of God 's solemn book ! '' 
exclaimed Paul , advancing to the altar . 
The white hairs of the Priest mingled with the brown locks of Paul ; their hands , clasped together , rested upon the Bible , which was opened at the Book of Revelations Their separate prayers , breathing in low whispers from each lip , mingled together , and went up to Heaven in ONE . 
cries Paul , darting to his feet , his features quivering with suspense . 
gasped Paul . 
Paul stood as if spell-bound by the calm gaze of his clear , deep eyes . 
Paul , the son , buckled a sword to his side ; the old man extended his hands as if in blessing , while the young girl looked up silently into his face . 
`` Paul , the Stranger wrote his name upon a piece of parchment , which I have enclosed and sealed within this paper , in the form of a letter . 
Paul surveyed the high forehead and clear blue eyes of his Father , with a glance which mingled reverence with something of awe . 
`` I promise , Father , '' he said -- `` Until a year has passed , I will not break the seal . '' 
`` Come hither , Paul : '' the old man had taken a rusted key from the folds of his robe , and inserted it in the lock of the walnut door -- `` Enter this chamber , and listen while I speak . '' 
With a sensation of involuntary fear , Paul crossed the threshold , and beheld the gloomy features of this coffin-like chamber . 
His father 's pale face was agitated by an emotion , which resembled the rapture or madness of an inspired Prophet . 
`` Paul -- you behold this sealed packet . 
said Paul , as he knelt in the dust of the corridor , the light shining warmly over his thoughtful face . 
He clutched the rusted key with an involuntary earnestness . 
`` Come hither , Paul ; '' and the old man led his son for a few paces along the corridor . 
`` Father , you are not well -- the night air chills you -- '' said Paul , with evident anxiety . 
The old man 's thin lips moved , but it seemed as if he had not the physical power to frame an audible sound . 
Paul gazed upon his father with speechless anxiety and wonder . 
`` Let me see your hand , my son -- '' Paul extended his hand -- `` It is a fair hand , -- as white and delicate as a woman 's hand -- and yet -- '' The Father dropped the hand with a shudder . 
`` Kneel once more -- '' Paul knelt at his father 's feet . 
`` Repeat after me , my son , a solemn vow -- '' Paul clasped his hands upon his breast , and cast his eyes to the floor , trembling , he knew not why , at the touch of his father 's hand , at the sound of his voice . 
And then , in accents bold and deep , he repeated the words which came from the lips of his Father : `` I , Paul , devoted to God from my birth , do vow by his holy name , never to enter the door of this sealed chamber , before which I kneel , and whose surface bears the sign of the cross , until -- '' The old man paused , and veiled his eyes , while Paul looked up in wonder . 
He awaited the conclusion of the oath , but his Father did not utter the closing words , until a pause of some moments . 
`` Until -- '' repeated Paul , looking earnestly into his father 's face . 
Paul hesitated for a moment , and then , his eyes swimming in moisture , slowly repeated the words -- `` Until my father is dead . '' 
`` And if you fail in this , Paul , the Curse of God will descend upon you , and blight you into a hopeless grave ! '' 
For the first time in his life , Paul beheld an expression of fierceness -- anger -- rest upon the face of his Father . 
`` I hear father , and will obey , '' said Paul , looking with reverence into the venerable face , whose blue eyes gazed fixedly into his own . 
`` God 's peace be upon you , Paul , '' he said , and , light in hand , hurried along the corridor toward his chamber . 
Paul arose , and , gazing upon the receding form of his father , entered the door opposite that of the sealed chamber . 
Ere an instant had passed , he had crossed the threshold , and by the light of a fading lamp , beheld the familiar features of his own room . 
Paul seated himself in the oaken chair , near the desk , and , resting his cheek upon his hand , fixed his eyes sadly upon the light , and surrendered himself to his thoughts . 
His breath came in gasps , as he sat enveloped by the gloom and silence of the chamber ; his eye grew large and vacant in its glance . 
Now his eye wandered to the shelves , burdened with massive volumes , with clasps of steel and silver . 
From boyhood , nay , from very childhood , Paul had dwelt upon their pages , and as his mind -- gifted by the Almighty with a power as strange as it was peculiar -- grew into form , it had been moulded and colored by these written Thoughts of Astrology , Alchemy , and Mysticism . 
And amid the large volumes were two small books , which more than once attracted the gaze of Paul , as he sat absorbed in that silent self-communion . 
How the heart of Paul bounded within him , as he thought of the day when , from an obscure corner of a neglected chest , he had drawn forth these priceless volumes ! 
Near his elbow was another volume ; it was open , and its broad pages bore the bold , firm characters of the Hebrew tongue . 
It was the Bible -- the Old Testament and the New in one language -- which Paul had read for years ; the only copy of the Book which he possessed . 
Dearer he prized it , than all his works of Alchemy or Astrology , dearer even than the reveries of Religious Enthusiasm ; it was , to his soul , a thousandfold more precious than the pages of those seers of the heart , Shakspeare and Milton . 
The thoughts of Paul , at this still hour , dwell not altogether upon the pages of the Hebrew Bible , nor do they wander in the fairy world of Shakspeare , or with the terrible Phantoms of Milton . 
or ` Until I am dead , Paul ! ' 
`` I have never heard myself addressed by any other name than Paul Ardenheim -- my father 's name is also unknown to me . 
You will remember , that Paul applied the word `` Prophet '' alike to Shakspeare and Milton . 
Paul felt his brow grow feverish as it rested upon his hand , while his dilating eyes were fixed upon the half-shadowed walls of his room . 
Paul arose and paced the floor . 
It came upon him suddenly , like a burst of voluptuous music , like a gush of intoxicating perfume , like a dream of fragrance and moonbeams -- the memory of the beautiful woman whom he had seen to-night , for the first time . 
His cell was full of gloom , but even in the gloom he could see her flashing eyes , -- it was very still in the old Block-house , but through the stillness he could hear her voice , whispering words of wild , boundless passion . 
Wherever he turned , he saw a vision of a beautiful form , whose bosom , half-revealed , panted slowly into light , and throbbed into warm loveliness , beneath his gaze . 
It seemed as though the vision had rushed upon him like the frenzy of a fever -- his heart beat in tumultuous throbs -- he gasped for breath , and wildly stretching forth his hands , tottered to the chair . 
Veiling his eyes , he endeavored to banish that voluptuous image . 
But she was there , before him -- he felt her hand trembling softly over his forehead -- her breath upon his cheek . 
Again , her darkly flowing hair swept over his face ; again his blood was ice and flame by turns , as her voice whispered gently -- `` I have waited for you , Paul . 
It was in the midst of this voluptuous frenzy , that Paul cast his glance toward the light , and for the first time beheld a letter , inscribed with these words -- ` To my son . ' 
In case the hope , in which I have lived for seventeen years , proves false , and the Deliverer for whom we have waited in Prayer , for so many years , does not come -- even then , Paul , it is my purpose to fulfil , with regard to you , the command of the Lord . 
On this paper , Paul beheld a few words , written in a quaint and vigorous old English character . 
The ink was scarcely dried ; the paper was different in quality from any he used ; indeed , as Paul , ere perusing its words , held it between his eyes and the light , he beheld the date of its fabrication , woven in its texture , surmounted by a British Crown and coat of arms . 
`` There is no signature , '' exclaimed Paul , as he sunk back in the chair , utterly bewildered -- `` The mystery of my life grows darker ! 
Again he examined the paper ; the ink was very black , the writing distinct and bold . 
The `` water-mark , '' or date of the fabrication of the paper , was seen clearly , as he held it before the light -- 1590 . 
It can not for a moment influence my thoughts , this idle message sent to me by unknown hands -- '' While these thoughts , half-uttered , flashed through the brain of Paul , the words : `` Enter the door with the Cross upon its panels , '' rang unceasingly in his ears . 
The paper fell from his hands , and rested on the desk beside his father 's letter . 
Paul heard these words , as though a spirit had spoken them gently in his ears . 
`` I swore a solemn oath , that I would not -- '' he uttered the words , and starting from his seat , paced up and down the floor of his narrow room . 
All was breathlessly still -- he could hear the ticking of the old clock , which stood at the remote end of the corridor , or hall -- it seemed to him that he could also hear the frenzied throbbings of his heart . 
He was lost in a wilderness of conflicting thought . 
He was at once possessed by a yearning desire to know the mystery of his life , and with a terrible consciousness of the guilt which would darken his soul , in case he violated his oath . 
`` Paul , Baronof Ardenheim , '' he muttered -- `` Baronof Ardenheim ! 
Paul took the lamp , and went from that cell -- the dearest home of his hours of thought -- and closing the door , stood in the gloom of the corridor . 
Paul 's features became violently agitated as he glanced upon the door ; he stood like a man bewildered by a supernatural spell , gazing upon the dim Cross with expanded eyes . 
he murmured , and advanced a single step . 
Then came another pause , in which Paul stood without motion in the centre of the corridor , his face colorless , his eyes expanded and unnaturally brilliant . 
Passing along the corridor -- the old clock throbbing all the while through the breathless stillness -- he saw that the door of the room next to his own was slightly opened . 
It was his sister 's chamber . 
Inclining his head toward the dark panels , he listened -- All was still , save the low , soft breathing of the sinless sleeper `` God 's blessing upon thee ! 
Thou must take the vow , and swear with me , never to look with love upon the form of a living thing -- '' His brow clouded by a sombre expression , Paul passed on , his face agitated in every feature . 
Paul bent his head toward its panels -- all was silent -- his father slept . 
Softly unclosing the door , Paul passed the threshold , the light glimmering dimly over the details of a cell-like place , with a rude couch in one corner . 
With a noiseless footstep Paul advanced to the couch , and saw the form of his father , prostrate in slumber , the profile of his aged face turned toward the light . 
He had flung himself upon the plain bed without removing the dark robe from his spare limbs , and as he slept , the silver cross shone like a point of flame upon his breast . 
His eyes were closed , his face very calm , and the light imparted a faint glow to his snow-white hair . 
Beside his bed , his lips firmly set , and his eyes glaring from the fixed brows , stood his son , whose broad chest heaved with violent agitation , as he silently surveyed the calm image of venerable age which slumbered before him . 
Moved by the violent throbbings of his heart , the Cross which he wore now disappeared , and as suddenly flashed into the light again . 
As the eye of Paul became more accustomed to the gloom of his father 's narrow room , he beheld a singular statue which rose at the head of his couch , starting from a recess in the panelled walls . 
Paul beheld this statue with an involuntary tremor , for the words which his father had many times spoken to him , came vividly to his memory , at this lone hour of night and thought . 
These words had often fallen from his father 's lips -- as Paul looked upon the singular statue , half-revealed by his light , he remembered them with painful distinctness . 
`` That Image , Paul -- '' the old man was wont to say -- `` Is the Image , not of the Saviour triumphant over death and evil , but of Jesus imprisoned among the creeds and sophistries of the Church . 
He said this , Paul , and while the Priests encircled him in fiery anger , he fell back cold and dead . 
-- It may have been that the dull hue of the lead deepened the singular impression which the Image produced ; but as Paul held the light near and nearer to it , it seemed to him that he did not merely behold a face and form of lifeless metal . 
Paul shrunk back from the cold leaden eyes of the Image . 
As Paul bent down , the light which he held glowed more warmly over the leaden Image , and by the uncertain ray , the smile which dwelt upon the sad face of the Imprisoned Redeemer , seemed to change into a sneer . 
murmured Paul , but his Father did not hear him . 
He slept the calm slumber of a serene Conscience . 
Paul raised his head , and for the first time , as the rays of his lamp wandered from the face to the form of the Image , he beheld the extended hand , and felt all his serenity of soul vanish before a sudden tempest of temptation and thought . 
For on the forefinger of that leaden hand an iron key was suspended , bearing a label on which these words were written , and written in his father 's hand -- `` THE KEY OF THE SEALED CHAMBER . '' 
`` Can it be , '' gasped Paul , `` that my father means to tempt me ? 
Father -- '' he extended his hand as if to rouse the aged man , but as suddenly withdrew it -- `` No ! 
-- It is a massive key , and the label which it bears has been written not many hours ago -- '' He touched the key , and felt his hand drop to his side , as though detected in an act of guilt . 
The face of the Image seemed to smile upon him , in deep compassion . 
Paul extended the light , and regarded the key with a fixed glance , while the Image looked upon him with that sad smile , and the aged man slumbered unconsciously beneath his gaze . 
Paul started at a sudden sound -- but in an instant became calm again -- it was only the old clock striking the hour of four . 
`` Father , the trial is terrible -- '' faltered Paul . 
Ah , there is a hope -- I may for ever place a barrier between my soul and this horrible Temptation -- '' With a sudden grasp he seized the key , and casting one glance toward the slumbering face of his father , he strode madly to the door . 
On the threshold he paused , held the light toward the bed , and looked over his shoulder . 
That light gleamed faintly over his father 's face , but as its ray shone for a moment over the image , Paul with a shudder saw the leaden features move , and the fixed eyeballs glow with red lustre . 
He dared not look again , but holding the light in his left hand , and clutching the key in his right , he closed the door of his father 's room . 
He hastened with unsteady steps along the corridor in the direction of his own chamber . 
`` The key shall tempt me no longer -- '' he said as he hurried along -- `` In a moment , through the window of my room I will hurl it forth into the darkness and snow ! '' 
He stood before his chamber , but the same ray that disclosed the panels of his door , also shone upon the Cross of the opposite door -- the door which led into the Sealed Chamber . 
Paul rushed madly toward it , as though all power of self-control had suddenly passed from his brain . 
While his face was marked with the traces of that frenzy which boiled like molten fire in every vein , he extended his hand , and attempted to insert the key in the lock . 
His hand trembled , and the attempt was vain . 
Paul sank on his knees . 
For a moment all was a blank ; his senses were deadened by a sudden stupor . 
When reason and consciousness returned , he found himself still on his knees , the key clutched in his cramped fingers , while the cold damps moistened his forehead . 
Slowly he rose to his feet , and was turning his face away from the Cross on the door , when a hand was laid upon his shoulder . 
And yet that scarcely perceptible pressure held Paul as motionless as stone . 
He could not turn and look upon the person whose hand touched his shoulder , but , conscious of the terrible danger which he had just escaped , he feared to gaze into the face of a human being . 
The blush of shame glowed on his cheek . 
`` Father -- '' Paul began . 
`` Paul ! '' 
And the hand which had pressed his shoulder , touched his neck with its fingers . 
Paul felt the blood burn in every vein , as he turned , and , holding the light in his quivering hand , gazed upon the intruder . 
`` Paul , are you afraid of Fortune ! 
It was the beautiful face of a woman , the large dark eyes of passionate love , that met the gaze of Paul , as he heard the voice , whose every accent fired his blood . 
`` Ah -- madness again -- '' and Paul retreated from the vision of impetuous loveliness which glowed upon him from the gloom of the corridor . 
Deep and echoing , his voice swelled through the corridor . 
`` I am no spirit , Paul , '' she said , and flung back her hood . 
While her olive cheek was fired with vermilion , and her large eyes swam in moisture , and the ripe redness of her parting lips was contrasted with the whiteness of her teeth , she touched his arm with her soft hand , and glided nearer to his side . 
cried Paul . 
-- '' `` But the night is cold -- the ground is covered with snow -- the forest dark and dreary -- '' `` I know it , Paul , but the Voice bade me seek your home -- '' `` The Voice ? '' 
echoed the bewildered Paul . 
How her eyes flashed into new brightness , as , placing her hand upon his neck , she uttered these words ! 
Paul was spell-bound . 
It was no spirit voice that spoke , no spirit hand that trembled over his neck . 
Away to the home of Paul -- away by the path which crosses the Wissahikon , and terminates at the door of the Monastery . 
I obeyed , Paul -- and am here . '' 
echoed Paul . 
and the touch of her hand , trembling over his forehead , filled every vein of the Enthusiast with the frenzy of passion . 
That power , Paul , tells me that your future -- our future , Paul -- lies within the Sealed Chamber . 
It seemed to Paul that he could listen for ever to the music of her voice ; and while her eyes flashed in all their brightness , and her form , gliding closer to his own , heaved and swelled in every vein ; the Enthusiast could not turn his gaze away , even for a single moment , from this picture of voluptuous beauty . 
she echoed , her face so near the visage of Paul , that he felt her breath upon his cheek -- `` I remember -- '' And she clasped her forehead with her hands . 
`` You remember -- '' `` The words of the Voice , '' said the Wizard 's daughter : `` as it bade me seek your home , it also said -- ` Tell him , tell Paul , that the man who calls himself his Father , has no right to that sacred name -- '' ' Paul shrunk back from her side , looking into her glowing face with a glance of vacant terror . 
`` Who callshimself my father -- '' ``` Tell him also , that the mystery of his life is concealed within the walls of the Sealed Chamber . 
Once beyond its threshold , he will know his father 's name -- '' ' Had these words been spoken by the withered lips of age , the glow of anger would have crimsoned the face of Paul , the fierce denial risen to his tongue . 
There were some moments of unbroken stillness -- Paul was alone with the Wizard 's daughter . 
Not in her own chamber , as some few hours ago , but in that cell of the Block-house which had for years been the home of his thoughts . 
Resting his brow upon his hand , he could only gaze in her face , and grow wild and bewildered with the dazzling beauty of her eyes . 
As he gazed , his mind was agitated by contending memories . 
All that he had ever read of woman , came crowding on his brain , in a throng of contrasted images . 
She seemed to him like some form of which he had read ; like the fascinating image of one of those women , whose surpassing beauty gives freshness and bloom to their memories , even after their loveliness has crumbled into grave-yard mould , and the shadows of dead ages brood darkly over their dust . 
The impression which the beauty of the Wizard 's child made upon the soul of Paul , mingled these images with a darker association . 
She seemed to him something like the tender Esther , the daughter of Mordecai the Jew , with a shadow of Shakspeare 's Lady Macbeth , darkening over her white brow . 
Yes , even as Paul felt the inspiration of her eyes , she seemed a beautiful embodiment of some fearful deed , the splendid shrine of a Satanic Thought . 
Paul was silent . 
He could hear the monotonous sound of the old clock -- the throbbing of his heart -- and the death-like stillness impressed him with an omen of approaching Evil . 
echoed Paul , in an absent tone ; and then came a murmured thought -- `` What grandeur of earthly power is worthy for a moment to be placed in the balance with the possession of this beautiful form ? 
What glory like the beauty of her eyes -- '' `` Listen to me , Paul . 
It is not for me to explain that which is so dark with mystery -- I can only speak that which I feel -- '' `` Speak -- you would have me break my Oath , scatter confusion and shame upon my father 's gray hairs , and taint myself with the guilt of unpardonable crime -- '' `` No , Paul . 
But the hereafter -- '' Paul pronounced the word with shuddering distinctness . 
`` The Other World , that unknown sea , whose waves break in indistinct murmurs on the shores of this life -- '' Paul wildly exclaimed -- `` The Hereafter ! 
Paul started from that lovely countenance with affright . 
Her words chilled his blood . 
That insane Love , that unlimited ambition , were centred in the image of Paul of Ardenheim . 
She looked upon him as the embodied form of her Thought . 
He was her Future , her Happiness , her -- if we may speak it thus -- only Hereafter . 
Paul gazed sadly and with fixed eyes upon her glowing face . 
She was near him ; her voice broke like music over the silence of his cell ; her bosom swelled beneath the dark robe , and her tresses , agitated by the wind which came through the aperture of the door , waved slowly to and fro . 
he said , completely intoxicated by the strange brightness of her eyes -- `` Thy face so fair to look upon , thy voice like the delicious music of a daybreak dream , thine eyes shining ever with a light that seems to me like the brightness of a heavenly soul , and yet thou -- even thou -- '' Shrinking from her gaze , he covered his face with his hands . 
He had not the courage to complete the sentence . 
This was his thought , but he could not speak it . 
Absorbed in his reverie , Paul murmured to himself -- `` The white bosom to the charnel , the grave worm upon the radiant brow ! 
There was a hand upon his shoulder , and Paul heard her voice again . 
Heard it in every low whispering accent , but could not raise his eyes . 
This is your thought -- '' her voice grew tremulous , nay , Paul felt the hand tremble , as it touched his shoulder -- `` It is true , I must die . 
`` Life is before us , Paul , a goblet filled to the brim with love , with power . 
Shall we refuse to drink it , Paul , ay , to the last drop , because the goblet is held by a skeleton hand , or dash it down , untasted , because , as we raise it to our lips , Death stands mocking as he gives the cup ? '' 
`` Come , Paul . 
It is the hour , Paul , when , from the Past and the Future , the shadows will roll aside , as a mist from the dawning day . 
Pass the threshold -- know the mystery of the Sealed Chamber , and -- Paul -- canst thou not read my thought ere it is spoken -- `` Speak ! '' 
Starting from his seat , Paul endeavored to read her meaning in her eyes -- `` This room shall be our Bridal Chamber , '' whispered the Wizard 's daughter . 
`` And the hour of our Bridal -- '' Paul advanced a single step . 
echoed Paul , and grasping the light , he hurried from his room , and in an instant stood in the corridor again Itwas not the moment for calm thought , for every vein swelled with new life , and the heart within him throbbed with such violence , that even in the cold corridor , he panted for breath , for air . 
`` I will dare the worst , for you -- '' his voice was indistinct , hoarse with emotion . 
With a trembling hand he placed the key in the lock . 
Paul turned the key -- the door began to recede -- the heavy air which passed through the crevice , almost extinguished the light . 
There was a soft footstep , and a gentle hand raised the hand of the woman from the neck of Paul . 
Between them glided a young girl , who gathered a dark mantle around her white dress , and with her loosened hair resting in a golden shower upon her shoulders , and her clear blue eyes distended by a look of vague alarm , she gazed now in the face of the voluptuous woman , now in the ashen visage of Paul . 
and he turned away from the innocence and angel-like purity of his sister 's face . 
`` Paul , '' exclaimed the pure girl , in tones whose calm serenity by no means resembled the impetuous accents of the dark-haired woman -- `` You stand on the threshold of the Sealed Chamber -- '' There was a sad reproof in her gentle eyes . 
`` Do you frown upon me , Paul ? 
-- O , Paul , you do not dream of breaking that vow -- '' More darkly swelled the serpentine vein upon the forehead of the Wizard 's daughter , as she beheld the pure face of Catherine , fired with a holy emotion , as she clung to her Brother 's neck . 
`` He is not your father , '' she cried -- `` He has in reserve for you a Future darker even than the Past -- '' The mild face of Catherine was turned toward the beautiful woman ; her blue eyes shone with wonder and alarm . 
`` This scene fills me with terror , Paul -- '' whispered the sister , clasping her brother 's wrist -- `` Can it be ? 
`` Catherine -- Catherine -- '' groaned Paul , as the hand which grasped the key fell nerveless by his side . 
`` I am terribly tempted -- my will is not my own -- '' He turned wildly from that face , whose blue eyes , fair skin , and golden hair , symbolized a pure and child-like soul , to the dark cheek , flashing eyes , and jet-black hair , which embodied the idea of a proud and voluptuous spirit . 
It was the eventful moment of his Fate ; the calm love which came like Peace from God , as he looked upon his sister 's face , contended with the frenzy of passion which fired every vein , as his glance encountered the gaze of the dark-haired woman . 
`` Come , Paul -- to your own room -- it is an Evil Angel that stands so beautiful by your side . '' 
Paul surrendered his hand to the grasp of his sister , and turned his face away from the door . 
`` Your hand from my neck , sister , '' shrieked Paul , maddened by the look of the proud maiden -- `` There is no time for thought . 
I must go on -- '' Grasping the light , which showed his convulsed countenance in every lineament , he dashed over the threshold of the Sealed Chamber . 
The door closed behind him , and all was darkness in the corridor . 
While her bosom bounded beneath her clasped hands , she muttered in a half-coherent tone , her doubts and hopes mingling in strange confusion : `` He will come forth , with joy on his noble forehead * * * * Have I advised him to his ruin and shame * * * * Together we will mount the steep pathway of ambition ; he will be noble , and I shall be his bride , his * * * * A terrible doubt -- should the voice deceive * * * * All is still -- I hear no sound * * * a cry -- silence -- a groan * * * Paul ! 
Paul ! 
`` Paul ! '' 
`` Paul ! '' 
`` A footstep -- he comes -- '' cried the Wizard 's daughter . 
The door unclosed , and Paul Ardenheim appeared on the threshold . 
The face of Paul Ardenheim thrilled the Wizard 's daughter with a feeling of horror , beyond all power of language to define or analyze . 
He was near the end of the corridor -- she saw the light shining upon the face of the old clock , when the sound of an opening door was heard , and a white-haired man came forth and stood in the path of Paul Ardenheim . 
Then , as she paced the floor , she suffered her dark hair to float loosely over her shoulders , while her thoughts , only half-uttered , still centred upon her lover -- `` Paul ! 
He will come -- perchance within the hour -- would that I could unravel the mystery of that fatal room ! 
Did he strike the old man to the floor ? 
I can not tell , for his face -- ' She shuddered at the memory . 
And Paul -- where does he wander now ? 
Would that he were here , his hand linked in mine , his lip upon mine own ! 
Do not smile at the passionate extravagance of the proud girl , who , reared from infancy in the silence of these forests -- alone with her enthusiast father -- afar from the great world -- has been taught , by a Voice that speaks from the air , to love the mysterious Paul of Ardenheim , to invest his face with the mad idolatry of a boundless passion ! 
-- Paul ! 
Will he ever return ? '' 
`` Hast thou beheld him ? '' 
It is the Voice -- '' ejaculated the ambitious girl -- `` I have beheld him . ' 
`` Did he enter the Sealed Chamber ? 
Had he the firmness to look the Future in the face ? '' 
`` Didst thou see him come forth again ? '' 
`` Where is he now ? '' 
Where is he now , this Paul of Ardenheim , whose life is linked with mine own ? '' 
With the name of Paul upon her lips , she sank upon the pillow , drawing close the curtains , so that no ray of light might break the gloom of the sacred retreat . 
And then , turning her gaze from the door , as she beheld the eyes of her father and the Deformed enchained by some object near her , the Maiden beheld -- not the image of Paul Ardenheim , nor yet some hideous spectre summoned by blasphemous rites from the shadows of the Other World . 
Not a word of the fate of Paul , nor of the Wizard 's child , nor of Madeline , the orphan girl , -- there is silence and night upon the Wissahikon , while these years pass away . 
We will follow the thread of this singular history of the olden time , and while we learn the fate of Paul -- of the Wizard 's child -- of Madeline -- we may perchance behold some traces of the fight of Brandywine , some tokens of Germantown , and come at last to the huts and snow of Valley Forge . 
Shall we behold Paul of Ardenheim again ? 
But even as we ask the question , Paul is a perjured and dishonored Man , for an overwhelming thought crowds upon our souls . 
The Sealed Chamber , and the secret , which drove Paul out into the world , a scorner of his father 's gray hairs , with the stain of Perjury upon his soul ! 
Paul -- Paul -- Birmingham -- was that the name ? '' 
`` Paul Ardenheim , '' said the old man , with a sudden and marked change of voice -- `` He has never been seen on the Wissahikon , since the last night of Seventy-four . '' 
`` Had he no family ? 
Nobody about Wissahikon speaks of him -- that is , you know , Paul -- or of his people -- '' `` But the monastery , or castle , or what in the deuce do you call it ? '' 
Without lookin ' back , he hurries toward the woods -- Ah , it 's him , not in body , but in sperrit -- it is Paul Ardenheim ! '' 
With the word `` Paul Ardenheim , '' he fell back insensible in the chair , his parting lips spotted with white foam . 
`` Paul Ardenheim , '' cried Jacopo , as he crossed the threshold -- `` Or his Ghost . '' 
At the same moment , the dark figure disappeared among the shadows of the distant woods , and a deep groan resounded from the arbor Thedark form which come between the old man and the sun , and with its shadow struck him down , even in the act of Murder ; was it indeed Paul Ardenheim , or but an apparition gliding sadly and noiselessly through the light and shadow of the summer day ? 
`` Paul Ardenheim ! '' 
They clasped hands together , and stood in silence , gazing into each other 's eyes , -- Paul Ardenheim and Reginald of Lyndulfe . 
said Paul , keeping the hand of his friend within his own , and resting upon that glowing face his sad lustrous eyes . 
`` Egad , Paul , it does indeed ! '' 
cried Reginald , with a cheerful laugh -- `` Deuce take the cap , I say , '' and he rested his rifle against a rock , and tossed his cap on the sod -- `` The day is somewhat warm -- a little too warm for violent exercise -- sit there , Paul , and I 'll sit here , and we 'll talk over old times together . '' 
`` Old times , '' echoed Paul , as he rested himself upon a rock , which overhung the water -- `` We have known each other something more than two years . '' 
A sad smile passed over his face . 
`` Two years and six months , my dear Paul -- '' Reginald threaded his chesnut curls with a delicate hand sparkling with rings -- `` And yet we have livedmore , Paul , in that brief period , than in all the rest of our years together . 
Two years and six months ago , Paul , we met for the first time , under peculiar circumstances . 
`` You saved my life , Paul . 
The next morning , at daybreak , Paul , as I was about to leave Philadelphia -- having been called home to England by a letter -- you appeared suddenly before me , pronounced my name , and thus reminded me of the pledge which I had made to you the night before . 
We clasped hands on it , Paul , and went together . 
Those were delightful days we passed together , Paul , in the old castle , among the Yorkshire hills -- but , Paul -- '' `` Spare your reproaches , Reginald . 
-- It was here -- it was here -- '' Paul laid his hand upon his forehead . 
`` Paul , '' he said , in a tone of unfeigned kindness , `` it is one of your Dark Hours ! '' 
`` You have never told me the story of your life , Paul . 
The moment I looked upon your face , Paul , and met the gaze of your eye -- while all around fell back from you , with an inexplicable fear -- I felt that you were my friend , my brother . 
I seek not now to penetrate that mystery , but I have a few rude words to say to you , Paul , and do not -- do not , I beseech , slight my friendship , yes , my brotherhood , with the reproach due only to a heartless curiosity . 
-- You have your dark hours , Paul , and it is this that makes the blood chill in my veins , as , gazing upon your face , I see it shadowed by a cloud , that looks to me like an unutterable despair . '' 
Reginald paused a moment , as if to gather strength ; then , with his face flushed and his eye brightening , he continued : `` I have seen you , Paul , gazing with rapture on the setting sun . 
groaned Paul , as he hid his face within his hands . 
These are no trifling crimes -- '' `` It was a Dark Hour , Paul ; dark to me , because I could not comprehend , and therefore could not relieve . 
At Lyndulfe , one night , when all was mirth and song , and a crowd gathered round you , listening in delight to your eloquent words -- when every eye was centred upon your impassioned face , and your glance shone with an incessant brightness -- even then , Paul , your eye grew vague and glassy , your brow was overspread by that fearful gloom , and you rushed from the scene with a mad cry of anguish . 
Paul started to his feet -- `` Spare me -- spare me -- there are incidents in every life that can not be too lightly touched -- '' As he uttered these words , in an impetuous tone , Reginald became suddenly pale . 
Paul was gazing in the waters , at the reflection of his agitated face ; Reginald sat silent and shuddering . 
`` Paul , I do not wish to lift the veil which rests upon your heart . 
Command me , Paul -- I do not say command my gold , for that would be an insult -- but command my heart , my arm . 
But I will speak it -- even if you have committed a crime -- '' Reginald never forgot the look with which Paul turned to him -- never , until the hour of his death , forgot the accent in which he spoke . 
`` Paul ! 
Paul ! '' 
cried Reginald , overwhelmed with agony , as the words of Paul penetrated him with awe . 
Paul looked upon him with a sad smile . 
`` It is not well , Paul . 
`` Paul , I swear it -- I would give my life to serve you ! '' 
We are alone , Paul -- the hour is very still and solemn -- I feel as though the spirit which flashes from your eyes , had pervaded my own bosom . 
`` Paul , I will tell you the history . 
She is indeed a beautiful girl -- '' `` She -- '' and Paul smiled that sad smile , which always filled Reginald with involuntary awe . 
You may be sure that her hair was dark , that her lip , with its warm vermilion , contrasted vividly with the clear brown of her cheek -- '' `` At his words , '' muttered Paul , as his eye grew vacant , `` that memory comes once more upon me ! 
he said aloud . 
interrupted Paul . 
murmured Paul , as he saw his own face , mirrored in the waves , suddenly flush into something like rapture -- `` Dark-eyed , hair black as midnight , a step like a queen , eyes beaming with the tender prophecies of youth and hope ! 
`` But tell me , Paul , the history of your life since you left Lyndulfe -- '' `` Let me compress ages of thought and suffering in a word . 
`` Yet there must be classes in the world , Paul . 
-- Paul stood erect , his hands outstretched toward the western sky , his features stamped with a sombre enthusiam . 
`` Do you not perceive , Paul , that sentiments like these will apply very dangerously to the present contest between the Revolted Colonies and the King ? '' 
echoed Paul , in a tone that echoed strangely through the stillness of the forest -- `` Always the King ! 
echoed Paul -- starting as though some memory found a voice in the utterance of that word . 
`` Paul -- Paul , can I indeed believe my ears ? 
He laid his hand upon the scarlet uniform , which was visible through the folds of his hunting-shirt . 
His face was convulsed with mocking laughter . 
`` Ah -- Paul -- it is not my friend that speaks . 
cried Paul , gazing into the waters with an absent glance . 
`` Tut -- tut -- Paul ; we 've had enough of this nonsense . 
Ah -- I remember -- the name in the Urn -- '' Paul was silent . 
The Last Night rushed upon his memory again . 
`` Paul , you surely do not imagine , that the idle Declaration , promulgated by the -- ha , ha -- the Continental Congress , will ever influence the destinies of Europe ? '' 
`` You talk , it seems -- ha , ha -- Paul , you must pardon the smile . 
Paul ceased , and wiped the moisture from his forehead . 
Once or twice , as Paul went on in his history , Reginald had looked up , and been startled by the unnatural excitement of that bronzed visage . 
Paul was silent , but some moments elapsed ere he could rouse himself from the profound reverie into which he was plunged . 
At last , raising his eyes , he beheld Paul standing near , his arms folded and his eyes fixed upon the undimpled stream . 
The unnatural pallor of his face only made his eyes seem more wildly lustrous . 
His forehead was bare -- it shone in the sun , and the wind agitated the locks of his dark brown hair . 
`` Why , you are pale , my brother , '' cried Paul , turning suddenly round . 
A smile darted over Paul 's face . 
`` There was once a King called Charles the First , and a Brewer named Cromwell -- '' he said . 
The incident related by Paul , whose dark eye shone as with inspiration , sank deep in his heart . 
Paul uttered the italicized words with an accent of profound sadness . 
`` My way lies in this direction : '' he pointed to the north-west -- `` Beyond those woods I shall soon learn the secret of my fate . 
`` I ` faith , you are altogether too sober , brother Paul ! 
`` But , Reginald , you would not think of committing a wrong -- '' There was a profound sadness in the countenance of Paul . 
Do not talk of ` thinking ' in such a case , friend Paul . 
Can you foretel the fate of that flower , Paul ? 
Paul turned upon him with a stare of wonder . 
Paul , our life is precisely like the flower -- we drop from another world , perchance from some branch of an immortal tree -- the stream that bears us is called Fate , Destiny , Providence . 
Paul looked upon the glowing face of Reginald -- marked his athletic form -- his lip curling in a smile -- his cheek flushed with vigorous physical beauty -- and uttered a sigh . 
It was a moment ere he answered him . 
That indeed is Destiny -- Fate -- '' `` But sheis so very beautiful , Paul -- lips that pout with passion ; eyes that fire your blood ; wavy hair , that makes your fingers mad to clasp it ; a step that at once glides over and spurns the earth ; cheeks whose clear brown is ripened by a rose-bud flush . 
Paul , Youth and Love mixed in one cup make such a bewitching draught , that one can not help but drink it ! '' 
As he spoke , Paul stood with folded arms , his melancholy face invested with a wild spiritual grandeur . 
I love her , Paul , would die for her , but -- '' The sentence was broken by an ejaculation from the lips of Paul . 
`` But '' -- I can not wait for marriage , he would have said , when the exclamation broke the sentence . 
cried Paul -- `` Her name ? '' 
A strange name , Paul -- altogether picturesque and romantic . 
I never called her by name -- '' he added , with a sigh . 
Paul turned his face away ; Reginald saw his form agitated , but could not look upon the expression of his countenance . 
`` Father -- Sister -- '' these words were audible amid the muttered ejaculations which came from the lips of Paul . 
`` At sunset , under the blasted pine , '' he said , raising his face , and abruptly turned away , his mantle floating from his shoulder , and his plume rising between the eye of Reginald and the sun . 
The half which Paul held in the light , bore the figures 17 ; while on Reginald 's fragment the figures 32 were distinctly seen . 
`` I have never forgotten it , Paul -- '' `` In case one of us should , at any time , be placed in a position of extremity , he should send to the other his fragment of coin -- '' `` And the one who received this coin , should hasten to his brother 's aid , in face of all dangers , regardless of all other ties or obligations . 
I remember it , Paul ! '' 
cried Paul , as he turned away . 
At this moment Paul appeared in sight again , standing upon a rock , some distance up the stream , which received the warm sunshine on its breast . 
His face , thrown in strong profile , stood out from the shadows of the distant woods , and glowed in vivid light . 
His arms were outspread ; he seemed absorbed in some thought of voiceless prayer . 
` He is praying that he may behold his father 's white hairs , and be welcomed by a sister 's kiss , '' muttered Reginald -- `` Ah ! 
It was a pathway rarely trodden ; it led among the wildest recesses of the woods , and led toward the Home of Paul . 
In a few moments he would be there ; he would behold the old Block-house smiling under its garmenture of vines and flowers . 
Paul felt his knees bend under him , and wiped the cold moisture from his brow . 
Every moment brought him nearer to that Home ; soon he would know the worst . 
His thoughts became vague and dream-like . 
He was again a wanderer over the face of the earth . 
Again he stood in the streets of Paris , an unknown and friendless man , alone in a desert of strange people . 
Again he trod the soil of Germany , and paused for a while amid the chivalric student people of Heidelberg , and heard their earnest songs , chorused by the clash of swords , swelling deep and far over the bosom of the Rhine . 
He thought of the night when , belated among the Hartz mountains , whose abrupt cliffs and pines and shadows reminded him of his own Wissahikon , a voice spoke to him , and -- Paul dared not pursue the thought . 
He shuddered as it crossed his mind . 
And as he banished the memory of the Hartz mountains , the thought of his Father , his Sister , his Home came back with overwhelming force . 
he cried , and flung himself at the foot of a wild poplar tree -- `` How can I look upon my father 's face , when there is Perjury written upon mine ? '' 
Again the cold moisture gathered on his brow -- he raised his right hand to dash it away -- when his eye assumed an unnatural brightness , and he gazed upon the half-raised hand with a look of singular interest . 
`` This hand -- this hand -- '' he muttered , and springing from the seat at the foot of the wild poplar , hurried on his way . 
There was a strip of wood to be passed , a lane to be crossed , a gentle hill to be ascended , and then his feet would press the wild grass of the winding road which led to the gate of the Monastery . 
Paul hurried through the strip of wood , and descended the steep bank into the lane , which led from the Wissahikon to the Schuylkill . 
He was hurrying toward the opposite bank , when his ear caught the sound of a footstep . 
Paul waited until he approached . 
The laborer started at the sound of the voice -- looked in Paul 's face with a vacant stare , while his rugged visage was stamped with an expression of intense terror . 
Paul held his breath as he awaited an answer to this question . 
The suspense of Paul amounted to agony . 
As he spoke , he advanced , his whole frame trembling with emotion . 
Paul remained standing in the centre of the road , absorbed in thought . 
After a moment he raised his eyes ; there was a noble poplar tree standing on the verge of the opposite bank , its broad green leaves intermingled with flowers that resembled cups of gold adorned with pearl . 
At sight of this tree , which stood alone , reaching forth its magnificent branches on every side , all the associations of his youth rushed upon the soul of the Wanderer . 
Maddened by this monument of the Past , this green memorial of his crime , Paul ascended the bank , and darting over the irregular fence , hurried blindly onward . 
It was not long before his feet pressed the winding road which led to the Block-house gate . 
Paul gazed upon the few paces of the road which were visible , and felt that every thing announced decay and desolation . 
After standing for a moment , buried in thought , Paul commenced that journey of two hundred yards , which to him was more terrible than a journey around the entire globe . 
As he went onward , tearing his way through the briers , his cheek became paler , until his eyes , increasing in brightness , resembled the eyes of a living man set in the face of a corse . 
He trembled with cold , although the day was one of the most delicious in June , and gathered his mantle closely over his breast . 
He attained the solitary chesnut tree , around which the path turned with a sudden inclination . 
Shadowed by the rich foliage , Paul paused for a moment , and remembered that from this tree to the gate of the Block-house , the road was marked by five inclinations . 
Faint and powerless from the emotion , which only added brightness to his eyes , while it paled his cheek , and loosened every fibre of his frame , Paul toiled slowly onward , until he stood beneath the shade of the tulip-poplar . 
Then it was , that the memory of the fatal night came upon him with crushing force ; he sank on his knees , and buried his face amid the grass . 
`` With this hand I struck him down -- '' he moaned -- `` I dashed him beneath my feet , and lived . 
An unbroken silence prevailed through the forest , while Paul remained prostrate , with his face buried in the grass . 
There was no human eye to look upon his agony , and listen to his incoherent words . 
He was alone with his Soul -- with Memory . 
A low humming sound came to his ears . 
He started up -- it was the sound of a human voice . 
`` It is the voice of Catharine , '' he cried , springing to his feet , and turning around the foot of the wild poplar . 
he would have said , but could not speak the word . 
Trampling over the briers , and through the grass , he hurried onward toward the oak . 
He was strong in his very despair . 
He was resolved to reach the oak without a moment 's delay , and turning its rugged trunk , prostrate himself at the feet of his Father . 
He drew near the old tree , whose branches might have sheltered an hundred men . 
Venerable with the growth of five centuries , its immense trunk hollowed by decay , and its gnarled limbs woven together with fragrant vines , it broke on the eye of Paul as he hastened forward , just as he had seen it in the summers of his boyhood . 
Beneath its shade he paused , and gazed beyond -- that sound of voices breaking more distinctly on his ear . 
Before him , tangled no longer with briers , the road stretched to the west again , with sunlight playing over its grass and flowers , while the bright foliage quivered overhead . 
Paul held his breath ; the sight which he beheld , enchained every faculty of his soul . 
Where the sunshine came in wandering rays , there was a little child tossing merrily on the grass , and crushing leaves and flowers in his tiny hands . 
His face and naked arms were embrowned by the sun , and his coarse garb indicated that he was but a peasant 's child . 
The air rang with his merry laughter , as he tossed his flowers in the air -- caught them upon his face and hair , and then -- while his cheeks were almost hidden by violets and roses -- reached forth his little hands to gather more . 
A happy child , dressed in an humble garb , playing all alone in the midst of the silent forest , making the air musical with his voice , and baptizing his stainless cheeks with freshly gathered flowers ! 
Paul stood very still , afraid to move or breathe , lest he might scare the beautiful vision away . 
Leaning against the trunk of the great oak , he rested his pale cheek against the rough bark , and gazed in silence upon the laughing child . 
His eyes filled with tears . 
That picture of laughing innocence stood up beside the image of his own dark fate , in terrible contrast . 
-- The tears rolled slowly down his cheeks . 
-- Afraid to breathe , he soon became conscious that there was another spectator of this scene . 
It was the face of an humble laborer 's daughter -- Paul remembered it well . 
She was but a girl when he left the Wissahikon . 
One day , four years ago , near this very spot , a girl of some fifteen years had knelt before him , and joining her hands upon her breast , asked his blessing . 
The blessing of Paul Ardenheim ! 
It seemed to Paul that he could gaze for ever on this scene ; it was to him a picture which memory might wear for ever in her holiest shrine . 
`` She can tell me of my father , '' thought Paul . 
Paul advanced ; his footstep crashing down the wild grass as he left the shadow of the oaken tree . 
`` It is a beautiful child , '' he said , in that voice , which was wont to win the ear with its rich intonation -- `` Let me take it in my arms , and learn from its lips the song which the angels sing in Heaven . '' 
he said , with an attempt to smile -- `` Has my face grown strange so soon . 
Never for a moment did she turn her wild gaze from the countenance of Paul . 
cried Paul , as the undeniable fear of the young mother cut him to the soul -- `` Have I become so changed , so hideous , that you do not know me ? '' 
I am living -- '' But still the young mother clutched her child to her bosom , and with her dilating eyes fixed upon the face of Paul , faltered , in a tone pitiful with terror -- `` Do not harm me ! 
From this point the road extended toward the north ; had it not been for the branches , which bent down until their leaves swept the grass , Paul could have seen the Block-house . 
PAUL -- JANUARY FIRST , 1775 . 
He gazed upon this inscription with a vacant wonder . 
He could not trust his sight , but passing his hand over the smooth surface of the beechen trunk , felt every letter , and counted them one by one . 
Paul left the shadow of the beech and staggered onward . 
His steps were wild and unsteady -- he tottered like a drunken man . 
A branchbent over his path -- he dashed it aside , and caught a gleam of the white trunk of the sycamore . 
His face like the face of a corpse , his eyes flashing with the glare of madness from the compressed brows , his forehead damp with moisture , he dashed onward , reaching forth his hands with an involuntary impulse , as he saw the white bark of the well-remembered sycamore . 
But ten paces intervened between him and the tree ; only ten paces , and yet every foot of the green sod seemed lengthened into a league . 
Bounding forward with the last impulse of his strength , he fell prostrate at the foot of the sycamore . 
He was afraid to raise his head -- afraid to look , lest he might see his father 's face -- afraid to listen , lest he might hear his father 's voice . 
Lifting his face from his hands , he gazed down the path , hedged in by trees , and beheld the sunlight shining warmly over a green space in which it terminated . 
It was the Block-House -- it was his Home . 
Paul could not repress an ejaculation of joy . 
He had seen scarce twenty-one summers , and yet he talks of the olden time ! 
Paul hurried forward . 
He was determined to meet the pale face of his father -- he was nerved to encounter the sad welcome of his sister 's eyes . 
Leaving the sycamore , he hurried toward the gateway . 
`` It has not been closed for many a day , '' thought Paul , as he hurried through the tall grass . 
He beheld the door of the Monastery -- a dark mass of oaken panels , with an iron knocker near the top -- appearing in the midst of the tapestry of vines , which fluttered over the front of the edifice . 
To leave the gateway , to hurry over the space between it and the mansion -- a space overgrown with grass and briers -- to place his feet upon the flat stone in front of the door -- was the work of a moment . 
He nerved his arm as for a desperate effort -- he seized the iron knocker and beat the panel with repeated blows , and stood cold and shuddering , as he listened for the echo of a footstep . 
He heard the echoes of the knocker die away along the corridor , within the mansion , and -- was it a fancy ? 
-- he heard the sound of voices ; voices very faint and far away . 
Again -- torn by emotions beyond the power of words to describe or analyze -- again he lifted the knocker , and again the gloomy echoes resounded through the corridor . 
Paul could endure this horrible suspense no longer . 
`` Another moment , and I am mad , '' he cried , and dashed his clenched hand against the door . 
It opened before him -- the wooden latch , crumbled by age , fell in fragments at his feet -- the light of day streamed in upon the corridor , while a gust of damp chill air rushed in his face . 
Into that corridor opened the doors of various chambers -- the room of his father -- of Catharine -- his own cell -- the room in which the Deliverer had uttered his vow -- and that apartment , which concealed in its bosom the Urn enshrining the Deliverer 's name . 
Paul stood on the threshold , gazing into the gloom of the corridor , listening intently for a sound . 
cried Paul , but he started at the sound of his own voice . 
-- Advancing , he opened the first door to the right , crossed its threshold , stumbled against some object in the darkness , and at last touched the bolt of a shutter with his extended hands . 
He drew the bolt , pushed open the shutter , as far as the vines without would admit , and by the faint light which came through the aperture examined the details of the place . 
Paul could not turn his eyes away from the table ; the chairs seemed arranged for his father , himself , and Catherine , as in other days ; but there was dust upon the board , and cobwebs hung across the fireless hearth . 
He could not banish the conviction , that the room had been untenanted for many months . 
`` He is dead -- my father , '' he cried , in a tone of agony . 
Sinking on a chair , he rested his arms upon the table , and buried his face in his hands . 
When he raised his face into the light , every feature was resplendent with joy . 
Uttering these words with a burst of unfeigned rapture , he sank on his knees , near the table , and raised his glowing face toward heaven . 
It was his right hand which he lifted in the light . 
There was a shelf above the hearth , and on this shelf Paul discovered , with much astonishment , a box filled with tinder , and near it flint , steel , and a package of matches ; in fact , the requisite materials for creating fire . 
From the ashes of the fireless hearth , Paul drew forth a pine-knot slightly charred at one end . 
`` It will serve me for a torch , while I traverse the unknown chambers of my home , '' he said ; and in a few moments , with the red light of the pine-knot flashing over his features , he stood in the corridor again , his back to the sunlight and his face toward the shadow . 
Then , as if nerving himself for a desperate deed , he passed along the corridor , he drew near the door of his father 's chamber . 
How the memories of other days came crowding over his soul ! 
Not a board in the floor , nor a panel in the walls , but was remembered by him , and remembered well . 
The very echo of his footsteps brought back the sounds of other days . 
Soon the pine-knot , burning and glaring over his head , flashed upon the door of his father 's room . 
And yet , torn by a horrible doubt , Paul could not advance ; he remained gazing upon the panels of the door with an absent stare . 
He had but to extend his hand , to touch the latch , and the door would open before him . 
But he dared not do it . 
Paul could gaze upon the door no longer . 
He advanced but a step , holding the light above his head . 
It was the door of his sister 's chamber which met his gaze . 
he whispered . 
he bent his head against the panels . 
In that moment of suspense , a gentle face , whose clear blue eyes revealed a guiltless soul , rose vividly upon his memory , over the mists of the past . 
Still no answer greeted him ; there was no footstep tripping lightly over the floor ; no gentle hand touched the latch ; no voice -- full of melody , hallowed with the tones of other days -- murmured the brother 's name , and bade the wanderer welcome home . 
Paul passed on . 
Paul saw it and rushed forward with a bound . 
That Cross traced on the panels pierced his brain with an intolerable torture . 
For a moment he stood before it , swaying to and fro , like a drunken man ; he reached forth his hand , and touched the key which was inserted in the lock . 
And then , as if the secret of that fatal Chamber had taken bodily form , and glowed before him like a corse , invested with an unnatural light by the touch of Satan , with the pale light of the grave glimmering from its sunken eyes , and a low-toned voice speaking from its livid lips -- Paul groaned in agony , and muttered amid his incoherent cries -- `` Spare me ! 
Not with this hand -- not with this hand -- '' Exhausted by the violence of his emotions , -- appalled by the memory of the Revelation -- afraid to know that the old man his father was indeed dead , but much more afraid to look upon his living face , Paul sank on his knees , and lifted the torch above his face with his clasped hands . 
These words , uttered by Cain , when the burden of his remorse pressed too heavily upon his soul , fell with touching emphasis from the lips of Paul Ardenheim . 
Many moments passed while he remained on his knees , with his face turned to heaven . 
Gathering strength at last , he rose , and turned his eyes toward the opposite door . 
It led into his own room , the home of his thought , that dearly remembered place , where the Hebrew volume had spoken its mysterious words , and Shakspeare and Milton blessed the Dreamer 's soul . 
exclaimed Paul , as the brighter memories for a moment banished the gloom from his soul . 
He passed on toward the extremity of the corridor . 
Those doors on either side , which had never been opened within his memory , were now hung with cobwebs . 
It was slightly open ; Paul touched it , and beheld a narrow stairway . 
`` Itleads to the upper rooms , of which my father spoke in his last letter , '' said Paul , and for an instant he stood hesitating , with his foot upon the first step . 
The stillness which prevailed , sank upon his soul , and filled him with an insurmountable awe . 
At the other end of the corridor , the sunlight shone , but around him all was vague and shadowy . 
The light of the blazing pine-knot revealed his colorless features , while its smoke hung in a cloud above his dark hair . 
A wild hope , mingled with a wilder fear , crossed his brain , that his father stood waiting for him at the head of the stairway , with Catharine by his side . 
he whispered , and bent forward , trembling in anticipation of an answer -- `` Catharine ! '' 
It seemed to him , that he heard a sound something like the faint echo of a step , mingled with the accents of a whispering voice . 
Now it came from the rooms above ; he heard it plainly ; and again it seemed to murmur beneath his feet . 
Paul dared not speak the fear which chilled his heart . 
Assured that his father was waiting for him at the head of the stairway , that the gentle face of his sister was there , beside the withered features of the old man , he nerved himself for a last effort . 
His face became calm ; not a lineament stirred . 
His hand was firm ; he clutched the blazing pine-knot without a tremor . 
As this thought crossed his mind , he ascended the stairway -- his light flashing upward , with the smoke rolling about the flame like gloomy incense over a demon fire , illumined the head of the stairway . 
Pale and breathless , Paul attained the head ; he stood on the floor of a corridor , and holding the light above his head , endeavored to pierce the shadows which darkened beyond him . 
Paul anxiously surveyed the doors on the left . 
`` They have not been opened for years , '' he said , as he saw the dust which had gathered in the crevices ; the spider-webs which hung from the top of each door-frame . 
Then turning in his walk , he marked with an eager glance , the doors on his left . 
It is dim with time , but the letters are perceptible , '' and he held the torch nearer to the dark panels . 
The next door also bore a name -- `` Joseph -- '' Paul passed on , until he fronted the last door of the three , and beheld traced in the same bold characters , obscured by age , the name -- `` Immanuel . '' 
He turned the key , which grated harshly in the lock , and the door opened . 
He crossed the threshold , and by the torch-light beheld a small apartment , which contained a table , a chair and a bench -- all of unpainted oak . 
Paul passed into the room . 
Had it not been for the inscription on the parchment , Paul would not have been able to distinguish this cell from the other . 
Paul sank into the chair of Anselm , and surrendered himself to the train of thought , created by these words written on the parchment , which were affixed to the walls of the three chambers . 
Once more Paul traversed the cells , and read again the inscriptions of each place , while his amazement deepened fast into awe . 
Ah , I remember -- '' Standing on the threshold of Immanuel 's cell , he repeated these words , in a voice of indescribable melancholy -- ``` No child shall ever call thee Father ! 
As Paul stood wondering whether it led into a larger chamber than the others , or opened upon a stairway , his eye encountered the keyhole , and at the same time he felt the key of Immanuel 's chamber press his hand . 
He placed the key in the lock ; it turned ; the door slowly opened . 
It was with a feeling of indescribable amazement that Paul started back from the threshold , as the glare of the pine-knot dimly revealed to him the outlines of that unknown chamber . 
`` A large room , with a ceiling like a dome , '' he murmured , as he crossed the threshold -- `` The windows are closed like the windows of the other rooms ; the atmosphere is damp and heavy . 
Presently standing in the centre of that spacious room , which occupied at least one-half the extent of the upper floor of the Block-House , Paul raised the light and observed the details of the place . 
As Paul advanced , he beheld a circular table standing near the western wall , and standing alone on the bare floor . 
He held the light near it ; there was a wooden bowl upon its surface and near this bowl a book with the leaves spread open . 
He raised the pine-knot ; from the gloomy wall above the altar smiled a picture of surpassing beauty . 
ejaculated Paul , in the tone of a man who repeats the words of another . 
He hurried from the Chapel , passed along the corridor and descended the stairs , while the uplifted pine-knot revealed his pale face , marked with the indications of absorbing thought . 
He thought no longer of the Sealed Chamber and its Revelation ; the memory of his father , his sister , passed from his soul for a moment . 
As he hurried onward toward the Chamber of the Urn , his meditations , vague and incoherent , became centred in one desire . 
He reached the door of the Chamber of the Urn . 
There was no key in the lock , but Paul placed his foot against the panel , and gathering all his strength for the effort , forced it open . 
The broken lock clanged on the floor as he crossed the threshold . 
Paul gazed upon the room ; it looked just as it had looked on the last night of 1774 . 
`` Even now I see him -- my father -- as he stood beside that altar , and placed his hand within the Urn -- '' Paul placed his hand within the urn , and drew forth a letter stamped with his father 's seal , and bearing , in the tremulous characters of his father 's handwriting , his own name -- ` Paul Ardenheim ! ' 
Paul broke the seal . 
Within the letter was enclosed another letter , also sealed and endorsed with the name of Paul Ardenheim . 
It fell back into the Urn , as Paul held the open letter to the light , and read these words in his father 's hand -- Within an hour I will exact from you a Promise and an Oath . 
It will be remembered , that the old man , on the Last Night of 1774 , bade Paul prepare for a solemn ceremony , which was to take place at sunset on the next day . 
This letter , written after midnight , on the first of January , 1775 , by the Father of Paul , anticipates the initiation and the vow , and regards them as having already taken place . 
Paul dwelt with a painful intensity upon these cabalistic sentences . 
Strange it was that no word of reproach passed his lips in regard to the beautiful woman who had urged him to his ruin , on that fatal night ! 
Since he crossed the threshold of the Block-House , an hour ago , he had not spoken her name . 
Placing his hand within the Urn , he drew forth the sealed letter which concealed the name of the Deliverer . 
I am not worthy -- '' He gazed upon it with an earnest eye and dropped it back into the Urn `` Hah ! 
a light breaks on me -- '' he murmured , and hastened from the room without closing the door behind him . 
He did not stay his footsteps until he stood in front of the door which opened into his father 's room . 
Not an instant did he hesitate . 
The door opened at his touch , and by the torch-light he beheld that chamber , where , on the last night of 1774 , he had seen the leaden Image scowling over the sleeping face of his father . 
Paul advanced ; he beheld the couch -- it was vacant ; he raised his eyes , and with a shudder , saw that leaden face , smiling in the red rays , as with a preternatural scorn . 
`` Heis not here , '' cried Paul , with an accent of unfeigned joy -- `` Ah ! 
He did not pause to think . 
A square space in the breast of the Image opened like a door -- a packet fell at the feet of Paul -- and the breast of the Image closed again . 
Paul seized the packet ; it was a scroll of manuscript , written in the German tongue , with a few words in English on an outside leaf : -- `` To be read by my Son , after he has entered the Sealed Chamber and the Chamber of the Urn . '' 
`` Paul , you have often heard me relate the Legend of the Leaden Image . 
Paul seized the manuscript of Brother Anselm , and still holding the torch in his hand , hurried from the room . 
He was afraid to read it there , for his father 's face seemed to start from the shadows , as he looked upon the bed , yet bearing the impress of a venerable form , the memory of the sacrilegious blow came terribly to his soul . 
`` In the free air , by the light of the summer sun , I will read these pages -- '' he cried ; and soon stood on the threshold of the Block-House , with the sunshine upon his face . 
He seated himself upon an old bench , half-concealed by the grass , which started up thickly in the space before the Block-House door . 
Belts of golden sunshine , belts of tremulous shadow , flitted by turns over the grass , the flowers , over the form of Paul and the Block-House clad in vines . 
`` It is yet two hours until sunset , '' exclaimed Paul , as he gazed upon the manuscript and absently glanced over its pages . 
he cried , arrested by a word which seemed to separate itself from a page of the manuscript , and force its meaning on his soul -- `` Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross ! '' 
Let us look upon those mysterious pages , which seemed to open to his eyes the secrets of the other world . 
This was the Manuscript which Paul Ardenheim read , on that summer day in June , as he sat upon the bench , half-concealed by the grass , which started up thickly around the Block-House door . 
Completelyoverwhelmed by the revelations of this Manuscript , which he had taken from the breast of the Leaden Image , Paul remained like a statue upon the oaken bench , for some moments after he had finished those incredible pages , without the power to speak or stir . 
His eyes were fixed , their brightness dimmed by a misty film . 
He looked upon the trees , the grass , the flowers , but did not behold any thing save the Phantoms of the Manuscript . 
But Paul did not mark the declining sun , nor call to mind his promise to meet Reginald at sunset under the Blasted Pine . 
His soul was absorbed -- bewildered by the Revelations of the Manuscript . 
The forms of the Secret Brotherhood flitted between his eyes and the light ; he saw that Prophet-Peasant in his gray garb stand beside the veiled figure , while words full of divine inspiration fell from his lips . 
His thoughts in truth were crowded and tumultuous ; a thousand images whirled through his brain . 
And yet , amid the very chaos of his musings , there came certain well-defined ideas shooting through the gloom , like stars through the darkness of night . 
He turned the last page of the Manuscript , and started from the bench as he recognised the handwriting of his father . 
`` This was the truth , Paul , but not all the truth . 
`` This is one side of the picture , Paul . 
I do not prophesy , Paul , nor pronounce a Judgment ; I simply address your reason . 
Paul sank on his knees and clasped his hands . 
The manuscript fell beside him , among the grass and flowers . 
he cried , raising to heaven a face which was softened in every feature by a holy serenity -- `` My choice is made ! 
It was an impressive sight to see him kneeling there , his eyes flashing with the joy which flooded every avenue of his soul , his forehead radiant with a holy energy , his voice breaking full and deep upon the breathless stillness of the forest . 
At last , after the agony of years , the cloud was lifted from his soul . 
Neither the secret of the Sealed Chamber , nor the love of that beautiful girl , who tempted him to break his oath , could now sway him aside from his great work . 
After the first outburst of joy , Paul fell into a profound reverie . 
While Paul was absorbed in this profound reverie , the shadows gathered darker around the old Block-House , and the stillness of the forest grew deeper . 
And while the shadows deepened and the forest grew more breathlessly still , Paul remained on his knees , his hands resting on the oaken bench , while the manuscript lay near his side . 
`` To night is the seventh night of the second week of June , 1777 -- '' he murmured aloud . 
Was it sleep that came over his senses -- bewildered as they were by the sudden joy -- or did only his profound reverie deepen into a waking dream ? 
For some time , he remained unconscious of all external sights or sounds -- his soul was wrapt within itself -- the images of the secret Brotherhood , the words of his father , possessed his brain . 
After some time had elapsed , he started from this reverie , like a man waking from a dream . 
There was a lily in his right hand -- a beautiful flower , with its snowy cup still sparkling with the diamond dew . 
Paul gazed upon it with indescribable wonder -- inhaled its delicious fragrance , and pressed it to his lips . 
Then glancing to the right and left , he sought to behold the giver of this fragrant blessing . 
he cried , pressing it once more to his lips . 
Paul started to his feet ; the sun was hidden behind the trees ; his beams flashed among the huge trunks like arrows of tremulous gold . 
At once Paul remembered his promise to Reginald , and his vow to sever from his heart all ties of friendship or love . 
He hastened toward the gate , -- but suddenly paused ere he advanced five paces . 
He turned his face from the door of the Block-House , and once more hastened toward the gate . 
His step was buoyant , his manner joyous , his face full of bloom , his eye lighted up with new fire . 
Again the lily which he grasped met his eye . 
he cried , and hurried through the gate . 
Near the sycamore tree , he paused for an instant , still holding the lily in his hand . 
To follow the windings of the Wissahikon , until he reached the Blasted Pine , was to traverse a distance of at least two miles . 
After a moment 's hesitation , Paul determined to take this path . 
Turning his face toward the west , he sought earnestly among the leaves and shruberry for traces of the path , but his search was in vain . 
he cried , in despair , and at once , with his face turned toward the south-west , plunged into the mazes of the thickly grown brush-wood . 
His way was choked by branches of trees , interwoven with the foliage of the laurel , which covered the ground , between the trunks of the oaks and pines ; plunging deeper into the gloom , without a ray of light to break the depth of shadow , he still endeavored to keep his face toward the south-west . 
At last he came upon an open space , where there was a carpet of moss , sprinkled with flowers , and framed in the trunks of huge beechen trees . 
A gush of sunlight warmed the place , and Paul , at the same instant , beheld the lily , which he had not ceased to grasp for a moment , and the entrance of the path for which he was seeking . 
The sunlight shone warmly over the pure white flower , and Paul could not turn his eyes away from its beautiful cup , tinted as it was by golden beams . 
he murmured , as he paused in the centre of the glade , his dark attire and impressive countenance shown distinctly in the sudden sunlight . 
Had he gathered it in his slumber ? 
Paul stood very still , in the rays of the sun , his countenance shadowed by thought . 
This incident of the lily , which he had found in his grasp , when awaking from his reverie -- or his slumber -- excited a train of strange emotions . 
Paul pressed his hand upon his forehead ; a sudden ejaculation was forced from his lips , by a vivid thought . 
he exclaimed -- `` she lives ! 
The thought filled him with a sudden joy , but the joy was linked with an inexplicable horror . 
He felt the cold moisture upon his forehead at the thought . 
For with that thought all his madness came back again . 
His dread of the Sealed Chamber and its Revelation , his Remorse at the memory of that fatal night . 
But the level rays of the sun , shooting over the sod , reminded him once more of his promise to Reginald . 
He hurried onward , entering the hidden path , as he dashed aside a beechen branch whose foliage swept his face . 
But no sooner had he entered the path , than his steps were arrested by a sight which at once enchained his eyes . 
Paul glanced upon the broken stalk , and then upon the flower which he held in his hand ; an irresistible conviction rushed upon his soul . 
`` It is the stalk of the lily which I hold in my grasp , '' he cried , `` and I am looking upon the grave of Catharine ! '' 
Won by the strange beauty of the place , he leaned against a tree , and gave his soul to the influence of the golden atmosphere which invested that lonely grave . 
Paul could not turn his eyes from that lonely mound , framed in a rude fence , and with a single flower upon its green bosom . 
the thought crossed the mind of Paul -- `` It is a good omen , sent to me from the Other World ! '' 
And he knelt there , and spoke the name of his Sister to the still air , and in his dreamy way conversed with the dead . 
As his clasped hands rested upon the rude fence , his yearning eyes were fixed immovably upon the grave , and the sunlight touched his forehead , his waving hair , as with a blessing , while his form was lost in shadow . 
Paul could not restrain his tears . 
He suffered them to flow freely . 
There was no one to witness them but Heaven , -- and perchance the Spirit of his dead sister was hovering in that sunlight , near the solitary rose , which trembled on the bosom of the grave ! 
And Paul forget every thing -- the Past and the Future , his Remorse and his Hope -- as he gazed upon his sister 's tomb . 
Forgot every thing , and felt his soul filled with an unutterable yearning to sleep there , beside her , and be at rest , with some sunshine and a stray wild flower over his ashes . 
At last , the Lily which he grasped -- that flower which had been sent to him by a supernatural hand -- called him back to life . 
`` It is a good Omen , '' he said , once more -- `` It tells me to bury the Past , and look forward to the Future ! '' 
He arose , and in a moment had passed from the quiet grave into the shadows . 
Yet ere he went , he lingered for a moment on the verge of the glade , turning his eloquent eyes over his shoulder , as he exclaimed : `` Catharine ! 
He turned away with a shudder . 
With the image of his sister , arose another image of a far different nature . 
It came with the memory of his sister 's pale , golden hair and azure eyes ; it spoke to him of the `` last night '' when he trembled on the threshold of the Sealed Chamber . 
Paul plunged deeper into the shadows of the forest . 
The path which he followed , wound into the wildest recesses of the Wissahikon . 
Emerging from the wood , he beheld an undulating field , stretching far to the west , and clad in vivid green . 
Paul pursued his way through the clover , and in a few moments stood upon a rock , which crowned this elevation . 
Looking to the east and south , he beheld the forest extending in the form of a crescent . 
Beyond the tops of the trees which formed this crescent , he beheld a broad green hill , on whose summit frowned a grove of pines . 
Amid their deep shadows , he beheld the walls of a mansion -- it was the mansion of Isaac Van Behme . 
Paul trembled at the sight , and at once , the memory of the beautiful woman bewildered his soul . 
he said , gazing upon that distant grove of pines -- `` I soon will discover her grave among those shadows . '' 
Turning his gaze farther to the west , he saw a white form , gleaming dimly from a clump of magnificent trees , clad in the luxuriant foliage of June . 
And then , gazing over the clover field , he beheld , at its western extremity , a farm-house embosomed among orchard trees . 
This was the view which Paul beheld , as he stood on the rock , with his soul still awed by the shadow and the silence of the forest , which he had only a moment left . 
Paul stood upon the rock , and surveyed the scenes of his life . 
We have , indeed , wasted pages without a purpose , and expended words in vain , if we have not succeeded in impressing the mind of the reader with the peculiar strength and genius of an organization like that of Paul Ardenheim . 
He was one of those natures which , indeed , do not often appear in the lower world -- natures made up of Good and Evil in large proportions , and swayed to either side by the hand of Fate , or perchance the accident of the merest circumstance . 
While engaged in the old records , which tell of his life , we have found it difficult to avoid loving this strange man , and admiring his genius , despite his wayward Destiny . 
Under other circumstances he might have become a Poet , a General , or the Dictator of a Revolutionary age . 
It will also be remembered , that the supernatural part of this work , or that which appears supernatural , and which in some cases we have endeavored to explain , does not , in the Original Records of Paul Ardenheim 's life , admit of doubt or speculation . 
He beholds in Paul Ardenheim , not so much a Man , born to eat , drink , sleep , toil and die like the herd of mankind , as a Spirit from the Other World , embodied in human form , and sent hither to work out a strangely terrible Destiny . 
-- the Spirit of some great Man , who lived in far distant ages of the world , returned to earth again in the body of Paul Ardenheim . 
Paul after a pause of dreamy thought , hurried through the clover field toward the wood , whose shadows embosomed the Wissahikon . 
he cried , as some memory crossed his mind -- `` That spring which , half-way down the hill , bubbles up from the rocks at the foot of the chesnut tree . 
He had reached the verge of the clover field . 
Springing over the zigzag fence , he hurried along the firm sod , and presently entered the shadow of the woods again . 
Hurrying onward with renewed haste , Paul presently stood under the branches of the chesnut trees . 
But Paul had no time to gaze upon the flowers , no time to drink from the spring , for the sun was setting , and Reginald waiting for him beneath the Blasted Pine . 
echoed Paul , gazing upon the figure of the speaker in undisguised wonder . 
Paul looked at his pale face , and thought him sixty years of age ; but when he caught the clear light of his eyes , -- which now softened into azure , and now deepened into dark gray -- he could not imagine , for an instant , that the unknown was more than forty years old . 
Around his forehead floated waving locks of pale golden hair , which seemed golden indeed , in the rays of the sun , but in the shadow , appeared touched with the frosts of age . 
The appearance of this man struck the mind of Paul , at once , with a deep and peculiar interest . 
He was attired like a man of rank and station ; his form was slender , but unbent with years ; there was a singular sadness upon his features , a strange light in his eyes . 
thought Paul . 
`` Yes , you are the one who was to come , '' said that singularly mild voice , which had arrested the steps of Paul . 
As he spoke , gazing into the face of Paul , he extended his hand . 
Paul took that pale , thin hand , and , unable to speak or move , shuddered as though he had encountered the hand of the dead . 
the question again crossed his mind -- `` Was it among the solitudes of the Hartz mountains . 
he said aloud , still pressing the stranger 's hand . 
`` I have waited for you , '' calmly replied the unknown , smoothing his waving hair aside from his forehead . 
It seemed to Paul that he could not have spoken , had the salvation of his soul hung on a word . 
again the thought flashed over his bewildered soul . 
``` He will be clad in black ; he will wear the dress of a Heidelberg student , and on his forehead a cap with a waving plume . '' ' 
Paul dropped the hand of the unknown , and started back a single step . 
echoed Paul , in a whisper . 
And he looked first upon the face of the unknown , then upon the spring , the trees , the flowers , as if to assure himself that he was not bewildered in a dream . 
`` Ah , you doubt me , '' said the unknown , with a smile , which played over his features , cold and impassible as moonlight over snow -- `` Then listen to another proof . 
` This man , whom you will meet by the Indian Spring , has , like yourself , a great mission to fulfil -- '' ' Paul interrupted him with an incoherent ejaculation . 
-- ``` But his great mission and your good work are one . '' ' 
The spring , the trees and flowers , the pale face of the stranger , all seemed whirling in mad confusion , before the eyes of Paul . 
``` But in order to satisfy your mind , and know that he is indeed the man whom you seek , ' those were a part of the words uttered to me , two months ago -- ` you will address him in the language of the ancient seers , You will ask him -- '' ' He paused , and watched the changing face of Paul , which was pale and red by turns , with a scrutinizing glance . 
`` You will ask him , '' exclaimed Paul , unconsciously echoing the words . 
``` You will ask him whether he looks forward with hope to the time when the Lead shall become Gold , and the Sneer be changed into a Smile . '' ' 
exclaimed Paul , his face flushing with overwhelming joy -- `` Thou art sent to me to reveal the deeper mysteries of the good work -- '' And he seized the small , bony hand of the unknown , and pressed it to his heart . 
echoed Paul , his mind reverting to the Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross . 
And then taking Paul by the hand , he led him to the spring , and said -- `` Let us sit beside each other , and converse about the holy work . '' 
The memory of Reginald , and the meeting by the blasted pine , had passed from the mind of Paul . 
He was wrapt in the unknown . 
He could have listened for ever to his low , musical voice , and gazed for ever upon his pale face , which , in the passing ray , seemed touched with fire from Heaven . 
`` Who was it , '' he asked , as they sat down together on a rock near the spring , `` that spoke to you , and bade you expect me at this hour ? ' 
echoed the unknown , his features suddenly clouded . 
Who , '' he continued , in a tone of singular emphasis , as he shaded his eyes with his hand -- `` Who but the mightiest of the fallen ? '' 
That pale face , with the light gleaming on the forehead , while the eyes shone brightly beneath the thin hand , impressed Paul Ardenheim with indefinable awe . 
he echoed . 
`` Yea , the first of the Seven who watched around the Throne before they fell , '' exclaimed the unknown , his voice sinking with every word -- `` That Spirit , so powerful in his very desolation , so grand in his ruin , whom men call by various names , Astaroth -- Lucifer -- '' `` Satan ! '' 
whispered Paul , with a shudder , as he shrank from the touch of the stranger . 
As he spoke , the forest nook seemed to grow more breathlessly still -- a ray of sunshine lingered on the brow of the stranger . 
half-muttered Paul , while the blood congealed in his veins , as the vague memory rushed upon him . 
Nay , two years and more ago , on that well-remembered night -- '' Paul echoed the words , he knew not why , and felt the moisture start upon his forehead . 
cried Paul . 
It was but a thousand pieces of gold , and yet it was all -- '' He paused an instant . 
Paul could not turn his eyes away from his face . 
In a moment he seemed to grow older ; his face became wrinkled , his eye vacant and dim . 
he exclaimed . 
But the unknown did not heed his words . 
`` Imagine my despair , '' he said , in a whispering tone , which made the blood run cold in the veins of Paul . 
cried Paul . 
The door of my cell opened -- I uttered a cry of disappointment , as I beheld in the doorway the form of a poor Idiot , whom I sheltered in my house , in pity for his weakness and deformity -- '' An ejaculation burst from the lips of Paul . 
He placed in my hands a phial ; it was filled with a red liquid -- '' `` The blood of the murdered girl -- '' exclaimed Paul . 
The wrinkles vanished from my brow , the film of age from my eyes -- '' `` And the murdered maiden -- '' whispered Paul , as the last rays of sunlight shot through the gloom of the place . 
And his thin lips curved with scorn , while a satanic rapture shone from his eyes . 
To say that Paul Ardenheim listened to the Revelation of this unknown man with horror , with an awe too deep for words , would but imperfectly convey the truth . 
He was without the power of motion ; the eyes of the stranger enchained him with an indescribable fascination . 
murmured Paul , as that confused memory began to struggle into shape . 
Paul was silent ; a multitude of thoughts oppressed his soul , as the words of the stranger penetrated his ears . 
`` We may live upon the tongues of millions , when our bones are dust -- '' cried Paul . 
`` There is a destiny before me , '' cried Paul , `` which death itself can not wither or destroy . 
exclaimed the unknown , while a smile stole over his features , and he looked young again -- `` You look for a Deliverer of this land , a benefactor of the human race . 
`` Death , '' exclaimed Paul , with the prophecy of a great destiny lighting up his eyes , `` Death can not strike me , until my mission is fulfilled . '' 
`` But God is above all , '' whispered Paul , as a shade of profound melancholy came over his face . 
Paul , with his face buried in his hands , was absorbed in thought . 
`` But instead of Death , let us picture life , -- '' he heard the whispering voice of the unknown through the gloom . 
That word struck a hidden chord in the heart of Paul . 
`` You are , then , '' he said , gazing upon that face , which was rendered more impressive by the twilight gloom , `` a Brother of the Rosy Cross ? '' 
`` Even so , '' whispered Paul . 
Paul felt his heart swell , while his blood leaped in his veins . 
Still disguising his joy , he glanced around the covert -- looked into the face of the unknown -- and said calmly : `` You are mistaken , my friend . 
He paused : the unknown did not reply . 
`` Ah , '' whispered Paul , `` The Book of the Rosy Cross ! 
And , like a new world , unclosing its shores and meadows , its woods and mountains to the eyes of a Discoverer , widening every moment , and revealing new beauties as it expanded on the view , that Thought dilated before the Soul of Paul Ardenheim . 
He rose and paced the sod , while the unknown rested his cheeks between his hands , and gazed upon the bronzed face , which every moment revealed new emotions . 
`` You drank the draught of eternal youth -- '' said Paul , his mind still dwelling upon the Prophecy embraced in the Manuscript of Anselm . 
`` And now -- '' said Paul , still pacing to and fro . 
Startled by the sudden pause , Paul turned abruptly , and even through the shadow , saw the face of the unknown , frightfully agitated and bathed in tears . 
He drew nearer , examining the distorted countenance with an earnest gaze . 
`` And then -- '' he exclaimed , bending down , as if to hear the answer , but in reality , to gaze more closely into the face of the unknown . 
Paul started back with a shudder . 
`` He has grown twenty years older in a moment , '' the thought forced itself upon his mind . 
cried Paul , starting back as he felt his blood chill . 
said Paul , as the changed face of the unknown brought back , in more distinct shape , the memory of other days . 
These were the words , and thou canst aid me -- '' The unknown rose , and confronted Paul in his hurried walk to and fro . 
`` Thou , '' he continued , fixing his eyes upon the face of the Dreamer -- `` Thou , and thou only . 
cried Paul -- `` I am young . 
His tone was strangely elevated . 
He laid his hand upon the arm of Paul , who shrunk unconsciously from the contact . 
To mature that liquid into the immortal essence , I demand -- '' his voice fell , and the hand which touched the arm of Paul , trembled violently -- `` three drops of blood , each taken from the heart of a human being , beloved to idolatry by a Child , a Father , a Lover , or a Woman -- '' `` You demand of me three human lives ! '' 
cried Paul , falling back , cold and horror-stricken . 
Paul spoke with an accent of unfeigned horror . 
continued Paul , as he retreated a single step from the unknown . 
You will acquire deathless vigor ; and , with your brain , to live , is to sway mankind , as with the voice of a God -- '' Paul made no reply . 
Still Paul did not answer . 
Paul retreated another step -- the words of the unknown wrung a groan from his very heart . 
`` You reason terribly , '' groaned Paul , -- `` And in exchange for three murders -- '' `` Do not use the word . 
`` And where , '' whispered Paul , his pale face agitated by a frightful smile , -- `` and where shall I find the three victims ? '' 
The unknown hesitated a moment ere he replied . 
`` The first may be found in the person of a Man , who is deeply beloved by a Friend -- '' Paul trembled in every limb . 
`` The second -- '' he gasped . 
Imagine a woman , -- a beautiful woman , for example , who is idolized by a Lover , or Husband -- '' Paul sank down , on one knee , near the brink of the spring , clasping his hands in the very intensity of agony . 
`` And the third -- '' he asked , in a hollow voice . 
`` Take the most beloved object that the world ever saw , '' cried the unknown , as he drew near , and his face was faintly illumined by a star -- `` Take the Father , -- '' `` Hold ! '' 
shrieked Paul , starting to his feet , his hands clenched , his bosom swelling with the throbs of his heart . 
`` The Father , '' said the unknown , in the same impassible tone , as Paul trembled before him , `` The Father whose existence is blessed by the love of a Child -- '' `` No more -- '' and Paul , with flashing eyes , and set teeth , confronted the unknown -- `` On peril of your life , no more -- '' Without seeming to notice his sudden agitation , or the deadly light which inflamed his eyes , the unknown went on , in his calm , measured tone : `` In a cause like this , I would regard as nothing , the life , of the Man who is beloved by a true friend -- or of the Woman who is idolized by the Husband or Lover -- or of the Father whose only joy is in the love of his Child -- '' Paul bent forward , and as his hot breath swept the cheek of the unknown , he saw his face , and the vague memory of the Past was vague no longer . 
`` It is Isaac Van Behme , '' he cried -- `` Her Father -- hers ! 
And with that word he turned and fled . 
Down the winding path , deep into the thickets , over the rocks where there was most darkness , and the twilight flung its profoundest shadow , he fled . 
He did not pause as the frenzied cry of the old man came shricking through the stillness of the wood . 
She is dead , '' exclaimed Paul , as he plunged through the thickly grown bushes . 
He sprang down the steep side of a dangerous rock . 
A single misplaced step , and his limbs would have been crushed , his brains scattered against the rocks below . 
But , unconscious of any danger , save that which encircled him , as with a girdle of flames -- the Memory of the Sealed Chamber -- he dashed madly on his way . 
Had a host of armed men confronted him with levelled rifles , and warned him back , on peril of a bullet from every muzzle , he still would have pursued his way , and rushed upon the certain death . 
For he was , as we have said , unconscious of every thing in the world , save the Remorse of his own soul . 
Paul did not hear this music of the June twilight ; the words of the old man were ringing in his ears . 
Paul entered this thicket , and fell on one knee ; but , starting up again , crossed the stream , and ascended a steep hill , overgrown with stunted pines . 
As if guided by instinct , he never for a moment deviated from his course . 
Paul beheld it , and murmured the name of Reginald , his Friend -- his Brother . 
It was at the foot of this desolate tree , upon the rock stamped with the footprint of the Fallen Angel , that Paul Ardenheim stood , and saw the Wissahikon gleaming from afar . 
exclaimed Paul , as he stood with folded arms , and head drooped on his breast -- `` Where art thou ? 
He was silent , for the memory of Reginald 's friendship came to him , in that hour of chaotic thought , beautiful as a solitary ray , shining through the rift of a midnight cloud . 
The countenance of Paul Ardenheim looked wan and ghostlike in that pale azure radiance . 
`` But she is dead , '' he faltered -- `` Her ashes rest beneath the sod -- there are wild flowers above her grave . '' 
Was it the rustling of a leaf that trembled gently on his ear ? 
That faint sound , heard for an instant and then dying without an echo , riveted the attention of Paul Ardenheim , he knew not why . 
He listened with fixed intensity , but the forest was still as a tomb . 
It seemed like a distant voice repeating his name . 
`` Paul ! '' 
he heard -- or imagined he heard -- that unknown voice speaking his name , in a low accent , vague and tremulous as the murmur of a rill . 
Thus it was with Paul Ardenheim , as he heard -- or fancied he heard -- a voice , at once hollow and melodious , repeating his name . 
`` Paul ! '' 
This time Paul heard it distinctly , although the sound was low , and faint , and far away . 
Upon the rock stood or rather trembled Paul , resting one hand for support upon the trunk of the Blasted Pine , for he was faint and scarcely able to stand , and the cold moisture started from his forehead . 
The rustling sound grew louder ; again the voice pronounced his name -- deeper in emphasis , more musical in cadence -- and a white object , like a mist hovering over a stream , began to glimmer through the trees . 
The thought crossed the mind of Paul , but he could not speak . 
His eyesight grew dim ; that white mist was whirling before his eyes ; it seemed to wrap him in its folds . 
He grew cold , he trembled , he fell on one knee , and in the act of falling raised one hand toward heaven . 
A hand glided from behind the withered trunk , and then an arm , fair and beautiful ; the hand pressed the hand of Paul , and the blood bounded in his veins . 
For a beautiful face was gazing upon him ; a moist hand was pressing his own ; waves of flowing hair swept over his forehead , and the voice , very near , this time , and melodious as a sound from Eden , spoke his name , and the breath which framed the word , fanned his cheek . 
That which he had imagined a mist , was the white robe of a beautiful form . 
Through the intervals of long flowing hair , which , in the gloom , and by the sepulchral light of the moon , seemed of more than midnight blackness , -- through the locks of that streaming hair , he saw the voluptuous swell of a white bosom , rising in quick pulsations over a loosened robe , and felt the light of eyes supernaturally radiant , flashing , burning into his soul . 
He knew not , he cared not , but the vision of the white bosom , the pressure of the moist hand , the dazzling eyes -- the atmosphere of loveliness which invested the form , and intoxicated his senses , as with a mingling of delicate perfumes -- forced his blood in impetuous currents , from his heart to his face , and fired his eyes with more than mortal light . 
he gasped , and pressed the hand to his heart , and sunk against the pine , bewildered by a vague and inexplicable languor -- `` Satan , the beautiful ! '' 
His voice failed him : gathering the hand to his breast , he looked upward in silent rapture . 
`` Paul ! '' 
the voice once more spoke his name , and pressed that name upon his mouth , with the kiss of warm lips that burned his blood . 
Before we gaze upon the sequel of this interview bewteen Paul Ardenheim and the Principle of Evil , embodied in the form of a beautiful woman , we must retrace our steps , and return to the other characters in our history . 
I had well nigh forgotten ; Paul Ardenheim awaits me at the Blasted Pine . '' 
`` Paul Ardenheim ? 
Paul would blush at the idea , with the true instinct of a high-minded and honorable man . '' 
Paul will carry that scar to the grave ; and while it endures I am his friend . '' 
`` Paul Ardendeim ! 
muttered Paul , as he felt the clasp of that warm hand , which led him gently into the shadows of the wood , and then by an uncertain ray of moonlight , he saw the white robe , gleaming through the twilight , while the waving hair , swept his fevered brow . 
His brain was whirling , as in the mazes of an intoxicating dream . 
He heard a low and gentle voice whisper , `` Come ! '' 
He followed the Unknown in silence , while the blood bounded in every vein . 
Through the woods , and down into the shadows of a glen , up the slope of a hill , overgrown with laurel , the hand led him , and at last emerging into the moonlight -- it was wan , pale and spectral -- he beheld a scene which broke upon him like a vision from fairy land . 
Only a moment he paused , to drink in the beauty of the sight , and then the hand of the unknown urged him around . 
He stood on the verge of a smooth and grassy lawn , bordered by noble pines , and with a mansion , lighted in every window , shining like a funeral pyre through the half-twilight . 
It was the mansion of Isaac Van Behme , the thought rushed over the mind of Paul , but no ! 
While Paul at a glance beheld this scene , the Unknown was half-concealed from sight among the shadows of the path . 
The hand still pressed his own , and sent its magnetic thrill to his heart , but the form clad in the white robe , was shrouded by the foliage , and the face was lost in the folds of a veil , whose snowy lace fluttered around the raven tresses , like a cloud of pale and impalpable mist . 
They stood , Paul and the Unknown at the entrance of a secluded walk , which extended in a magnificent perspective , until it was lost in the shadows . 
Along this walk , now in light , now in shadow , Paul was led by the Unknown ; he did not seem to walk on the solid earth , but to tread in air , trees , mansion and lights , were whirling round him in a mad dance , while a vision of a beautiful form , and dark eyes , flashing through a snowy veil , floated before him on waves of golden mist . 
whispered Paul -- `` Am I awake ! 
The tresses floated on the light , the head was turned , and a low voice breathed his name through the stillness , and whispered `` Come ! '' 
Paul was alone in the gloom with the Unknown ; he could not see the sky , nor did a single ray shine through the thickly-woven foliage . 
He could not see the beautiful shape , whose bosom heaved above the loosened robe , nor the snowy veil which covered her face and midnight hair . 
But the soft , -- gentle -- yet maddening pressure of the hand , assured him of her presence , and her breath mingled with his own , as her lips pressed his mouth , murmuring -- `` Paul , I love thee ! '' 
Here on the last night -- '' exclaimed Paul , as his confused ideas began to condense themselves into shape . 
cried the Unknown , and Paul sprang over the threshold -- the door was closed , -- and in the darkness , he was led upward by that gentle hand . 
Suddenly a door was opened , at the head of the narrow stairway , and Paul 's face was bathed in light . 
he muttered -- `` It is the door of the mirror , through which I passed on the -- '' He stepped over the threshold , the mirror glided back into its place , and Paul looked around , with the bewildered gaze of a man but half awakened from some luxurious dream . 
It was many moments before he recovered his entire consciousness , and gazed about him with a steadfast eye . 
There was a mirror too , reaching from the ceiling to the floor -- it was the secret door of the secret staircase -- and Paul as he looked upon it , felt the blood mount to his cheek . 
the thought flashed over him ; -- the chamber in which the Wizard 's daughter first dawned upon his eyes . 
Paul turned , and in the recess , where the bed with the dark hangings , once had stood , appeared a snow-white couch , with a canopy of satin , white as snow , arching above its spotless coverlet . 
`` Do you not know me , Paul ? '' 
She stood before him , like the Spirit of the scene , gathering her flowing robe over her breast , while her hair rested in midnight waves upon her half-uncovered shoulders . 
`` Lost , Paul ? '' 
Have a care brave Paul ! 
Remember -- Paul felt his knees bend beneath him , and in a moment , he looked up and saw that beautiful face , glowing over him , while his upraised arms , encircled that voluptuous shape , with a quivering embrace . 
he cried -- for his senses were wild and wandering -- his blood was molten flame again , as on the fatal night -- `` Tempt me to my ruin , and I will give my soul to thee ! 
And he bowed his head upon her throbbing breast , even as he knelt at her feet , and girdled her in his arms , and wept aloud , for there was Despair in his Love , a bitterness like the Death of a Soul , in his delirious transport . 
Woe -- woe -- to Paul the Monk of Wissahikon . 
He raised his face -- a Hope had broken in upon his soul . 
cried Paul -- `` Be merciful ! 
she whispered , as her form was girdled in his trembling arms , `` You are dreaming Paul ! '' 
O the wild beauty of her face , as she lifted her arms , and swept aside her raven hair , while her eyes , dilating with an irresistable fascination , shone steadily upon him , and her voice -- softened to a whisper -- came to his ear , like the voice of his own heart , the very accents of his Destiny . 
`` Do not tempt me again to my despair , '' he wildly cried , unable to turn his gaze from the impassioned beauty of her face -- `` I hear your voice again , and all is madness in my veins . 
echoed the beautiful woman , as her robes , floating so loosely about her voluptuous shape , could not hide the sudden swell of her impetuous bosom . 
`` I do remember , Paul . 
And when I saw you last , you were near the end of the corridor , and your father come trembling from his room , and -- '' `` I struck him to the earth -- '' Paul 's voice was faint and broken , his face clouded with an unutterable Remorse -- `` With this hand I smote his gray hairs . '' 
He was silent -- his head sank on his breast , and as if in mockery of his woe , a burst of music , from the lighted lawn , pealed merrily through the window . 
She gazed upon the kneeling man , and saw his form , writhe at her feet , with an agony too deep for a murmur or a tear . 
His hands withdrawn from her waist , supported his bended head , but she placed her hands upon his dark hair , and leaning over him , suffered her tresses to enfold him , like a veil . 
`` Paul , '' she whispered , `` I love thee . 
Slowly he raised his face , and saw her face so near him , that their lips almost met . 
Her eyes were shining into his own ; her breath fanned his cheek ; all the beauty of her countenance , glowing into the life of passion , overwhelmed his gaze . 
`` Come , '' she cried , or no ! 
she said it in a voice so low , that her lips did not seem to speak , but her soul -- `` Come ! 
Nay let us talk of the night when first we met , here in this chamber -- Do you remember it Paul ? 
Come , Paul let us talk of the olden time ! '' 
It seemed to him , that he could kneel forever there , bathed in the brightness of her gaze -- wrapt in her look , her accent -- enfolded in her midnight hair . 
He could not answer her ; his heart was full ; his eyes began to blaze , not with the serene light of thought , but with the madness of passion -- passion , such as stirs the heart , which has not leadened its pulsations , with the loves and hates of common life . 
she echoed -- `` Ah ! 
But it is gone , now , Paul . 
But the voice which thrills me now , and melts on my soul , as the voice of my Destiny , speaks from your lips , Paul from yours ! '' 
She bent near and nearer to him as he knelt at her feet , and his face and hers were lost in the mazes of her flowing hair The mirror reflected those forms , palpitating with youth and passion , and centred among the images of that luxurious chamber . 
`` Paul ! '' 
she cried , raising her radiant face , as his countenance stamped with the frenzy of passion was revealed -- `` Now tell me the secret of that well-remembered night . 
His hands fell from her waist ; he was pale and cold again . 
`` There -- '' he faltered , his face averted , as he extended his hand toward her , `` There -- Read it all -- and do not let it work such madness in your soul , as it has in mine . '' 
Her hand trembled as she took the Manuscript . 
One gaze toward his form , as with his face turned away , he stood voiceless and immovable before her , and she opened those dark pages stained with the blackness of dead centuries . 
She read , her bosom slowly heaving , her eye gradually dilating , with the light of a wild yet fearful curiosity . 
Not once did he turn and look upon her . 
She read , and a smile gleamed over her features , -- gleamed from the lips to the eyes -- only to die again , in an expression of vague and apathetic horror . 
Her breath came tremulous and broken ; she crushed the Manuscript in her fingers , and gazed around with a look of fright and terror , and then -- while silent and statue-like he stood near her -- she fixed her eyes upon its dark pages once more . 
Her beautiful face lost its hues of youth and passion ; the hair which streamed over her shoulders , swept a forehead , white as marble , and damp with beaded moisture . 
But Paul , you turn your gaze away . 
And the beautiful woman , whose death-like cheek contrasted with her raven hair , gave a wierd and spiritual loveliness to that face , not long ago so ripe with passion , glided over the floor , with noiseless steps , and laid her hands upon the shoulders of Paul Ardenheim . 
He stood motionless , his averted face buried in his hands . 
He felt her touch , but did not turn and look upon her , for the nameless revelations of the Sealed Chamber -- revelations even more dark and harrowing than those embodied in the Manuscripts -- now clouded his whole being with a stifling horror . 
`` Paul ! '' 
Speak to me , Paul . 
`` Read on , '' muttered Paul , still hiding his face in his hands -- `` Read on , and learn the history of our race , and drink in , with every page , some portion of the madness which has cursed my existence , since the fatal hour , when your voice -- yours -- persuaded me to cross the threshold of the forbidden chamber . 
`` Do you reproach me , Paul ? '' 
He turned and confronted her , grasping her wrist , while the light fell upon his ashen and colorless visage . 
He had been wild , -- mad -- before , but now his pale face and settled tone , his look at once fixed and dazzling , overwhelmed this beautiful woman with a freezing awe . 
His wild reproaches , his wandering ejaculations , his eyes rolling vaguely , his cheeks flushed with passion -- all these she could have borne , and borne with a secret triumph -- but this calm madness , this conscious despair , palsied every vein with the leaden apathy of terror . 
`` Take up the dark record , once more , '' he exclaimed , while she felt his hand , as it clasped her wrist , grow cold as ice : `` Let not the breath of the charnel fright you , let not the atmosphere of unnatural crimes make your soul afraid . 
He paused for a moment , and passed his hand over his forehead ; the beautiful woman shuddered as she beheld the expression of his features . 
`` Paul ! 
Your words fill me with horror beyond the power of utterance , '' cried the Wizard 's child , attempting to free her wrist from the clasp of his icy hand . 
He fixed upon the Wizard 's daughter the light of his eyes , flashing with scorn , and every lineament of his face was agitated by a smile , -- a smile which was Satanic in its very mockery of joy . 
he repeated : `` Her breath destroyed the Hopes of a life-time . '' 
Again he smiled in mockery . 
Therefore , Paul , the son , reading that Chronicle after the death of his Father , would not dream that his Race , or their once immense possessions , had an existence any longer . 
That the great name of the Race , their fame ennobled by titles only second to Royalty , had dwindled down into the name of the friendless boy -- ` Paul Ardenheim ! '' ' 
Again he paused -- looked sadly in her face -- while her eyes brightened with a Thought which she dared not speak . 
`` His race may exist at this hour , in all their wealth and power . 
Another may count his gold , and wear his titles , while the true Lord remains unknown and friendless among these forests . '' 
And as Paul stood gazing in her face , -- his death-cold hand upon her wrist -- the music from the lawn came gushing through the window , like the joyous peal of a Bridal Festival . 
Paul continued , after a breathless pause . 
As though the memory of that incredible interview , had transformed him into the very image which his imagination pictured -- a dead body instinct with a living Soul , -- Paul Ardenheim paused , his lips moved but framed no sound ; his form was motionless , his face without life or color his eyes alone , shining with intense light , told that the life still lingered in his breast . 
And the Woman so imposing in her voluptuous beauty , this incarnation of all that is lovely or bewitching , among the forms of external nature , this creature whose touch was madness , whose kiss kindled every throb into living flame , whose glance paralyzed the reason , or only roused it into frenzied action , -- even She shrank with terror from the face of Paul Ardenheim . 
Her finger on her dewy lip , one hand placed upon her breast , as if to still its throbbings , she retreated a step , and gazed upon him through the meshes of her unbound hair . 
`` Paul you spoke with Ranulph who lived three hundred years ago , '' she exclaimed after a pause , and her low voice , resounded through every nook of the still chamber : `` You stood face to face with this living Soul , enshrined within the breast of a Corpse ? 
It was a dream Paul , only a dream , believe me . 
Paul fixed upon her a vacant gaze , which looked into her eyes , without seeming conscious of her presence . 
`` Do you remember the words , Paul ? '' 
From the hour , when my hand , smote the bosom of Eola , until this moment , when I stand face to face , with you , Paul Ardenheim , I have walked beside the Lords of your race , and infused the poison of my accused existence , into their being . 
` Think not to escape me , Paul of Ardenheim , in whose soul I recognize some portion of my own . 
Paul Ardenheim I live , -- have lived , for well-nigh three hundred years . 
` Do you begin to read the destiny of your Race , Paul of Ardenheim ? 
` From that Child , Paul of Ardenheim , your race have descended . 
In vain have the Lords of your Race attempted to escape the curse which rested upon the birth of that child -- and , as for you -- the purity of Eola 's better nature may shed a halo around you for a little while , but the baseness of my brother 's blood , and the dark necessity of Parricide will work their inevitable results at last , and like every one of your race , you , Paul of Ardenheim , will sink into the grave of the Sensualist , with your brow seared by the mark of Cain , your hand red with the dye of Parricide . ' 
Thus far , in a voice unbroken by a single tremor , had Paul Ardenheim repeated the words of the singular Being , whom he had encountered in the Sealed Chamber . 
As he went on , his form immovable as an image of stone , his eye shining steadily from his corpse-like face , his voice hollow and deep , but undisturbed by one pause , or sign of hesitation , it seemed to the beautiful woman that she beheld Ranulph of Mount Sepulchre himself , that she heard his own sad accents , repeating the details of his incredible history , while Paul Ardenheim passed entirely from her sight . 
But now he paused , he hesitated , overwhelmed by emotion he was unable to proceed , and Paul Ardenheim once more stood before her . 
`` The full history of that hour I dare not repeat ; it would strike me dead , but to tell it to human ears , '' he resumed , in a faint and gasping voice ; `` He revealed to me , the page of the Future , and showed me the gray hairs of my father , dabbled in blood . 
Paul grasped her hand ; his pale cheek was tinged by a faint glow . 
And as the words fell from his lips , the music from without came in merry peals through the curtained window , filling the chamber with its bounding echoes . 
The Wizard 's daughter smiled , and quietly surrendered her hand to the nervous grasp of Paul Ardenheim . 
`` Did it never occur to you , Paul , that the woman who loves you , was no real form of flesh and blood , but a misty creation of the Demon 's skill ? 
She spoke laughingly , but Paul 's forehead grew dark at her words . 
He dropped her hands , and retreated from her gaze , while his eyes were chained to her face . 
he muttered , with a vacant eye . 
Paul gazed upon her in blank amazement -- `` Of whom do you speak ? '' 
he cried . 
she whispered and clasped his hand . 
Paul drew his hand from her grasp , and his face was stamped with unmingled horror . 
he whispered -- `` You blaspheme the Dead . '' 
He has disappeared -- '' her lip curled , and her eye flashed with the very laughter of scorn : `` Disappeared!First , your Sister dies ; sacrificed to his relentless vengeance , and then he -- disappears!And , Paul Ardenheim , who was driven forth from Wissahikon , like a felon two years and more ago , comes back again to weep by his Sister 's grave , and mourn forsooth at the disappearance of the Demon who had deprived him of rank and power -- of race and Name -- and planted in his heart the fear of Parricide . 
cried Paul in a voice hoarse with agony , and yet her words penetrated his soul , and overwhelmed with a Conviction which he could neither banish nor confute . 
he cried , wringing his hands in very frenzy , as a flood of memories , swept over him , bewildering every faculty , with their confused voices : `` My father and Ranulph of Mount Sepulchre the same ? 
It is false , it is blasphemous -- '' His voice rising with all the emphasis of despair , mingled with the melody , which burst gay and thrilling through the curtained window . 
He buried his face in his hands for a moment , and then started toward the mirror with outstretched arms and distorted features : `` Away ! '' 
he gasped -- `` Thou art the Demon . 
His hands grasped the mirror , as he sought madly for the secret spring , while his face was turned over his shoulder . 
And he sought for the secret spring with trembling hands . 
The beautiful woman , glided calmly to his side . 
She did not reply to his reproaches , nor return him scorn for scorn . 
`` You will leave me , Paul , '' she whispered , extending her hands -- `` Behold ! 
Her hand had touched his own , as it sought for the secret spring . 
She was by his side ; the hair which shadowed her face , waved against his breast , swayed by the breeze which came through the opened door , and gave him a glimpse of her faultless throat , and one white gleam of her panting bosom . 
He could not see her face ; it was lost in shadow . 
But a tear glittered upon that gleam of the snowy breast , and he heard her voice die away in an inarticulate murmur . 
Paul began to tremble ; he was ice and flame by turns ; his foot was on the threshold , yet he lingered one moment , ere he left her Presence and went forth into the silence and shadow of Night . 
She touched his hand , and clasped his fingers with an almost imperceptible pressure . 
Paul 's face was no longer wild and distorted ; it was subdued by a vague melancholy , but his heart beat tumultuously , and he was forced to lean for support against the frame of the secret door . 
A breathless pause ensued , while she stood near him , her face in shadow , while her hand gently touched his own . 
Paul lingered -- Where was the anger , which had swelled his heart , and quivered in burning accents from his tongue ? 
She raised her face , and looked at him silently through the intervals of her dark hair ; her lips moved as if in the effort to speak , but without a sound ; and then she stretched forth her arms , and sank upon his breast . 
`` To night , '' she murmured , as she buried her face upon his bosom . 
`` To-night I am to be married Paul . '' 
Her breast was throbbing against his heart ; her arms were round his neck , her hair waved over his arms and shoulders . 
It was as though liquid fire had been poured into his veins . 
He gathered her form to his breast with one arm , and closed the secret door with the other . 
The mirror in its place once more , reflected her head pillowed on his breast ; his face , glowing with the fire and quivering with the tumult of a sudden rapture . 
he echoed , and -- looking over her shoulder , he saw the white couch , among its snowy curtains , and knew at once that he beheld the Bridal Bed . 
He was lost in a tumult of conflicting emotions ; he was mad with boundless joy . 
he gasped , `` Thou so young and beautiful , wilt take the nameless wanderer to thy arms ! '' 
The dim luxurious light of that silent chamber , the pictures glowing from the walls , the statues gleaming from each shadowy recess , the music bursting in merry peals , through the window , the Bridal Bed , enshrined in twilight , all these conspired to inflame his senses , but the Woman who clung to his neck , and suffered her bosom to beat against his breast , completed his delirium . 
he cried , `` For me these marriage guests , for me these peals of marriage music , for me this silent room , made sacred by the Marriage Bed ! 
And then the Thought came over his soul , that this beautiful woman had discovered his real Name ; had found the clue to the title and the wealth of his race , and planned this scene as a merry surprise , for him -- her Husband . 
She gently unwound her arms from his neck , and removed his hand from her waist , and stood before him , radiant , glowing -- with all her loveliness about her like a veil `` I love you Paul , '' she whispered -- in a measured voice , with a pause between each word -- and took his hand : `` Never can I love any one but you . 
But Paul , I am to be married to-night , but not to you . '' 
`` It is no dream , Paul . 
The history is intricate and long , but I will speak it Paul , in few words . 
My body , Paul , is to be sold to-night , in the solemn auction of Marriage ; sold by the Priest , to pay the debt of my father , and secure his gray hairs from the ignominy of the jail . 
The Rich Man , the creditor of my father will purchase me , -- yes , buy my body -- but the Soul , Paul , the Soul ! 
Paul did not answer . 
As the first man in Eden , suddenly awoke from his dream of innocence , and found himself naked and was ashamed , so Paul Ardenheim , started up from his wild dreams , and found himself -- Poor . 
The Woman whom he worshipped -- for whom he would have bartered his Soul -- was to be sold , into the arms of sanctified lust , for the price of some thousands of round and bright and beautiful doubloons . 
Could he save her ! 
Could he redeem her body from this unholy traffic ? 
He could not call one piece of gold his own . 
He was Poor . 
`` Come , '' he muttered , as the room swam round him , and the death-bells sounded in his ears -- `` We will leave this place . 
His eye was vague and wandering ; his accents broken and faint ; he spoke like a man half roused from some horrible dream . 
`` No , Paul . 
Which is most fearful Paul , the Leprosy which corrodes the blood , or the Poverty which transforms body and soul , into one hideous ulcer ? '' 
Paul was still silent , but the blindness had passed away ; his eyes shone clear and deep again ; his Soul was possessed by a fixed and irrevocable Resolve `` To night I am to be married , Paul . 
But hold -- '' she grasped his hand , and looked into his eyes : `` Suppose the thing that is sold , has a Soul -- a Will . 
murmured Paul , while his Resolve gave a terrible light to his eye , an unnatural glow to his cheek . 
And then Paul , do I look like a Woman , who will be foiled by a creature , like this ? 
When I look into your eyes , Paul , I feel that you are the Master of my Soul . 
Paul did not answer her in words , but his gaze , spoke the purpose of his soul . 
She was before him , in all her transcendant loveliness , a bold and fearless soul embodied in a voluptuous shape . 
His bronzed cheek was growing with a crimson flush ; his eyes deep and clear and yet flashing as with liquid light , devoured at a glance the witchcraft of her face , the warm palpable beauty of her virgin form . 
He extended his arms , -- he drew her to his breast . 
And girdled in that arm , with all her life , throbbing in her bosom , and throbbing against his breast , she felt his touch , as his hand gently parted her tresses , over her forehead , she felt his gaze , -- burning , passionate , mad -- as his lips clung to her own . 
And the mirror reflected their forms , -- her robes like the driven snow floating about his dark attire -- and their faces , both impassioned by the same glow , her eyes kindling with the fire of his gaze , her hair , streaming over the arm , which held her to his breast . 
`` Thou art mine , '' he gasped , `` And now . 
And ere the words had died on his tongue , ere the kiss which answered him , had sealed her full assent upon his lips , the mirror glided silently aside , and two forms entered the apartment , with noiseless footsteps . 
cried the beautiful woman , springing from the arms of Paul -- `` Save me from this villian ! '' 
And Paul turned and saw her clinging to the neck of Reginald , her face , stamped with terror -- aye with hatred -- turned toward him , while the pale visage of Rolof Sener , smiled coldly at his side . 
Paul was dumb . 
`` It is not Paul Ardenheim that I behold . 
It is some miserable coward , who bearing some resemblance to the noble Paul , has stolen his dress and name . 
It is not -- it can not be Paul Ardenheim . '' 
Reginald 's cheek was flushed , his blue eyes flashing with concentrated rage , but his tone was calm and measured , in its very mockery of doubt . 
And as he spoke he took the hands which encircled his neck , and pressed them gently , at the same time , gathering all the sweetness of her voluptuous mouth , in a long and passionate kiss . 
Paul was dumb . 
Here the beautiful woman , clinging to the neck of Reginald , arrayed in his wedding dress ; there Paul Ardenheim , standing alone , his arms hanging by his side , his face colorless and leaden as the visage of death . 
Paul was dumb . 
Rolof Sener 's sunken eyes began to flash with peculiar light , and the icy smile played around his pale thin lips , but he did not speak . 
`` One moment , love , '' whispered Reginald , and he unwound the arms of the beautiful woman , `` I will punish this villian , who has assumed the name and dress of Paul Ardenheim , and then Leola -- '' he gazed fondly into her eyes -- `` the guests are waiting for us in the room below , and every thing is prepared for our Marriage . '' 
Paul 's chest began to heave ; the color rushed to his cheek , and a deadly light , glimmered from his bloodshot eyes . 
he gasped , and with the utterance of that fatal name , all the mystery of this scene , was revealed to his soul . 
When the word had passed his lips he was pale and dumb again . 
Reginald resigned the arm of Leola , and crossed the floor , until he stood face to face with Paul . 
Reginald 's chesnut hair , touched by the hand of his valet , and carefully dressed after the fashion of the time , relieved with its powdered locks , his clear blondecomplexion ; Paul 's dark hair , flowed wildly aside from his bronze visage , and only made his cheek seem paler , his eyes more intensely bright . 
`` As regards brute strength , they seem fairly matched , '' he muttered , `` Only Paul seems palsied in every nerve , while Reginald is stronger than ever , with settled rage . '' 
Reginald stood face to face with Paul , and surveyed him from head to foot , with a glance of overwhelming scorn . 
Paul returned his gaze , with a vacant and apathetic stare . 
For a moment neither spoke ; the color went and came on Paul 's bronzed cheek ; now he was panting and gasping as if for life , and now pale and immovable as the dead ; while Reginald 's cheek glowed into one scarlet flush , and his eyes shone with settled hate . 
At last he broke the stillness -- `` Paul Ardenheim ! '' 
Paul did not answer -- did not move -- his eyes was fixed upon the floor . 
Speak Paul ! 
Paul stood motionless and dumb , with his eyes cast to the floor . 
`` You are my friend , Paul , '' whispered Reginald , with scorn in his look and in every accent . 
Paul shuddered . 
Paul raised his eyes , as if about to speak , and at the same moment Leola started one step forward , and her gaze encountered the eyes of the Monk of Wissahikon . 
Paul felt it to the inmost core of his heart , and his pale face , glowed into life again . 
It said to Paul , ` Spare me ! 
Paul therefore , although his heart beat madly against his breast , was silent as the dead . 
ejaculated Paul , and then -- again that look from the flashing eyes of Leola . 
He cast it at the feet of Paul , exclaiming , `` Take it up , my Brother ! 
Paul trembled from head to foot , he started forward as if his agony had at last unsealed his lips , but looking over the shoulder of Reginald he again encountered Leola 's gaze . 
The cup of Paul 's agony at last was full . 
Scorned for his treachery , insulted for his cowardice , and now , tainted with his -- Poverty . 
he muttered wildly , and fixed his blood-shot eyes on Reginald 's face , his arms quivering to the very fingers as with a spasm . 
Leola crossed the floor with noiseless steps , and stole gently behind Reginald , winding her arms around his neck as she whispered in his ear , but at the same time , gazing steadily into the very eyes of Paul Ardenheim . 
And her look which flashed into Paul 's very soul , spoke to him , as her voice spoke to Reginald : `` Spare me ! 
Paul raised his form to its full stature , and surveyed Reginald with steady look , at the same time wiping the cold sweat from his forehead . 
It was but the work of an instant , and yet his extended hands , placed a sword in the hands of Reginald and Paul , and the words which he had spoken were full of meaning . 
Paul felt the hilt in his grasp , saw the sharp blade glitter in the light , and with an involuntary glance , measured the form of his antagonist . 
Paul grasped the sword , and his blood-shot eye brightened with a ferocious instinct . 
He gazed upon the breast of Reginald , gay with marriage attire , and seemed to meditate the blow , which would crimson that marriage attire with the Bridegroom 's blood . 
And he struck Paul across the shoulder with his sword ; not with the edge , as he would strike a man , but with the side of the blade as he would strike a dog . 
Paul calmly folded his arms -- calmly , although his chest was swelling with fearful agony -- and looked Reginald in the eyes . 
Even as Paul , raising himself to his full stature , placed his finger upon the scar , while a singular calmness overspread his face ; even as he spoke of that scar , which had been received in the defence of his friend 's life , Reginald , blinded by his rage , raised the sword , and struck the defenceless man across the forehead . 
Paul , with the blood upon his forehead , staggered to and fro for a moment , then , conquered as much by his agony as by the blow , fell like a dead man to the floor . 
His arms were outspread without life or motion , and his ashen face , with the features fixed as if in death , was half-concealed by his dark hair , which was damp and matted with his blood . 
And without another word , they bore the body of Paul Ardenheim through the secret door and down the narrow stairway . 
We will not aver , that Reginald 's hands did not tremble as he grasped the body of his dead ` Brother , ' nor dare we assert that his heart did not grow cold as he felt the head of Paul upon his breast . 
And thus they took the body of Paul Ardenheim from the voluptuous light of Leola 's chamber , into the silence and darkness of the summer night . 
The marriage music which smote their ears , fell cold and dead upon his pulseless brain . 
And the light , which came in fitful rays through the shrubbery which encircled the opening of the secret stairway , shone upon his marble visage and dark hair drenched with blood . 
Meanwhile Leola , stretched insensible upon the floor of her Bridal Chamber , with her dark hair waving over her face , was all unconscious that the Rich Man , who had bought her with his Gold , had borne away the lifeless body of Paul , the Husband of her Soul . 
Then all the pallor was gone from his face , and the smile of his red lip , the gleam of his deep blue eyes , the heaving of his broad chest , all told , that his thoughts had passed from the dead Paul to the living Leola . 
Leola did not speak , but her thoughts was full of agony -- `` For this , I have sacrificed Paul Ardenheim ! '' 
I thought you beautiful before , but now , it seems to me , you look like the Duchess of Lyndulfe , and yet -- '' he hissed the words in an emphatic whisper : `` Paul Ardenheim will yet be yours ! '' 
`` Paul Ardenheim will yet be yours ! '' 
`` A convenient stepping stone for me and Paul ! '' 
And Paul Ardenheim -- does he live ? 
He found himself alone , in the silence and shadow of Night . 
His form was prostrate ; his brow was pressed against the damp grass . 
He raised himself and looked around , and endeavored to collect his shattered senses . 
There was blood upon his forehead ; a sharp pain smote his very brain . 
He was in the shrubbery , near the secret door . 
This much he knew . 
But how had he come hither ? 
Why this mark of blood upon his brow ? 
A memory smote the heart of Paul , that he had seen that Face before . 
And Paul Ardenheim felt something pressed into his grasp by the speaker ; he clutched it , and raised it until it met a fitful ray ; it was a dagger , with a hilt of iron , and a long blade sharp and glittering . 
`` That door leads to her chamber , '' whispered Rolof Sener ; and Paul Ardenheim , without a word , went through the narrow door into the darkness of the secret chamber , the iron-hilted dagger in his grasp . 
As he disappeared , the withered frame of Isaac Van Behme -- or Sir Ralph Wyttonhurst , as you will -- crept from the bushes , and glided to Rolof Sener 's side , and then sank trembling and prostrate at Rolof Sener 's feet . 
`` Have no fear , '' said the sweet voice of Rolof Sener , `` Paul Ardenheim is mine , and Paul Ardenheim is gone to bring the precious blood for which thou dost seek . '' 
Up the dark stairway , dagger in hand , went Paul Ardenheim , and pressed the spring of the secret door , but in vain . 
It did not move at his touch ; the mirror was fastened in its place . 
Then Paul , in the darkness , laid his hand upon his bleeding hrow , and thrust that hand within his garment , and felt the fragment of the Broken Coin . 
Then , as if every relenting pulse had turned to ice , he pressed his weight against the door ; it yielded without a sound -- and he crossed the threshold of Leola 's chamber . 
A solitary lamp was burning there , and its rays left the statues and the pictures in twilight shadow , while the Bridal Bed , its white curtains drawn together , gleamed distinctly on his sight -- and from those snowy folds , the sound of murmuring voices met his ear . 
Paul stood on the threshold -- glanced around for an instant -- crossed the chamber with noiseless steps , and over Leola 's shoulder , struck his dagger into the breast of Reginald , even as he reclined upon the couch . 
And then Leola turned to look upon him , and Paul , tearing the curtains with his frenzied hands , rushed forward , eager to catch the last look of the dying man . 
It was too dim ; he could not see ; he heard Leola 's half-uttered shriek , but the face and the visage of the Dying was lost in the shadow . 
Then , suddenly a burst of warm radiance filled the place -- Paul turned , and by the glad light which gushed through the doorway of the chamber , saw Leolaand Reginaldencircled by the marriage guests . 
Paul turned to the Bed once more , and saw the prostrate form , and knew the ashen face . 
It was His Father . 
`` He dies , Paul -- '' she said -- yes -- he heard her voice and lived -- `` But not by your hand . 
Away , Paul ; this is no time for explanations ; no time for thought . 
To the Block-House , Paul , and when you have rescued the Deliverer , and looked upon your true Destiny , then I , Catherine , your Sister , will tell you all . '' 
Paul heard her voice , and looked into her eyes , and drank the God-born Thought , which gave them light . 
For a moment he lingered to press his Sister 's hand to his lips , -- even as a Catholic might the marble hand of a sculptured Mary , mother of the Lord -- and then with an agitated countenance , but with eyes radiant with a holy Resolve , he turned away , and passed through the door , passed between the forms of Leola and Reginald -- without a glance , without a word . 
Some day we will again take up the Record , and from the mysterious cyphers translate the history of Paul ; Leola ; Reginald : of Madeline and Gilbert , and of the dread Ranulph , whose corpse-like visage , Paul beheld in the shadows of the Sealed Chamber . 
But now , we linger only for a parting word -- As Paul crossed the threshold , Rolof Sener rushed to the Bed , -- saw that the dagger was harmless -- and then with a livid face approached Reginald , even as Leola , pale and beautiful , hung on his arm : `` Behold the Son of Gaspard-Michael ! '' 
he cried and pointed to the retreating form of Paul Ardenheim . 
Thusfar have we progressed in our translation of the Ancient Manuscripts , which record in their peculiar Cypher , the history of Paul Ardenheim the Monk of Wissahikon . 
We have seen the fearful education of Paul Ardenheim 's Soul ; we have seen it writhing into shape , in scenes of temptation and despair . 
What pen shall dare attempt the portraiture of the entire lifeof Paul Ardenheim , and trace him step by step from the chamber of Leola to his grave ? 
What hand shall dare to lift the curtain , and reveal Paul Ardenheim gliding like a Ghost -- like an embodied Fate -- through the incredible horrors and gloomy triumphs of the French Revolution ? 
At the present moment , neither our time , nor the limits of this work permit us to translate the entire life of Paul Ardenheim ; and array its various and mysterious incidents in the familiar garb of every-day speech . 
But for the present , I will not attempt any explanation of these mysteries ; in a future work I may lift the veil from all that now appears incredible in the history of Paul Ardenheim . 
Because Fiction only revels and glows in the Probable , while Truth in her noblest form , dares and conquers the Impossible . 
Paul was mad when he spoke of Brotherhood among men ; Galileo mad wen he said the earth moved round the sun ; Washington mad when he said that he could defeat the tyranny of an Anointed King . 
and their authors assailed as either harmless idiots or malignant demoniacs , how shall a poor author like your humble friend , ever summon courage , to write -- to print a book like Paul Ardenheim ? 
The names together read thus -- ` Maximilien Robespierre * * * ` Paul Ardemheim . '' ' 
