The selection of this remarkable person as the principal character in the romance -- for it will be easily comprehended , that the little love intrigue of Quentin is only employed as the means of bringing out the story -- afforded considerable facilities to the author . 
I may add , that the romance of Quentin Durward , which acquired a popularity at home more extensive than some of its predecessors , found also unusual success on the continent , where the historical allusions awakened more familiar ideas . 
When honest Dogberry sums up and recites all the claims which he had to respectability , and which , as he opined , ought to have exempted him from the injurious appellation conferred on him by Master Gentleman Conrade , it is remarkable that he lays not more emphasis even upon his double gown , -LRB- a matter of some importance in a certain ci-devant capital which I wot of , -RRB- or upon his being `` a pretty piece of flesh as any in Messina , '' or even upon the conclusive argument of his being `` a rich fellow enough , '' than upon his being one that hath had losses . 
Since I have been here in France and Flanders , men have called me , in their fantasy , the Varlet with the Velvet Pouch , because of this hawk purse which I carry by my side ; but my true name , when at home , is Quentin Durward . '' 
`` Durward ! '' 
And for the Bohemian -- hark in thy ear '' -- His comrade answered by a gloomy , but intelligent smile , and set forward at a round pace , while the elder man continued , addressing young Durward , -- `` You and I will walk leisurely forward together , and we may take a mass at Saint Hubert 's Chapel in our way through the forest ; for it is not good to think of our fleshly before our spiritual wants . '' 
Durward , as a good Catholic , had nothing to object against this proposal , although he might probably have been desirous , in the first place , to have dried his clothes and refreshed himself . 
`` He hath more the air of a butcher , than of a gay forester , '' answered Durward . 
`` Ah , my young friend , '' answered his companion , `` my gossip hath somewhat an ugly favour to look upon at the first ; but those who become acquainted with him , never are known to complain of him . '' 
Quentin Durward found something singularly and disagreeably significant in the tone with which this was spoken ; and , looking suddenly at the speaker , thought he saw in his countenance , in the slight smile that curled his upper lip , and the accompanying twinkle of his keen dark eye , something to justify his unpleasing surprise . 
Towards this little devotional structure the old man directed his steps , followed by young Durward ; and , as they approached , the priest , dressed in his sacerdotal garments , made his appearance , in the act of proceeding from his cell to the chapel , for the discharge , doubtless , of his holy office . 
Durward bowed his body reverently to the priest , as the respect due to his sacred office demanded ; whilst his companion , with an appearance of still more deep devotion , kneeled on one knee to receive the holy man 's blessing , and then followed him into church , with a step and manner expressive of the most heartfelt contrition and humility . 
Yet , during this brief ceremony , Durward 's companion seemed to pay the most rigid and scrupulous attention ; while Durward , not quite so much occupied with religious thoughts , could not forbear blaming himself in his own mind , for having entertained suspicions derogatory to the character of so good and so humble a man . 
Durward could not help asking the cause of this precaution . 
`` You are now near the Court , young man , '' answered his guide ; `` and , Pasques-dieu ! 
`` I care little for that , '' answered Quentin Durward ; `` I bear a Scottish tongue in my head , bold enough to speak my mind to King Louis 's face , God bless him -- and , for the ears you talk of , if I could see them growing on a human head , I would crop them out of it with my wood-knife . '' 
While Durward and his new acquaintance thus spoke , they came in sight of the whole front of the Castle of Plessis-les-Tours , which , even in those dangerous times , when the great found themselves obliged to reside within places of fortified strength , was distinguished for the extreme and jealous care with which it was watched and defended . 
From the verge of the wood where young Durward halted with his companion , in order to take a view of this royal residence , extended , or rather arose , though by a very gentle elevation , an open esplanade , devoid of trees and bushes of every description , excepting one gigantic and half-withered old oak . 
This formidable place had but one entrance , at least Durward saw none along the spacious front , except where , in the centre of the first and outward boundary , arose two strong towers , the usual defences of a gateway ; and he could observe their ordinary accompaniments , portcullis and drawbridge -- of which the first was lowered , and the last raised . 
Coming from a country alike desolated by foreign war and internal feuds , -- a country , too , whose unequal and mountainous surface , abounding in precipices and torrents , affords so many situations of strength , -- young Durward was sufficiently acquainted with all the various contrivances by which men , in that stern age , endeavoured to secure their dwellings ; but he frankly owned to his companion , that he did not think it had been in the power of art to do so much for defence , where nature had done so little ; for the situation , as we have hinted , was merely the summit of a gentle elevation ascending upwards from the place where they were standing . 
To enhance his surprise , his companion told him that the environs of the Castle , except the single winding-path by which the portal might be safely approached , were , like the thickets through which they had passed , surrounded with every species of hidden pit-fall , snare , and gin , to entrap the wretch who should venture thither without a guide ; that upon the walls were constructed certain cradles of iron , called swallows ' nests , from which the sentinels , who were regularly posted there , could , without being exposed to any risk , take deliberate aim at any who should attempt to enter without the proper signal or pass-word of the day ; and that the Archers of the Royal Guard performed that duty day and night , for which they received high pay , rich clothing , and much honour and profit at the hands of King Louis . 
`` I should sin if I were to boast where there is no danger , '' answered young Durward ; `` but my father has done as bold an act , and I trust I am no bastard . '' 
`` Well , '' said his companion , smiling , `` you might meet your match , and your kindred withal in the attempt ; for the Scottish Archers of King Louis 's Life-guards stand sentinels on yonder walls -- three hundred gentlemen of the best blood in your country . '' 
His companion again smiled , and turning his back on the Castle , which , he observed , they had approached a little too nearly , he led the way again into the wood , by a more broad and beaten path than they had yet trodden . 
`` This , '' he said , `` leads us to the village of Plessis , as it is called , where you , as a stranger , will find reasonable and honest accommodation . 
`` Nay , '' answered his companion , `` I thought you had some friend to see in this quarter . '' 
`` And so I have -- my mother 's own brother , '' answered Durward ; `` and as pretty a man , before he left the braes of Angus , as ever planted brogue on heather . '' 
`` They call my kinsman Ludovic with the Scar , '' said Quentin . 
`` A nom de guerre , I suppose you to mean , '' answered his companion ; `` and the man you speak of , we , I think , call Le Balafré , from that scar on his face -- a proper man and a good soldier . 
`` Perhaps I may have thought on some such thing , '' said Durward , carelessly ; `` but if I did , the fancy is off . '' 
`` I wish them joy of it , '' said Quentin , composedly . 
Besides , '' he added , in a lower voice , `` to speak truth , I love not the Castle when the covin-treeThe large tree in front of a Scottish castle , was sometimes called so . 
`` So be it , Maitre Pierre , '' said Quentin , `` and I am happy my good chance has thrown us together ; for I want a word of seasonable advice , and can be thankful for it . '' 
But you forget , Master Quentin , since Quentin is your name , you forget I owe you a breakfast for the wetting which my mistake procured you -- It is the penance of my offence towards you . '' 
Quentin Durward also , while thus agreeably employed , could do no otherwise than discover that the countenance of his entertainer , which he had at first found so unprepossessing , mended when it was seen under the influence of the Vin de Beaulne , and there was kindness in the tone with which he reproached Maitre Pierre , that he amused himself with laughing at his appetite , without eating any thing himself . 
`` Glen-houlakin , '' answered Quentin , good-humouredly , `` which is to say the Glen of the Midges , is the name of our ancient patrimony , my good sir . 
`` No wonder , '' said Durward , `` for if they be shut up in the swallows ' nests all night , they must needs have a curious appetite in the morning . '' 
`` It is well for them , '' said Durward . 
`` Very true , '' said Quentin ; `` my unhappy chance has shut that door against me . '' 
`` Nay , there are plenty of dare-devils abroad , with whom mad youngsters may find service , '' said his adviser . 
exclaimed Durward , `` serve Him with the Beard -- serve the wild Boar of Ardennes -- a captain of pillagers and murderers , who would take a man 's life for the value of his gaberdine , and who slays priests and pilgrims as if they were so many lance-knights and men-at-arms ? 
`` Follow the foul fiend as soon , '' said Quentin . 
`` Nay , faith , '' said Durward , `` if that be the case , I shall begin to think no one of these great men is much better than another , and that a choice among them is but like choosing a tree to be hung upon . 
-LRB- here he crossed himself , -RRB- `` and methinks , were I dwelling there , my holy patron would keep some look-out for me -- he has not so many named after him as your more popular saints -- and yet he must have forgotten me , poor Quentin Durward , his spiritual god-son , since he lets me go one day without food , and leaves me the next morning to the harbourage of Saint Julian , and the chance courtesy of a stranger , purchased by a ducking in the renowned river Cher , or one of its tributaries . '' 
The form of the goblet was so elegant , that Durward throught not of observing closely whether the material was of silver , or , like what had been placed before himself , of a baser metal , but so well burnished as to resemble the richer ore . 
But the sight of the young person by whom this service was executed , attracted Durward 's attention far more than the petty minutiæ of the duty which she performed . 
He speedily made the discovery , that a quantity of long black tresses , which , in the maiden fashion of his own country , were unadorned by any ornament , except a single chaplet lightly woven out of ivy leaves , formed a veil around a countenance , which , in its regular features , dark eyes , and pensive expression , resembled that of Melpomene , though there was a faint glow on the cheek , and an intelligence on the lips and in the eye , which made it seem that gaiety was not foreign to a countenance so expressive , although it might not be its most habitual expression . 
Quentin even thought he could discern that depressing circumstances were the cause why a countenance so young and so lovely was graver than belongs to early beauty ; and as the romantic imagination of youth is rapid in drawing conclusions from slight premises , he was pleased to infer , from what follows , that the fate of this beautiful vision was wrapped in silence and mystery . 
said Maitre Pierre , when she entered the apartment -- `` Wherefore this ? 
The mountain chivalry of Quentin Durward was instantly awakened , and he hastened to approach Jacqueline , and relieve her of the burden she bore , and which she passively resigned to him , while with a timid and anxious look , she watched the countenance of the angry burgess . 
Jacqueline looked for an instant on the young stranger , as if to obey Maitre Pierre , but the glance , momentary as it was , appeared to Durward a pathetic appeal to him for support and sympathy ; and with the promptitude dictated by the feelings of youth , and the romantic veneration for the female sex inspired by his education , he answered hastily , `` That he would throw down his gage to any antagonist , of equal rank and equal age , who should presume to say such a countenance , as that which he now looked upon , could be animated by other than the purest and the truest mind . '' 
Quentin , whose second thoughts generally corrected the first , though sometimes after they had found utterance , blushed deeply at having uttered what might be construed into an empty boast , in presence of an old man of a peaceful profession ; and , as a sort of just and appropriate penance , resolved patiently to submit to the ridicule which he had incurred . 
said Quentin , resolved , if he could help it , not to be borne down by the assumed superiority of this extraordinary old man , whose lofty and careless manner possessed an influence over him of which he felt ashamed . 
Quentin was again rebuffed , but not utterly disconcerted . 
`` Surely , '' he said to himself , `` I do not pay this same burgess of Tours all the deference which I yield him , on account of the miserable obligation of a breakfast , though it was a right good and substantial meal . 
Such were the thoughts which hastily traversed the mind of young Durward ; while Maitre Pierre said , with a smile , and at the same time patting Jacqueline 's head , from which hung down her long tresses , `` This young man will serve me , Jacqueline -- thou mayst withdraw . 
Jacqueline vanished ; and so much was Quentin Durward interested in her sudden disappearance , that it broke his previous thread of reflection , and he complied mechanically , when Maitre Pierre said , in the tone of one accustomed to be obeyed , as he threw himself carelessly upon a large easy-chair , `` Place that tray beside me . '' 
`` That is a beautiful creature , '' said the old man at last , raising his head , and looking steadily and firmly at Quentin , when he put the question -- `` a lovely girl to be the servant of an auberge ? 
Quentin was disconcerted , and was disposed to be angry -- he himself knew not why -- with this old man , for acquainting him that this beautiful creature was neither more nor less than what her occupation announced -- the servant of the auberge -- an upper servant , indeed , and probably a niece of the landlord , or such like ; but still a domestic , and obliged to comply with the humour of the customers , and particularly of Maitre Pierre , who probably had sufficiency of whims , and was rich enough to ensure their being attended to . 
The thought , the lingering thought , again returned on him , that he ought to make the old gentleman understand the difference betwixt their conditions , and call on him to mark , that , how rich soever he might be , his wealth put him on no level with a Durward of Glen-houlakin . 
On the contrary , the oftener and more fixedly Quentin looked at him , the stronger became his curiosity to know who or what this man actually was ; and he set him down internally for at least a Syndic or high magistrate of Tours , or one who was , in some way or other , in the full habit of exacting and receiving deference . 
He then signed to Quentin to give him the cup , adding , however , by way of question , as he presented it -- `` You are noble , you say ? '' 
`` An excellent maxim , '' said the merchant , availing himself of the youth 's assistance in handing the cup , and filling it from a ewer which seemed of the same materials with the goblet , without any of those scruples in point of propriety which , perhaps , Quentin had expected to excite . 
`` The devil take the ease and familiarity of this old mechanical burgher , '' said Durward once more to himself ; `` he uses the attendance of a noble Scottish gentleman with as little ceremony as I would that of a gillie from Glen-isla . '' 
Quentin Durward would have said something to have excused himself from accepting the profuse liberality of his new friend ; but Maitre Pierre , bending his dark brows , and erecting his stooping figure into an attitude of more dignity than he had yet seen him assume , said , in a tone of authority , `` No reply , young man , but do what you are commanded . '' 
With these words , he left the apartment , making a sign , as he departed , that Quentin must not follow him . 
His first most natural , though perhaps not most dignified impulse , drove him to peep into the silver goblet , which assuredly was more than half full of silver pieces , to the number of several scores , of which perhaps Quentin had never called twenty his own at one time during the course of his whole life . 
But could he reconcile it to his dignity as a gentleman , to accept the money of this wealthy plebeian ? 
-- This was a trying question ; for though he had secured a good breakfast , it was no great reserve upon which to travel either back to Dijon , in case he chose to hazard the wrath , and enter the service , of the Duke of Burgundy , or to Saint Quentin , if he fixed on that of the Constable Saint Paul ; for to one of those powers , if not to the King of France , he was determined to offer his services . 
`` And , pray , who is this Maitre Pierre , '' said Durward , interrupting him , `` who confers such valuable gifts on strangers ? '' 
said the host , dropping the words as slowly from his mouth as if he had been distilling them . 
`` Ay , '' said Durward , hastily and peremptorily , `` who is this Maitre Pierre , and why does he throw about his bounties in this fashion ? 
said Durward ; `` for I observed that Maitre Pierre would take nothing from your hand , or that of your attendant . '' 
said Durward . 
Quentin , who carried the notions of his own importance pretty high , considering how destitute he was of means to support them , being somewhat mortified by the innkeeper 's reply , did not hesitate to avail himself of a practice common enough in that age . 
`` Carry to the ladies , '' he said , `` a flask of vernât , with my humble duty ; and say , that Quentin Durward , of the house of Glen-houlakin , a Scottish cavalier of honour , and now their fellow-lodger , desires the permission to dedicate his homage to them in a personal interview . '' 
Quentin bit his lip , took a cup of the rejected vernât , which the host had placed on the table . 
`` By the mass , but this is a strange country , '' said he to himself , `` where merchants and mechanics exercise the manners and munificence of nobles , and little travelling damsels , who hold their court in a cabaret , keep their state like disguised princesses ! 
I will see that black-browed maiden again , or it will go hard , however ; '' and having formed this prudent resolution , he demanded to be conducted to the apartment which he was to call his own . 
The landlord presently ushered him up a turret staircase , and from thence along a gallery , with many doors opening from it , like those of cells in a convent ; a resemblance which our young hero , who recollected , with much ennui , an early specimen of a monastic life , was far from admiring . 
exclaimed Quentin Durward , cutting a caper on the floor , so soon as his host had retired : `` Never came good luck in a better or a wetter form . 
As he spoke thus , he stepped towards the little window , which , as the turret projected considerably from the principal line of the building , not only commanded a very pretty garden , of some extent , belonging to the inn , but overlooked , beyond its boundary , a pleasant grove of those very mulberry-trees , which Maitre Pierre was said to have planted for the support of the silk-worm . 
Besides , turning the eye from these more remote objects , and looking straight along the wall , the turret of Quentin was opposite to another turret , and the little window at which he stood commanded a similar little window , in a corresponding projection of the building . 
Now , it would be difficult for a man twenty years older than Quentin , to say why this locality interested him more than either the pleasant garden or the grove of mulberry-trees ; for , alas ! 
But , at Durward 's happy age , such accidents , as a painter would call them , form sufficient foundation for a hundred airy visions and mysterious conjectures , at recollection of which the full-grown man smiles while he sighs , and sighs while he smiles . 
As it may be supposed that our friend Quentin wished to learn a little more of his fair neighbour , the owner of the lute and veil , -- as it may be supposed he was at least interested to know whether she might not prove the same whom he had seen in humble attendance on Maitre Pierre , it must of course be understood , that he did not produce a broad staring visage and person in full front of his own casement . 
Durward knew better the art of bird-catching ; and it was to his keeping his person skilfully withdrawn on one side of his window , while he peeped through the lattice , that he owed the pleasure of seeing a white , round , beautiful arm , take down the instrument , and that his ears had presently after their share in the reward of his dexterous management . 
Whatever the reader may think of this simple ditty , it had a powerful effect on Quentin , when married to heavenly airs , and sung by a sweet and melting voice , the notes mingling with the gentle breezes which wafted perfumes from the garden , and the figure of the songstress being so partially and obscurely visible , as threw a veil of mysterious fascination over the whole . 
Durward was mortified and surprised at the consequence of his precipitance , but comforted himself with the hope , that the Lady of the Lute could neither easily forego the practice of an instrument which seemed so familiar to her , nor cruelly resolve to renounce the pleasures of fresh air and an open window , for the churlish purpose of preserving for her own exclusive ear the sweet sounds which she created . 
Whilst Quentin was engaged in these sage reflections , a sort of attendant or chamberlain of the inn informed him that a cavalier desired to speak with him below . 
The cavalier who awaited Quentin Durward 's descent into the apartment where he had breakfasted , was one of those of whom Louis XI . 
Quentin Durward , though , like the Scottish youth of the period , he had been early taught to look upon arms and war , thought he had never seen a more martial-looking , or more completely equipped and accomplished man-at-arms , than now saluted him in the person of his mother 's brother , called Ludovic with the Scar , or Le Balafré ; yet he could not but shrink a little from the grim expression of his countenance , while , with its rough mustaches , he brushed first the one and then the other cheek of his kinsman , welcomed his nephew to France , and , in the same breath , asked what news from Scotland . 
`` Little good tidings , dear uncle , '' replied young Durward `` but I am glad that you know me so readily . '' 
`` Dead , fair uncle , '' answered Quentin , sorrowfully . 
echoed his uncle with a tone rather marked by wonder than sympathy -- `` why , she was five years younger than I , and I was never better in my life . 
And ere the youth could reply , he read the answer in his surprise at the question , and said , `` What ! 
-- I would have sworn that Allan Durward was no man to live without a wife . 
`` I fought it out among those who were older and stouter than I was , till we were all brought down , '' said Durward , `` and I received a cruel wound . '' 
`` They ploughed deep enough , '' answered Quentin , sadly ; `` but they were tired at last , and my mother 's entreaties procured mercy for me , when I was found to retain some spark of life ; but although a learned monk of Aberbrothick , who chanced to be our guest at the fatal time , and narrowly escaped being killed in the fray , was permitted to bind my wounds , and finally to remove me to a place of safety , it was only on promise , given both by my mother and him , that I should become a monk . '' 
`` That my father 's house might be ended , either in the cloister or in the tomb , '' answered Quentin , with deep feeling . 
`` I see , '' answered his uncle -- `` I comprehend . 
`` I have little more to tell , '' said Durward , `` except that , considering my poor mother to be in some degree a pledge for me , I was induced to take upon me the dress of a novice , and conformed to the cloister rules , and even learned to read and write . '' 
I can not believe it -- never Durward could write his name that ever I heard of , nor Lesly either . 
`` It was troublesome at first , '' said Durward , `` but became more easy by use ; and I was weak with my wounds and loss of blood , and desirous to gratify my preserver , Father Peter , and so I was the more easily kept to my task . 
`` That is right -- that is well , '' said his uncle . 
`` I understood , '' said Quentin , evading a decision to which he felt himself as yet scarcely competent , `` that the Duke of Burgundy keeps a more noble state than the King of France , and that there is more honour to be won under his banners -- that good blows are struck there , and deeds of arms done ; while the Most Christian King , they say , gains his victories by his ambassadors ' tongues . '' 
`` You speak like a foolish boy , fair nephew , '' answered he with the Scar ; `` and yet , I bethink me , when I came hither I was nearly as simple : I could never think of a King but what I supposed him either sitting under the high deas , and feasting amid his high vassals and Paladins , eating blancmanger , with a great gold crown upon his head , or else charging at the head of his troops like Charlemagne in the romaunts , or like Robert Bruce or William Wallace in our own true histories , such as Barbour and the Minstrel . 
`` But you meet not my exception , fair uncle , '' answered young Durward ; `` I would serve , since serve I must in a foreign land , somewhere where a brave deed , were it my hap to do one , might work me a name . '' 
demanded young Durward . 
It might have been expected that , when left alone , Durward would have again betaken himself to his turret , in order to watch for the repetition of those delicious sounds which had soothed his morning reverie . 
But that was a chapter of romance , and his uncle 's coversation had opened to him a page of the real history of life . 
Quentin resorted to a solitary walk along the banks of the rapid Cher , having previously enquired of his landlord for one which he might traverse without fear of disagreeable interruption from snares and pitfalls , and there endeavoured to compose his turmoiled and scattered thoughts , and consider his future motions , upon which his meeting with his uncle had thrown some dubiety . 
The manner in which Quentin Durward had been educated , was not of a kind to soften the heart , or perhaps to improve the moral feeling . 
He , with the rest of his family , had been trained to the chase as an amusement , and taught to consider war as their only serious occupation , and that it was the great duty of their lives stubbornly to endure , and fiercely to retaliate , the attacks of their feudal enemies , by whom their race had been at last almost annihilated . 
The lessons of the worthy old monk , better attended to , perhaps , during a long illness and adversity , than they might have been in health and success , had given young Durward still farther insight into the duties of humanity towards others ; and , considering the ignorance of the period , the general prejudices entertained in favour of a military life , and the manner in which he himself had been bred , the youth was disposed to feel more accurately the moral duties incumbent on his station than was usual at the time . 
He reflected on his interview with his uncle with a sense of embarrassment and disappointment . 
His hopes had been high ; for although intercourse by letters was out of the question , yet a pilgrim , or an adventurous trafficker , or a crippled soldier , sometimes brought Lesly 's name to Glen-houlakin , and all united in praising his undaunted courage , and his success in many petty enterprises which his master had intrusted to him . 
Quentin 's imagination had filled up the sketch in his own way , and assimilated his successful and adventurous uncle -LRB- whose exploits probably lost nothing in the telling -RRB- to some of the champions and knights-errant of whom minstrels sang , and who won crowns and kings ' daughters by dint of sword and lance . 
He was now compelled to rank his kinsman greatly lower in the scale of chivalry ; but blinded by the high respect paid to parents , and those who approach that character -- moved by every early prejudice in his favour -- inexperienced besides , and passionately attached to his mother 's memory , he saw not , in the only brother of that dear relation , the character he truly held , which was that of an ordinary mercenary soldier , neither much worse nor greatly better than many of the same profession whose presence added to the distracted state of France . 
Without seeing the full scope of his uncle 's character , Quentin felt shocked at his indifference to the disastrous extirpation of his brother-in-law 's whole family , and could not help being surprised , moreover , that so near a relative had not offered him the assistance of his purse , which , but for the generosity of Maitre Pierre , he would have been under the necessity of directly craving from him . 
But whatever was the motive , the neglect was very unsatisfactory to young Durward , and he wished more than once he had taken service with the Duke of Burgundy before he quarrelled with his forester . 
`` Whatever had then become of me , '' he thought to himself , `` I should always have been able to keep up my spirits with the reflection , that I had , in case of the worst , a stout back-friend in this uncle of mine . 
Durward now regretted he had not had an opportunity to mention Maitre Pierre to Le Balafré , in the hope of obtaining some farther account of that personage ; but his uncle 's questions had followed fast on each other , and the summons of the great bell of Saint Martin of Tours had broken off their conference rather suddenly . 
As Quentin framed this thought , a whisper from those recesses of the heart in which lies much that the owner does not know of , or will not acknowledge willingly , suggested that , perchance , the lady of the turret , she of the veil and lute , might share that adventurous journey . 
`` Of Maitre Pierre , the great silk merchant , who planted all the mulberry trees in the park yonder , '' said Durward . 
`` Young man , '' said one of them who was nearest to him , `` you have taken up an idle trade a little too early . '' 
Quentin was so much surprised at the causeless offence which these two decent-looking persons had taken at a very simple and civil question , that he forgot to be angry at the rudeness of their reply , and stood staring after them as they walked on with amended pace , often looking back at him , as if they were desirous to get as soon as possible out of his reach . 
He next met a party of vine-dressers , and addressed to them the same question ; and , in reply , they demanded to know whether he wanted Maitre Pierre , the schoolmaster ? 
Quentin , as he pursued his walk , began to think , in his turn , either that he himself lay under a spell , or that the people of Touraine were the most stupid , brutal , and inhospitable of the French peasants . 
The next incident which came under his observation did not tend to diminish this opinion . 
On a slight eminence , rising above the rapid and beautiful Cher , in the direct line of his path , two or three large chestnut trees were so happily placed as to form a distinguished and remarkable group ; and beside them stood three or four peasants , motionless , with their eyes turned upwards , and fixed , apparently , upon some object amongst the branches of the tree next to them . 
Quentin hastened his pace , and ran lightly up the rising ground , time enough to witness the ghastly spectacle which attracted the notice of these gazers -- which was nothing less than the body of a man , convulsed by the last agony , suspended on one of the branches . 
Neither understanding nor heeding the import of this symbol , young Durward sprung lightly as the ounce up into the tree , drew from his pouch that most necessary implement of a Highlander or woodsman , the trusty skene dhu , Black knife ; a species of knife without clasp or hinge , formerly much used by the Highlanders , who seldom travelled without such an ugly weapon , though it is now rarely used . 
and , calling to those below to receive the body on their hands , cut the rope asunder in less than a minute after he had perceived the exigency . 
But his humanity was ill seconded by the bystanders . 
So far from rendering Durward any assistance , they seemed terrified at the audacity of his action , and took to flight with one consent , as if they feared their merely looking on might have been construed into accession to his daring deed . 
The body , unsupported from beneath , fell heavily to earth , in such a manner , that Quentin , who presently afterwards jumped down , had the mortification to see that the last sparks of life were extinguished . 
He gave not up his charitable purpose , however , without farther efforts . 
He freed the wretched man 's neck from the fatal noose , undid the doublet , threw water on the face , and practised the other ordinary remedies resorted to for recalling suspended animation . 
While he was thus humanely engaged , a wild clamour of tongues , speaking a language which he knew not , arose around him ; and he had scarcely time to observe that he was surrounded by several men and women of a singular and foreign appearance , when he found himself roughly seized by both arms , while a naked knife , at the same moment , was offered to his throat . 
The women had by this time taken possession of the dead body , and continued the attempts to recover animation which Durward had been making use of , though with the like bad success ; so that , desisting from their fruitless efforts , they seemed to abandon themselves to all the Oriental expressions of grief ; the women making a piteous wailing , and tearing their long black hair , while the men seemed to rend their garments , and to sprinkle dust upon their heads . 
They gradually became so much engaged in their mourning rites , that they bestowed no longer any attention on Durward , of whose innocence they were probably satisfied from circumstances . 
It would certainly have been his wisest plan to have left these wild people to their own courses , but he had been bred in almost reckless contempt of danger , and felt all the eagerness of youthful curiosity . 
There were no weapons among them that Durward saw , except the long knives with which they had lately menaced him , and one short crooked sabre , or Moorish sword , which was worn by an active-looking young man , who often laid his hand upon the hilt , while he surpassed the rest of the party in his extravagant expressions of grief , and seemed to mingle with them threats of vengeance . 
The disordered and yelling group were so different in appearance from any beings whom Quentin had yet seen , that he was on the point of concluding them to be a party of Saracens , of those `` heathen hounds , '' who were the opponents of gentle knights and Christian monarchs , in all the romances which he had heard or read , and was about to withdraw himself from a neighbourhood so perilous , when a galloping of horse was heard , and the supposed Saracens , who had raised by this time the body of their comrade upon their shoulders , were at once charged by a party of French soldiers . 
Quentin , whom fortune seemed at this period to have chosen for the butt of her shafts , was at the same time seized by the soldiers , and his arms , in spite of his remonstrances , bound down with a cord ; those who apprehended him showing a readiness and dispatch in the operation , which proved them to be no novices in matters of police . 
Looking anxiously to the leader of the horsemen , from whom he hoped to obtain liberty , Quentin knew not exactly whether to be pleased or alarmed upon recognising in him the down-looking and silent companion of Maitre Pierre . 
True , whatever crime these strangers might be accused of , this officer might know , from the history of the morning , that he , Durward , had no connexion with them whatever ; but it was a more difficult question , whether this sullen man would be either a favourable judge or a willing witness in his behalf , and he felt doubtful whether he would mend his condition by making any direct application to him . 
Trois-Eschelles and Petit-André were in an instant on foot , and Quentin observed that they had each , at the crupper and pommel of his saddle , a coil or two of ropes , which they hastily undid , and showed that , in fact , each coil formed a halter , with the fatal noose adjusted , ready for execution . 
The blood ran cold in Quentin 's veins , when he saw three cords selected , and perceived that it was proposed to put one around his own neck . 
He called on the officer loudly , reminded him of their meeting that morning , claimed the right of a free-born Scotsman , in a friendly and allied country , and denied any knowledge of the persons along with whom he was seized , or of their misdeeds . 
The officer whom Durward thus addressed , scarce deigned to look at him while he was speaking , and took no notice whatever of the claim he preferred to prior acquaintance . 
He barely turned to one or two of the peasants who were now come forward , either to volunteer their evidence against the prisoners , or out of curiosity , and said gruffly , `` Was yonder young fellow with the vagabonds ? '' 
`` I will answer for my actions in both , '' said the Provost , coldly ; and made a sign with his left hand to the executioners ; then , with a smile of triumphant malice , touched with his forefinger his right arm , which hung suspended in a scarf , disabled probably by the blow which Durward had dealt him that morning . 
answered Quentin , persuaded by that action that private revenge was the sole motive of this man 's rigour , and that no mercy whatever was to be expected from him . 
It must not be supposed that these reflections were of Quentin Durward 's making . 
Life , death , time , and eternity , were swimming before his eyes -- a stunning and overwhelming prospect , from which human nature recoiled in its weakness , though human pride would fain have borne up . 
He addressed himself to the God of his fathers ; and when he did so , the little rude and unroofed chapel , which now held almost all his race but himself , rushed on his recollection . 
`` Our feudal enemies gave my kindred graves in our own land , '' he thought , `` but I must feed the ravens and kites of a foreign land , like an excommunicated felon ! '' 
The tears gushed involuntarily from his eyes . 
Trois-Eschelles , touching one shoulder , gravely congratulated him on his heavenly disposition for death , and pathetically exclaiming , Beati qui in Domino moriuntur , remarked the soul was happy that left the body while the tear was in the eye . 
since you must begin the dance , let the ball open gaily , for all the rebecs are in tune , '' twitching the halter at the same time , to give point to his joke . 
As the youth turned his dismayed looks , first on one and then on the other , they made their meaning plainer by gently urging him forward to the fatal tree , and bidding him be of good courage , for it would be over in a moment . 
In this fatal predicament , the youth cast a distracted look around him . 
`` Is there any good Christian who hears me , '' he said , `` that will tell Ludovic Lesly of the Scottish Guard , called in this country Le Balafré , that his nephew is here basely murdered ? '' 
`` Heaven forbid , Sir Cavalier , '' said Trois-Eschelles ; `` but we must obey our orders , '' drawing Durward forward by one arm . 
`` The shortest play is ever the fairest , '' said Petit-André , pulling him onward by the other . 
But Quentin had heard words of comfort , and , exerting his strength , he suddenly shook off both the finishers of the law , and , with his arms still bound , ran to the Scottish Archer . 
`` Cut my bonds , countryman , '' said Quentin , `` and I will do something for myself . '' 
exclaimed Quentin . 
`` As I desire your protection , '' answered Durward , `` I will tell you the truth as if I were at confession . 
Upon this urgency , Lesly showed none of that indifference towards his nephew of which Quentin had in his heart accused him ; for he no sooner saw his comrade and Durward standing upon their defence , than he exclaimed , `` Cunningham , I thank thee . 
`` But , gentlemen , and my worthy friends and preservers , '' said Quentin , with some hesitation , `` I have not yet determined whether to take service with you or no . '' 
`` Then settle in your own mind , '' said his uncle , `` whether you choose to do so , or be hanged -- for I promise you , that , nephew of mine as you are , I see no other chance of your ` scaping the gallows . '' 
This was an unanswerable argument , and reduced Quentin at once to acquiesce in what he might have otherwise considered as no very agreeable proposal ; but the recent escape from the halter , which had been actually around his neck , would probably have reconciled him to a worse alternative than was proposed . 
An attendant upon the Archers having been dismounted , Quentin Durward was accommodated with his horse , and , in company of his martial countrymen , rode at a round pace towards the Castle of Plessis , about to become , although on his own part involuntarily , an inhabitant of that gloomy fortress , the outside of which had , that morning , struck him with so much surprise . 
`` May I ask , kinsman , '' said Quentin , `` what sort of people these are of whom you speak ? '' 
`` In troth you may ask , '' said his uncle , `` but I know not , fair nephew , who is able to answer you . 
One by one they entered ; but when Quentin appeared , the sentinels crossed their pikes , and commanded him to stand , while bows were bent , and harquebusses aimed at him from the walls -- a rigour of vigilance used , notwithstanding that the young stranger came in company of a party of the garrison , nay , of the very body which furnished the sentinels who were then upon duty . 
Balafré and Cunningham followed Durward and the guard to the apartment of their officer , by whose dignified appearance , as well as with the respect paid to him by these proud soldiers , who seemed to respect no one else , the young man was much and strongly impressed . 
`` May it please your Lordship '' -- said Durward -- `` Is the lad crazed ! '' 
exclaimed his uncle -- `` Would you speak to his Lordship , without a question asked ? '' 
`` Only this , if it may please your Lordship , '' replied Quentin , `` that I told my uncle formerly I had some doubts about entering this service . 
There you stand , Quentin , in our honourable corps of Scottish Bodyguards , as esquire to your uncle , and serving under his lance . 
The pledge was filled , and answered , as may be well supposed , with many a joyous shout , when the old leader proceeded to acquaint them that he had possessed Master Oliver with an account of what had passed that day : `` And as , '' he said , `` the scraper of chins hath no great love for the stretcher of throats , he has joined me in obtaining from the King an order , commanding the Provost to suspend all proceedings , under whatever pretence , against Quentin Durward ; and to respect , on all occasions , the privileges of the Scottish Guard . '' 
The good old Lord could not but in courtesy do reason to this pledge also , and gliding into the ready chair , as it were without reflecting what he was doing , he caused Quentin to come up beside him , and assailed him with many more questions concerning the state of Scotland , and the great families there , than he was well able to answer ; while ever and anon , in the course of his queries , the good Lord kissed the wine-cup by way of parenthesis , remarking , that sociality became Scottish gentlemen , but that young men , like Quentin , ought to practise it cautiously , lest it might degenerate into excess ; upon which occasion he uttered many excellent things , until his own tongue , although employed in the praises of temperance , began to articulate something thicker than usual . 
Meanwhile , not a word that was spoken concerning the beautiful Countess Isabelle had escaped the young Durward , who , conducted into a small cabin , which he was to share with his uncle 's page , made his new and lowly abode the scene of much high musing . 
There was an interlude in Quentin 's vision concerning Maitre Pierre , who seemed to exercise such authority even over the formidable officer from whose hands he had that day , with much difficulty , made his escape . 
At length the youth 's reveries , which had been respected by little Will Harper , the companion of his cell , were broken in upon by the return of his uncle , who commanded Quentin to bed , that he might arise betimes in the morning , and attend him to his Majesty 's antechamber , to which he was called by his hour of duty , along with five of his comrades . 
Had sloth been a temptation by which Durward was easily beset , the noise with which the caserne of the guards resounded after the first toll of primes , had certainly banished the siren from his couch ; but the discipline of his father 's tower , and of the convent of Aberbrothick , had taught him to start with the dawn ; and he did on his clothes gaily , amid the sounding of bugles and the clash of armour , which announced the change of the vigilant guards -- some of whom were returning to barracks after their nightly duty , whilst some were marching out to that of the morning -- and others , again , amongst whom was his uncle , were arming for immediate attendance upon the person of Louis . 
Quentin Durward soon put on , with the feelings of so young a man on such an occasion , the splendid dress and arms appertaining to his new situation ; and his uncle , who looked with great accuracy and interest to see that he was completely fitted out in every respect , did not conceal his satisfaction at the improvement which had been thus made in his nephew 's appearance . 
So saying , he took up a partisan , large , weighty , and beautifully inlaid and ornamented , and directing his nephew to assume a lighter weapon of a similar description , they proceeded to the inner-court of the palace , where their comrades , who were to form the guard of the interior apartments , were already drawn up , and under arms -- the squires each standing behind their masters , to whom they thus formed a second rank . 
Here were also in attendance many yeomen-prickers , with gallant horses and noble dogs , on which Quentin looked with such inquisitive delight , that his uncle was obliged more than once to remind him that the animals were not there for his private amusement , but for the King 's , who had a strong passion for the chase , one of the few inclinations which he indulged , even when coming in competition with his course of policy ; being so strict a protector of the game in the royal forests , that it was currently said , you might kill a man with greater impunity than a stag . 
New as Quentin was to scenes of splendour , the effect of that which was now before him rather disappointed the expectations which he had formed of the brilliancy of a Court . 
There were household officers , indeed , richly attired ; there were guards gallantly armed , and there were domestics of various degrees : But he saw none of the ancient counsellors of the kingdom , none of the high officers of the crown , heard none of the names which in those days sounded an alarum to chivalry ; saw none either of those generals or leaders , who , possessed of the full prime of manhood , were the strength of France , or of the more youthful and fiery nobles , those early aspirants after honour , who were her pride . 
One or two persons , however , did appear to Durward to possess a more noble mien , and the strictness of the present duty was not such as to prevent his uncle communicating the names of those whom he thus distinguished . 
With the Lord Crawford , who was in attendance , dressed in the rich habit of his office , and holding a leading staff of silver in his hand , Quentin , as well as the reader , was already acquainted . 
Quentin observed that the Duke studiously avoided even looking at the Royal Guards , and when he returned their salute , that he kept his eyes bent on the ground , as if he feared the King 's jealousy might have construed that gesture of ordinary courtesy , as arising from the purpose of establishing a separate and personal interest among them . 
Presently afterwards , he had another proof of the same agreeable tidings ; for Quentin 's old acquaintance , Tristan l'Hermite , the Provost-Marshal of the Royal Household , entered the apartment , and came straight to the place where Le Balafré was posted . 
Quentin could not help being of his uncle 's opinion , for , as Tristan parted from them , it was with the look of angry defiance which the bear casts upon the hunter whose spear has wounded him . 
Quentin , like all others , turned his eyes upon him ; and started so suddenly , that he almost dropt his weapon , when he recognised in the King of France that silk-merchant , Maitre Pierre , who had been the companion of his morning walk . 
Quentin , in the meantime , recovered from his first surprise , studied the King 's appearance more attentively , and was surprised to find how differently he now construed his deportment and features than he had done at their first interview . 
But those eyes , which , according to Quentin 's former impression , only twinkled with the love of gain , had , now that they were known to be the property of an able and powerful monarch , a piercing and majestic glance ; and those wrinkles on the brow , which he had supposed were formed during a long series of petty schemes of commerce , seemed now the furrows which sagacity had worn while toiling in meditation upon the fate of nations . 
So saying , the King crossed himself devoutly , looking , in the meantime , as appeared to Quentin , very like a cunning vassal , who was depreciating the merit of something which he was desirous to keep to himself , in order that he might stand excused for not offering it to his chief or superior . 
`` Dares he thus play the hypocrite with Heaven , '' thought Durward , `` and sport with God and the Saints , as he may safely do with men , who dare not search his nature too closely ? '' 
-- And the King 's horn rung merrily through the woods as he pushed forward on the chase , followed by two or three of his guards , amongst whom was our friend Quentin Durward . 
And here it was remarkable , that , even in the keen prosecution of his favourite sport , the King , in indulgence of his caustic disposition , found leisure to amuse himself by tormenting Cardinal Balue . 
At this critical moment , Quentin Durward , who had been thrown out in the chase by the slowness of his horse , but who , nevertheless , had luckily distinguished and followed the blast of the King 's horn , rode up , and transfixed the animal with his spear . 
The King , who had by this time recovered his feet , came in turn to Durward 's assistance , and cut the animal 's throat with his sword . 
Before speaking a word to Quentin , he measured the huge creature not only by paces , but even by feet -- then wiped the sweat from his brow , and the blood from his hands -- then took off his hunting-cap , hung it on a bush , and devoutly made his orisons to the little leaden images which it contained -- and at length , looking upon Durward , said to him , `` Is it thou , my young Scot ? 
Quentin , as shrewd a youth as ever Scottish breeze breathed caution into , had imbibed more awe than confidence towards his dangerous master , and was far too wise to embrace the perilous permission of familiarity which he seemed thus invited to use . 
He answered in very few and well-chosen words , that if he ventured to address his Majesty at all , it could be but to crave pardon for the rustic boldness with which he had conducted himself when ignorant of his high rank . 
The King then winded his horn , which brought up Dunois and several attendants , whose compliments he received on the slaughter of such a noble animal , without scrupling to appropriate a much greater share of merit than actually belonged to him ; for he mentioned Durward 's assistance as slightly as a sportsman of rank , who , in boasting of the number of birds which he has bagged , does not always dilate upon the presence and assistance of the game-keeper . 
`` May it please you , Sire , '' said Quentin , when he saw that all were silent , `` I saw his Lordship the Cardinal accommodated with a horse , on which he left the forest . '' 
-- You , Sir Squire , '' addressing Quentin , `` reach me my wood-knife -- it has dropped from the sheath beside the quarry there . 
Louis , whose lightest motions were often conducted like stratagems , thus gained an opportunity to ask Quentin privately , `` My bonny Scot , thou hast an eye , I see -- Canst thou tell me who helped the Cardinal to a palfrey ? 
`` I saw those who aided his Eminence but an instant , Sire , '' said Quentin ; `` it was only a hasty glance , for I had been unluckily thrown out , and was riding fast , to be in my place ; but I think it was the Ambassdor of Burgundy and his people . '' 
Quentin had hardly reached his little cabin , in order to make some necessary changes in his dress , when his worthy relative required to know the full particulars of all that had befallen him at the hunt . 
The youth , who could not help thinking that his uncle 's hand was probably more powerful than his understanding , took care , in his reply , to leave the King in full possession of the victory which he had seemed desirous to appropriate . 
This discussion was scarcely ended , when occasion was afforded Quentin to congratulate himself for observing some reserve towards his kinsman . 
He here paused for a reply ; and with his eyes fixed on the ground , save just when once or twice they stole upwards to take a side glance at Quentin , he heard Balafré observe , `` That his Majesty had been unlucky in not having himself by his side instead of his nephew , as he would questionless have made in , and speared the brute , a matter which he understood Quentin had left upon his Majesty 's royal hands , so far as he could learn the story . 
But it will be a lesson to his Majesty , '' he said , `` while he lives , to mount a man of my inches on a better horse ; for how could my great hill of a Flemish dray-horse keep up with his Majesty 's Norman runner ? 
I am sure I spurred till his sides were furrowed . 
`` It is our custom , '' answered Quentin , determined to throw no farther light on the subject , `` not to encumber them with assistance in honourable pastimes , when they can aid themselves without it . 
`` You hear the silly boy , '' said his uncle ; `` that is always the way with him ; he hath an answer or a reason ready to be rendered to every one . 
`` And pray , worthy Seignior , '' said the royal tonsor , looking at him from under his eyelids , `` what might your reason be for calling the muster-roll on such occasions ? '' 
Quick , and sharp of wit , as well as ardent in fancy , Quentin saw visions of higher importance in this early summons to the royal presence , and his heart beat high at the anticipation of rising into speedy distinction . 
He determined carefully to watch the manners and language of his conductor , which he suspected must , in some cases at least , be interpreted by contraries , as soothsayers are said to discover the interpretation of dreams . 
He could not but hug himself on having observed strict secrecy on the events of the chase , and then formed a resolution , which , for so young a person , had much prudence in it , that while he breathed the air of this secluded and mysterious Court , he would keep his thoughts locked in his bosom , and his tongue under the most careful regulation . 
His equipment was soon complete , and , with his harquebuss on his shoulder , -LRB- for though they retained the name of Archers , the Scottish Guard very early substituted fire-arms for the long-bow , in the use of which their nation never excelled , -RRB- he followed Master Oliver out of the barrack . 
When Quentin Durward left his uncle to these sublime meditations , he followed his conductor , Master Oliver , who , without crossing any of the principal courts , led him partly through private passages exposed to the open air , but chiefly through a maze of stairs , vaults , and galleries , communicating with each other by secret doors , and at unexpected points , into a large and spacious latticed gallery , which , from its breadth , might have been almost termed a hall , hung with tapestry more ancient than beautiful , and with a very few of the hard , cold , ghastly-looking pictures , belonging to the first dawn of the arts , which preceded their splendid sunrise . 
answered Quentin , in the same suppressed tone . 
`` That , '' answered Quentin , `` is soon done ; '' and proceeded to charge his weapon , and to light the slow-match -LRB- by which when necessary it was discharged -RRB- at the embers of a wood fire , which was expiring in the huge hall chimney -- a chimney itself so large , that it might have been called a Gothic closet or chapel appertaining to the hall . 
This wore away a considerable space of time , and it was now more than two hours past noon , when Quentin was reminded by his appetite that the good fathers of Aberbrothick , however strict in demanding his attendance upon the hours of devotion , were no less punctual in summoning him to those of refection ; whereas here , in the interior of a royal palace , after a morning spent in exercise , and a noon exhausted in duty , no man seemed to consider it as a natural consequence that he must be impatient for his dinner . 
There are , however , charms in sweet sounds which can lull to rest even the natural feelings of impatience , by which Quentin was now visited . 
As the sentinel directed his solitary walk betwixt these two entrances , which formed the boundary of his duty , he was startled by a strain of music , which was suddenly waked near one of those doors , and which , at least in his imagination , was a combination of the same lute and voice by which he had been enchanted on the preceding day . 
All the dreams of yesterday morning , so much weakened by the agitating circumstances which he had since undergone , again rose more vivid from their slumber , and , planted on the spot where his ear could most conveniently drink in the sounds , Quentin remained , with his harquebuss shouldered , his mouth half open , ear , eye , and soul directed to the spot , rather the picture of a sentinel than a living form , -- without any other idea than that of catching , if possible , each passing sound of the dulcet melody . 
But , besides that music , like beauty , is often most delightful , or at least most interesting to the imagination , when its charms are but partially displayed , and the imagination is left to fill up what is from distance but imperfectly detailed , Quentin had matter enough to fill up his reverie during the intervals of fascination . 
He could not doubt , from the report of his uncle 's comrades , and the scene which had passed in the presence-chamber that morning , that the siren who thus delighted his ears , was not , as he had profanely supposed , the daughter or kinswoman of a base cabaretier , but the same disguised and distressed Countess , for whose cause Kings and Princes were now about to buckle on armour , and put lance in rest . 
A hundred , wild dreams , such as romantic and adventurous youth readily nourished in a romantic and adventurous age , chased from his eyes the bodily presentment of the actual scene , and substituted their own bewildering delusions , when at once , and rudely , they were banished by a rough grasp laid upon his weapon , and a harsh voice which exclaimed , close to his ear , `` Ha ! 
The voice was the tuneless , yet impressive and ironical tone of Maitre Pierre , and Quentin , suddenly recalled to himself , saw , with shame and fear , that he had , in his reverie , permitted Louis himself -- entering probably by some secret door , and gliding along by the wall , or behind the tapestry -- to approach him so nearly , as almost to master his weapon . 
Quentin , who rather looked to be sent to the Provost-Marshal , than greeted with such a compliment , answered humbly in the negative . 
`` Four-and-twenty , Sire , '' replied Durward , `` or I were no true Scot . '' 
As the King was in no haste to proceed , Quentin at length ventured to ask what his duty was to be in these circumstances . 
exclaimed Durward . 
`` Their Scottish honour , '' answered Durward , boldly . 
`` It is my duty , '' said Quentin , `` your Majesty 's life being endangered . '' 
-- Were it the Constable Saint Paul indeed '' -- Here he paused , as if he thought he had said a word too much , but resumed , laughing , `` There 's our brother-in-law , James of Scotland -- your own James , Quentin -- poniarded the Douglas when on a hospitable visit , within his own royal castle of Skirling . '' 
`` Of Stirling , '' said Quentin , `` and so please your highness . 
said the King , overlooking the latter part of Quentin 's speech -- `` Well , let it be Stirling -- the name is nothing to the purpose . 
`` I shall be prompt at the signal , '' said Quentin ; `` but yet '' -- `` You hesitate , '' said the King . 
`` I would only presume to say , '' replied Quentin , `` that your Majesty having occasion to distrust this Burgundian , I marvel that you suffer him to approach so near your person , and that in privacy . '' 
Louis led his young Life-guards-man , for whom he seemed to have taken a special favour , through the side-door by which he had himself entered , saying , as he showed it him , `` He who would thrive at Court must know the private wickets and concealed staircases -- ay , and the traps and pitfalls of the palace , as well as the principal entrances , folding-doors , and portals . '' 
Behind this cupboard , and completely hidden by it , was the post which Louis assigned to Quentin Durward ; and after having ascertained , by going to different parts of the room , that he was invisible from all quarters , he gave him his last charge -- `` Remember the word , Ecosse , en avant ; and so soon as ever I utter these sounds , throw down the screen -- spare not for cup or goblet , and be sure thou take good aim at Crèvecoeur -- If thy piece fail , cling to him , and use thy knife -- Oliver and I can deal with the Cardinal . '' 
Having thus spoken , he whistled aloud , and summoned into the apartment Oliver , who was premier-valet of the chamber as well as barber , and who , in fact , performed all offices immediately connected with the King 's person , and who now appeared , attended by two old men , who were the only assistants or waiters at the royal table . 
So soon as the King had taken his place , the visitors were admitted ; and Quentin , though himself unseen , was so situated as to remark all the particulars of the interview . 
The King welcomed his visitors with a degree of cordiality , which Quentin had the utmost difficulty to reconcile with the directions which he had previously received , and the purpose for which he stood behind the beauffet with his deadly weapon in readiness . 
Quentin was tempted to suppose , either that the whole of his previous conversation with Louis had been a dream , or that the dutiful demeanour of the Cardinal , and the frank , open , and gallant bearing of the Burgundian noble , had entirely erased the King 's suspicion . 
But whilst the guests , in obedience to the King , were in the act of placing themselves at the table , his Majesty darted one keen glance on them , and then instantly directed his look to Quentin 's post . 
This was done in an instant ; but the glance conveyed so much doubt and hatred towards his guests , such a peremptory injunction on Quentin to be watchful in attendance , and prompt in execution , that no room was left for doubting that the sentiments of Louis continued unaltered , and his apprehensions unabated . 
So soon as all , even Oliver , had retired , he called Quentin from his place of concealment ; but with a voice so faint , that the youth could scarce believe it to be the same which had so lately given animation to the jest , and zest to the tale . 
`` Thy watch is not yet over , '' said he to Quentin -- `` refresh thyself for an instant -- yonder table affords the means -- I will then instruct thee in thy farther duty . 
It may be supposed , however , that Quentin had too much sense and prudence to put the royal patience to a long or tedious proof ; and indeed he was repeatedly desirous to break off his repast ere Louis would permit him . 
`` I see it in thine eye , '' he said , good-naturedly , `` that thy courage is not half abated . 
Quentin obeyed , and , conducted by a different , but as mazelike an approach as he had formerly passed , he followed Louis into the Hall of Roland . 
The King had scarce spoken these words ere he disappeared behind the arras , leaving Quentin to meditate on what he had seen and heard . 
The youth was in one of those situations from which it is pleasanter to look forward than to look back ; for the reflection that he had been planted like a marks-man in a thicket who watches for a stag , to take the life of the noble Count of Crèvecoeur , had in it nothing ennobling . 
Quentin made use of this sedative reflection the more easily , that the last commands of the King had given him something more agreeable to think of than his own condition . 
By her imperfect and unequal gait , which showed to peculiar disadvantage as she traversed this long gallery , Quentin at once recognised the Princess Joan , and , with the respect which became his situation , drew himself up in a fitting attitude of silent vigilance , and lowered his weapon to her as she passed . 
She acknowledged the courtesy by a gracious inclination of her head , and he had an opportunity of seeing her countenance more distinctly than he had in the morning . 
While Quentin followed this singular apparition with eyes in which curiosity was blended with compassion , for every look and motion of the Princess seemed to call for the latter feeling , two ladies entered from the upper end of the apartment . 
One of these was the young person , who , upon Louis 's summons , had served him with fruit , while Quentin made his memorable breakfast at the Fleurde-Lys . 
Invested now with all the mysterious dignity belonging to the nymph of the veil and lute , and proved , besides , -LRB- at least in Quentin 's estimation , -RRB- to be the high-born heiress of a rich earldom , her beauty made ten times the impression upon him which it had done when he beheld in her one whom he deemed the daughter of a paltry innkeeper , in attendance upon a rich and humorous old burgher . 
Her head-dress was but a veil of crape , which was entirely thrown back , so as to leave her face uncovered ; and it was only Quentin 's knowledge of her actual rank , which gave in his estimation new elegance to her beautiful shape , a dignity to her step which had before remained unnoticed , and to her regular features , brilliant complexion , and dazzling eyes , an air of conscious nobleness , that enhanced their beauty . 
Had death been the penalty , Durward must needs have rendered to this beauty and her companion the same homage which he had just paid to the royalty of the Princess . 
They received it as those who were accustomed to the deference of inferiors , and returned it with courtesy ; but he thought -- perhaps it was but a youthful vision -- that the young lady coloured slightly , kept her eyes on the ground , and seemed embarrassed , though in a trifling degree , as she returned his military salutation . 
She was tall and graceful , though somewhat haughty in her deportment , and returned the salute of Quentin with a smile of gracious condescension , whispering , the next instant , something into her companion 's ear , who turned towards the soldier , as if to comply with some hint from the elder lady , but answered , nevertheless , without raising her eyes . 
Quentin could not help suspecting that the observation called on the young lady to notice his own good mien ; and he was -LRB- I do not know why -RRB- pleased with the idea , that the party referred to did not choose to look at him , in order to verify with her own eyes the truth of the observation . 
Probably he thought there was already a sort of mysterious connexion beginning to exist between them , which gave importance to the slightest trifle . 
This reflection was momentary , for he was instantly wrapped up in attention to the meeting of the Princess Joan with these stranger ladies . 
Mindful of the King 's injunction , and determined not to be a second time caught slumbering , Quentin instantly moved towards the intruder , and , interposing between him and the ladies , requested him to retire instantly . 
`` By that of the King , '' said Quentin , firmly , `` which I am placed here to enforce . '' 
`` Not against Louis of Orleans , '' said the Duke , dropping his cloak . 
The young man hesitated a moment ; but how enforce his orders against the first Prince of the blood , about to be allied , as the report now generally went , with the King 's own family ? 
As Louis entered the Gallery , he bent his brows in the manner we have formerly described as peculiar to him , and sent , from under his gathered and gloomy eyebrows , a keen look on all around ; in darting which , as Quentin afterwards declared , his eyes seemed to turn so small , so fierce , and so piercing , as to resemble those of an aroused adder looking through the bush of heath in which he lies coiled . 
he said ; -- and turning to Quentin , added sternly , `` Had you not charge ? '' 
With slow and pensive step , and eyes fixed on the ground , Louis now paced towards Quentin Durward , who , expecting his share of the royal displeasure , viewed his approach with no little anxiety . 
Well pleased to escape so easily , yet with a soul which revolted at the cold-blooded cruelty which the King seemed to require from him in the execution of his duty , Durward took the road indicated , hastened down stairs , and communicated the royal pleasure to Oliver , who was waiting in the court beneath . 
The wily tonsor bowed , sighed , and smiled , as , with a voice even softer than ordinary , he wished the youth a good evening ; and they parted , Quentin to his quarters , and Oliver to attend the King . 
In this place , the Memoirs which we have chiefly followed in compiling this true history , were unhappily defective ; for , founded chiefly on information supplied by Quentin , they do not convey the purport of the dialogue which , in his absence , took place between the King and his secret counsellor . 
After a few words respecting the honour and trust which were about to be reposed in him , which made Quentin internally afraid that they were again about to propose to him such a watch as he had kept upon the Count of Crèvecoeur , or perhaps some duty still more repugnant to his feelings , he was not relieved merely , but delighted , with hearing that he was selected , with the assistance of four others under his command , one of whom was a guide , to escort the Ladies of Croye to the little Court of their relative , the Bishop of Liege , in the safest and most commodious , and , at the same time , in the most secret manner possible . 
Without having any defined notions of the cause of his delight , Quentin Durward 's heart leapt for joy at the idea of approaching thus nearly to the person of the Beauty of the Turret , and in a situation which entitled him to her confidence , since her protection was in so great a degree intrusted to his conduct and courage . 
Youth seldom thinks of dangers , and bred up free , and fearless , and self-confiding , Quentin , in particular , only thought of them to defy them . 
He longed to be exempted from the restraint of the Royal presence , that he might indulge the secret glee with which such unexpected tidings filled him , and which prompted him to bursts of delight which would have been totally unfitting for that society . 
Louis therefore led the way , followed by the impatient Quentin , to a separate tower of the Castle of Plessis , in which was installed , in no small ease and splendour , the celebrated astrologer , poet , and philosopher , Galeotti Marti , or Martius , or Martivalle , a native of Narni , in Italy , the author of the famous Treatise , De Vulgo Incognitis , Concerning things unknown to the generality of mankind . 
The apartments of this courtly and martial sage were far more splendidly furnished than any which Quentin had yet seen in the royal palace ; and the carving and ornamented wood-work of his library , as well as the magnificence displayed in the tapestries , showed the elegant taste of the learned Italian . 
Out of his study one door opened to his sleeping - apartment , another led to the turret which served as his observatory . 
-- Blushing and borne down by this close examination on the part of one whose expression was so reverent at once and commanding , Quentin bent his eyes on the ground , and did not again raise them , till in the act of obeying the sonorous command of the Astrologer , `` Look up and be not afraid , but hold forth thy hand . '' 
Louis , having thus , in legal phrase , added a refreshing fee to his general retainer , turned from him to address Durward . 
Avoiding all conversation with any one , -LRB- for such was his charge , -RRB- Quentin Durward proceeded hastily to array himself in a strong but plain cuirass , with thigh and arm-pieces , and placed on his head a good steel cap without any visor . 
At a few minutes before twelve at midnight , Quentin , according to his directions , proceeded to the second court-yard , and paused under the Dauphin 's Tower , which , as the reader knows , was assigned for the temporary residence of the Countesses of Croye . 
The men sat still in their saddles , as if they were motionless ; and by the same imperfect light Quentin saw with pleasure that they were all armed , and held long lances in their hands . 
They were only three in number ; but one of them whispered to Quentin , in a strong Gascon accent , that their guide was to join them beyond Tours . 
`` May heaven bless you , Sire , '' said a voice which thrilled upon Quentin Durward 's ear , `` and forgive you , even if your purposes be more interested than your words express ! 
The person whom she thus addressed , muttered an inaudible answer , and retreated back through the barrier-gate , while Quentin thought , that , by the moon-glimpse , he recognised in him the King himself , whose anxiety for the departure of his guests had probably induced him to give his presence , in case scruples should arise on their part , or difficulties on that of the guards of the Castle . 
Spurring his horse forward , Quentin respectfully presented himself to the ladies in that capacity , and thus underwent the interrogatories of the Lady Hameline . 
He told both . 
`` He could not , '' he replied , `` pretend to much knowledge of the route , but he was furnished with full instructions , and he was , at their first resting-place , to be provided with a guide , in all respects competent to the task of directing their farther journey : meanwhile , a horseman who had just joined them , and made the number of their guard four , was to be their guide for the first stage . '' 
`` I may safely affirm so , madam , '' replied Quentin . 
`` And are you not , '' said the younger lady , addressing him in her turn , but with a timorous accent , `` the same whom I saw when I was called to wait upon the King at yonder inn ? '' 
Lowering his voice , perhaps from similar feelings of timidity , Quentin answered in the affirmative . 
`` On my honour , madam , '' said Durward , `` by the fame of my House , by the bones of my ancestry , I could not , for France and Scotland laid into one , be guilty of treachery or cruelty towards you ! '' 
The Countess Isabelle , who had some reason to dread this Passage of Haflinghem , it being a topic upon which her aunt was at all times very diffuse , suffered the conversation to drop ; and Quentin , with the natural politeness of one who had been gently nurtured , dreading lest his presence might be a restraint on their conversation , rode forward to join the guide , as if to ask him some questions concerning their route . 
Meanwhile , the ladies continued their journey in silence , or in such conversation as is not worth narrating , until day began to break ; and as they had then been on horseback for several hours , Quentin , anxious lest they should be fatigued , became impatient to know their distance from the nearest resting-place . 
continued Quentin . 
Quentin cast his eye on the person whom he rode beside , and , under the shadow of a slouched overspreading hat , which resembled the sombrero of a Spanish peasant , he recognised the facetious features of the same Petit-André , whose fingers , not long since , had , in concert with those of his lugubrious brother , Trois-Eschelles , been so unpleasantly active about his throat . 
-- Impelled by aversion , not altogether unmixed with fear , -LRB- for in his own country the executioner is regarded with almost superstitious horror , -RRB- which his late narrow escape had not diminished , Durward instinctively moved his horse 's head to the right , and pressing him at the same time with the spur , made a demi-volte , which separated him eight feet from his hateful companion . 
As he thus spoke , he edged his horse sideways , to regain the interval which the Scot had left between them , saying at the same time , `` Come , Seignior Archer , let there be no unkindness betwixt us ! 
exclaimed Quentin , as the finisher of the law again sought to approach him closer , `` or I shall be tempted to teach you the distance that should be betwixt men of honour and such an outcast . '' 
A strong desire had Quentin to have belaboured him while the staff of his lance could hold together ; but he put a restraint on his passion , recollecting that a brawl with such a character could be creditable at no time or place , and that a quarrel of any kind , on the present occasion , would be a breach of duty , and might involve the most perilous consequences . 
He therefore swallowed his wrath at the ill-timed and professional jokes of Mons . 
Petit-André , and contented himself with devoutly hoping that they had not reached the ears of his fair charge , on which they could not be supposed to make an impression in favour of himself , as one obnoxious to such sarcasms . 
But he was speedily aroused from such thoughts by the cry of both the ladies at once , `` Look back -- look back ! 
Quentin hastily looked back , and saw that two armed men were in fact following them , and riding at such a pace as must soon bring them up with their party . 
`` It can , '' he said , `` be only some of the Provostry making their rounds in the Forest . 
-- Do thou look , '' he said to Petit-André , `` and see what they may be . '' 
Petit-André obeyed ; and rolling himself jocosely in the saddle after he had made his observations , replied , `` These , fair sir , are neither your comrades nor mine -- neither Archers nor Marshalmen -- for I think they wear helmets , with visors lowered , and gorgets of the same . 
`` Do you , gracious ladies , '' said Durward , without attending to Petit-André , `` ride forward -- not so fast as to raise an opinion of your being in flight , and yet fast enough to avail yourself of the impediment which I shall presently place between you and these men who follow us . '' 
The Countess Isabelle looked to their guide , and then whispered to her aunt , who spoke to Quentin thus -- `` We have confidence in your care , fair Archer , and will rather abide the risk of whatever may chance in your company , than we will go onward with that man , whose mien is , we think , of no good augury . '' 
-- Which of you there , '' he continued , addressing the guards whom he commanded , `` is willing to be my comrade , and to break a lance with these gallants ? '' 
While he spoke , the two knights -- for they seemed of no less rank -- came up with the rear of the party , in which Quentin , with his sturdy adherent , had by this time stationed himself . 
One of them , as they approached , called out to Quentin , `` Sir Squire , give place -- we come to relieve you of a charge which is above your rank and condition . 
`` In return to your demand , sirs , '' replied Durward , `` know , in the first place , that I am discharging the duty imposed upon me by my present Sovereign ; and next , that however unworthy I may be , the ladies desire to abide under my protection . '' 
`` They are indeed terms of resistance , '' said Quentin , `` since they oppose your insolent and unlawful aggression ; and if there be difference of rank between us , which as yet I know not , your discourtesy has done it away . 
While the knights turned their horses , and rode back to the distance of about a hundred and fifty yards , Quentin , looking to the ladies , bent low on his saddle-bow , as if desiring their favourable regard , and as they streamed towards him their kerchiefs , in token of encouragement , the two assailants had gained the distance necessary for their charge . 
Calling to the Gascon to bear himself like a man , Durward put his steed into motion ; and the four horsemen met in full career in the midst of the ground which at first separated them . 
On the other hand , Quentin , though labouring under the same disadvantage , swayed himself in the saddle so dexterously , that the hostile lance , slightly scratching his cheek , passed over his right shoulder ; while his own spear , striking his antagonist fair upon the breast , hurled him to the ground . 
Quentin jumped off , to unhelm his fallen opponent ; but the other knight , -LRB- who had never yet spoken , -RRB- seeing the fortune of his companion , dismounted still more speedily than Durward , and bestriding his friend , who lay senseless , exclaimed , `` In the name of God and Saint Martin , mount , good fellow , and get thee gone with thy woman 's ware ! 
`` By your leave , Sir Knight , '' said Quentin , who could not brook the menacing tone in which this advice was given , `` I will first see whom I have had to do with , and learn who is to answer for the death of my comrade . '' 
-- Nay , if thou wilt have it , '' -LRB- for Quentin now drew his sword , and advanced on him , -RRB- `` take it with a vengeance ! '' 
So saying , he dealt the Scot such a blow on the helmet , as , till that moment , -LRB- though bred where good blows were plenty , -RRB- he had only read of in romance . 
It descended like a thunderbolt , beating down the guard which the young soldier had raised to protect his head , and , reaching his helmet of proof , cut it through so far as to touch his hair , but without farther injury ; while Durward , dizzy , stunned , and beaten down on one knee , was for an instant at the mercy of the knight , had it pleased him to second his blow . 
But compassion for Quentin 's youth , or admiration of his courage , or a generous love of fair play , made him withhold from taking such advantage ; while Durward , collecting himself , sprung up and attacked his antagonist with the energy of one determined to conquer or die , and at the same time with the presence of mind necessary for fighting the quarrel out to the best advantage . 
Resolved not again to expose himself to such dreadful blows as he had just sustained , he employed the advantage of superior agility , increased by the comparative lightness of his armour , to harass his antagonist , by traversing on all sides , with a suddenness of motion and rapidity of attack , against which the knight , in his heavy panoply , found it difficult to defend himself without much fatigue . 
It was in vain that this generous antagonist called aloud to Quentin , `` that there now remained no cause of fight betwixt them , and that he was loath to be constrained to do him injury . '' 
Listening only to the suggestions of a passionate wish to redeem the shame of his temporary defeat , Durward continued to assail him with the rapidity of lightning -- now menacing him with the edge , now with the point of his sword -- and ever keeping such an eye on the motions of his opponent , of whose superior strength he had had terrible proof , that he was ready to spring backward , or aside , from under the blows of his tremendous weapon . 
So saying , he changed his mode of fighting , collected himself as if to stand on the defensive , and seemed contented with parrying , instead of returning , the blows which Quentin unceasingly aimed at him , with the internal resolution , that the instant when either loss of breath , or any false or careless pass of the young soldier , should give an opening , he would put an end to the fight by a single blow . 
Both champions stepped back -- and Quentin saw , with surprise , that his Captain , Lord Crawford , was at the head of the party who had thus interrupted their combat . 
Quentin Durward , meanwhile , stood like one planet-struck ; so fast did new adventures pour in upon him . 
He had now , as the pale features of his first antagonist assured him , borne to the earth the first Prince of the blood in France , and had measured swords with her best champion , the celebrated Dunois ; -- both of them achievements honourable in themselves ; but whether they might be called good service to the King , or so esteemed by him , was a very different question . 
-- Then , addressing Quentin , he added , `` You , young man , have done your duty . 
Lord Crawford seemed about to give a passionate reply ; but , as if he had thought better of it , turned his back short upon Tristan , and requesting the Duke of Orleans and Dunois to ride one on either hand of him , he made a signal of adieu to the ladies , and said to Quentin , `` God bless thee , my child ; thou hast begun thy service valiantly , though in an unhappy cause . '' 
He was about to go off -- when Quentin could hear Dunois whisper to Crawford , `` Do you carry us to Plessis ? '' 
There was something in the question which sounded like irony , but Quentin had tact enough to answer simply and with sincerity , `` I can regret nothing that is done in the service of such ladies as you are ; but , methinks , had it consisted with your safety , I had rather have fallen by the sword of so good a soldier as Dunois , than have been the means of consigning that renowned knight and his unhappy chief , the Duke of Orleans , to yonder fearful dungeons . '' 
The Countess Isabelle replied in a firm and almost a displeased tone ; with an energy , in short , which Quentin had not yet observed her use . 
As Quentin turned his face towards her , to return the fitting acknowledgments , she saw the blood which streamed down on one side of his face , and exclaimed , in a tone of deep feeling , `` Holy Virgin , he is wounded ! 
In spite of all that Durward could say of the slightness of his hurt , he was compelled to dismount , and to seat himself on a bank , and unhelmet himself , while the ladies of Croye , who , according to a fashion not as yet antiquated , pretended to some knowledge of leech-craft , washed the wound , stanched the blood , and bound it with the kerchief of the younger Countess , in order to exclude the air , for so their practice prescribed . 
That which the men escape will be generally acknowledged ; but the peril of dressing such a slight wound as that of Quentin 's , which involved nothing formidable or dangerous , was perhaps as real in its way as the risk of encountering it . 
It was no wonder , therefore , that from this moment the thoughts of the Countess Isabelle , already so familiar to his imagination , should become paramount in Quentin 's bosom , nor that if the maiden 's feelings were of a less decided character , at least so far as known to herself , she should think of her young defender , to whom she had just rendered a service so interesting , with more emotion than of any of the whole band of high-born nobles who had for two years past besieged her with their adoration . 
The fashion of the time prescribed one absolute mode of receiving such a favour , which Quentin followed accordingly , by tying the napkin round his arm ; yet his manner of acknowledgment had more of awkwardness , and less of gallantry in it , than perhaps it might have had at another time , and in another presence ; for though the wearing of a lady 's favour , given in such a manner , was merely matter of general compliment , he would much rather have preferred the right of displaying on his arm that which bound the wound inflicted by the sword of Dunois . 
Meantime they continued their pilgrimage , Quentin now riding abreast of the ladies , into whose society he seemed to be tacitly adopted . 
He did not speak much , however , being filled by the silent consciousness of happiness , which is afraid of giving too strong vent to its feelings . 
Not much interested , I am sorry to say , in the description of this splendid scene , or in the heraldic bearings of the different Flemish and German knights , which the lady blazoned with pitiless accuracy , Quentin began to entertain some alarm lest he should have passed the place where his guide was to join him -- a most serious disaster , and from which , should it really have taken place , the very worst consequences were to be apprehended . 
While he hesitated whether it would be better to send back one of his followers , to see whether this might not be the case , he heard the blast of a horn , and looking in the direction from which the sound came , beheld a horseman riding very fast towards them . 
The low size , and wild , shaggy , untrained state of the animal , reminded Quentin of the mountain breed of horses in his own country ; but this was much more finely limbed , and , with the same appearance of hardiness , was more rapid in its movements . 
`` I will question the man , if it be your pleasure , '' said Quentin , `` and assure myself of his fidelity as I best may . '' 
Durward , as well as the ladies of Croye , had recognised in this man 's dress and appearance , the habit and the manners of those vagrants with whom he had nearly been confounded by the hasty proceedings of Trois-Eschelles and Petit-André , and he , too , entertained very natural apprehensions concerning the risk of reposing trust in one of that vagrant race . 
`` A true token , '' said Quentin ; `` Lead on , good fellow -- I will speak further with thee presently . '' 
Then falling back to the ladies , he said , `` I am convinced this man is the guide we are to expect , for he hath brought me a pass-word , known , I think , but to the King and me . 
While Quentin held the brief communication with the ladies , necessary to assure them that this extraordinary addition to their party was the guide whom they were to expect on the King 's part , he noticed , -LRB- for he was as alert in observing the motions of the stranger , as the Bohemian could be on his part , -RRB- that the man not only turned his head as far back as he could , to peer at them , but that , with a singular sort of agility , more resembling that of a monkey than of a man , he had screwed his whole person around on the saddle , so as to sit almost sidelong upon the horse , for the convenience , as it seemed , of watching them more attentively . 
Not greatly pleased with this manoeuvre , Quentin rode up to the Bohemian , and said to him , as he suddenly assumed his proper position on the horse , `` Methinks , friend , you will prove but a blind guide , if you look at the tail of your horse rather than his ears . '' 
demanded Quentin . 
said Quentin , -LRB- for there was little toleration in the spirit of Catholicism in those days , -RRB- `` dost thou worship Mahoun ? '' 
Durward started back ; for though he had heard of Saracens and Idolaters , it had never entered into his ideas or belief , that any body of men could exist who practised no mode of worship whatever . 
He recovered from his astonishment , to ask his guide where he usually dwelt . 
`` Yet you dress gaily , and ride gallantly , '' said Durward . 
There was a deep pause of some duration , which Quentin at length broke by resuming his queries . 
said Quentin , who had not forgotten the lore which had been taught him at Aberbrothick . 
said Durward . 
demanded Durward . 
said Durward , `` did you murder your benefactor ? '' 
said Quentin . 
said Quentin , in astonishment ; `` on thy life , not a word farther , but in answer to what I ask thee . 
demanded Durward . 
exclaimed Durward , more surprised than ever . 
`` And yet , '' said Quentin , `` I find you in correspondence with those very officers by whom your brother was done to death ; for it was one of them who directed me where to meet with you -- the same , doubtless , who procured yonder ladies your services as a guide . '' 
Quentin had afterwards occasion to learn that the Bohemian spoke truth in this particular , and that the Provost-guard , employed to suppress the vagabond bands by which the kingdom was infested , entertained correspondence among them , and forbore , for a certain time , the exercise of their duty , which always at last ended in conducting their allies to the gallows . 
Durward , parting from the guide , fell back to the rest of the retinue , very little satisfied with the character of Hayraddin , and entertaining little confidence in the professions of gratitude which he had personally made to him . 
`` It is all the better , '' said Quentin to himself , his spirit rising with the apprehended difficulties of his situation ; `` that lovely young lady shall owe all to me . 
Acting upon this resolution , the attention and activity which Quentin bestowed during the journey , had in it something that gave him the appearance of ubiquity . 
His principal and most favourite post was of course by the side of the ladies ; who , sensible of his extreme attention to their safety , began to converse with him in almost the tone of familiar friendship , and appeared to take great pleasure in the naïveté , yet shrewdness , of his conversation . 
But Quentin did not suffer the fascination of this intercourse to interfere with the vigilant discharge of his duty . 
If he was often by the side of the Countesses , labouring to describe to the natives of a level country the Grampian mountains , and , above all , the beauties of Glen-houlakin , -- he was as often riding with Hayraddin , in the front of the cavalcade , questioning him about the road , and the resting-places , and recording his answers in his mind , to ascertain whether upon cross-examination he could discover any thing like meditated treachery . 
As often again he was in the rear , endeavouring to secure the attachment of the two horsemen , by kind words , gifts , and promises of additional recompense , when their task should be accomplished . 
These last suffered them to pursue their way unmolested , by virtue of a password , with which Quentin had been furnished for that purpose by the King himself . 
The pretence of weariness was usually employed by the Countesses of Croye , as an excuse for instantly retiring to rest , and Quentin , as their Major Domo , arranged all that was necessary betwixt them and their entertainers , with a shrewdness which saved them all trouble , and an alacrity that failed not to excite a corresponding degree of good-will on the part of those who were thus sedulously attended to . 
One circumstance gave Quentin peculiar trouble , which was the character and nation of his guide ; who , as a heathen , and an infidel vagabond , addicted besides to occult arts , -LRB- the badge of all his tribe , -RRB- was often looked upon as a very improper guest for the holy resting-places at which the company usually halted , and was not in consequence admitted within even the outer circuit of their walls , save with extreme reluctance . 
This was very embarrassing ; for , on the one hand , it was necessary to keep in good humour a man who was possessed of the secret of their expedition ; and on the other , Quentin deemed it indispensable to maintain a vigilant though secret watch on Hayraddin 's conduct , in order that , as far as might be , he should hold no communication with any one without being observed . 
This of course was impossible , if the Bohemian was lodged without the precincts of the convent at which they stopped , and Durward could not help thinking that Hayraddin was desirous of bringing about this latter arrangement ; for , instead of keeping himself still and quiet in the quarters allotted to him , his conversation , tricks , and songs , were at the same time so entertaining to the novices and younger brethren , and so unedifying in the opinion of the seniors of the fraternity , that , in more cases than one , it required all the authority , supported by threats , which Quentin could exert over him , to restrain his irreverent and untimeous jocularity , and all the interest he could make with the Superiors , to prevent the heathen hound from being thrust out of doors . 
He succeeded , however , by the adroit manner in which he apologized for the acts of indecorum committed by their attendant , and the skill with which he hinted the hope of his being brought to a better sense of principles and behaviour , by the neighbourhood of holy relics , consecrated buildings , and , above all , of men dedicated to religion . 
But upon the tenth or twelfth day of their journey , after they had entered Flanders , and were approaching the town of Namur , all the efforts of Quentin became inadequate to suppress the consequences of the scandal given by his heathen guide . 
The ladies retired to their apartment , as usual , and the Prior , who chanced to have some distant alliances and friends in Scotland , and who was fond of hearing foreigners tell of their native countries , invited Quentin , with whose mien and conduct he seemed much pleased , to a slight monastic refection in his own cell . 
Finding the Father a man of intelligence , Quentin did not neglect the opportunity of making himself acquainted with the state of affairs in the country of Liege , of which , during the last two days of their journey , he had heard such reports , as made him very apprehensive for the security of his charge during the remainder of their route , nay , even of the Bishop 's power to protect them , when they should be safely conducted to his residence . 
`` And he is a prince , by all report , likely to keep such a vow , '' said Quentin ; `` so the men of Liege will probably beware how they give him occasion . '' 
Quentin modestly urged the great importance of which it was to the ladies whom he attended , to have some assured information respecting the internal state of the country , and what an act of Christian charity it would be , if the worthy and reverend Father would enlighten them upon that subject . 
`` I marvel , '' said Quentin , `` that the Duke of Burgundy , who is so strong and powerful , doth not bait this boar to purpose , of whose ravages I have already heard so much . '' 
`` But the Bishop of Liege , '' said Quentin , `` he hath still power enough to subdue this disquieted and turbulent spirit -- hath he not , good father ? 
said Quentin , very anxiously . 
He had added to their nightly meal cups of a heady and intoxicating cordial , of ten times the strength of the most powerful wine , under which several of the fraternity had succumbed , -- and indeed , although the Sacristan had been strong to resist its influence , they might yet see , from his inflamed countenance and thick speech , that even he , the accuser himself , was in some degree affected by this unhallowed potation . 
Moreover , the Bohemian had sung songs of worldly vanity and impure pleasures ; he had derided the cord of Saint Francis , made jest of his miracles , and termed his votaries fools and lazy knaves . 
This sentence was executed accordingly , in the presence of Quentin Durward , who , however vexed at the occurrence , easily saw that his interference would be of no avail . 
The Bohemian ran hither and thither through the court , amongst the clamour of voices , and noise of blows , some of which reached him not , because purposely misaimed ; others , sincerely designed for his person , were eluded by his activity ; and the few that fell upon his back and shoulders , he took without either complaint or reply . 
The noise and riot was the greater , that the inexperienced cudgel-players , among whom Hayraddin ran the gauntlet , hit each other more frequently than they did him ; till at length , desirous of ending a scene which was more scandalous than edifying , the Prior commanded the wicket to be flung open , and the Bohemian , darting through it with the speed of lightning , fled forth into the moonlight . 
During this scene , a suspicion which Durward had formerly entertained , recurred with additional strength . 
Hayraddin had , that very morning , promised to him more modest and discreet behaviour than he was wont to exhibit , when they rested in a convent on their journey ; yet he had broken his engagement , and had been even more offensively obstreperous than usual . 
Something probably lurked under this ; for whatever were the Bohemian 's deficiencies , he lacked neither sense , nor , when he pleased , self-command ; and might it not be probable that he wished to hold some communication , either with his own horde or some one else , from which he was debarred in the course of the day , by the vigilance with which he was watched by Quentin , and had recourse to this strategem in order to get himself turned out of the convent ? 
No sooner did this suspicion dart once more through Durward 's mind , than , alert as he always was in his motions , he resolved to follow his cudgelled guide , and observe -LRB- secretly if possible -RRB- how he disposed of himself . 
Accordingly , when the Bohemian fled , as already mentioned , out at the gate of the convent , Quentin , hastily explaining to the Prior the necessity of keeping sight of his guide , followed in pursuit of him . 
When Quentin sallied from the convent , he could mark the precipitate retreat of the Bohemian , whose dark figure was seen in the far moonlight , flying with the speed of a flogged hound quite through the street of the little village , and across the level meadow that lay beyond . 
`` My friend runs fast , '' said Quentin to himself ; `` but he must run faster yet , to escape the fleetest foot that ever pressed the heather of Glen-houlakin . '' 
Being fortunately without his cloak and armour , the Scottish mountaineer was at liberty to put forth a speed which was unrivalled in his own glens , and which , notwithstanding the rate at which the Bohemian ran , was likely soon to bring his pursuer up with him . 
This was not , however , Quentin 's object ; for he considered it more essential to watch Hayraddin 's motions , than to interrupt them . 
He was the rather led to this , by the steadiness with which the Bohemian directed his course ; and which continuing , even after the impulse of the violent expulsion had subsided , seemed to indicate that his career had some more certain goal for its object than could have suggested itself to a person unexpectedly turned out of good quarters when midnight was approaching , to seek a new place of repose . 
He never even looked behind him ; and consequently Durward was enabled to follow him unobserved . 
At length the Bohemian having traversed the meadow , and attained the side of a little stream , the banks of which were clothed with alders and willows , Quentin observed that he stood still , and blew a low note on his horn , which was answered by a whistle at some little distance . 
`` This is a rendezvous , '' thought Quentin ; `` but how shall I come near enough to overhear the import of what passes ? 
Thus resolving , and with a degree of caution taught him by his silvan habits , our friend descended into the channel of the little stream , which varied in depth , sometimes scarce covering his shoes , sometimes coming up to his knees , and so crept along , his from concealed by the boughs overhanging the bank , and his steps unheard amid the ripple of the water . 
They laughed much ; and as Hayraddin made a sign of skipping about , and ended by rubbing his shoulder with his hand , Durward had no doubt that he was relating the story of the bastinading which he had sustained previous to his escape from the convent . 
Quentin Durward watched until they were out of sight , and then descended from his place of concealment , his heart throbbing at the narrow escape which he and his fair charge had made -- if , indeed , it could yet be achieved -- from a deep-laid plan of villainy . 
Afraid , on his return to the monastery , of stumbling upon Hayraddin , he made a long detour , at the expense of traversing some very rough ground , and was thus enabled to return to his asylum on a different point from that by which he left it . 
On the route , he communed earnestly with himself concerning the safest plan to be pursued . 
He had formed the resolution , when he first heard Hayraddin avow his treachery , to put him to death so soon as the conference broke up , and his companions were at a sufficient distance ; but when he heard the Bohemian express so much interest in saving his own life , he felt it would be ungrateful to execute upon him , in its rigour , the punishment his treachery had deserved . 
He therefore resolved to spare his life , and even , if possible , still to use his services as a guide , under such precautions as should ensure the security of the precious charge , to the preservation of which his own life was internally devoted . 
After deep thought , Durward could form no better or safer plan for their security , than that , evading the ambuscade , they should take the road to Liege by the left hand of the Maes , and throw themselves , as the ladies originally designed , upon the protection of the excellent Bishop . 
-- Quentin imagined that the death or captivity to which King Louis had , in cold blood , consigned him , set him at liberty from his engagements to the Crown of France ; which , therefore , it was his determined purpose to renounce . 
And , to conclude , the ladies had talked , although almost in a sort of jest , of raising the Countess 's own vassals , and , as others did in those stormy times , fortifying her strong castle against all assailants whatever ; they had jestingly asked Quentin , whether he would accept the perilous office of their Seneschal ; and , on his embracing the office with ready glee and devotion , they had , in the same spirit , permitted him to kiss both their hands on that confidential and honourable appointment . 
Nay , he thought that the hand of the Countess Isabelle , one of the best formed and most beautiful to which true vassal ever did such homage , trembled when his lips rested on it a moment longer than ceremony required , and that some confusion appeared on her cheek and in her eye as she withdrew it . 
Something might come of all this ; and what brave man , at Quentin Durward 's age , but would gladly have taken the thoughts which it awakened , into the considerations which were to determine his conduct ? 
This point settled , he had next to consider in what degree he was to use the further guidance of the faithless Bohemian . 
He had renounced his first thought of killing him in the wood , and if he took another guide , and dismissed him alive , it would be sending the traitor to the camp of William de la Marck , with intelligence of their motions . 
At length Durward settled a plan of operation , on which he could the better reckon , as the execution rested entirely upon himself ; and , in the cause in which he was engaged , he felt himself capable of every thing . 
With a firm and bold heart , though conscious of the dangers of his situation , Quentin might be compared to one walking under a load , of the weight of which he is conscious , but which yet is not beyond his strength and power of endurance . 
Just as his plan was determined , he reached the convent . 
The worthy friar offered Quentin permission to attend their devotions ; but his clothes were in such a wet condition , that the young Scot was obliged to decline the opportunity , and request permission , instead , to sit by the kitchen fire , in order to his attire being dried before morning ; as he was particularly desirous that the Bohemian , when they should next meet , should observe no traces of his having been abroad during the night . 
The friar not only granted his request , but afforded him his own company , which fell in very happily with the desire which Durward had to obtain information concerning the two routes which he had heard mentioned by the Bohemian in his conversation with the lanzknecht . 
The friar , intrusted upon many occasions with the business of the convent abroad , was the person in the fraternity best qualified to afford him the information he requested , but observed , that , as true pilgrims , it became the duty of the ladies whom Quentin escorted , to take the road on the right side of the Maes , by the Cross of the Kings , where the blessed relics of Caspar , Melchior , and Balthasar , -LRB- as the Catholic Church has named the eastern Magi who came to Bethlehem with their offerings , -RRB- had rested as they were transported to Cologne , and on which spot they had wrought many miracles . 
Quentin replied , that the ladies were determined to observe all the holy stations with the utmost punctuality , and would certainly visit that of the Cross , either in going to or returning from Cologne , but they had heard reports that the road by the right side of the river was at present rendered unsafe by the soldiers of the ferocious William de la Marck . 
Whatever reliance Quentin , as a sincere Catholic , was bound to rest upon the special protection of Melchior , Caspar , and Balthasar , he could not but recollect , that the pilgrim habits of the ladies being assumed out of mere earthly policy , he and his charge could scarcely expect their countenance on the present occasion ; and therefore resolved , as far as possible , to avoid placing the ladies in any predicament where miraculous interposition might be necessary ; whilst , in the simplicity of his good faith , he himself vowed a pilgrimage to the Three Kings of Cologne in his own proper person , provided the simulate design of those over whose safety he was now watching , should be permitted by those reasonable and royal , as well as sainted personages , to attain the desired effect . 
The distant sound of the choir , the solemnity of the deep and dead hour which he had chosen for this act of devotion , the effect of the glimmering lamp with which the little Gothic building was illuminated -- all contributed to throw Quentin 's mind into the state when it most readily acknowledges its human frailty , and seeks that supernatural aid and protection , which , in every worship , must be connected with repentance for past sins , and resolutions of future amendment . 
That the object of his devotion was misplaced , was not the fault of Quentin ; and , its purpose being sincere , we can scarce suppose it unacceptable to the only true Deity , who regards the motives , and not the forms of prayer , and in whose eyes the sincere devotion of a heathen is more estimable than the specious hypocrisy of a Pharisee . 
Having commended himself and his helpless companions to the Saints , and to the keeping of Providence , Quentin at length retired to rest , leaving the friar much edified by the depth and sincerity of his devotion . 
By peep of day Quentin Durward had forsaken his little cell , had roused the sleepy grooms , and , with more than his wonted care , seen that every thing was prepared for the day 's journey . 
Girths and bridles , the horse-furniture , and the shoes of the horses themselves , were carefully inspected with his own eyes , that there might be as little chance as possible of the occurrence of any of those casualties , which , petty as they seem , often interrupt or disconcert travelling . 
The horses were also , under his own inspection , carefully fed , so as to render them fit for a long day 's journey , or , if that should be necessary , for a hasty flight . 
Quentin then betook himself to his own chamber , armed himself with unusual care , and belted on his sword with the feeling at once of approaching danger , and of stern determination to dare it to the uttermost . 
These generous feelings gave him a loftiness of step , and a dignity of manner , which the Ladies of Croye had not yet observed in him , though they had been highly pleased and interested by the grace , yet naïveté , of his general behaviour and conversation , and the mixture of shrewd intelligence which naturally belonged to him , with the simplicity arising from his secluded education and distant country . 
He let them understand , that it would be necessary that they should prepare for their journey this morning rather earlier than usual ; and , accordingly , they left the convent immediately after a morning repast , for which , as well as the other hospitalities of the House , the ladies made acknowledgment by a donation to the altar , befitting rather their rank than their appearance . 
The Prior blessed them as they mounted to depart , and congratulated Quentin on the absence of his heathen guide ; `` for , '' said the venerable man , `` better stumble in the path , than be upheld by the arm of a thief or robber . '' 
Quentin was not quite of his opinion ; for , dangerous as he knew the Bohemian to be , he thought he could use his services , and , at the same time , baffle his treasonable purpose , now that he saw clearly to what it tended . 
But his anxiety upon this subject was soon at an end , for the little cavalcade was not an hundred yards from the monastery and the village before Maugrabin joined it , riding as usual on his little active and wild-looking jennet . 
Their road led them along the side of the same brook where Quentin had overheard the mysterious conference of the preceding evening , and Hayraddin had not long rejoined them , ere they passed under the very willow-tree which had afforded Durward the means of concealment , when he became an unsuspected hearer of what then passed betwixt that false guide and the lanzknecht . 
The recollections which the spot brought back stirred Quentin to enter abruptly into conversation with his guide , whom hitherto he had scarce spoken to . 
`` A good hay-stack , '' said Quentin , `` is a convenient bed for an astrologer , and a much better than a heathen scoffer at our blessed religion , and its ministers , ever deserves . '' 
`` It suited my Klepper better than me , though , '' said Hayraddin , patting his horse on the neck ; `` for he had food and shelter at the same time . 
`` I have told thee more than once , '' said Durward , sternly , `` to restrain thy ribaldry when thou chancest to be in worthy men 's company , a thing which , I believe , hath rarely happened to thee in thy life before now ; and I promise thee , that , did I hold thee as faithless a guide as I esteem thee a blasphemous and worthless caitiff , my Scottish dirk and thy heathenish heart had ere now been acquainted , although the doing such a deed were as ignoble as the sticking of swine . '' 
`` A wild boar is near akin to a sow , '' said the Bohemian , without flinching from the sharp look with which Quentin regarded him , or altering , in the slightest degree , the caustic indifference which he affected in his language ; `` and many men , '' he subjoined , `` find both pride , pleasure , and profit , in sticking them . '' 
Astonished at the man 's ready confidence , and uncertain whether he did not know more of his own history and feelings than was pleasant for him to converse upon , Quentin broke off a conversation in which he had gained no advantage over Maugrabin , and fell back to his accustomed post beside the ladies . 
The elder Countess treated him -LRB- being once well assured of the nobility of his birth -RRB- like a favoured equal ; and though her niece showed her regard to their protector less freely , yet , under every disadvantage of bashfulness and timidity , Quentin thought he could plainly perceive , that his company and conversation were not by any means indifferent to her . 
Nothing gives such life and soul to youthful gaiety as the consciousness that it is successfully received ; and Quentin had accordingly , during the former period of their journey , amused his fair charge with the liveliness of his conversation , and the songs and tales of his country , the former of which he sung in his native language , while his efforts to render the latter into his foreign and imperfect French , gave rise to a hundred little mistakes and errors of speech , as diverting as the narratives themselves . 
But on this anxious morning , he rode beside the ladies of Croye without any of his usual attempts to amuse them , and they could not help observing his silence as something remarkable . 
`` To say I had tracked a fox were nearer the mark , '' thought Quentin , but gave the reply no utterance . 
`` Nay , gentle ladies , '' said Quentin , `` I deserve not your reproach . 
`` A glass of water , noble lady , from your hand '' -- Thus far did Quentin begin , but his voice trembled ; and Isabelle continued , as if she had been insensible of the tenderness of the accentuation upon the personal pronoun . 
To this speech , which was made in the tone in which a modern beauty , whose charms are rather on the wane , may be heard to condemn the rudeness of the present age , Quentin took upon him to reply , `` that there was no lack of that chivalry which the Lady Hameline seemed to consider as extinct , and that , were it eclipsed everywhere else , it would still glow in the bosoms of the Scottish gentlemen . '' 
`` No , madam , '' said Durward ; `` of the wine and the oil of our mountains I can say little , more than that our swords can compel these rich productions , as tribute from our wealthier neighbours . 
`` Nothing , I hope , but what you would desire , '' answered Durward . 
If you can deceive us , Quentin , I will no more look for truth , save in Heaven . '' 
`` Gentle lady , '' replied Durward , highly gratified , `` you do me but justice . 
`` Now , may God bless you for that very word , lady , '' said Quentin , joyously ; `` and if I deserve not the trust it expresses , tearing with wild horses in this life , and eternal tortures in the next , were e ` en too good for my deserts . '' 
So saying , he spurred his horse , and rejoined the Bohemian . 
Injury or threat never dwelt , or at least seemed not to dwell , on his recollection ; and he entered into the conversation which Durward presently commenced , just as if there had been no unkindly word betwixt them in the course of the morning . 
`` Give me then a present proof of your skill , '' said Quentin ; and , ungloving his hand , he held it out to the Zingaro . 
`` This of my past life you may have learned elsewhere , '' said Quentin ; `` tell me something of the future . '' 
`` Such promises you make to all who ask your advice , '' said Quentin ; `` they are part of your art . '' 
said Quentin , somewhat indignant that the chiromantist should thus practise on his credulity , and endeavour to found a reputation by predicting the consequences of his own treachery . 
`` In this , then , the seers of my land , '' said Quentin , `` excel your boasted knowledge ; for their skill teaches them the dangers by which they are themselves beset . 
The guide listened with an apathy , which , knowing the circumstances in which Maugrabin stood , Quentin could not by any means comprehend . 
`` I thought , '' said Quentin , `` that you said but now , that you could not presage your own fortune ? '' 
`` The attaining with safety the purpose of the journey , and ensuring its happy termination , '' said Quentin , `` must atone for a deviation from the exact line of the prescribed route . '' 
enquired Quentin . 
`` I regard not your foul suspicions , '' answered Quentin ; `` my duty is plain and peremptory -- to convey these ladies in safety to Liege ; and I take it on me to think that I best discharge that duty in changing our prescribed route , and keeping the left side of the river Maes . 
`` If we are challenged on that account , '' said Quentin , `` we will say that alarms of the wicked Duke of Gueldres , or of William de la Marck , or of the Ecorcheurs and lanzknechts , on the right side of the river , justify our holding by the left , instead of our intended route . '' 
Quentin , although rather surprised , was at the same time pleased with the ready , or at least the unrepugnant acquiescence of Hayraddin in their change of route , for he needed his assistance as a guide , and yet had feared that the disconcerting of his intended act of treachery would have driven him to extremity . 
Besides , to expel the Bohemian from their society , would have been the ready mode to bring down William de la Marck , with whom he was in correspondence , upon their intended route ; whereas if Hayraddin remained with them , Quentin thought he could manage to prevent the Moor from having any communication with strangers , unless he was himself aware of it . 
The ladies of Croye , when announced by Quentin , were reverently ushered into the great Hall , where they met with the most cordial reception from the Bishop , who met them there at the head of his little Court . 
Quentin kneeled , as in duty bound , to receive the Episcopal benediction . 
He gallantly conducted the ladies to his sister 's apartment , as he concluded the harangue of welcome ; and his Master of the Household , an officer , who , having taken Deacon 's orders , held something between a secular and ecclesiastical character , entertained Quentin with the hospitality which his master enjoined , while the other personages of the retinue of the Ladies of Croye were committed to the inferior departments . 
In this arrangement Quentin could not help remarking , that the presence of the Bohemian , so much objected to in country convents , seemed , in the household of this wealthy , and perhaps we might say worldly prelate , to attract neither objection nor remark . 
Separated from the Lady Isabelle , whose looks had been for so many days his load-star , Quentin felt a strange vacancy and chillness of the heart , which he had not yet experienced in any of the vicissitudes to which his life had subjected him . 
No doubt the cessation of the close and unavoidable intercourse and intimacy betwixt them was the necessary consequence of the Countess having obtained a place of settled residence ; for , under what pretext could she , had she meditated such an impropriety , have had a gallant young squire , such as Quentin , in constant attendance upon her ? 
But the shock of the separation was not the more welcome that it seemed unavoidable , and the proud heart of Quentin swelled at finding he was parted with like an ordinary postilion , or an escort whose duty is discharged ; while his eyes sympathized so far as to drop a secret tear or two over the ruins of all those airy castles , so many of which he had employed himself in constructing during their too interesting journey . 
He made a manly , but , at first , a vain effort , to throw off this mental dejection ; and so , yielding to the feelings he could not suppress , he sat him down in one of the deep recesses formed by a window which lighted the great Gothic hall of Schonwaldt , and there mused upon his hard fortune , which had not assigned him rank or wealth sufficient to prosecute his daring suit . 
Quentin tried to dispel the sadness which overhung him by dispatching Charlet , one of the valets , with letters to the court of Louis , announcing the arrival of the Ladies of Croye at Liege . 
While he was tracing the `` letters blake '' of the ditty so congenial to his own situation , Quentin was interrupted by a touch on the shoulder , and , looking up , beheld the Bohemian standing by him . 
Hayraddin , never a welcome sight , was odious from his late treachery , and Quentin sternly asked him , why he dared take the freedom to touch a Christian and a gentleman ? 
said Durward , fiercely ; `` thou knowest that it was thy purpose to have betrayed them on the road . '' 
said Quentin , telling out the money . 
repeated the Bohemian , with a stronger emotion of surprise than his features usually expressed ; `` it was then no vague guess -- no general suspicion -- which made you insist on changing the road ? 
But know , Quentin Durward , that you have foiled me to the marring of thine own fortune -- Yes ! 
`` By Saint Andrew , '' said Quentin , `` thy impudence makes me laugh in spite of myself -- How , or in what , should thy successful villainy have been of service to me ? 
`` Methinks I have already taken out the payment in cursing and abusing thee , '' said Quentin . 
said Quentin in astonishment -- '' thou be admitted to the presence of the ladies , and here , where they are in a manner recluses under the protection of the Bishop 's sister , a noble canoness ? 
A count is but a nickname , which will befit Quentin as well as the other nickname of duke befits Charles , or that of king befits Louis . '' 
Ere Durward could reply , the Bohemian had left the hall . 
Quentin instantly followed ; but , better acquainted than the Scot with the passages of the house , Hayraddin kept the advantage which he had gotten ; and the pursuer lost sight of him as he descended a small back staircase . 
Still Durward followed , though without exact consciousness of his own purpose in doing so . 
The staircase terminated by a door opening into the alley of a garden , in which he again beheld the Zingaro hastening down a pleached walk . 
Crossing the alleys of the garden to another part of the building , where a postern-door opened behind a large massive butress , overgrown with ivy , Hayraddin looked back , and waved his hand in signal of an exulting farewell to his follower , who saw that in effect the postern-door was opened by Marthon , and that the vile Bohemian was admitted into the precincts , as he naturally concluded , of the apartment of the Countesses of Croye . 
Quentin bit his lips with indignation , and blamed himself severely that he had not made the ladies sensible of the full infamy of Hayraddin 's character , and acquainted with his machinations against their safety . 
Quentin heard him repeat this information twice ere he put the proper construction upon it ; and then starting as from a reverie , he bowed and hurried out of the garden , the official person following him all the way , and overwhelming him with formal apologies for the necessary discharge of his duty . 
Nay , so pertinacious was he in his attempts to remove the offence which he conceived Durward to have taken , that he offered to bestow his own company upon him , to contribute to his entertainment ; until Quentin , internally cursing his formal foppery , found no better way of escape , than pretending a desire of visiting the neighbouring city , and setting off thither at such a round pace as speedily subdued all desire in the gentleman-usher to accompany him farther than the drawbridge . 
In a few minutes , Quentin was within the walls of the city of Liege , then one of the richest in Flanders , and of course in the world . 
In a few minutes , Quentin 's attention was as much engrossed by the variety of objects presented in rapid succession by the busy streets of Liege , as if there had neither been a Countess Isabelle , nor a Bohemian , in the world . 
The lofty houses , -- the stately , though narrow and gloomy streets , -- the splendid display of the richest goods and most gorgeous armour in the warehouses and shops around , -- the walks crowded by busy citizens of every description , passing and repassing with faces of careful importance or eager bustle , -- the huge wains , which transported to and fro the subjects of export and import , the former consisting of broad cloths and serge , arms of all kinds , nails and iron work , while the latter comprehended every article of use or luxury , intended either for the consumption of an opulent city , or received in barter , and destined to be transported elsewhere , -- all these objects combined to form an engrossing picture of wealth , bustle , and splendour , to which Quentin had been hitherto a stranger . 
He admired also the various streams and canals , drawn from and communicating with the Maes , which , traversing the city in various directions , offered to every quarter the commercial facilities of water-carriage , and he failed not to hear a mass in the venerable old Church of Saint Lambert , said to have been founded in the eighth century . 
It was upon leaving this place of worship that Quentin began to observe , that he , who had been hitherto gazing on all around him with the eagerness of unrestrained curiosity , was himself the object of attention to several groups of substantial-looking burghers , who seemed assembled to look upon him as he left the church , and amongst whom arose a buzz and whisper , which spread from one party to another ; while the number of gazers continued to augment rapidly , and the eyes of each who added to it were eagerly directed to Quentin , with a stare which expressed much interest and curiosity , mingled with a certain degree of respect . 
At length he now formed the centre of a considerable crowd , which yet yielded before him while he continued to move forward ; while those who followed or kept pace with him , studiously avoided pressing on him , or impeding his motions . 
Yet his situation was too embarrassing to be long endured , without making some attempt to extricate himself , and to obtain some explanation . 
Quentin looked around him , and fixing upon a jolly , stout-made , respectable man , whom , by his velvet cloak and gold chain , he concluded to be a burgher of eminence , and perhaps a magistrate , he asked him , `` Whether he saw any thing particular in his appearance , to attract public attention in a degree so unusual ? 
`` This sounds very polite , worthy sir , '' said Quentin ; `` but by the Cross of Saint Andrew , I can not even guess at your meaning . '' 
said Durward , `` I am farther off from your meaning than ever . '' 
`` There again now , '' rejoined the Liegeois , looking , as he spoke , most provokingly , yet most civilly , politic and intelligent . 
`` On my life , '' said Quentin , `` you are under some delusion -- I know nothing of Saint Paul . '' 
said Quentin . 
Rouslaer advanced , a corpulent dignitary , whose fair round belly , like a battering-ram , `` did shake the press before him , '' and who , whispering caution to his neighbour , said , in a tone of rebuke -- `` You forget , good colleague , the place is too open -- the seignior will retire to your house or mine , and drink a glass of Rhenish and sugar , and then we shall hear more of our good friend and ally , whom we love with all our honest Flemish hearts . '' 
`` I have no news for any of you , '' said Quentin , impatiently ; `` I will drink no Rhenish ; and I only desire of you , as men of account and respectability , to disperse this idle crowd , and allow a stranger to leave your town as quietly as he came into it . '' 
said Quentin ; `` you look like reverend men and grave citizens , yet , on my soul , you are either mad yourselves , or desire to drive me so . '' 
said Quentin , impatiently . 
Half-stunned by the noise , which began anew in one quarter so soon as it ceased in another , rising and falling like the billows of the sea , and augmented by thousands of voices which roared in chorus from distant streets and market-places , Quentin had yet time to form a conjecture concerning the meaning of the tumult , and a plan for regulating his own conduct . 
He had forgotten that , after his skirmish with Orleans and Dunois , one of his comrades had , at Lord Crawford 's command , replaced the morion , cloven by the sword of the latter , with one of the steel-lined bonnets , which formed a part of the proper and well-known equipment of the Scotch Guards . 
To remove a conviction so generally adopted , Quentin easily saw was impossible -- nay , that any attempt to undeceive men so obstinately prepossessed in their belief , would be attended with personal risk , which , in this case , he saw little use of incurring . 
He therefore hastily resolved to temporize , and to get free the best way he could ; and this resolution he formed while they were in the act of conducting him to the Stadthouse , where the notables of the town were fast assembling , in order to hear the tidings which he was presumed to have brought , and to regale him with a splendid banquet . 
In spite of all his opposition , which was set down to modesty , he was on every side surrounded by the donors of popularity , the unsavoury tide of which now floated around him . 
His two burgomaster friends , who were Schoppen , or Syndics of the city , had made fast both his arms . 
Before him , Nikkel Blok , the chief of the butcher 's incorporation , hastily summoned from his office in the shambles , brandished his death-doing axe , yet smeared with blood and brains , with a courage and grace which brantwein alone could inspire . 
In this dilemma , Quentin appealed to Rouslaer , who held one arm , and to Pavillon , who had secured the other , and who were conducting him forward at the head of the ovation , of which he had so unexpectedly become the principal object . 
He hastily acquainted them `` with his having thoughtlessly adopted the bonnet of the Scottish Guard , on an accident having occurred to the head-piece in which he had proposed to travel ; he regretted that , owing to this circumstance , and the sharp wit with which the Liegeois drew the natural inference of his quality and the purpose of his visit , these things had been publicly discovered ; and he intimated , that , if just now conducted to the Stadthouse , he might unhappily feel himself under the necessity of communicating to the assembled notables certain matters , which he was directed by the King to reserve for the private ears of his excellent gossips , Meinheers Rouslaer and Pavillon of Liege . '' 
They therefore hastily agreed that Quentin should leave the town for the time , and return by night to Liege , and converse with them privately in the house of Rouslaer , near the gate opposite to Schonwaldt . 
Quentin hesitated not to tell them , that he was at present residing in the Bishop 's palace , under pretence of bearing dispatches from the French Court , although his real errand was , as they had well conjectured , designed to the citizens of Liege ; and this tortuous mode of conducting a communication , as well as the character and rank of the person to whom it was supposed to be intrusted , was so consonant to the character of Louis , as neither to excite doubt nor surprise . 
Quentin speedily laid aside his remarkable bonnet , for the cap of a felt-maker , and flung a cloak over his other apparel . 
Pavillon then furnished him with a passport to pass the gates of the city , and to return by night or day as should suit his convenience ; and , lastly , committed him to the charge of his daughter , a fair and smiling Flemish lass , with instructions how he was to be disposed of , while he himself hastened back to his colleague , to amuse their friends at the Stadthouse , with the best excuses which they could invent for the disappearance of King Louis 's envoy . 
As the pretty Trudchen spoke nothing but German , Quentin , -- no disparagement to his loyal affection to the Countess of Croye , -- could only express his thanks by a kiss on those same cherry lips , which was very gallantly bestowed , and accepted with all modest gratitude ; for gallants with a form and face like our Scottish Archer , were not of every-day occurrence among the bourgeoisie of Liege.The adventure of Quentin at Liege may be thought over-strained , yet it is extraordinary what slight circumstances will influence the public mind in a moment of doubt and uncertainty . 
While the boat was rowed up the sluggish waters of the Maes , and passed the defences of the town , Quentin had time enough to reflect what account he ought to give of his adventure in Liege , when he returned to the Bishop 's palace of Schonwaldt ; and disdaining alike to betray any person who had reposed confidence in him , although by misapprehension , or to conceal from the hospitable Prelate the mutinous state of his capital , he resolved to confine himself to so general an account as might put the Bishop upon his guard , while it should point out no individual to his vengeance . 
Yet , short as was the space which divided him from Schonwaldt , the castle-bell had tolled for dinner , and Quentin found , moreover , that he had approached the castle on a different side from that of the principal entrance , and that to go round would throw his arrival considerably later . 
He , therefore , made straight towards the side that was nearest him , as he discerned that it presented an embattled wall , probably that of the little garden already noticed , with a postern opening upon the moat , and a skiff moored by the postern , which might serve , he thought , upon summons , to pass him over . 
As he approached , in hopes to make his entrance this way , the postern opened , a man came out , and , jumping into the boat , made his way to the farther side of the moat , and then with a long pole , pushed the skiff back towards the place where he had embarked . 
As he came near , Quentin discerned that this person was the Bohemian , who , avoiding him , as was not difficult , held a different path towards Liege , and was presently out of his ken . 
Had this vagabond heathen been all this while with the Ladies of Croye , and for what purpose should they so far have graced him with their presence ? 
Tormented with this thought , Durward became doubly determined to seek an explanation with them , for the purpose at once of laying bare the treachery of Hayraddin , and announcing to them the perilous state in which their protector , the Bishop , was placed , by the mutinous state of his town of Liege . 
As Quentin thus resolved , he entered the castle by the principal gate , and found that part of the family who assembled for dinner in the great hall , including the Bishop 's attendant clergy , officers of the household , and strangers below the rank of the very first nobility , were already placed at their meal . 
A seat at the upper end of the board , had , however , been reserved beside the Bishop 's domestic chaplain , who welcomed the stranger with the old college jest of , Sero venientibus ossa , while he took care so to load his plate with dainties , as to take away all appearance of that tendency to reality , which , in Quentin 's country , is said to render a joke either no joke , or at best an unpalatable one . 
In vindicating himself from the suspicion of ill-breeding , Quentin briefly described the tumult which had been occasioned in the city by his being discovered to belong to the Scottish Archer-guard of Louis , and endeavoured to give a ludicrous turn to the narrative by saying , that he had been with difficulty extricated by a fat burgher of Liege and his pretty daughter . 
All operations of the table were suspended while Quentin told his tale ; and when he had ceased , there was a solemn pause , which was only broken by the Major-Domo saying , in a low and melancholy tone , `` I would to God that we saw those hundred lances of Burgundy ! '' 
said Quentin -- `` You have many soldiers here , whose trade is arms ; and your antagonists are only the rabble of a disorderly city , who will fly before the first flutter of a banner with men-at-arms arrayed beneath it . '' 
When the tables were drawn , the Chaplain , who seemed to have taken a sort of attachment to Quentin Durward 's society , or who perhaps desired to extract from him farther information concerning the meeting of the morning , led him into a withdrawing apartment , the windows of which , on one side , projected into the garden ; and as he saw his companion 's eye gaze rather eagerly upon the spot , he proposed to Quentin to go down and take a view of the curious foreign shrubs with which the Bishop had enriched its parterres . 
Quentin excused himself , as unwilling to intrude , and therewithal communicated the check which he had received in the morning . 
Nothing could have been more agreeable to Quentin than the prospect of a free entrance into the garden , through means of which , according to a chance which had hitherto attended his passion , he hoped to communicate with , or at least obtain sight of , the object of his affections , from some such turret or balcony-window , or similar `` coign of vantage , '' as at the hostelry of the Fleur-de-Lys , near Plessis , or the Dauphin 's Tower , within that Castle itself . 
When Durward descended with his new friend into the garden , the latter seemed a terrestrial philosopher , entirely busied with the things of the earth ; while the eyes of Quentin , if they did not seek the heavens , like those of an astrologer , ranged at least all around the windows , balconies , and especially the turrets , which projected on every part from the inner front of the old building , in order to discover that which was to be his cynosure . 
Quentin excused himself for this evening , under pretence of a severe headach , which the open air was likely to prove the best cure for ; and at length the well-meaning priest left him to himself . 
But nothing stirred or showed itself , which could either confute or confirm the tale which the Bohemian had told , until it was becoming dusky ; and Quentin began to be sensible , he scarce knew why , that his sauntering so long in the garden might be subject of displeasure or suspicion . 
Just as he had resolved to depart , and was taking what he had destined for his last turn under the windows which had such attraction for him , he heard above him a slight and cautious sound , like that of a cough , as intended to call his attention , and to avoid the observation of others . 
As he looked up in joyful surprise , a casement opened -- a female hand was seen to drop a billet , which fell into a rosemary bush that grew at the foot of the wall . 
The garden , surrounded , as we have said , upon two sides , by the buildings of the palace , was commanded , of course , by the windows of many apartments ; but there was a sort of grotto of rock-work , which the Chaplain had shown Durward with much complacency . 
The first feeling of Quentin upon this occasion was unmingled ecstasy -- a pride and joy which seemed to raise him to the stars , -- a determination to do or die , influenced by which he treated with scorn the thousand obstacles that placed themselves betwixt him and the goal of his wishes . 
In this mood of rapture , and unable to endure any interruption which might withdraw his mind , were it but for a moment , from so ecstatic a subject of contemplation , Durward , retiring to the interior of the castle , hastily assigned his former pretext of a headach for not joining the household of the Bishop at the supper-meal , and , lighting his lamp , betook himself to the chamber which had been assigned him , to read , and to read again and again , the precious billet , and to kiss a thousand times the no less precious ring . 
So that , upon the whole , Quentin generously and magnanimously reconciled himself to a line of conduct on the Countess 's part , by which he was likely to be so highly benefited . 
The traitor Hayraddin had been in the apartments of the ladies , for aught Quentin knew , for the space of four hours , and , considering the hints which he had thrown out , of possessing an influence of the most interesting kind over the fortunes of Quentin Durward , what should assure him that this train was not of his laying ? 
This was a matter to be closely looked into , for Quentin felt a repugnance to this individual proportioned to the unabashed impudence with which he had avowed his profligacy , and could not bring himself to hope , that any thing in which he was concerned could ever come to an honourable or happy conclusion . 
These various thoughts rolled over Quentin 's mind like misty clouds , to dash and obscure the fair landscape which his fancy had at first drawn , and his couch was that night a sleepless one . 
At the hour of prime -- ay , and an hour before it , was he in the castle-garden , where no one now opposed either his entrance or his abode , with a feather of the assigned colour , as distinguished as he could by any means procure in such haste . 
No notice was taken of his appearance for nearly two hours ; at length he heard a few notes of the lute , and presently the lattice opened right above the little postern-door at which Marthon had admitted Hayraddin , and Isabelle , in maidenly beauty , appeared at the opening , greeted him half-kindly half-shyly , coloured extremely at the deep and significant reverence with which he returned her courtesy -- shut the casement , and disappeared . 
It was the fourth night after his arrival at Schonwaldt , when Quentin had taken measures for sending back on the morrow , to the Court of Louis , the remaining groom who had accompanied him on his journey , with letters from himself to his uncle and Lord Crawford , renouncing the service of France , for which the treachery to which he had been exposed by the private instructions of Hayraddin gave him an excuse , both in honour and prudence ; and he betook himself to his bed with all the rosy-coloured ideas around him which flutter about the couch of a youth when he loves dearly , and thinks his love as sincerely repaid . 
But Quentin 's dreams , which at first partook of the nature of those happy influences under which he had fallen asleep , began by degrees to assume a more terrific character . 
He walked with the Countess Isabelle beside a smooth and inland lake , such as formed the principal characteristic of his native glen ; and he spoke to her of his love , without any consciousness of the impediments which lay between them . 
She blushed and smiled when she listened -- even as he might have expected from the tenor of the letter , which , sleeping or waking , lay nearest to his heart . 
Quentin 's first impulse was to sit erect in bed , and listen with astonishment to sounds , which , if they had announced a tempest , might have shamed the wildest that ever burst down from the Grampians ; and again in a minute he became sensible , that the tumult was not excited by the fury of the elements , but by the wrath of men . 
As Quentin did not immediately answer , the door , which was a slight one , was forced open from without , and the intruder , announced by his peculiar dialect to be the Bohemian , Hayraddin Maugrabin , entered the apartment . 
`` The horoscope of your destinies , '' he said energetically to Durward , without any farther greeting , `` now turns upon the determination of a minute . '' 
said Quentin , in reply , `` there is treachery around us ; and where there is treachery , thou must have a share in it . '' 
`` Lead the way , '' said Quentin , hastily -- `` In that name I dare every danger ! '' 
`` I follow , '' said Quentin , drawing his sword ; `` but the moment in which I detect the least sign of treachery , thy head and body are three yards separate ! '' 
Without more conversation , the Bohemian , seeing that Quentin was now fully armed and ready , ran down the stairs before him , and winded hastily through various side-passages , until they gained the little garden . 
Scarce a light was to be seen on that side , scarce any bustle was to be heard ; but no sooner had Quentin entered the open space , than the noise on the opposite side of the castle became ten times more stunningly audible , and he could hear the various war-cries of `` Liege ! 
But the interest of the fight , notwithstanding the martial character of Quentin Durward , was indifferent to him in comparison of the fate of Isabelle of Croye , which , he had reason to fear , would be a dreadful one , unless rescued from the power of the dissolute and cruel freebooter , who was now , as it seemed , bursting the gates of the castle . 
He reconciled himself to the aid of the Bohemian , as men in a desperate illness refuse not the remedy prescribed by quacks and mountebanks , and followed across the garden , with the intention of being guided by him until he should discover symptoms of treachery , and then piercing him through the heart , or striking his head from his body . 
Hayraddin seemed himself conscious that his safety turned on a feather-weight , for he forbore , from the moment they entered the open air , all his wonted gibes and quirks , and seemed to have made a vow to act at once with modesty , courage , and activity . 
Quentin offered his arm to one of them , who clung to it with trembling eagerness , and indeed hung upon him so much , that had her weight been greater , she must have much impeded their retreat . 
The Bohemian , who conducted the other female , took the road straight for the postern which opened upon the moat , through the garden wall , close to which the little skiff was drawn up , by means of which Quentin had formerly observed Hayraddin himself retreating from the castle . 
As they crossed , the shouts of storm and successful violence seemed to announce that the castle was in the act of being taken ; and so dismal was the sound in Quentin 's ears , that he could not help swearing aloud , `` But that my blood is irretrievably devoted to the fulfilment of my present duty , I would back to the wall , take faithful part with the hospitable Bishop , and silence some of those knaves whose throats are full of mutiny and robbery ! '' 
The lady , whose arm was still folded in his , pressed it lightly as he spoke , as if to make him understand that there was a nearer claim on his chivalry than the defence of Schonwaldt ; while the Bohemian exclaimed , loud enough to be heard , `` Now , that I call right Christian frenzy , which would turn back to fight , when love and fortune both demand that we should fly . 
`` There are but two horses , '' said Quentin , who saw them in the moonlight . 
said Quentin , emphatically -- `` but it is not -- shall not be too late -- I will back to rescue the Lady Hameline . '' 
said Quentin , extricating himself from her hold , and with less gentleness than he would at any other time have used towards a female of any rank -- `` Is the Lady Isabelle then left behind ! 
As he turned to hasten back to the castle , Hayraddin laid hold of him -- `` Nay , hear you -- hear you -- you run upon your death ! 
While he spoke thus , panting on in broken sentences , the Bohemian struggled to detain Quentin , who at length laid his hand on his dagger , in order to extricate himself . 
`` Nay , if that be the case , '' said Hayraddin , unloosing his hold , `` go -- and the devil , if there be one , go along with you ! '' 
-- And , soon as freed from his hold , the Scot shot back to the castle with the speed of the wind . 
Whoever had seen Quentin Durward that fatal night , not knowing the meaning of his conduct , had accounted him a raging madman ; whoever had appreciated his motives , had ranked him nothing beneath a hero of romance . 
Approaching Schonwaldt on the same side from which he had left it , the youth met several fugitives making for the wood , who naturally avoided him as an enemy , because he came in an opposite direction from that which they had adopted . 
When he came nearer , he could hear , and partly see , men dropping from the garden-wall into the castle fosse , and others who seemed precipitated from the battlements by the assailants . 
His courage was not staggered , even for an instant . 
Avoiding that point , Quentin threw himself into the moat , near what was called the little gate of the castle , and where there was a drawbridge , which was still elevated . 
He avoided with difficulty the fatal grasp of more than one sinking wretch , and , swimming to the drawbridge , caught hold of one of the chains which was hanging down , and , by a great exertion of strength and activity , swayed himself out of the water , and attained the platform from which the bridge was suspended . 
As with hands and knees he struggled to make good his footing , a lanzknecht , with his bloody sword in his hand , made towards him , and raised his weapon for a blow , which must have been fatal . 
said Quentin , in a tone of authority -- `` Is that the way in which you assist a comrade ? 
The soldier in silence , and not without hesitation , reached him his arm , and helped him upon the platform , when without allowing him time for reflection , the Scot continued in the same tone of command -- `` To the western tower , if you would be rich -- the Priest 's treasury is in the western tower . '' 
And the stragglers who were within hearing of the cry , took , like a herd of raging wolves , the direction opposite to that which Quentin , come life , come death , was determined to pursue . 
Bearing himself as if he were one , not of the conquered , but of the victors , he made a way into the garden , and pushed across it , with less interruption than he could have expected ; for the cry of `` To the western tower ! '' 
Quentin , therefore , crossed the garden with an eager step and throbbing heart , commending himself to those heavenly powers which had protected him through the numberless perils of his life , and bold in his determination to succeed , or leave his life in this desperate undertaking . 
Ere he reached the garden , three men rushed on him with leveled lances , crying , `` Liege , Liege ! '' 
Putting himself in defence , but without striking , he replied , `` France , France , friend to Liege ! '' 
In a word , Quentin began to hope , that his character as an emissary of King Louis , the private instigator of the insurgents of Liege , and the secret supporter of William de la Marck , might possibly bear him through the horrors of the night . 
Quentin was about to use rougher methods than struggling to rid himself of this untimely obstruction , when the fallen man continued to exclaim , `` I am stifled here , in mine own armour ! 
In the midst of this scene of blood and confusion , the presence of mind of Quentin suggested to him , that this dignitary might have the means of protecting their retreat . 
`` Sit down then on this stone , and recover your breath , '' said Quentin ; `` I will return instantly . '' 
said the burgher , still detaining him . 
`` For France -- for France , '' answered Quentin , studying to get away . 
During this time , he was dragging himself on after Quentin , who , aware of the importance of securing the countenance of a person of such influence , slackened his pace to assist him , although cursing in his heart the encumbrance that retarded him . 
Bounding from Pavillon , like a greyhound from his keeper 's leash , and with an effort which almost overthrew him , Quentin sprung through a second and a third room , the last of which seemed to be the bedroom of the Ladies of Croye . 
He called upon the Lady Isabelle 's name , at first gently , then more loudly , and then with an accent of despairing emphasis ; but no answer was returned . 
He wrung his hands , tore his hair , and stamped on the earth with desperation . 
Quentin hasted to examine it . 
He found there was indeed a concealed door , but it resisted his hurried efforts to open it . 
Heedless of the personal injury he might sustain , he rushed at the door with his whole force and weight of his body ; and such was the impetus of an effort made betwixt hope and despair , that it would have burst much stronger fastenings . 
He thus forced his way , almost headlong , into a small oratory , where a female figure , which had been kneeling in agonizing supplication before the holy image , now sunk at length on the floor , under the new terrors implied in this approaching tumult . 
He hastily raised her from the ground , and , joy of joys ! 
it was she whom he sought to save -- the Countess Isabelle . 
He pressed her to his bosom -- he conjured her to awake -- entreated her to be of good cheer -- for that she was now under the protection of one who had heart and hand enough to defend her against armies . 
`` Durward ! '' 
said Durward . 
`` You must do more than pity us , '' said Quentin , turning towards the speaker ; `` you must assist in protecting us , Meinheer Pavillon . 
It afterwards turned out , that being , as it were , borne forward involuntarily , and hoisted over the walls by his company as they thronged to the assault , the magistrate had been carried here and there , as the tide of attack and defence flowed or ebbed , without the power , latterly , of even uttering a word ; until , as the sea casts a log of driftwood ashore in the first creek , he had been ultimately thrown down in the entrance to the Ladies of Croye 's apartments , where the encumbrance of his own armour , with the superincumbent weight of two men slain in the entrance , and who fell above him , might have fixed him down long enough , had he not been relieved by Durward . 
He told Quentin to have an especial care of the poor pretty yung frau ; and , after this unnecessary exhortation , began to halloo from the window , `` Liege , Liege , for the gallant skinners ' guild of curriers ! '' 
The Burgomaster cast a disconsolate look towards Quentin , and seemed at a loss what to resolve upon . 
Durward , who had not lost a word of the conversation , which alarmed him very much , saw nevertheless that their only safety depended on his preserving his own presence of mind , and sustaining the courage of Pavillon . 
He struck boldly into the conversation , as one who had a right to have a voice in the deliberation . 
-- `` I am ashamed , '' he said , `` Meinheer Pavillon , to observe you hesitate what to do on this occasion . 
`` This lady , '' said Durward , `` will call you father while we are in this place . '' 
`` And for my whole life afterwards , '' said the Countess , throwing herself at the citizen 's feet , and clasping his knees . 
`` Admirably spoken , '' said Quentin : `` only be bold , and take this gentleman 's good counsel , noble Meinheer Pavillon , and , at no trouble to yourself , you will do the most worthy action since the days of Charlemagne . 
said Quentin . 
But with united voice , Pavillon and his adviser exclaimed against the propriety of such an attack upon their ally 's soldiers , with some hints concerning its rashness , which satisfied Quentin that it was not a risk to be hazarded with such associates . 
They resolved , therefore , to repair boldly to the great hall of the castle , where , as they understood , the Wild Boar of Ardennes held his feast , and demand free egress for the Syndic of Liege and his company , a request too reasonable , as it seemed , to be denied . 
Still the good Burgomaster groaned when he looked on his companions , and exclaimed to his faithful Peter , -- `` See what it is to have too bold and too tender a heart ! 
As they crossed the courts , still strewed with the dying and dead , Quentin , while he supported Isabelle through the scene of horrors , whispered to her courage and comfort , and reminded her that her safety depended entirely on her firmness and presence of mind . 
said Quentin , in a whisper . 
Quentin 's only answer was a pressure of the young Countess 's hand , which seemed as if , but for terror , it would have returned the caress . 
And , leaning on her youthful protector , she entered the fearful hall , preceded by Pavillon and his Lieutenant , and followed by a dozen of the Kurschenschaft , or skinner 's trade , who attended , as a guard of honour , on the Syndic . 
An emphatic tone of mind , which despair alone could have inspired , supported the assumed courage of the Countess Isabelle ; undaunted spirits , which rose with the extremity , maintained that of Durward ; while Pavillon and his lieutenant made a virtue of necessity , and faced their fate like bears bound to a stake , which must necessarily stand the dangers of the course . 
There could hardly exist a more strange and horrible change than had taken place in the castle-hall of Schonwaldt since Quentin had partaken of the noontide meal there ; and it was indeed one which painted , in the extremity of their dreadful features , the miseries of war -- more especially when waged by those most relentless of all agents , the mercenary soldiers of a barbarous age -- men who , by habit and profession , had become familiarized with all that was cruel and bloody in the art of war , while they were devoid alike of patriotism and of the romantic spirit of chivalry . 
The language which they held , and the songs which they sung , without even pretending to pay each other the compliment of listening , were so full of license and blasphemy , that Quentin blessed God that the extremity of the noise prevented them from being intelligible to his companion . 
His body still hung there when Quentin and the others entered the hall , and intercepting the pale moonbeam , threw on the castle-floor an uncertain shadow , which dubiously , yet fearfully , intimated the nature of the substance that produced it . 
When the Syndic Pavillon was announced from mouth to mouth in this tumultuous meeting , he endeavoured to assume , in right of his authority and influence , an air of importance and equality , which a glance at the fearful object at the window , and at the wild scene around him , rendered it very difficult for him to sustain , notwithstanding the exhortations of Peter , who whispered in his ear , with some perturbation , `` Up heart , master , or we are but gone men ! '' 
Quentin , who had learned this point of the leader 's character from the old priest , planted himself as close as he could to the youth in question ; determined to make him , in some way or other , either a hostage or a protector , should other means of safety fail them . 
By good fortune , as Quentin was compelled to think it , the Countess Isabelle , whose feelings at seeing her protector in such an extremity might have betrayed her own secret and compromised her safety , was so situated as neither to hear nor see what was about to take place ; and Durward sedulously interposed his own person before her , so as to keep her from observing alike , and from observation . 
But the courage of Quentin Durward , prompt and alert in resolution beyond his years , and stimulated at the moment by all that could add energy to his natural shrewdness and resolution , gave a new turn to the scene . 
Quentin Durward took advantage of the moment . 
`` Hear me , '' he said , `` William de la Marck , and you , burghers and citizens of Liege ; -- and do you , young sir , stand still , '' -LRB- for the boy Carl was attempting to escape from his gripe ;-RRB- `` no harm shall befall you , unless another of these sharp jests shall pass round . '' 
`` I am a servant of King Louis of France , '' said Quentin , boldly ; `` an Archer of his Scottish Guard , as my language and dress may partly tell you . 
cried the followers of Pavillon , and several other citizens , whose courage began to rise at the bold language held by Quentin . 
They were suffered to leave the castle without opposition of any kind ; and glad was Quentin when he turned his back on those formidable walls . 
For the first time since they had entered that dreadful hall , Quentin ventured to ask the young Countess how she did . 
She endeavoured to mend her pace as she spoke ; but with so little success , that she must have fallen from exhaustion , had not Durward supported her . 
Evading their curiosity as they best could , the exertions of Peter and some of his companions at length procured a boat for the use of the company , and with it an opportunity of enjoying some repose , equally welcome to Isabelle , who continued to lie almost motionless in the arms of her preserver , and to the worthy Burgomaster , who , after delivering a broken string of thanks to Durward , whose mind was at the time too much occupied to answer him , began a long harangue , which he addressed to Peter , upon his own courage and benevolence , and the dangers to which these virtues had exposed him , on this and other occasions . 
Quentin could remain no longer silent , but assured him , that whatever danger or damage he should incur on the part of the young lady now under his protection , should be thankfully acknowledged , and , as far as was possible , repaid . 
Quentin accordingly concluded that his present friend was one of the numerous class of benefactors to others , who take out their reward in grumbling , without meaning more than , by showing their grievances , to exalt a little the idea of the valuable service by which they have incurred them , and therefore prudently remained silent , and suffered the Syndic to maunder on to his lieutenant concerning the risk and the loss he had encountered by his zeal for the public good , and his disinterested services to individuals , until they reached his own habitation . 
The truth was , that the honest citizen felt that he had lost a little consequence , by suffering the young stranger to take the lead at the crisis which had occurred at the castle-hall of Schonwaldt ; and , however delighted with the effect of Durward 's interference at the moment , it seemed to him , on reflection , that he had sustained a diminution of importance , for which he endeavoured to obtain compensation , by exaggerating the claims which he had upon the gratitude of his country in general , his friends in particular , and more especially still , on the Countess of Croye , and her youthful protector . 
But when the boat stopped at the bottom of his garden , and he had got himself assisted on shore by Peter , it seemed as if the touch of his own threshold had at once dissipated those feelings of wounded self-opinion and jealousy , and converted the discontented and obscured demagogue into the honest , kind , hospitable , and friendly host . 
Late as it now was , and fatigued as the Syndic appeared , Quentin , on his side , had difficulty to escape a flask of choice and costly wine , as old as the battle of Azincour ; and must have submitted to take his share , however unwilling , but for the appearance of the mother of the family , whom Pavillon 's loud summons for the keys of the cellar brought forth from her bedroom . 
She was a jolly little roundabout woman , who had been pretty in her time , but whose principal characteristics for several years had been a red and sharp nose , a shrill voice , and a determination that the Syndic , in consideration of the authority which he exercised when abroad , should remain under the rule of due discipline at home . 
So soon as she understood the nature of the debate between her husband and his guest , she declared roundly , that the former , instead of having occasion for more wine , had got too much already ; and , far from using , in furtherance of his request , any of the huge bunch of keys which hung by a silver chain at her waist , she turned her back on him without ceremony , and ushered Quentin to the neat and pleasant apartment in which he was to spend the night , amid such appliances to rest and comfort as probably he had till that moment been entirely a stranger to ; so much did the wealthy Flemings excel , not merely the poor and rude Scots , but the French themselves , in all the conveniences of domestic life . 
Quentin listened with some anxiety . 
He knew that husbands , like other belligerent powers , were sometimes disposed to sing Te Deum , rather to conceal a defeat than to celebrate a victory ; and he hastened to probe the matter more closely , `` by hoping their arrival had been attended with no inconvenience to the good lady of the household . '' 
said Durward , impatiently . 
`` Your daughter advises well , '' said Quentin Durward , abstaining from reproaches or exhortations , which he saw would be alike unavailing to sway a resolution , which had been adopted by the worthy magistrate in compliance at once with the prejudices of his party and the inclination of his wife -- `` Your daughter counsels well -- We must part in disguise , and that instantly . 
He proceeded to open one which was full of guilders , and placed it at Quentin 's discretion , to take whatever sum he might think necessary for his companion 's expenses and his own . 
As the money with which Quentin was furnished on leaving Plessis was now nearly expended , he hesitated not to accept the sum of two hundred guilders ; and by doing so took a great weight from the mind of Pavillon , who considered the desperate transaction in which he thus voluntarily became the creditor , as an atonement for the breach of hospitality which various considerations in a great measure compelled him to commit . 
Having carefully locked his treasure-chamber , the wealthy Fleming next conveyed his guest to the parlour , where , in full possession of her activity of mind and body , though pale from the scenes of the preceding night , he found the Countess attired in the fashion of a Flemish maiden of the middling class . 
`` I trust he is in freedom , '' said Quentin , making a sign to Pavillon , who seemed about to enter on the dreadful narrative , to be silent . 
No sooner had the Syndic and Quentin left the room , than Isabelle began to ask of Gertrude various questions concerning the roads , and so forth , with such clearness of spirit and pertinence , that the latter could not help exclaiming , `` Lady , I wonder at you ! 
A part of this speech again called the colour into the Countess 's pale cheeks , which was not lessened by Quentin 's sudden appearance . 
He entered completely attired as a Flemish boor of the better class , in the holyday suit of Peter , who expressed his interest in the young Scot by the readiness with which he parted with it for his use ; and swore , at the same time , that , were he to be curried and tugged worse than ever was bullock 's hide , they should make nothing out of him , to the betraying of the young folks . 
said Quentin , approaching his horse to that of Isabelle , and speaking French , which their guide did not understand . 
said Quentin . 
`` Do not talk -- do not think of me , '' said Quentin . 
`` Do not speak so loud , '' said the Lady Isabelle ; `` you will surprise our guide -- you see he has already rode on before us ; '' -- for , in truth , the good-natured Fleming , doing as he desired to be done by , had removed from them the constraint of a third person , upon Quentin 's first motion towards the lady . 
Thus spoke Quentin , with a voice in which internal agony struggled with his desire to assume an indifferent tone , like that of the poor condemned criminal , when , affecting a firmness which he is far from feeling , he asks if the death-warrant be arrived . 
`` No , Durward , no , '' said the Lady Isabelle , sitting up erect in her saddle , `` to that hated condition all Burgundy 's power shall not sink a daughter of the House of Croye . 
Burgundy may seize on my lands and fiefs , he may imprison my person in a convent ; but that is the worst I have to expect ; and worse than that I will endure ere I give my hand to Campo-basso . '' 
said Quentin ; `` and what worse can there be than plunder and imprisonment ? 
-- Ah , Durward , were I your sister , and could you promise me shelter in some of those mountain-glens which you love to describe , where , for charity , or for the few jewels I have preserved , I might lead an unharassed life , and forget the lot I was born to -- Could you promise me the protection of some honoured matron of the land -- of some baron whose heart was as true as his sword -- that were indeed a prospect , for which it were worth the risk of farther censure to wander farther and wider ! '' 
There was a faltering tenderness of voice with which the Countess Isabelle made this admission , that at once filled Quentin with a sensation of joy , and cut him to the very heart . 
He hesitated a moment ere he made an answer , hastily reviewing in his mind the possibility there might be that he could procure her shelter in Scotland ; but the melancholy truth rushed on him , that it would be alike base and cruel to point out to her a course , which he had not the most distant power or means to render safe . 
`` Lady , '' he said at last , `` I should act foully against my honour and oath of chivalry , did I suffer you to ground any plan upon the thoughts that I have the power in Scotland to afford you other protection than that of the poor arm which is now by your side . 
said Quentin . 
repeated Quentin , awakened to recollections to which the young Countess was a stranger , and which the rapid succession of perilous and stirring events , had , as matters of nearer concern , in fact banished from his memory . 
The last question , urged in a tone of the most anxious enquiry , obliged Quentin to give some account of what he knew of the Countess 's fate . 
He mentioned , that he had been summoned to attend her in a flight from Liege , which he had no doubt the Lady Isabelle would be partaker in -- he mentioned the discovery that had been made after they had gained the forest -- and finally , he told his own return to the castle , and the circumstances in which he found it . 
But he said nothing of the views with which it was plain the Lady Hameline had left the Castle of Schonwaldt , and as little about the floating report of her having fallen into the hands of William de la Marck . 
`` Had I not done so , madam , '' said Quentin , not unreasonably offended at the turn thus given to his gallantry , `` what had been the fate of one to whose service I was far more devoutly bound ? 
I doubt not that , from the beginning , we had been surrounded by these snares by Louis of France , in order to determine us to take refuge at his Court , or rather to put ourselves into his power ; after which rash act on our part , how unkingly , unknightly , ignobly , ungentlemanlike , he hath conducted himself towards us , you , Quentin Durward , can bear witness . 
Endeavouring to inspire hopes which he scarce felt , Durward answered , that the avarice of these people was stronger than any other passion ; that Marthon , even when he left them , seemed to act rather as the Lady Hameline 's protectress ; and , in fine , that it was difficult to conceive any object these wretches could accomplish by the ill usage or murder of the Countess , whereas they might be gainers by treating her well , and putting her to ransom . 
To lead the Countess Isabelle 's thoughts from this melancholy subject , Quentin frankly told her the treachery of the Maugrabin , which he had discovered in the night-quarter near Namur , and which appeared the result of an agreement betwixt the King and William de la Marck . 
`` Did the Lady Hameline not mention to you , then , '' said Quentin , `` her intended flight ? '' 
`` I will excuse the Lady Hameline from intending such unkindness , '' said Quentin ; `` for such was the agitation of the moment , and the darkness of the hour , that I believe the Lady Hameline as certainly conceived herself accompanied by her niece , as I at the same time , deceived by Marthon 's dress and demeanour , supposed I was in the company of both the Ladies of Croye : -- and of her especially , '' he added , with a low but determined voice , `` without whom the wealth of worlds would not have tempted me to leave Schonwaldt . '' 
Isabelle stooped her head forward , and seemed scarce to hear the emphasis with which Quentin had spoken . 
But she turned her face to him again when he began to speak of the policy of Louis ; and it was not difficult for them , by mutual communication , to ascertain that the Bohemian brothers , with their accomplice Marthon , had been the agents of that crafty monarch , although Zamet , the elder of them , with a perfidy peculiar to his race , had attempted to play a double game , and had been punished accordingly . 
They spoke not indeed of love , for though the young lady , her heart full of gratitude and confidence , might have pardoned such a declaration , yet Quentin , on whose tongue there was laid a check , both by natural timidity and by the sentiments of chivalry , would have held it an unworthy abuse of her situation had he said any thing which could have the appearance of taking undue advantage of the opportunities which it afforded them . 
On looking back , and discovering along the long level road which they had traversed a cloud of dust advancing , with one or two of the headmost troopers riding furiously in front of it , Quentin addressed his companion -- `` Dearest Isabelle , I have no weapon left save my sword ; but since I can not fight for you , I will fly with you . 
Quentin Durward sighed ; but what other alternative remained ? 
and how happy would he have been but an instant before , to have been certain of the escape of Isabelle , even under worse terms ? 
said Crèvecoeur , casting the same penetrating glance on Quentin which he had bestowed on Glover , but apparently with a much less satisfactory result , and mimicking , though not offensively , the embarrassment of the Countess -- `` Umph ! 
Quentin also blushed with indignation , but wisely concluded , that to give vent to it might only make matters worse . 
`` My Lord Count , '' said Durward , unable to keep silence any longer , `` lest you should talk of a stranger in slighter terms than you might afterwards think becoming , I take leave to tell you , that I am Quentin Durward , an Archer of the Scottish Body-guard , in which , as you well know , none but gentlemen and men of honour are enrolled . '' 
As Quentin moved onward at the command of the Count , who had now the power , if not the right , to dictate his motions , he observed that the Lady Isabelle followed his motions with a look of anxious and timid interest , which amounted almost to tenderness , and the sight of which brought water into his eyes . 
But he remembered that he had a man 's part to sustain before Crèvecoeur , who , perhaps of all the chivalry in France or Burgundy , was the least likely to be moved to any thing but laughter by a tale of true-love sorrow . 
`` The Countess of Croye , '' said Quentin , `` is best judge if I have rendered any service , and to her I refer you on that matter . 
`` Count of Crèvecoeur , '' said Quentin Durward , `` if I answer questions which are asked in a tone approaching towards insult , it is only lest injurious inferences should be drawn from my silence respecting one to whom we are both obliged to render justice . 
However little Quentin thought himself indebted to the King of France , who , in contriving the surprisal of the Countess Isabelle by William de la Marck , had probably calculated on the young Scotchman being slain in her defence , he did not yet conceive himself at liberty to betray any trust which Louis had reposed , or had seemed to repose in him , and therefore replied to Count Crèvecoeur 's inference , `` that it was sufficient for him to have the authority of his superior officer for what he had done , and he enquired no farther . '' 
`` To be brief , my lord , '' said Durward , `` ere this act was done , the castle was stormed by the blood-thirsty William de la Marck , with help of the insurgent Liegeois . '' 
When the Count of Crèvecoeur had made his vow , his mind seemed in some sort relieved from the overwhelming grief and astonishment with which he had heard the fatal tragedy that had been acted at Schonwaldt , and he proceeded to question Durward more minutely concerning the particulars of that disastrous affair , which the Scot , nowise desirous to abate the spirit of revenge which the Count entertained against William de la Marck , gave him at full length . 
Durward here informed the enraged Burgundian that the Liegeois , or at least the better class of them , however rashly they had run into the rebellion against their Bishop , had no design , so far as appeared to him , to aid in the execrable deed of De la Marck ; but , on the contrary , would have prevented it if they had had the means , and were struck with horror when they beheld it . 
Quentin easily saw that the grief which he manifested was augmented by the bitter recollection of past intercourse and friendship with the sufferer , and was silent accordingly ; respecting feelings which he was unwilling to aggravate , and at the same time felt it impossible to soothe . 
But the open , though severe , physiognomy of the Count of Crèvecoeur , the total contempt which he seemed to entertain for those feelings which were uppermost in Quentin 's bosom , overawed him ; not for fear of the Count 's fame in arms -- that was a risk which would have increased his desire of making out a challenge -- but in dread of ridicule , the weapon of all others most feared by enthusiasts of every description , and which , from its predominance over such minds , often checks what is absurd , and fully as often smothers that which is noble . 
Under the influence of this fear , of becoming an object of scorn rather than resentment , Durward , though with some pain , confined his reply to a confused account of the Lady Hameline having made her escape from Schonwaldt before the attack took place . 
He could not , indeed , have made his story very distinct , without throwing ridicule on the near relation of Isabelle , and perhaps incurring some himself , as having been the object of her preposterous expectations . 
He added to his embarrassed detail , that he had heard a report , though a vague one , of the Lady Hameline having again fallen into the hands of William de la Marck . 
The Count then proceeded to ask so many questions concerning the mode in which both ladies had conducted themselves on the journey , the degree of intimacy to which they admitted Quentin himself , and other trying particulars , that , vexed and ashamed and angry , the youth was scarce able to conceal his embarrassment from the keen-sighted soldier and courtier , who seemed suddenly disposed to take leave of him , saying , at the same time , `` Umph -- I see it is as I conjectured , on one side at least ; I trust the other party has kept her senses better . 
Forget it all , young soldier , '' he added , tapping him on the shoulder ; `` remember yonder lady only as the honoured Countess of Croye -- forget her as a wandering and adventurous damsel : And her friends -- one of them I can answer for -- will remember , on their part , only the services you have done her , and forget the unreasonable reward which you have had the boldness to propose to yourself . '' 
Enraged that he had been unable to conceal from the sharp-sighted Crèvecoeur feelings which the Count seemed to consider as the object of ridcule , Quentin replied , indignantly , `` My Lord Count , when I require advice of you , I will ask it ; when I demand assistance of you , it will be time enough to grant or refuse it ; when I set peculiar value on your opinion of me , it will not be too late to express it . '' 
`` You speak as if that were an impossibility , '' said Quentin -- `` When I broke a lance with the Duke of Orleans , it was against a breast in which flowed better blood than that of Crèvecoeur -- When I measured swords with Dunois , I engaged a better warrior . '' 
`` My Lord of Crèvecoeur , '' said Quentin , `` my family '' -- `` Nay , it was not utterly of family that I spoke , '' said the Count ; `` but of rank , fortune , high station , and so forth , which place a distance between various degrees and classes of persons . 
`` My Lord Count , '' repeated Quentin , `` my ancestors , the Durwards of Glen-houlakin '' -- `` Nay , '' said the Count , `` if you claim a farther descent for them than from Adam , I have done ! 
He reined back his horse , and paused to join the Countess , to whom , if possible , his insinuations and advices , however well meant , were still more disagreeable than to Quentin , who , as he rode on , muttered to himself , `` Cold-blooded , insolent , overweening coxcomb ! 
But he was determined himself to be the first who should carry the formidable news of the insurrection and the murder of the Bishop , in all their horrible reality , to Duke Charles ; and for that purpose , having procured fresh horses for himself and suite , he mounted with the resolution of continuing his journey to Peronne without stopping for repose ; and informing Quentin Durward that he must attend him , he made , at the same time , a mock apology for parting fair company , but hoped , that to so devoted a squire of dames a night 's journey by moonshine would be more agreeable , than supinely to yield himself to slumber like an ordinary mortal . 
Quentin , already sufficiently afflicted by finding that he was to be parted from Isabelle , longed to answer this taunt with an indignant defiance ; but aware that the Count would only laugh at his anger , and despise his challenge , he resolved to wait some future time , when he might have an opportunity of obtaining some amends from this proud lord , who , though for very different reasons , had become nearly as odious to him as the Wild Boar of Ardennes himself . 
He therefore assented to Crèvecoeur 's proposal , as to what he had no choice of declining , and they pursued in company , and with all the dispatch they could exert , the road between Charleroi and Peronne . 
Quentin , during the earlier part of the night-journey , had to combat with that bitter heart-ach , which is felt when youth parts , and probably for ever , with her he loves . 
As , pressed by the urgency of the moment , and the impatience of Crèvecoeur , they hasted on through the rich lowlands of Hainault , under the benign guidance of a rich and lustrous harvest-moon , she shed her yellow influence over rich and deep pastures , woodland , and corn fields , from which the husbandmen were using her light to withdraw the grain , such was the industry of the Flemings , even at that period ; she shone on broad , level , and fructifying rivers , where glided the white sail in the service of commerce , uninterrupted by rock or torrent , beside lively quiet villages , whose external decency and cleanliness expressed the ease and comfort of the inhabitants ; -- she gleamed upon the feudal castle of many a gallant Baron and Knight , with its deep moat , battlemented court , and high belfry , -- for the chivalry of Hainault was renowned among the nobles of Europe ; -- and her light displayed at a distance , in its broad beam , the gigantic towers of more than one lofty minster . 
Yet all this fair variety , however differing from the waste and wilderness of his own land , interrupted not the course of Quentin 's regrets and sorrows . 
He had left his heart behind him , when he departed from Charleroi ; and the only reflection which the farther journey inspired was , that every step was carrying him farther from Isabelle . 
His imagination was taxed to recall every word she had spoken , every look she had directed towards him ; and , as happens frequently in such cases , the impression made upon his imagination by the recollection of these particulars , was even stronger than the realities themselves had excited . 
At length , after the cold hour of midnight was past , in spite alike of love and of sorrow , the extreme fatigue which Quentin had undergone the two preceding days began to have an effect on him , which his habits of exercise of every kind , and his singular alertness and activity of character , as well as the painful nature of the reflections which occupied his thoughts , had hitherto prevented his experiencing . 
The ideas of his mind began to be so little corrected by the exertions of his senses , wornout and deadened as the latter now were by extremity of fatigue , that the visions which the former drew superseded or perverted the information conveyed by the blunted organs of seeing and hearing ; and Durward was only sensible that he was awake , by the exertions which , sensible of the peril of his situation , he occasionally made , to resist falling into a deep and dead sleep . 
Every now and then , a strong consciousness of the risk of falling from or with his horse roused him to exertion and animation ; but ere long his eyes again were dimmed by confused shades of all sorts of mingled colours , the moonlight landscape swam before them , and he was so much overcome with fatigue , that the Count of Crèvecoeur , observing his condition , was at length compelled to order two of his attendants , one to each rein of Durward 's bridle , in order to prevent the risk of his falling from his horse . 
When at length they reached the town of Landrecy , the Count , in compassion to the youth , who had now been in a great measure without sleep for three nights , allowed himself and his retinue a halt of four hours , for rest and refreshment . 
Deep and sound were Quentin 's slumbers , until they were broken by the sound of the Count 's trumpet , and the cry of his Fouriers and harbingers , `` Débout ! 
-- Yet , unwelcomely early as the tones came , they awaked him a different being in strength and spirits from what he had fallen asleep . 
Confidence in himself and his fortunes returned with his reviving spirits , and with the rising sun . 
He thought of his love no longer as a desperate and fantastic dream , but as a high and invigorating principle , to be cherished in his bosom , although he might never propose to himself , under all the difficulties by which he was beset , to bring it to any prosperous issue . 
-- `` The pilot , '' he reflected , `` steers his bark by the polar star , although he never expects to become possessor of it ; and the thoughts of Isabelle of Croye shall make me a worthy man-at-arms , though I may never see her more . 
When she hears that a Scottish soldier , named Quentin Durward , distinguished himself in a well-fought field , or left his body on the breach of a disputed fortress , she will remember the companion of her journey , as one who did all in his power to avert the snares and misfortunes which beset it , and perhaps will honour his memory with a tear , his coffin with a garland . '' 
In this manly mood of bearing his misfortune , Quentin felt himself more able to receive and reply to the jests of the Count of Crèvecoeur , who passed several on his alleged effeminacy and incapacity of undergoing fatigue . 
And although Quentin , with suitable expressions of gratitude , declined this favour at present , until he should find out how far he had to complain of his original patron , King Louis , he , nevertheless , continued to remain on good terms with the Count of Crèvecoeur ; and , while his enthusiastic mode of thinking , and his foreign and idiomatical manner of expressing himself , often excited a smile on the grave cheek of the Count , that smile had lost all that it had of sarcastic and bitter , and did not exceed the limits of good humour and good manners . 
turning to his companion , said , `` Crèvecoeur has been in Brabant , the country of commerce , and he has learned all its artifices -- he will be too hard for us if we drive a bargain . '' 
`` Messires , '' said Crèvecoeur , `` the Duke ought in justice to have the first of my wares , as the Seigneur takes his toll before open market begins . 
Quentin was then called forward , and examined and re-examined on the particulars of the Bishop 's death , until at length he refused to answer any further interrogatories , not knowing wherefore they were asked , or what use might be made of his replies . 
This tall , dark , massive building , was seen clearly by the same moon which was lighting Quentin Durward betwixt Charleroi and Peronne , which , as the reader is aware , shone with peculiar lustre . 
-- ` Quentin , ' said I to him , ` whatever comes of it , remember you belong to the Scottish Archer-guard , and do your duty whatever comes o n't . 
''' `` I guessed he had some such exquisite instructer , '' said Louis ; `` but it concerns me that you answer my first question -- Have you heard of your nephew of late ? 
The groom , being the first messenger whom Durward had dispatched from Schonwaldt , was now introduced with his letters . 
A day , or two days ' patience , will prove or disprove what I have averred concerning the young Scot ; and I will be contented to die on the wheel , and have my limbs broken joint by joint , if your Majesty have not advantage , and that in a most important degree , from the dauntless conduct of that Quentin Durward . 
said the King , -- `` an archer of my Guards , by name Quentin Durward ? '' 
`` The same , as I think , '' said Des Comines ; `` he was made prisoner along with the Countess , travelling almost alone together . '' 
If the maiden be so attached to him as to make her refractory to the will of Burgundy , this Quentin hath indeed been rarely useful to me . '' 
Where Oliver suspected his own presence or arguments might be less acceptable , he employed that of other servants of the King ; and it was in this manner that he obtained , by the favour of the Count de Crèvecoeur , an interview betwixt Lord Crawford , accompanied by Le Balafré , and Quentin Durward , who , since he had arrived at Peronne , had been detained in a sort of honourable confinement . 
`` Thou art a singular youth , '' said Crawford , stroking the head of young Durward , as a grandsire might do that of his descendant ; `` Certes , you have had as meikle good fortune as if you had been born with a lucky hood on your head . '' 
`` I fear , '' said Quentin , with downcast eyes , `` I shall enjoy that title to distinction but a short time -- since it is my purpose to resign the service of the Archer-guard . '' 
answered Quentin ; -- `` and you , my lord , know that I am no tale-bearer ; nor shall either question or torture draw out of me a word to King Louis 's prejudice , which may have come to my knowledge while I was in his service . 
`` I have been threatened with foul play in the execution of the King 's commission , '' answered Quentin ; `` but I have had the good fortune to elude it -- whether his Majesty be innocent or guilty in the matter , I leave to God and his own conscience . 
-- And now tell me , Quentin , my man , hath the King any advice of this brave , christian , and manly resolution of yours ? 
`` I really can hardly tell , '' answered Quentin ; `` but I assured his learned astrologer , Martius Galeotti , of my resolution to be silent on all that could injure the King with the Duke of Burgundy . 
He foretold that all my sister 's children would die some day ; and he foretold it in the very hour that the youngest was born , and that is this lad Quentin -- who , no doubt , will one day die , to make up the prophecy -- the more 's the pity -- the whole curney of them is gone but himself . 
And Saunders foretold to myself one day , that I should be made by marriage , which doubtless will also happen in due time , though it hath not yet come to pass -- though how or when , I can hardly guess , as I care not myself for the wedded state , and Quentin is but a lad . 
`` Stay , my lord , '' said Quentin , and led Lord Crawford a little apart from his uncle . 
`` Do not suppose so , my lord , '' replied Durward , `` but use your interest with the Count of Crèvecoeur to permit me an interview with the Countess Isabelle of Croye , who is the party possessed of my secret , and I doubt not that I can persuade her to be as silent as I shall unquestionably myself remain , concerning whatever may incense the Duke against King Louis . '' 
The old soldier mused for a long time -- looked up to the ceiling , then down again upon the floor -- then shook his head , -- and at length said , `` There is something in all this , which , by my honour , I do not understand . 
So saying , and shrugging up his shoulders , the old Lord left the apartment , followed by Ludovic Lesly , who , forming his looks on those of his principal , endeavoured , though knowing nothing of the cause of his wonder , to look as mysterious and important as Crawford himself . 
With a brow like scarlet , at once offended and disconcerted by the blunt inferences of the old soldier , and vexed at beholding in what an absurd light his passion was viewed by every person of experience , Durward followed Lord Crawford in silence to the Ursuline convent , in which the Countess was lodged , and in the parlour of which he found the Count de Crèvecoeur . 
`` Yes , my Lord Count , '' answered Quentin , firmly ; `` and what is more , I must see her alone . '' 
`` Then will I not speak a single word to the Countess in your presence , '' said Quentin , much delighted . 
In a moment after , the Countess Isabelle entered on the other side of the grate , and no sooner saw Quentin alone in the parlour , than she stopped short , and cast her eyes on the ground for the space of half a minute . 
As she spoke thus , she extended her hand to him through the grate , nay , suffered him to retain it , until he had covered it with kisses , not unmingled with tears . 
She only said , `` Durward , were we ever to meet again , I would not permit this folly . '' 
If it be considered that Quentin had guarded her through so many perils -- that he had been , in truth , her only faithful and zealous protector , perhaps my fair readers , even if countesses and heiresses should be of the number , will pardon the derogation . 
But the Countess extricated her hand at length , and stepping a pace back from the grate , asked Durward , in a very embarrassed tone , what boon he had to ask of her ? 
`` Fear not , noble lady , '' said Quentin , sorrowfully ; `` it is not here that I can forget the distance which fate has placed between us , or expose you to the censure of your proud kindred , as the object of the most devoted love to one , poorer and less powerful -- not perhaps less noble than themselves . 
`` Forgiveness to one , '' replied Quentin , `` who , for his own selfish views , hath conducted himself as your enemy . '' 
`` I trust I forgive all my enemies , '' answered Isabelle ; `` but oh , Durward ! 
`` Do not think on them , '' said Quentin , who saw the transient colour which had come to her cheek during their conference , fast fading into the most deadly paleness -- `` Do not look back , but look steadily forward , as they needs must who walk in a perilous road . 
`` Surely not , '' said Durward ; `` but let your evidence concerning Louis be confined to what you yourself positively know to be truth ; and when you mention what others have reported , no matter how credibly , let it be as reports only , and beware of pledging your own personal evidence to that , which , though you may fully believe , you can not personally know to be true . 
`` I will make my meaning plainer , '' said Quentin ; and was illustrating it accordingly by more than one instance , when the convent-bell tolled . 
-- But do not forget me , Durward ; I will never forget you -- your faithful services '' -- She could not speak more , but again extended her hand , which was again pressed to his lips ; and I know not how it was , that , in endeavouring to withdraw her hand , the Countess came so close to the grating , that Quentin was encouraged to press the adieu on her lips . 
The young lady did not chide him -- perhaps there was no time ; for Crèvecoeur and Crawford , who had been from some loophole eye-witnesses , if not ear-witnesses also , of what was passing , rushed into the apartment , the first in a towering passion , the latter laughing , and holding the Count back . 
-- enough said -- rein up -- rein up , '' said the old Lord ; -- `` and you , Quentin , I command you , be silent , and begone to your quarters . 
-- There is no such room for so much scorn neither , Sir Count of Crèvecoeur , that I must say now he is out of hearing -- Quentin Durward is as much a gentleman as the King , only , as the Spaniard says , not so rich . 
Quentin Durward was now summoned to appear , and presented himself before the King and Duke with that freedom , distant alike from bashful reserve and intrusive boldness , which becomes a youth at once well-born and well-nurtured , who gives honour where it is due , but without permitting himself to be dazzled or confused by the presence of those to whom it is to be rendered . 
At the command of the Duke , sanctioned by that of Louis , Quentin commenced an account of his journey with the Ladies of Croye to the neighbourhood of Liege , premising a statement of King Louis 's instructions , which were , that he should escort them safely to the castle of the Bishop . 
Quentin bowed low to both , and the examination was resumed . 
`` No , if it please your Grace , '' replied Quentin . 
`` Because I began to suspect the fidelity of my guide , '' answered Quentin . 
At length , having given the youth time , as he thought , to consider the circumstances in which he was placed , the Duke demanded to know of Durward , who his guide was , by whom supplied , and wherefore he had been led to entertain suspicion of him ? 
To the first of these questions , Quentin Durward answered , by naming Hayraddin Maugrabin , the Bohemian ; to the second , that the guide had been recommended by Tristan l'Hermite ; and in reply to the third point , he mentioned what had happened in the Franciscan convent , near Namur ; how the Bohemian had been expelled from the holy house ; and how , jealous of his behaviour , he had dogged him to a rendezvous with one of William de la Marck 's lanzknechts , where he overheard them arrange a plan for surprising the ladies who were under his protection . 
`` If such infamous fellows had said so , '' replied Quentin , `` I know not how I should have believed them , having the word of the King himself to place in opposition to theirs . '' 
Louis , who had listened hitherto with most earnest attention , could not help drawing his breath deeply , when he heard Durward 's answer , in the manner of one from whose bosom a heavy weight has been at once removed . 
The Duke again looked disconcerted and moody ; and , returning to the charge , questioned Quentin still more closely , whether he did not understand , from these men 's private conversation , that the plots which they meditated had King Louis 's sanction ? '' 
`` I understand you not , my lord , '' said Quentin Durward ; `` all I know is , that my master King Louis sent me to protect these ladies , and that I did so accordingly , to the extent of my ability , both in the journey to Schonwaldt , and through the subsequent scenes which took place . 
`` Fier comme un Ecossois , '' said Charles , who , however disappointed at the tenor of Durward 's reply , was not unjust enough to blame him for his boldness . 
`` My lord , '' said Quentin , `` there are many who could testify , that I assumed not the character of an envoy of France in the town of Liege , but had it fixed upon me by the obstinate clamours of the people themselves , who refused to give credit to any disclamation which I could make . 
At that moment , Hayraddin , gazing on the crowd , encountered the eyes of Quentin Durward , who , thinking he recognised the countenance of his faithless guide in that of the detected impostor , had followed with the crowd to witness the execution , and assure himself of the identity . 
The executioners hesitated a moment ; but Trois-Eschelles recollecting that Quentin Durward was believed , from various circumstances , to stand high in the favour of their master , King Louis , they resolved to permit the interview . 
When Quentin , at their summons , approached the condemned criminal , he could not but be shocked at his appearance , however justly his doom might have been deserved . 
The remnants of his heraldic finery , rent to tatters by the fangs of the dogs , and the clutches of the bipeds who had rescued him from their fury to lead him to the gallows , gave him at once a ludicrous and a wretched appearance . 
His face was discoloured with paint , and with some remnants of a fictitious beard , assumed for the purpose of disguise , and there was the paleness of death upon his cheek and upon his lip ; yet , strong in passive courage , like most of his tribe , his eye , while it glistened and wandered , as well as the contorted smile of his mouth , seemed to bid defiance to the death he was about to die . 
Quentin was struck partly with horror , partly with compassion , as he approached the miserable man , and these feelings probably betrayed themselves in his manner , for Petit-André called out , `` Trip it more smartly , jolly Archer -- This gentleman 's leisure can not wait for you , if you walk as if the pebbles were eggs , and you afraid of breaking them . '' 
`` I must speak with him in privacy , '' said the criminal , despair seeming to croak in his accent as he uttered the words . 
`` Pay the blood-hounds their fee , '' said Hayraddin to Durward ; `` I was plundered of every stiver when they took me -- it shall avail thee much . '' 
Quentin paid the executioners their guerdon , and , like men of promise , they retreated out of hearing -- keeping , however , a careful eye on the criminal 's motions . 
After waiting an instant till the unhappy man should speak , as he still remained silent , Quentin at length addressed him , `` And to this conclusion thou hast at length arrived ? '' 
`` A detected impostor has no right to claim the immunities of the disguise he had usurped , '' said Durward . 
`` You abuse time , '' said Quentin . 
Tell me what thou hast to say , and I leave thee to thy fate , '' said Durward , with mingled pity and horror . 
`` I could wellnigh say thy gifts perish with thee , '' answered Quentin , `` but that thou art on the very verge of eternity . 
`` Talk not so idly , unhappy man , '' said Quentin ; `` yonder officers become impatient . '' 
`` Use then well the minutes so purchased , '' said Durward , and easily made a new bargain with the Marshal 's men . 
`` Cease this brutal and untimely jesting , '' said Quentin , `` or , once more I tell you , I will leave you to your fate . '' 
`` It was a fearful risk , '' said Durward . 
`` It is indeed an important secret , '' said Quentin , instantly comprehending how easily the national jealousy might be awakened in a camp consisting partly of French , partly of Burgundians . 
`` Tell me thy request , '' said Quentin -- `` I will grant it if it be in my power . '' 
-- A due mile south , you will find him feeding by a deserted collier 's hut ; whistle to him thus , '' -- -LRB- he whistled a peculiar note . -RRB- 
`` I swear to you that I will , '' answered Quentin , affected by what seemed a trait of tenderness in a character so hardened . 
`` I will bestow them in good works , and masses for the benefit of thy soul , '' said Quentin . 
`` Name not that word again , '' said Hayraddin , his countenance assuming a dreadful expression ; `` there is -- there can be -- there shall be -- no such thing ! 
-- let me speed for a priest -- these men will delay yet a little longer -- I will bribe them to it , '' said Quentin -- `` What canst thou expect , dying in such opinions , and impenitent ? '' 
`` To be resolved into the elements , '' said the hardened atheist , pressing his fettered arms against his bosom ; `` my hope , trust , and expectation is , that the mysterious frame of humanity shall melt into the general mass of nature , to be recompounded in the other forms with which she daily supplies those which daily disappear , and return under different forms , -- the watery particles to streams and showers , the earthly parts to enrich their mother earth , the airy portions to wanton in the breeze , and those of fire to supply the blaze of Aldeboran and his brethren -- In this faith have I lived , and I will die in it ! 
Deeply impressed with the horrors of his condition , Quentin Durward yet saw that it was vain to hope to awaken him to a sense of his fearful state . 
He bid him , therefore , farewell ; to which the criminal only replied by a short and sullen nod , as one who , plunged in reverie , bids adieu to company which distracts his thoughts . 
He bent his course towards the forest , and easily found where Klepper was feeding . 
At length , however , Quentin 's general acquaintance with the habits of the animal , and perhaps some particular knowledge of those of Klepper , which he had often admired while Hayraddin and he travelled together , enabled him to take possession of the Bohemian 's dying bequest . 
When Quentin Durward reached Peronne , a council was sitting , in the issue of which he was interested more deeply than he could have apprehended , and which , though held by persons of a rank with whom one of his could scarce be supposed to have community of interest , had nevertheless the most extraordinary influence on his fortunes . 
It was Quentin Durward , who , as he passed the ladies in his rank , presented to the Countess of Croye , on the point of his lance , the letter of her aunt . 
As female wit seldom fails in the contrivance of means , she so ordered it , that ere the troops were fully on march , Quentin Durward received from an unknown hand the billet of Lady Hameline , marked with three crosses opposite to the postscript , and having these words subjoined : -- `` He who feared not the arms of Orleans when on the breast of their gallant owner , can not dread them when displayed on that of a tyrant and murderer . '' 
But Durward saw the necessity of acting otherwise respecting the information communicated by Hayraddin , since the proposed sally of De la Marck , unless heedfully guarded against , might prove the destruction of the besieging army ; so difficult was it , in the tumultuous warfare of those days , to recover from a nocturnal surprise . 
It was then that Quentin Durward prayed earnestly to be admitted , as having something of importance to deliver to the two Princes . 
Let Crawford place Quentin Durward on the extreme point of our line of sentinels , next to the city . 
Let him e ` en have the first benefit of the sally which he has announced to us -- if his luck bear him out , it is the better for him . 
But take an especial care of Martius Galeotti , and see he remain in the rear , in a place of the most absolute safety -- he is even but too venturous ; and , like a fool , would be both swordsman and philosopher . 
But not so with Quentin Durward . 
The knowledge that he alone was possessed of the means of distinguishing La Marck in the contest -- the recollection by whom that information had been communicated , and the fair augury which might be drawn from her conveying it to him -- the thought that his fortune had brought him to a most perilous and doubtful crisis indeed , but one where there was still , at least , a chance of his coming off triumphant , banished every desire to sleep , and strung his nerves with vigour , which defied fatigue . 
At length , and just when Quentin began to think the attack would be deferred till daybreak , and joyfully recollected that there would be then light enough to descry the Bar Sinister across the Fleurde-lis of Orleans , he thought he heard in the city a humming murmur , like that of disturbed bees mustering for the defence of their hives . 
He listened -- the noise continued ; but it was of a character so undistinguished by any peculiar or precise sound , that it might be the murmur of a wind rising among the boughs of a distant grove , or perhaps some stream swollen by the late rain , which was discharging itself into the sluggish Maes with more than usual clamour . 
Quentin was prevented by these considerations from instantly giving the alarm , which , if done carelessly , would have been a heavy offence . 
But when the noise rose louder , and seemed pouring at the same time towards his own post , and towards the suburb , he deemed it his duty to fall back as silently as possible , and call his uncle , who commanded the small body of Archers destined to his support . 
`` Keep well to the rear as you go , '' said Durward ; `` if ever I heard the tread of mortal men , there is a strong body interposed between us and the suburb . '' 
`` Well said , Quentin , my dainty callant , '' said Crawford ; `` thou art a soldier beyond thy years . 
`` I will creep forward , my lord , '' said Quentin , `` and endeavour to bring you information . '' 
Quentin , with his harquebuss ready prepared , stole forward , through ground which he had reconnoitred carefully in the twilight of the preceding evening , until he was not only certain that he was in the neighbourhood of a very large body of men , who were standing fast betwixt the King 's quarters and the suburbs , but also that there was a detached party of smaller number in advance , and very close to him . 
Seeing it impossible to retreat undiscovered , Quentin called out aloud , `` Qui vive ? '' 
and was answered by `` Vive Li -- Li -- ege -- c'est - à dire , '' -LRB- added he who spoke , correcting himself , -RRB- `` Vive la France ! '' 
-- Quentin instantly fired his harquebuss -- a man groaned and fell , and he himself , under the instant but vague discharge of a number of pieces , the fire of which ran in a disorderly manner alongst the column , and showed it to be very numerous , hastened back to the main guard . 
The delay which permitted these arrangements to be carried fully into effect , was owing to Quentin 's having fortunately shot the proprietor of the house , who acted as guide to the column which was designed to attack it , and whose attack , had it been made instantly , might have had a chance of being successful . 
Durward , who , by the King 's order , attended him to the Duke 's , found the latter in a state of choleric distemperature , which almost prevented his discharging the duties of a general , which were never more necessary ; for , besides the noise of a close and furious combat which had now taken place in the suburb upon the left of their whole army , -- besides the attack upon the King 's quarters , which was fiercely maintained in the centre , -- a third column of Liegeois , of even superior numbers , had filed out from a more distant breach , and , marching by lanes , vineyards , and passes , known to themselves , had fallen upon the right flank of the Burgundian army , who , alarmed at their war-cries of Vive la France ! 
The arrival of the King , attended only by Le Balafré and Quentin , and half a score of Archers , restored confidence between France and Burgundy . 
`` Go , '' said the King , to Le Balafré and Quentin , the instant his ear had caught the sound ; `` they have got up the sakers and falconets -- the pleasure-house is safe , blessed be the Holy Virgin ! 
said Quentin . 
-- Then turning on his saddle , he called out to those around him , `` Gentlemen of France , form your line , level your lances ! 
What was his surprise to find Quentin still by his side , and fighting in the same front with himself -- youth , desperate courage , and the determination to do or die , having still kept the youth abreast with the best knight in Europe ; for such was Dunois reported , and truly reported , at the period . 
Still Dunois and Durward were contending with rival efforts to burst forward to the spot where he who had usurped the armorial bearings of Dunois was doing the duty of a good and valiant leader , when Dunois , observing the boar 's - head and tusks -- the usual bearing of William de la Marck -- in another part of the conflict , called out to Quentin , `` Thou art worthy to avenge the arms of Orleans ! 
That Quentin Durward joyfully acquiesced in this division of labour can not be doubted , and each pressed forward upon his separate object , followed , and defended from behind , by such men-at-arms as were able to keep up with them . 
Quentin made more than human exertions to overtake the special object of his pursuit , who was still in his sight , striving , by voice and example , to renew the battle , and bravely supported by a chosen party of lanzknechts . 
Le Balafré , and several of his comrades , attached themselves to Quentin , much marvelling at the extraordinary gallantry displayed by so young a soldier . 
Quentin now found little difficulty in singling him out ; for the commanding situation of which he had possessed himself , and the use he made of his terrible mace , caused many of the assailants to seek safer points of attack than that where so desperate a defender presented himself . 
But Quentin , to whom the importance attached to victory over this formidable antagonist was better known , sprung from his horse at the bottom of the breach , and , letting the noble animal , the gift of the Duke of Orleans , run loose through the tumult , ascended the ruins to measure swords with the Boar of Ardennes . 
The latter , as if he had seen his intention , turned towards Durward with mace uplifted ; and they were on the point of encounter , when a dreadful shout of triumph , of tumult , and of despair , announced that the besiegers were entering the city at another point , and in the rear of those who defended the breach . 
Assembling around him , by voice and bugle , the desperate partners of his desperate fortune , De la Marck , at those appalling sounds , abandoned the breach , and endeavoured to effect his retreat towards a part of the city from which he might escape to the other side of the Maes . 
It is therefore probable that De la Marck might have effected his escape , his disguise concealing him from those who promised themselves to win honour and grandeur upon his head , but for the stanch pursuit of Quentin , his uncle Le Balafré , and some of his comrades . 
At every pause which was made by the lanzknechts , a furious combat took place betwixt them and the Archers , and in every melée Quentin sought De la Marck ; but the latter , whose present object was to retreat , seemed to evade the young Scot 's purpose of bringing him to single combat . 
Quentin heard but imperfectly the words , which were partly lost in the hollow helmet ; but the action could not be mistaken , and he had but time to bid his uncle and comrades , as they were gentlemen , to stand back , when De la Marck sprung upon him with a bound like a tiger , aiming at the same time a blow with his mace , so as to make his hand and foot keep time together , and giving his stroke full advantage of the descent of his leap ; but , light of foot and quick of eye , Quentin leaped aside , and disappointed an aim which would have been fatal had it taken effect . 
Yet , still unabated in courage and ire , the wild Boar of Ardennes fought on with as much mental energy as at first , and Quentin 's victory seemed dubious and distant , when a female voice behind him called him by his name , ejaculating , `` Help ! 
He turned his head , and with a single glance beheld Gertrude Pavillon , her mantle stripped from her shoulders , dragged forcibly along by a French soldier ; one of several , who , breaking into the chapel close by , had seized , as their prey , on the terrified females who had taken refuge there . 
`` Wait for me but one moment , '' exclaimed Quentin to De la Marck , and sprung to extricate his benefactress from a situation of which he conjectured all the dangers . 
Quentin found , in the meanwhile , that the rescue of Gertrude was a task more difficult than could be finished in one moment . 
Her captor , supported by his comrades , refused to relinquish his prize ; and whilst Durward , aided by one or two of his countrymen , endeavoured to compel him to do so , the former beheld the chance which Fortune had so kindly afforded him for fortune and happiness , glide out of his reach ; so that when he stood at length in the street with the liberated Gertrude , there was no one near them . 
Totally forgetting the defenceless situation of his companion , he was about to spring away in pursuit of the Boar of Ardennes , as the greyhound tracks the deer , when , clinging to him in her despair , she exclaimed , `` For the sake of your mother 's honour , leave me not here ! 
Her call was agonizing , but it was irresistible ; and bidding a mental adieu , with unutterable bitterness of feeling , to all the gay hopes which had stimulated his exertion , carried him through that bloody day , and which at one moment seemed to approach consummation , Quentin , like an unwilling spirit , who obeys a talisman which he can not resist , protected Gertrude to Pavillon 's house , and arrived in time to defend that and the Syndic himself against the fury of the licentious soldiery . 
`` He is of the House of Durward , '' said Crawford ; `` descended from that Allan Durward , who was High Steward of Scotland . '' 
`` Nay , if it be young Durward , '' said Crèvecoeur , `` I say no more . 
Fortune has declared herself on his side too plainly , for me to struggle farther with her humoursome ladyship ; -- but it is strange , from lord to horseboy , how wonderfully these Scots stick by each other . '' 
But a friendly monitor , one of those who like the lump of sugar which is found at the bottom of a tea-cup , as well as the flavour of the souchong itself , has entered a bitter remonstrance , and insists that I should give a precise and particular account of the espousals of the young heir of Glen-houlakin and the lovely Flemish Countess , and tell what tournaments were held , and how many lances were broken , upon so interesting an occasion ; nor withhold from the curious reader the number of sturdy boys , who inherited the valour of Quentin Durward , and of bright damsels , in whom were renewed the charms of Isabelle de Croye . 
