ONE OF THE BEST OF BRITISH SPORTSMEN , This Volume is Inscribed , BY HIS OBLIGED AND FAITHFUL SERVANT , Mr. Jorrocks , having for many years maintained his popularity , it is hoped that , with the aid of the illustrations , he is now destined for longevity . 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks of his boy of all-work , as the latter presented him with a large double-headed letter , with a flourishing coat of arms seal . 
N6201017 Mr. Jorrocks was a great city grocer of the old school , one who was neither ashamed of his trade , nor of carrying it on in a dingy warehouse that would shock the managers of the fine mahogany-countered , giltcanistered , puffing , poet-keeping establishments of modern times . 
He had been in business long enough to remember each succeeding lord mayor before he was anybody -- `` reg ` lar little tuppences in fact , '' as he used to say . 
Not that Mr. Jorrocks decried the dignity of civic honour , but his ambition took a different turn . 
He was for the field , not the forum . 
As a merchant he stood high -- country traders took his teas without tasting , and his bills were as good as bank notes . 
To remedy the error of the blind goddess , Mr. Jorrocks had taken to hunting as soon as he could keep a horse , and though his exploits were long confined to the suburban county of Surrey , he should rather be `` credited '' for keenness in following the sport in so unpropitious a region , than `` debited '' as a Cockney and laughed at for his pains . 
But here the old adage of `` where ignorance is bliss , '' & c. came to his aid , for before he had seen any better country than Surrey , he was impressed with the conviction that it was the `` werry best , '' and their hounds the finest in England . 
he would ask , and does n't it follow as a nattaral consequence , that the best ` unting is to be had from it ? '' 
Moreover , Mr. Jorrocks looked upon Surrey as the peculiar province of Cockneys -- we beg pardon -- Londoners . 
His earliest recollections carried him back to the days of Alderman Harley , and though his participation in the sport consisted in reading the meets in a boot-maker 's window in the Borough , he could tell of all the succeeding masters , and criticise the establishments of Clayton , Snow , Maberly , and the renowned Daniel Haigh . 
It was during the career of the latter great sportsman , that Mr. Jorrocks shone a brilliant meteor in the Surrey hunt -- he was no rider , but with an almost intuitive knowledge of the run of a fox , would take off his hat to him several times in the course of a run . 
Mr. Jorrocks was there ; and his great chesnut horse , with his master 's coat-laps flying out beyond his tail , will long be remembered on the outline of the Surrey hills . 
Many bold sportsmen , now laid on the shelf , and many a bold one still going , will glow with animation at the thoughts of the sport they shared in with him . 
Which is Jorrocks ? 
Show me Jorrocks ! 
Is that old Jorrocks ! 
and men would ride to and fro eyeing him as if he were a wild beast . 
Gradually the bolder ventured a word at him -- observed it was a fine day -- asked him how he liked their country ? 
Next , perhaps , the M.F.H. would give him a friendly lift -- say `` good morning , Mr. Jorrocks '' -- then some of what Jorrocks calls the `` hupper crusts '' of the hunt , would begin talking to him , until he got fairly launched among them -- when he would out with his order book and do no end of business in tea . 
Mr. Jorrocks had now passed the grand climacteric , and balancing his age with less accuracy than he balanced his books , called himself somewhere between fifty and sixty . 
He would n't own to three pund , as he called sixty , at any price . 
Neither could he ever be persuaded to get into the scales to see whether he was nearer eighteen `` stun '' or twenty . 
He was always '' ` ticlarly engaged '' just at the time , either goin ' to wet samples of tea with his traveller , or with some one to look at `` an oss , '' or , if hard pressed , to take Mrs. J. out in the chay . 
`` He did n't ride stipple chases , '' he would say , `` and wot matter did it make ow much he weighed ? 
It was altogether ` twixt him and his oss , and weighin ' would n't make him any lighter . '' 
In person he was a stiff , square-built , middle-sized man , with a thick neck and a large round head . 
Indeed his grey whiskers would have acted as a contradiction if he had , but deception formed no part of Mr. Jorrocks 's character . 
He had a fine open countenance , and though his turn-up nose , little grey eyes , and rather twisted mouth , were not handsome , still there was a combination of fun and good-humour in his looks that pleased at first sight , and made one forget all the rest . 
His dress was generally the same -- a puddingey white neckcloth tied in a knot , capacious shirt frill -LRB- shirt made without collars -RRB- , a single-breasted high-collared buff waistcoat with covered buttons , a blue coat with metal ones , dark blue stockingnet pantaloons , and hessian boots with large tassels , displaying the liberal dimensions of his full , well-turned limbs . 
His business place was in St. Botolph 's Lane , in the city , but his residence was in Great Coram Street . 
Jorrocks says it is close to the two best cover hacks in the world , the Great Northern and Euston stations . 
We may as well introduce the other inmates of Mr. Jorrocks 's house , before we return to our story , premising that they are now going to act a prominent part . 
She was a dumpy figure , very fond of fine bonnets , and dressed so differently , that Mr. Jorrocks himself sometimes did not know her . 
Mr. Jorrocks 's mother , who had long held a commission to get him a wife , had departed this life without executing it ; and our friend soon finding himself going all wrong in his shirts and stocking-feet , and having then little time to go a courting , just went , hand over head as it were , to a ball at the Horns at Kennington Common , and drew the first woman that seemed inclined to make up to him , who chanced to be the now companion of his greatness . 
No children blessed the union ; and a niece , the orphan daughter of a brother of Mr. Jorrocks , formed their family circle . 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks , taking the letter before mentioned as he sat in his red morocco hunting-chair in the back drawing-room in Great Coram Street . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , jumping from his chair , slapping his thigh , and hopping round the table , taking up three or four holes of his face with delight -- `` My vig ! 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , laying down the letter again for the purpose of digesting what he had read . 
`` Capital indeed , '' he repeated , nursing one leg over the other , and casting his eyes up at a dirty fly-catcher dangling over his head . 
Thus he sat for some moments in mute abstraction . 
At length he let down his leg and took up the letter . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , laying down the letter , clapping and rubbing his hands ; `` werry good indeed -- most beautiful , in fact -- wot honour I arrive at ! 
added he ; saying which , in taking up the letter his eye caught the pink satin paper note . 
Mr. Jorrocks was all delight , and being the child of impulse and generous feelings , his joy found vent in stamping on the floor , thereby summoning his servant the aforesaid Benjamin into his presence . 
Benjamin , or Binjimin , as Mr. Jorrocks pronounced the name , was one of those mischievous urchins that people sometimes persuade themselves do the work of a man without the wages . 
One unlucky Sunday morning , indeed , Mr. Jorrocks happened to turn back suddenly on his way to church , and caught him sitting in his easy chair at the breakfast table , reading Bell 's Life in London , and scooping the marmalade out of the pot with his thumb , when he visited Benjamin 's back with a summary horse-whipping ; but that was the only time , during a period of three years , that he ever was caught in a scrape he could not get out of . 
Such was Mr. Jorrocks 's domestic establishment , which , like most masters , he either thought , or affected to think , very perfect . 
`` Now , Binjimin , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , eyeing him with one of his benevolent looks , and not knowing exactly what to say ; `` now , Binjimin , '' he repeated , `` are the ` osses all right ? '' 
`` Werry good , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks -- `` werry good , '' taking a half-emptied pot of Lazenby 's marmalade , out of a drawer in his library table . 
-LRB- Mr. Jorrocks had the knack of making the most of what he did , and treated the half pot as a whole one -RRB- and mind be a good bouy , and I make no doubt you 'll rise to be a werry great man -- nothing gains man or bouy the respect and esteem of the world so much as honesty , sobriety , and cleanliness . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks paused -- He would have finished with a moral , wherein his own fortune should have furnished the example , but somehow or other , he could not turn it at the moment , so after scrutinizing Benjamin 's dirty face for a second , he placed the marmalade pot in his hand , and said , `` now go and wesh your mug . '' 
Uncommonly amiable and consequential was Mr. Jorrocks that morning . 
As he walked , or rather strutted into the city , he gave twopence to every crossing-sweeper in his line , from the black-eyed wench at the corner of Brunswick Square , to the breechless boy , with the red night cap , at St. Botolph 's Lane end ; and he entered his dark and dingy warehouse with a smile on his brow , enough to illumine the dial of St. Giles 's clock in a fog . 
Fleeceall had Blaine 's Encyclopædia of Rural Sports , but as he was thought rather too sharp , Doleful determined to try what they could do without him ; accordingly , he concocted the following epistle , which having copied on to a sheet of sea-green paper , he sealed with yellow wax , and deposited it in the post -- `` Dear Mr. Jorrocks , `` Your kind and flattering letter has just come to hand , and I lose not a moment in supplying you with all the information in my power , relative to our celebrated dogs . 
Believe me to remain in extreme hunger , dear Mr. Jorrocks , very sincerely your 's , `` Miserrimus Doleful , M.C. , Capt. half-pay . '' 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , laying down the letter , `` what prime beef that must be ! 
-- Might as well have told me more about the ` ounds too , '' he observed , as a glimmering of caution shot across his mind . 
Thereupon Mr. Jorrocks stuck his hands under his coat-laps and paced thoughtfully up and down the apartment , waving them sportively like the tail of a dolphin . 
Having pulled his wig about in all directions , he at last composed himself at his table , and drew up the following reply : `` Dear Doleful , `` Your agreeable favour has come to hand , and werry pleasant it is . 
`` N6201020 This letter was a poser , for the worthy M.C. had no notion of running risks , neither had he the knowledge necessary for supplying the information Mr. Jorrocks required ; still he saw the absolute necessity of persevering in the negotiation , as there was no probability of any one else coming forward . 
In this dilemma , it occurred to him that a bold stroke might be the policy , and obviate further trouble . 
Accordingly he wrote as follows : -- `` Dear Mr. Jorrocks , `` Your 's is just received . 
A rival has appeared for the mastership of the hounds : a great Nabob with a bad liver , to whom the doctors have recommended strong horse-exercise , has arrived with four posters , and an influential party is desirous of getting the hounds for him . 
Money is evidently no object -- he gave each post-boy a half-sovereign , and a blind beggar two and sixpence . 
I have protested most strongly against his being even thought of until your final decision is known , which pray give immediately , and , for your sake , let it be in the affirmative . 
Doleful was in ecstacies when he got this letter , for he plainly saw the Nabob had told upon Mr. Jorrocks , and that he was fairly entering the meshes of his net . 
The letter , indeed , was unexceptionable , save the mention of his avocation of a grocer , which Doleful determined to keep to himself , merely announcing him as a gentleman of large fortune , whose father had been connected with trade . 
Recollecting that Diana Lodge was to let , he forthwith secured the refusal of it at three guineas a week , and calling on Fleeceall , concocted a most flattering list of subscribers and members of the hunt , which he forwarded to Mr. Jorrocks with the following letter : -- `` Dear Mr. Jorrocks , `` By the greatest good luck in the world , Diana Lodge , within a stone 's throw of the kennel , came vacant this morning , and not having the slightest doubt that on inspection of the accompanying list of subscribers to the hounds and members of our celebrated hunt , which you will see by the letters A. and B. prefixed to their names , contain very few of those most horrible characters water-drinkers from choice , you will immediately accept the honourable office of ` Master , ' I have engaged it for you at the very moderate rent of four guineas a-week , including everything . 
Expecting then to meet you at the Datton Station on the Lilly-white-sand Railway , at three o'clock on Friday next , and to have the supreme felieity of making the personal acquaintance of a gentleman who so worthily fills so large a space in the world 's eye , I have the honour to subscribe myself , with humble respects to the ladies , dear Mr. Jorrocks , `` Faithfully your 's , `` Miserrimus Doleful , M.C. `` Capt. Half-pay . '' 
And Jorrocks seeing there was as much chance of getting information by correspondence as there was of getting the truth by interrogatories in the days of old Chancery suits , determined to stand the shot , and wrote to say that henceforth they might append the magic letters , M.F.H. , to his name . 
And forthwith he became so inflated , that Great Coram Street itself could hardly hold him . 
What a fuss there was preparing for Mr. Jorrocks 's reception ! 
-- Captain Doleful was perfectly beside himself , and ran about the town as though he expected her Majesty . 
`` Jorrocks for ever , '' was chalked upon the walls , doors , and shutters ; and little children sung out his name in lisping acclamations . 
The musicians at the wells were also under his control , and of course they received intimations to be at the Datton station before the hour that Mr. Jorrocks had privately announced his intention to arrive . 
The morning sun broke cheerfully through the clouds in a good , down-rightly , determined fine day , and as Doleful threw open the latticed casement of his window , and his eye roved to the `` sun-bright summit '' of the distant hills , he poured forth an inward ejaculation for the success of the great enterprise of the day , and for his own especial honour and emolument . 
In the midst of his reverie Jemima , the maid of all work and shop-girl of the house , tapped gently at his door , and handed in a three-cornered note written on pink satin highly musked paper . 
Doleful started as though he had seen an apparition , for in the hand he immediately recognised the writing of his great patroness , Mrs. Barnington , and the recollection of Mrs. Jorrocks , the table of precedence among women , whereby the latter was to supplant Mrs. Barnington , the baits and lures he had held out for the purpose of securing the Jorrocks 's , together with the honour he was then instigating the inhabitants to do Mr. J. , all rushed upon his mind with terrible velocity . 
I wonder , '' continued he to himself , pacing up and down his little bedroom in his dressing-gown and slippers , `` what she can want -- it must be about the Jorrocks 's -- and yet I could not do otherwise than I have . 
-- It 's Jorrocks , marm -- Mister Jorrocks of Great Coram Street , marm -- a merchant prince , marm -- at least his father was . 
The present Mr. Jorrocks is a mighty sportsman , and hearing the hounds were without a leader , he wrote to offer himself , and some of the sporting gentry of the place have been in treaty with him to take them ; but I need not tell you , Mrs. Barnington , that hunting is not an amusement I am partial to , indeed I hope I may never have occasion to go out again ; but you know that as Master of the Ceremonies I am obliged to countenance many things that I would gladly avoid . '' 
`` Undoubtedly not , marm , '' replied the obsequious M.C. ; `` there 's not a person in the place insensible of the advantages of your presence ; but I should hope , -- at least , perhaps I may venture to express a slight wish , -- that if those Jorrocks 's appear respectable people , you will for the sake of sociability vouchsafe them the favour of your countenance , and condescend to notice them a little . '' 
The clear bright beauty of the day , combined with the attraction of a stranger coming to fill so important a situation as master of fox-hounds , drew many to the Datton Railway station , who were previously unacquainted even with the name of `` Jorrocks ; '' though it is but right to state that the ignorant portion consisted principally of the fair sex , most men , whether sportsmen or not , having heard of his fame and exploits . 
Having timed himself to a nicety , our gallant M.C. arrived at the station just as the last fly and flight of donkeys drew up outside the iron railing that runs along the railroad from the station-house , and , in the absence of Mr. Jorrocks , of course he was the object of attraction . 
`` It now wants but ten minutes to the coming of the train , so be getting yourselves in order , unfurl the flags ; and you , musicians , '' turning to the promenade band , who were hard at work with some XX , `` be getting your instruments ready , to welcome Mr. Jorrocks with ` See the conquering hero comes ! 
Eyes were strained up the railway in the direction he was to come , and ears were opened to catch the first sound of the engine . 
`` Should he not come , what a bore ! '' 
`` Oh , but he 's certain to arrive , and Mrs. Jorrocks too , ar n't they , Captain ? '' 
Seven first-class passenger carriages follow the engine , all smart , clean , and yellow , with appropriate names on each door panel -- The Prince Albert , Queen Victoria , and the Prince of Wales , The Venus , The Mercury , The Comet , and The Star ; next come ten second-class ones , green , with covered tops , and half-covered sides , but in neither set is there anything at all like the Jorrocks ' party . 
`` Pray is Mr. Jorrocks here ? '' 
`` Yes , a gentleman and two ladies , '' roared our friend ; `` Mister and Missis Jorrocks in fact , and Miss Jorrocks ! '' 
I really thought you were not coming , '' and thereupon the Captain raised his hat to the ladies , and offered his hand most cordially to Mr. Jorrocks . 
replied Mr. Jorrocks , with the sort of doubtful shake of the hand that a person gives when he thinks the next moment may discover a mistake . 
repeated he , `` you have the adwantage of me -- pray who are you ? '' 
`` Captain Doleful , M.C. , '' responded our worthy , presenting his glazed card to the ladies ; and thereupon Mr. Jorrocks , with a chuckle on his good-humoured countenance , as he gazed at the Captain 's incongruous habiliments , seized his hand and wrung it heartily , saying , `` ` Ow are ye , Doleful ? 
inquired he , glad to turn the conversation , `` they 'll be off with you if you do n't mind , '' and thereupon the Captain beckoned the guard , and Mr. Jorrocks , standing up in the vehicle , looking very like a hay-stack with a hat on the top , bounded to the ground . 
Benjamin , who was asleep in the horse-box , being considerately kicked awake by Mr. Jorrocks , the porters cut off the last joints of the train , when away it went , hissing and snorting through the quiet country , leaving our party to the undisturbed observation of the Handley Cross company . 
This being accomplished , Ben proceeded to strip off his dirty white great coat , and display his fine new sky-blue postillion jacket , patent cords and top-boots , while Jorrocks began expatiating to Doleful on the merits of the animals . 
`` This ` ere ` oss , '' says he , rubbing his hand up and down the Roman nose of a great rat-tailed brown , `` I 've ridden many seasons , and he 's never given me but one fall , and that was more my fault than his . 
continued he , taking hold of the ear of a stiff bay with white hind legs , and a bang tail -- `` good at every thing -- rides , drives , ` unts , and carries a ` ooman . 
-- Binjamin , mind the traces , -- and now be after puttin ' too , your Missis will be ready by the time we get all square ; '' and thereupon Mr. Jorrocks began fussing and busying himself with the horses and harness , and very soon had Xerxes and Arter-Xerxes in their proper places , `` tandem fashion . '' 
It held four comfortably , or five on a pinch , and the inmates were Mr. Jorrocks and his wife , Belinda , and Betsey . 
All things being ready , Mr. Jorrocks gave Benjamin a `` leg up '' on to Xerxes , and gathering up the reins of his wheeler in a most workmanlike manner , stepped into the vehicle , and preceded by Captain Doleful on the white charger , drove up to the station-house door , to the infinite delight of all the spectators outside the rails , amid the puffings , scrapings , and tootlings of the musicians , the pointing of children , the unfurling of flags , and general movement of the meeting . 
The station-house and buildings concealing our party from view , Mr. Jorrocks had time to make those comfortable dispositions of the persons of his suite as are always desirable in public processions , but which are sometimes driven out of the heads even of the most experienced paraders , by the inquisitive observations of many hundred eyes . 
He now took Belinda upon the draw-out seat between himself and Mrs. Jorrocks , while Betsey bundled in behind , among Dundee marmalade , sugar loaves , Copenhagen cherry-brandy , and other things . 
Having given a knowing cast over his left shoulder to see that she was right , Mr. Jorrocks cried out , `` Now , Binjimin , follow the Captain , '' and giving Arter-Xerxes a touch with the point of the whip , passed from the screen formed by the station-house , to the folding iron gates at the side , which being thrown open at the approach of the Captain , they made a splendid turn off the railway line into the crowded space outside . 
Doleful stopped Benjamin on the leader , and Mr. Jorrocks pulling short up , stood erect in the vehicle , and taking off his low-crowned hat , bowed and waved it repeatedly to the company , while Mrs. Jorrocks acknowledged the compliment by frequent kisses of her hand , and Belinda 's face became suffused with blushes at the publicity and novelty of her situation . 
Then came another large double flag , in broad stripes of scarlet and white , with the words `` Jorrocks for ever ! '' 
-- Never before did she think anything either of hunting or her husband , but now the former seemed a most delightful amusement , and Jorrocks appeared a perfect hero . 
He too was charmed with his reception , and grinned and nudged Belinda with his elbow , and cast a sly wink over his shoulder at Betsey , as they jumbled along the road , and the compliments of the crowd came showering among them . 
Then he turned his eyes up to heaven as if lost in reflection and bewilderment at the honour he had arrived at . 
Anon he caught the point of his whip and dropped it scientifically along Arter-Xerxes ' side , then he began to whistle , when Captain Doleful having resigned the side of the carriage on which Mrs. Jorrocks was sitting to Captain Parkins , came round to say a few nothings to our worthy friend . 
`` Well , Miserrimus , '' said Jorrocks , opening the conversation as though he had known him all his life , `` you see I 'm down upon you as the extinguisher said to the rushlight -- always say you car n't be too quick in catchin ' a flea . 
`` Middling , thank you , '' again replied the Captain , -- '' you 're looking uncommonly well I 'm sure , '' said he , eyeing Mr. Jorrocks as he spoke . 
`` replied Jorrocks , `` bless you I 'm never bad -- never cept I gets a drop too much , as will happen in the best reglated families , you know , Miserrimus . '' 
Whereupon Mr. Jorrocks , with a knowing grin , gave Doleful a dig in the ribs with the butt-end of his whip -- saying , `` have you got any of that ` cold roast ' you told me of in your letter ? '' 
`` Why no , Mr. Jorrocks , it 's all gone , but there 's plenty more in Handley Cross . 
`` You 'll be desperation fond of ` untin ' I s ` pose , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , after a slight pause , flourishing his whip over his head , and giving a knowing look at Doleful 's accoutrements . 
so say I , '' rejoined Mr. Jorrocks ; `` all time 's lost that 's not spent in ` untin ' . 
and thereupon Jorrocks gave him such a shaking as nearly sent him off his horse . 
`` That 'll be your kiver ` ack I presume , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks after their hands were released , as he cast an eye at the white . 
Doleful did not know whether this was meant as a compliment or otherwise , so he `` grinned horridly a ghastly smile , '' and asked Mr. Jorrocks if he was fond of music . 
said Mr. Jorrocks , `` yes , the music of the ` ounds -- none o ' your tamboureenin ' work . 
Give me the real ough , ough , ough , of a fine deep-toned ` ound in the depths of a rocky dell , as he drags up to old Reynard among the brush-wood , '' and as he spoke , Mr. Jorrocks snuffed the air and threw his head about as though he were feeling for a scent himself , -- `` What sort of fencin ' have you ? '' 
`` mused Mr. Jorrocks , `` that 's queer -- never knew a play-actor in my life with the slightest turn for ` untin ' . '' 
The hubbub and confusion was excessive , and they pushed and elbowed , and fought to get near the carriage to have a close view of Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` My eyes but he 's a fat un ! '' 
exclaimed Mr. Brisket , the butcher , to his foreman , `` it would be a downright credit to a butcher to supply such a gent. : ca n't be less nor three inches o ' fat on his rib ; '' whereupon he thrust a card into Mr. Jorrocks 's hand , containing his name , trade , and place of abode . 
All in advance being now ready , Captain Doleful came grinning and capering through the crowd , and announced to the ladies that they were about to enter the town , and informed Mr. Jorrocks that they would first of all proceed to the Dragon Hotel , from the balcony of which it would have a good effect if he would address the meeting . 
Without waiting for Mr. Jorrocks 's assurance that he `` did n't know what to say , '' he placed himself in advance of Benjamin , and raised his hunting-whip as a signal to the musicians , who immediately struck up `` See the conquering hero comes , '' and the cavalcade proceeded . 
Need I say , gentlemen , that this illustrious individual is the great and renowned Mr. Jorrocks -- a name familiar to our ears as Mr. Dickens 's household words -- so familiar that it is even chalked on the walls of our town ; and it is indeed a high -- a flattering circumstance to my mind , that I -- even I -- the humble individual who now stands before you , should have been the means of procuring for a town that I love so ardently , a man of such unequalled excellence and such distinguished worth . '' 
Doleful came backing in , and nearly upset Jorrocks as he was standing on one leg by the table , undergoing the latter operation . 
`` Now , it 's your turn , Mr. Jorrocks , '' observed the Captain , on the former recovering his equilibrium , and thereupon they joined hands and advanced into the balcony , like the Siamese twins , amid the uproarious applause of the meeting . 
said Mr. Jorrocks with the greatest familiarity , nodding round to the meeting , and kissing his hand . 
Here Mr. Jorrocks made a considerable pause , whereupon the cheering and drumming was renewed , and as it died away , he went on as follows : -- `` Of all sitivations under the sun , none is more enviable or more ` onerable than that of a master of fox ` ounds ! 
my good frind , '' continued the worthy grocer , fumbling the silver in his small clothes with upturned eyes to heaven , `` to think that you , after all the hups and downs of life -- the crossin 's and jostlin 's of merchandise and ungovernable trade -- the sortin ' of sugars -- the mexin ' of teas -- the postin ' of ledgers , and handlin ' of inwoices , to think that you , my dear feller , should have arrived at this distinguished post , is most miraculously wonderful , most singularly queer . 
he holloaed out to the boy below , `` Binjimin ! 
`` To resume , '' said he , after he had seen the back of the carriage cleared of the children , and the marmalade and things put straight . 
Hereupon Mr. Jorrocks bowed , and kissing his hand , backed out of the balcony , leaving his auditory to talk him over at their leisure . 
WHEN Mr. Jorrocks backed from the balcony into the `` Moon , '' after delivering the luminous address reported in our last chapter , Captain Doleful looked at his watch and found it wanted but ten minutes to the time he was to appear at the board of her imperial majesty , Mrs. Barnington ; so ringing for Mr. Snubbins , the landlord , he hastily consigned the party to his protection and , quitting the room , ran through the town like a lamplighter , to re-arrange his toilette at his lodgings . 
Doleful , who had only treated himself to a penny bun since breakfast , was well-nigh famished , and inwardly wished he had palmed himself off on the Jorrocks 's ; when just as the time-piece was chiming away at a quarter to eight , a page in a green and gold uniform threw open the door , and in sallied the majestic Mrs. Barnington in lavender-coloured satin . 
inquired he of Barnington , making a desperate effort to turn the conversation at the outset , the only chance of effecting it ; `` if you do n't , '' observed he , `` there 's a capital fellow come from Mortlake in Surrey , to establish an agency here for the sale of the same sort of beer the Queen drinks , and apropos of that , Mrs. Barnington , perhaps you are not aware that her Majesty is so truly patriotic as to indulge in the juice of the hop -- takes it at luncheon , I understand , in a small silver cup , a present from the Prince , with the lion and the unicorn fighting for the crown , beautifully raised in dead gold upon it , made by Hunt and Roskill , who certainly have more taste in trinkets , and articles of vertu than all the rest of London put together , -- but this beer is very good -- clear -- amber and hoppy , '' added he , drinking it off , hoping to drown old Jorrocks , wife , niece , and all , in the draught . 
inquired Barnington of his wife , for the purpose of letting Doleful see he did n't consider him worth answering , and not from any motives of curiosity , -- in infirmity from which he was perfectly free . 
Mrs. Barnington went on eating her `` vole au vent , '' inwardly resolving to know all about the Jorrocks 's , without compromising one jot of her dignity . 
The young lady is very pretty , and Jorrocks himself really seems a very excellent old fellow . '' 
`` What , you are talking about Mr. Jorrocks , are you ? '' 
`` Go and stuff yourself there as much as you like ; and send for your friend Horrocks , or Jorrocks , or whatever you call him to keep you company . '' 
And after an evening of this agreeable dog and cat-ing , varied with occasional intercessions for the Jorrocks family , the gallant Captain at length made his adieus and retired to his confectioner 's . 
here , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , with great dignity , to Snubbins , the landlord of the Dragon ; who , in compliance with Doleful 's directions , was waiting to receive his orders . 
here , '' he repeated , seeing the man did not catch what he said . 
turning to the waiter , and desiring him to send the ostler to stand by the horses ' heads while Mr. Jorrocks 's boy came up-stairs . 
`` No , not my bouy , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks with a frown , `` so you presumes wrong . '' 
inquired the sharp waiter , thinking to hit what his master had missed . 
-- `` Run up to Lavender Lane , and tell Mr. Fleeceall that Mr. Jorrocks has arrived , and wishes to see him . '' 
`` Tell him to come directly , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , adding , in a mutter , `` I dose n't understand why he 's not here to receive me . 
Before the with was well dissolved , so as to enable our hero to quench his thirst at a draught , our one-eyed friend entered the room , hat in hand , and presented himself to Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Now I wants to see you about my ` ounds , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , with an air of authority . 
repeated Mr. Jorrocks with surprise , `` vy ar n't they all in kennel ? 
`` Well , all werry useful in its way , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , `` but a secretary to an ` unt is expected to know all about the ` ounds too , and everything besides -- at least he 's no Sec . 
for me if he do n't , '' added he , his eyes sparkling with animation as he spoke . 
Fleeceall hesitated , but seeing Mr. Jorrocks was resolute , he put a good face on the matter , and boldly led the way . 
As he piloted Mr. Jorrocks through sundry short cuts , he contrived to insinuate , in a casual sort of way , that things would not be in such apple-pie order as he might expect , but that a day or two would put everything right . 
The hounds raised a melodious cry as they jumped against the paling , or placed themselves before the door , and anger flew from Mr. Jorrocks 's mind at the cheerful sound . 
`` Perhaps you 'll take a switch , sir , '' said he , turning to Mr. Jorrocks , and handing a hazel-rod from a line hanging on the rails beside the door . 
again he cried , and inserting his right hand with a heavy double-thonged whip through an aperture between the door and the post , he loosened the thong , and sweeping it round among their legs , very soon cleared a space so as to enable the master to enter . 
Mr. Jorrocks then strutted in . 
Great was Mr. Jorrocks 's surprise and indignation at finding that the pack was without a huntsman , whipper-in , or horses . 
Mr. Jorrocks was very wroth , but considering how far he had gone , and how he would be laughed at if he backed out , he determined to let it be `` over shoes over boots , '' so he stuck out his legs and proceeded to examine the hounds . 
`` Plenty of bone , '' observed he , with a growl . 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , `` never heard of sich a thing ! 
`` grunted Mr. Jorrocks , not altogether relishing the story whichever way it was . 
Mr. Jorrocks remained with them until he had about mastered their names , and there appearing no help for the matter , he resolved to do the best he could with his boy until he could meet with a huntsman . 
-- Ordering the feeder to be there by day-break , and have the hounds ready for him to take out to exercise , he thrust his arm through Fleeceall 's , and desired him to conduct him back to the Dragon . 
-- Come up stairs and I 'll make you acquainted with your missis , '' saying which , Mr. Jorrocks led the way ; and was met on the landing by the knock-knee 'd , greasy-collared waiter , who ushered them into the room , where Mrs. Jorrocks and Belinda , fatigued with the doings of the day , had laid themselves down on a couple of sofas , waiting for the return of Mr. Jorrocks to have their tea . 
`` This be my Sec. , '' said Mr. Jorrocks to his spouse , with the air of a man introducing a party for whom there is no occasion to put oneself out of the way . 
Tea passed away , when the ladies having retired , Mr. Jorrocks and Fleeceall very soon found out that they had a taste in common , viz . 
A page or two from Mr. Jorrocks 's Journal , which he has kindly placed at our disposal , will perhaps best elucidate the doings of the early days of his reign over the Handley Cross fox-hounds . 
of what he did at breakfast in the eating line , how he paid his bill at the Dragon , after disputing the brandy items , adding that though attendance was charged in the bill , the servants all evinced a disposition to shake hands with him at parting , which he thought was making matters worse instead of better . 
He also recorded how he moved to Diana Lodge , which he did not find quite so commodious as he expected . 
that he had stewed beef-steaks for dinner . 
` That 's Mr. Jorrocks , ' said one . 
` Do show him to me , ' begged a third . 
` Jorrocks for ever ! ' 
Pack gathered round me , some jumpin ' up against the osss side , others standin ' bayin ' , and some lookin ' anxiously in my face , as much as to say , which way this time , Mr. Jorrocks ? 
The Journal proceeds in this strain for two or three days more , Mr. Jorrocks becoming better satisfied with his pack each time he had them out . 
On the Friday , he determined on having a bye-day on the following one , for which purpose , he ordered his secretary to be in attendance , to show him a likely find in a country where he would not disturb many covers . 
All things being thus arranged , as Mr. Jorrocks conceived , with the greatest secresy , he went to bed early , and long before it was light , he lay tumbling and tossing about , listening to the ticking of the clock below , and the snoring of Benjamin above . 
At last day began to dawn , and having sought Ben 's room and soused the boy with a pitcher of cold water , Mr. Jorrocks proceeded to jump into his hunting clothes , consisting of a roomy scarlet coat , with opossum pockets and spoon cuffs , drab shags , and mahogany-coloured tops . 
Arrived at the kennel , he found Fleeceall there , on his old gig mare , with his hands stuck in the pockets of a dirty old mackintosh , which completely enveloped his person . 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks , all fuss and flurry on discovering the person of his Secretary . 
`` Well , car n't wait -- sorry for it -- know better another time ; '' and thereupon he ordered out the horses , gave Ben a leg upon to Xerxes , mounted Arterxerxes himself , the hounds were unkennelled with a melodious rush , and desiring Fleeceall to lead the way , Mr. Jorrocks got the glad pack about him , and went away for South Grove , with a broad grin of satisfaction on his jolly face . 
Added to this , Mr. Jorrocks had cut the left side of his chin in shaving , which he always considered ominous of sport . 
-- Bump , bump , jolt , jolt , jog , jog , he went on his lumbering hunter , now craneing over its neck to try if he could see its knees , now cheering and throwing bits of biscuit to the hounds , now looking back to see if Benjamin was in his right place , and again holloaing out some witticism to Fleeceall in advance . 
In the distance Jorrocks thought of jumping it , but he changed his mind as he got nearer . 
`` Pull out this stake , Binjimin , '' exclaimed he to the boy , suddenly reining up short ; `` Jamp a top o n't ! 
added he , `` so as to level the ` edge with the ground , '' observing , `` these little places often give one werry nasty falls . '' 
This feat being accomplished , Benjamin climbed on to Xerxes again , and Jorrocks desiring him to keep on the right of the cover , parallel with him , and not to be sparing of his woice , rode into the wood after his hounds , who had broken away with a whimper , ripening into a challenge , the moment he turned his horse 's head towards the cover . 
-- Mr. Jorrocks thought it was the morning drag , and screamed and holloaed most cheerily -- `` Talliho ! '' 
was heard almost instantaneously at the far end of the wood , and taking out his horn , Mr. Jorrocks scrambled through the underwood , breaking the briars and snapping the hazels , as he went . 
Twang , twang , twang , went Mr. Jorrocks 's horn , sometimes in full , sometimes in divided notes and half screeches . 
Bang , the horse shot past Mr. Jorrocks , Benjamin screaming , yelling , and holding on by the mane , Xerxes doing with him just what he liked , and the hounds getting together and settling to the scent . 
cried Mr. Jorrocks in astonishment , as Xerxes took a high stone wall out of the cover in his stride , without disturbing the coping ; but bringing Ben right on to his shoulder -- `` Hoff , for a fi ' pun note ! 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , eyeing his whipperin 's efforts to regain the saddle . 
-- A friendly chuck of Xerxes 's head assists his endeavours , and Ben scrambles back to his place . 
A gate on the left , let Mr. Jorrocks out of cover , on to a good sound sward , which he prepared to take advantage of by getting Arterxerxes short by the head , rising in his stirrups , and hustling him along as hard as ever he could lay legs to the ground . 
An open gate at the top fed the flame of his eagerness , and , not being afraid of the pace so long as there was no leaping , Jorrocks sent him spluttering through a swede turnip field as if it was pasture . 
Now sitting plum in his saddle , he gathered his great whip together , and proceeded to rib-roast Arterxerxes in the most summary manner , calling him a great , lurching , rolling , lumbering beggar , vowing that if he did n't lay himself out and go as he ought , he 'd `` boil him when he got ` ome . '' 
The taking-on place was wide , and two horses having gone over before , had done a little towards clearing the way , so having gained his equilibrium on the top , Mr. Jorrocks began jerking and coaxing Arterxerxes to induce him to follow , pulling at him much in the style of a school-boy , who catches a log of wood in fishing . 
my man , '' cried Mr. Jorrocks coaxingly , jerking the rein ; but Artexerxes only stuck his great resolute fore legs in advance , and pulled the other way . 
cried he , `` gently , Arterxerxes my bouy ! '' 
dropping his hand , so as to give him a little more line , and then trying what effect a jerk would have , in inducing him to do what he wanted . 
Jorrocks began to wax angry . 
he exclaimed , grinning with rage at the thoughts of the run he was losing , `` Dash my vig , if you do n't mind what you 're arter , I 'll get on your back , and bury my spurs i your sides . 
roared he , giving a tremendous jerk of the rein , upon which the horse flew back , pulling Jorrocks downwards in the muddy ditch . 
Arterxerxes then threw up his heels and ran away , whip and all . 
Meanwhile , our bagman played his part gallantly , running three quarters of a ring , of three quarters of a mile , chiefly in view , when , feeling exhausted , he threw himself into a furze-patch , near a farm-yard , where Dauntless very soon had him by the back , but the smell of the aniseed , with which he had been plentifully rubbed , disgusting the hound , he chucked him in the air and let him fall back in the bush . 
Then a marble-playing group of boys suspended operations to give Jorrocks three cheers ; one , more forward than the rest , exclaiming , as he eyed Arterxerxes , `` A ! 
Next as he passed the Barley-mow beer-shop , Mrs. Gallon the landlady , who was nursing a child at the door , exclaimed across the street , to Blash the barber 's pretty but rather wordy wife -- `` A -- a -- a ! 
retorted the now indignant Mr. Jorrocks , spurring on out of hearing . 
`` Then the ` oss would begin to eat , and Jorrocks would take ` Bell 's Life ' or ` The Field ' out of his pocket , and pretend to read , sneaking nearer and nearer all the time . 
When he got a few yards off , the ` oss would stop and look round , as much as to say , ` I sees you , old cock , ' and then old J. would begin coxin ' -- ' Whoay , my old feller , who-ay -- who-ay , my old bouy , ' -LRB- Benjamin imitating his master 's manner by coaxing the old post-boy -RRB- , until he got close at him again , when the ` oss would give a half-kick and a snort , and set off again at a quiet jog-trot to the far corner again , old J. grinnin ' and wowin ' wengeance against him as he went . 
`` Well , this ` ere chap was old Jorrocks , and h ` up and down the school he went , lookin ' first at one bye -LRB- boy -RRB- and then at another , the master all the while hegging him on , just as the old ` un seemed to take a fancy , swearing they was all the finest byes in the school , just as I 've since ` eard old J. himself chaunting of his ` osses ven he 's ` ad one for to sell , but still the old file was difficult to suit -- some were too long in the body , some in the leg , others too short , another 's ` ead was too big , and one whose nose had been flattened by a brick-bat from a Smithfield drover 's bye , did n't please him . 
roared Jorrocks , taking out a red cotton wipe and rubbing his ` and dry , ` haw ! 
`` Now Martin know 'd no more about me than I know 'd about Martin ; but knowin ' the h ` age that Jorrocks wanted a bye of , why , in course , he said I was just of that age , and knowin ' that I should get a precious good hiding for spittin ' in the old covey 's ` and , if I staid at the Corderoy 's , why I swore that I was uncommon fond of ` osses , and gigs , and ` arness , and such like , and after the old file had felt me well about the neck , for he had an ide that if a bye 's big in the neck in course o ' time he 'll get big all over , he took me away , promising Martin the two quarterages our old gal had run in arrear for my larning -- though hang me I never got none -- out o ' my wage , and would ye believe it , the old gudgeon kept me goin ' on from quarter to quarter , for I do n't know ` ow many quarters , sayin ' he had n't viped off the old score for my schoolin ' , just as if I had any business to pay it ; at last , one day as I was a rubbin ' down the chesnut ` oss as he sold to the chap in Tooley Street , he comes into the stable , full of pride , and I thought rather muzzy , for he bumped first agin one stall and then agin another , so says I to him , says I , ` Please , sir , I vants for to go to the Vells this evening . ' 
Horses , however , are soon got , if a man has only money to pay for them , and a master of hounds being clearly the proper person to buy all the horses that other people want to sell , Mr. Jorrocks very soon had a great many very handsome offers of that sort . 
Among others he received a stiflish , presenting-his-compliments note , from the celebrated gambler , Sir Archibald Depecarde , of Pluckwelle Park , and the Albany , London , stating that he had a very fine bay horse that he modestly said was too good for his work , and which he should be glad to see in such good hands as Mr. Jorrocks 's . 
Now our friend Mr. Jorrocks , though not exactly swallowing all the butter that was offered him , had no objection to see if there was anything to be made of Sir Archey 's horse , so by way of being upsides with him in dignity , he replied as follows : -- `` M.F.H. John Jorrocks presents his compliments to Sir Archibald Depecarde , and in reply to his favour begs to say that he will take an early hopportunity of driven ' over to Pluckwelle Park to look at his quadruped , and as the M.F.H. ` ears it is a goodish distance from Handley Cross , he will bring his night cap with him , for where the M.F.H. dines he sleeps , and where the M.F.H. sleeps he breakfasts . '' 
`` exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , nearly stamping the bottom of the vehicle out with his foot , and thinking whether it was possible to tool Duncan Nevin 's hack back to Handley Cross . '' 
`` Beg pardon , sir , '' replied the footman , rather abashed at the Jorrocks vehemence -LRB- who he at first took for a prospectus man or an atlas-monger -RRB- . 
`` Go , '' grunted Mr. Jorrocks , indignant at the slight thus put on his M.F.H.-ship . 
`` Ah , well , that 's summut like , '' smiled Mr. Jorrocks , with a jerk of his head , thinking what a good-looking woman she was . 
In another instant he was on the step of the entrance beside her , giving her soft hand a sly squeeze as she prepared to help him out of his reversible coat . 
`` Take the quad to the stable , '' said he to the footman , and bid 'em take great care on ` im -- adding , with a leer at the lady , `` gave amost a ` underd for him . '' 
`` exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , `` fiddle the fire ! 
`` Could n't for the world , '' whispered Mrs. Markham , with a shake of her head , glancing her large hazel eyes lovingly upon Jorrocks , `` What ! 
`` Well , then , you must come in to me , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , adding -- `` I ca n't be left mopin ' alone , you know . '' 
`` Oh , I do n't care , '' shrugged Mr. Jorrocks , `` wot ` ave you got ? '' 
`` Humph , '' mused Mr. Jorrocks , wishing the housemaid further , `` I 'll ` ave a bit o ' fish , with a beef steak , and a fizzant to follow , say -- '' `` No soup ? '' 
`` No ; I does n't care nothin ' ` bout soup , ` less it 's turtle , '' replied he with a toss of his head . 
`` No , jest fish , and steak , and fizzant , '' rejoined Mr. Jorrocks , `` Cod and hoister sauce , say -- and p ` raps a couple o ' dozen o ' hoisters to begin with , -- jest as a whet you know . '' 
`` No , I 'll ` ave my sweets arter , '' winked Mr. J. licking his lips . 
continues she ; intimating with her eye that the loitering housemaid might hear his answer . 
`` No ; I 'll fill hup the chinks wi ' cheese , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , stroking his stomach . 
`` Champagne , '' repeated Mr. Jorrocks thoughtfully , `` Champagne ! 
well , I would n't mind a little champagne , only I would n't like it hiced ; does n't want to ` ave all my teeth set a chatterin ' i my ` ead ; har n't got so far advanced in gentility as to like my wine froze -- I 'm a Post Hoffice Directory , not a Peerage man , '' added he with a broad grin . 
`` Folks talk about the different grades o ' society , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , with a smile and a pshaw , `` but arter all 's said and done there are but two sorts o ' folks i ' the world , Peerage folks , and Post Hoffice Directory folks , Peerage folks , wot think it 's all right and proper to do their tailors , and Post Hoffice Directory folks wot think it 's the greatest sin under the sun not to pay twenty shillins i ' the pund -- greatest sin under the sun ` cept kissin ' and then tellin ' , '' added he , in an under tone , with a wink , as he drew his hand across his jolly lips . 
`` Well , '' mused our friends , `` as you are mistress o ' the revels , I 'll leave that to you , and I makes no doubt , '' added he , with another sly squeeze of her soft hand , now that the housemaid 's back was turned , `` I shall fare uncommon well . '' 
And Mr. Jorrocks , we need scarcely say , had a very good dinner , and spent his evening very pleasantly . 
NEXT morning , in accordance with Sir Archey 's injunctions , as Mr. Jorrocks sat at a capital breakfast , Mr. Snapshot , the keeper , sent to know if he would please to go out shooting , or coursing , or rabbiting , and finding that the covers were near the house , and pretty full of pheasants , our M.F.H. thought he might as well have a `` blaze among 'em '' before he went home . 
First there stood Mr. Jorrocks 's hundred-guinea horse , with a wretched old rag of a rug over it , then a pair of better-clothed browns that Snapshot alluded to as `` our ` cage ` orses ; '' then , as Mr. Jorrocks passed on to a bright bang-tailed bay beyond , thinking that would be his friend , Snapshot seized him suddenly by the arm , with a `` take care of im , sir ! 
observed Mr. Jorrocks coolly , eyeing the now well laid-back ears and exuberant , white of the eye . 
`` In-deed , '' mused Mr. Jorrocks -- `` pleasant ` oss to ` ave. '' `` We 're expectin ' an old gent from Handley Cross to look at ` im , '' observed the keeper , `` but I think he 'll have to be crazier than they say he is afore he buys ` im . '' 
`` I think so too , '' assented Mr. Jorrocks -- stumping on out of heels ' reach . 
Mr. Jorrocks , being out of practice , did not make much of a hand at first , which , coupled with the injunctions all the servants were under to make the stranger as comfortable as possible , induced Snapshot to take him to the home cover , when the pheasants rising in clouds and the hares streaming out like sand ropes , our worthy friend very soon bagged his five brace of pheasants and three hares . 
Snapshot , now thinking `` tipping time '' was come , and feeling for his pheasants , proposed a truce , when Mr. Jorrocks , handing him the gun , picked out three brace of the best birds , with which he trudged away , leaving the astonished Snapshot to follow with the rest . 
Hares he would n't take , thinking his riotous hounds would kill him plenty of them . 
He then very coolly locked the pheasants up in his vehicle , and ordering the horse to be put-to , was ready for a start by the time it came to the door . 
With a loving leave-taking of Mrs. Markham , he was presently in his rattle-trap and away . 
A favourable road incline with the horse 's head towards home , sent the hundred guinea nag along , and Mr. Jorrocks began to think it `` was n't so bad as it seemed . '' 
As he neared the last unlodged gates in Sir Archey 's grounds , he saw another vehicle approaching , and each driver thinking to get the other to open the gate , they timed themselves so as to meet with it between them . 
at length exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , after a good stare at his much muffled up vis-à-vis . 
continued he , producing a half-a-crown piece -- `` Eads I win ! 
replied Mr. Jorrocks , pretending to look at it , `` so you opens it . '' 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , adding , `` there arn ` nt no cattle in either field , and it may as well stand that way as not . '' 
The gentleman did as he was bid , drawing his vehicle -- a German waggon with three crests -LRB- very symptomatic of money -RRB- -- alongside of Mr. Jorrocks 's . 
`` You 'll be agoin ' to Sir Harchey 's , I guess , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , after scrutinising his fat , vacant face intently . 
`` He 's not at ` ome , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Humph , '' mused Mr. Jorrocks , adding , after a pause , -- `` Well , now blow me tight , I shouldnt be at all s ` prised , if they 're been a takin ' o ' me for you . 
`` Capital , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , `` and if it was n't that I ` ave a ` ticklar engagement , I would n't mind returnin ' and spendin ' the evenin ' with you . 
`` Indeed , '' observed the stranger , thinking he was lucky to escape such a sand-bag . 
`` True , I assure you , '' affirmed Jorrocks -- `` should n't know that I 'd taken more nor my usual quantity ; shot as well as ever I did i ' my life this mornin ' , and altogether I 'm uncommon pleased with my jaunt , and that reminds me , '' continued he , flourishing his whip bag-man-i-cally over his head , and thinking how he had got to the windward of Sir Archey , `` you can do summat for me -- I 'm Mr. Jorrocks , the M.F.H. -- you 'll most likely have ` eard o ' me -- I ` unts the country . 
Well , I 've been to look at an ` oss of Sir Harchey 's -- a werry nice h ` animal he is , but ` ardly hup to my weight -- I 'm a sixteen stunner you see . 
Ave the goodness to make my compliments to Sir Harchey , and tell ` im I 'm werry much ` bliged by his purlite hoffer on ` im , and that I 'm werry sorry he was n't at ` ome , so that I might ` ave ` ad the pleasure o ' makin ' his personal ` quaintance , as well as that of his Port ; '' so saying , Mr. Jorrocks shortened his hold of the reins , and dropping the point of his whip scientifically into the Handley Cross back , bowed to his friend , and bowled away homewards . 
For some days after Mr. Jorrocks 's return from Pluckwelle Park , Diana Lodge was literally besieged with people , offering him horses of every sort , size , and description . 
Having casually mentioned her great sporting-spouse 's wants to Mrs. Pearlash , that useful functionary , sticking her fists in her sides for the purpose of revolving the matter in her mind , said , `` Well , now , she did n't know but they might part with their horse , and she 'd ask her old man ; '' who readily assented to the sale of an animal that could hardly crawl . 
Jorrocks was highly indignant when it came , and desired Mrs. J. not to meddle with matters she did n't understand . 
Mr. Jorrocks , on his part , having about satisfied himself that hunting a pack of hounds was a very different things to riding after them , as near to them or as far off as he liked , repelled all inquiries as to when he would be going out again , and when he would begin to advertise , by saying , mysteriously , `` that he must get things a little forwarder fust . '' 
The fact was , he wanted to pick up a huntsman at whip 's wages , and had written to sundry friends in the City and elsewhere , describing what he wanted , and intimating that the whip might occasionally have to '' ` unt the ` ounds when he was away , or anything of that sort . '' 
His City friends , who did n't approve of his proceedings , and , moreover , had plenty of other matters to attend to of their own , gave his letters very little heed , if indeed they took any notice of them at all . 
Some of his old cronies shook their heads , and said they `` wished any good might come of it ; '' while others said `` he 'd much better have stuck to his shop ; '' adding a wish that things might continue `` serene '' in the `` lane . '' 
Altogether Jorrocks 's proceedings were not approved of in the commercial world , where hunting and gambling are often considered synonymous . 
He , however , was all swagger and cock-a-hoop , vowing that he had got `` the best pack of ` ounds in the world ; '' adding , that `` they would make the foxes cry ` Capevi ! 
The Jorrocks 's funds rose ten per cent . 
at least from having her , and the Barnington ones were depressed to a similar extent . 
Our great M.F.H. not finding any responses to his inquiries for a whip , and being dreadfully anxious to be doing , resolved to make known his wants through the medium of the newspapers ; and while his bold advertisement for a `` huntsman '' -LRB- not a whip who could ` unt the ` ounds occasionally -RRB- was working , he bethought him , instead of exposing his incompetence as a huntsman , to display his sporting knowledge in a lecture , in which he could also inculcate the precepts he wished practised towards himself , both at home and in the field . 
Accordingly , he enlisted the assistance of Captain Doleful , to whose province such arrangements seemed peculiarly to belong and the large room of the Dragon was engaged and tastefully fitted up under their joint superintendence . 
Precisely at eight o'clock Mr. Jorrocks ascended the platform , attended by Captain Dolefu , Roger Swizzle , Romeo Simpkins , and Abel Snorem , and was received with the most enthusiastic cheering . 
N6201036 After bowing most familiarly to the company , Mr. Jorrocks cleared his voice with a substantial hem , and then addressed the meeting . 
`` Blue coats and canaries , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks looking down at his legs , `` are well enough for dancin ' in , but the man wot does much dancin ' will not do much ` unting . 
`` And yet , '' added Mr. Jorrocks thoughtfully , `` it ar ` nt that I loves the fox less , but that I loves the ` ound more , as the chap says in the play , when he sticks his friend in the gizzard . 
continued the worthy lecturer , casting up his eyes . 
`` exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , throwing out his hands , to the imminent danger of his supporters right and left . 
`` But , gently old bouy , '' continued he to himself , `` you mus ` nt be too ` ard on the fools , or you 'll kill 'em out-right ; curb your wehemence a little ; come , I 'll give you a drop of brandy and water ; '' saying which , Mr. Jorrocks retired to the back of the platform , and took such a swig at the tumbler , as left nothing , as he observed , to `` carry over . '' 
Presently he returned , smacking his lips , and resumed in a more composed tone as follows : -- `` Talkin ' about writers , '' said he , `` the best informed man to my mind wot ever wrote on equestrian matters , was Mr. Gambado , who held the distinguished post of ridin ' - master to the Doge of Wenice . 
`` The case was this , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , taking up the work , `` and the advice is as good now as it was then . 
`` And here let me observe , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , breaking off , `` that that is neither good sportin ' nor good language , and Nutmeg , I should think , had been one of your Macadamizin ' happetite ` unting parsons , or he would neither have talked of ridin ' over the ` ounds , or yet being content to draggle up after the worry , and just as the dogs , as he calls them , were going home -- But let that pass . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks then resumed his reading -- ``` Now , sir , my brown ` oss is a noble leaper , and never gave me a fall in his life in that way ; but he has got a hawkward trick -LRB- though he clears everything with his fore legs in capital style -RRB- of leaving the other two on the wrong side of the fence ; and if the gate or stile happens to be in a sound state , it is a work of time and trouble to get his hind legs over . 
He clears a ditch finely indeed , with two feet , but the others constantly fall in ; that it gives me a strange pain in my back , very like what is called a lumbago ; and unless you kindly stand my friend and instruct me how I am to bring these hind legs after me , I fear I shall never get rid of it . 
``` Add to the theory with as little practice as possible , ''' repeated Mr. Jorrocks , -- `` That 's wot a great many writers are anxious to do at the present day -- But to proceed -- Another circumstance wot leads me to suppose that Jeffery was not an ` unter is this . 
`` That I think , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , `` is conclusive . 
`` How perplexin ' must all this be to a beginner , '' exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , throwing up his hands . 
chuckled Mr. Jorrocks ; ` Lofty hactioned ` oss ! 
-- struck his knee again his tooth ! ' 
laughed Mr. Jorrocks , a chuckle in which the majority of the company joined . 
`` Thus , my beloved ` earers , '' concluded Mr. Jorrocks , `` have I conducted you through the all-perilous journey of your first deal , showin ' how warious and conflictin ' are the opinions relative to ` osses , and how , as in many cases , wot is one man 's meat is anither man 's puzzon . 
Mr. Jorrocks concluded amidst loud and universal applause . 
Captain Doleful returned thanks , and proposed three cheers for Roger Swizzle , after which the majority of the male portion of the meeting resolved themselves into a brandy-and-water committee -LRB- Jorrocks in the chair -RRB- , which sat very late , and resulted in our friend being left to pay the greater share of the shot . 
Address -LRB- post paid -RRB- , stating full particulars as to age , size , weight , previous service , & c. , to M.F.H. John Jorrocks , Diana Lodge , Handley Cross Spa . 
Such was the special advertisement that our friend Mr. Jorrocks , with the aid of the editor , drew up for insertion in that gossiping publication the `` Handley Cross Paul Pry , '' from whence it was copied into the `` Post , '' and the London sporting papers generally , producing an immense sensation in the world of servitude . 
`` To Mr. Jorrocks , Esq. . 
`` Mr. Jorrocks , M.F.H. '' `` Sir , `` I write these few lines to inform you that I have seen in the Field paper that you are in want of a young man as huntsman to your hounds and I have sent these few lines to say I am a marred man and has a family but I can not move my Wife for 4 years to come for I have 8 Boys at trade and they get their meat and lodge at home so if you do not get one to suet you I should be happy to wait on you if you think that I will suet you I have been with boath fox Hounds and Harriers to take care of them in the Kennels and Hunting them in the field and I can Groom my own Horses to which I like to take Car of my own Horses allways as for my Age is 52 years and my Weight is 9 stone and has been 5 years in my last sittuation but I do not wish to give you the trouble to write back if you get one to suet you for I can be at liberty in a Week 's Notice , so if you think I will suet you my wages is one Pound per Week and meat in the House likewise , and Close to hunt in so I remain `` Your humble Servant , `` John Cox . 
`` To Mr. John Jorrocks , `` Master of Hounds , Handley Cross . '' 
Finding the applications by letter becoming numerous , Mr. Jorrocks soon discontinued answering those which he did not think held out any prospect of suiting , but the following from the well-known Dick Bragg roused his bile into the answer that succeeds : -- `` Dear Sir , `` Seeing that you are in wants of an energetic gent to hunt your hounds , I beg to represent my qualifications for the appointment . 
Jorrocks was desperately angry when he got this . 
He grinned with rage when he read it , to think that any one should think he was such a fool as be taken in by it . 
At first he was for writing Dick a stiff `` M.F.H. John Jorrocks presents his compliments '' note , but thinking that would not be sufficient relief to his mind , he turned his attention to an abusive letter calling Dick all sorts of conceited cocktail humbugs , which he sprawled over a sheet of foolscap with his great round school-boy hand , when it occurred to him that the banter tack would be more telling and mortifying , so after a good deal of consideration he concocted the following : -- `` Sir , `` I am werry much obliged by your purlite communication , and much regret that it did not come a little sooner , as I thinks you seem jest the sort of man -- I beg pardon -- gentleman I want . 
`` Vants me , '' repeated Mr. Jorrocks , `` who can it be ? '' 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
-- `` There , '' continued he , as he finished sealing the letter , `` take that to the Post , and mind you do n't pick the ` ead off , and here , Binjimin , '' continued Jorrocks , `` send the Pigg in ! '' 
Scarcely had Mr. Jorrocks composed himself in his red morocco audience chair , ere a sledge-hammer sort of blow at the door announced the approach of the stranger . 
`` grunted Mr. Jorrocks , as he eyed him , observing aloud to himself , `` Vot a long-legged beggar it is , '' inwardly resolving he would n't do . 
`` Humph , '' grunted Mr. Jorrocks again , `` you do n't look much like one . 
`` Car n't say as ` ow I do , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks thoughtfully , still eyeing the bird of Paradise . 
retorted Mr. Jorrocks , boiling up . 
`` You said Candied Newcassel , '' enunciated Mr. Jorrocks , slowly and emphatically -- `` you said Candied Newcassel , '' repeated he , `` from which I natterally concluded it was near Dundee , where they make the candied confectionary . 
I 'm not such a hignorant hass , '' continued he , `` as not to know where Newcastle is . 
Jorrocks gave tongue first . 
asked he . 
`` Yen way and another , '' muttered Mr. Jorrocks , still eyeing him intently . 
`` Ah , but those ` illbe Scotch dogs , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , `` a country I knows nothin ' whatever on -- have you been in any civilized country ? '' 
`` No -- no -- that 's not wot I mean , '' retorted Mr. Jorrocks , getting angry and shuffling about in his seat . 
growled Mr. Jorrocks , kicking out his legs , `` any of the cut 'em down and ang 'em up to dry countries ? '' 
`` Ye ken best , '' repeated Mr. Jorrocks , aloud to himself , adding `` what a rum beggar it is to be sure . '' 
`` Con-founded nuisance , '' muttered Mr. Jorrocks to himself , `` not being able to get an ` untsman , '' recollecting the boiled lobster , Plaster of Paris Poll Parrot merchant , and other scenes . 
Then he thought he 'd sound Pigg again . 
`` Well , '' thought Mr. Jorrocks , `` that 's summut at all events , let me be master , which is agreeable . 
observed he , addressing the applicant in a more conciliatory tone . 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
said Mr. Jorrocks , brightening as he went . 
`` No , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , `` I means , you 'll be desperation fond of ` unting . 
so say I , '' exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , still brightening up , `` so say I ! 
you 're long in the leg , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , surveying him from head to foot . 
observed Mr. Jorrocks . 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Humph , '' grunted Mr. Jorrocks , not catching a quarter of this hurried run-together sentence . 
`` Humph , '' repeated he , looking him over attentively , thinking how to get him to speak English . 
at length asked he . 
`` Ca n't say as ` ow I have , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks ; `` is he a great man for the ` unt ? '' 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks , wishing to get Pigg on to the old tack . 
`` Well , you shall eat as your ` ungry , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , not catching the last sentence , `` but I wants to know more about you and your pretensions -- an ` untsman holds a conspikious place in the world 's eye , and it be'oves an M.F.H. to be werry ` tickler wot ` un a one he selects . 
Gently , '' exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , partaking of his enthusiasm , `` you 'll frighten the ladies ; tell me now , wot wage do you want ? '' 
Werry kind , '' grunted Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Ar mean ` ard kennel bones , '' explained Pigg , seeing Mr. Jorrocks looked irate . 
`` Oh , I twig , '' replied our master , resuming his smile , `` break 'em for the farmers -- for turnip manure , in fact -- We 'll go on ` bout the wage . '' 
`` Ar 'd like to have my vittels i ' the house , if you have ne objection , '' resumed Pigg , `` In the ` ouse , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , considering , `` I does n't know about that -- to be sure you are light i ' the girth , and do n't look like a great grubber , but ` unting makes one werry ` ungry . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` No , no , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , `` none of your cast-offs . 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks . 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
Jorrocks then threw himself back in his red morocco huntingchair , hoping he might answer , and wishing that he had n't been rather precipitate in the bargain . 
Still he looked more promising than any of the others , and Jorrocks hoped he was keen . 
`` It might ha ' been better p ` raps , '' said he , as he took up a leg to nurse , and entered upon a study of the ceiling -- `` it might ha ' been better if I 'd made some inquiries about him -- but confound it , wot tradesman can tell anything about an ` untsman , and who else could I ask ? 
Con-found it , '' continued Jorrocks , shaking his head , `` Mr. Payne and Goodhall , and these swells i ' the cut-me-downs , do the thing so easy , that it makes us fools o ' natur think we can do the same , but dash my buttons , findin ' a fox and killin ' on ` im are werry different things . '' 
Then Jorrocks 's run-away imagination carried him right into the cut-me-down countries ; to Misterton , to Arthingworth , to Bardon Hall with Sir Richard , to Croxton Park with the Belvoir . 
`` Taken the shoulder of mutton onto his plate , '' repeated Mr. Jorrocks in astonishment , `` impossible , Binjimin ! 
`` Vell , I 'll go and see arter this , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , shaking his head , and buttoning up his breeches pockets , as he rose from his chair with the air of a man determined to show fight . 
roared Jorrocks , bursting into the kitchen , to the atonishment of James Pigg , who , knife in hand , was cutting away at the shoulder of mutton to the infinite indignation of Betsay , who seemed about to contend for her share of the prog . 
repeated Mr. Jorrocks in a still louder voice , which had the effect of making Pigg drop the mutton and jump up from the table . 
`` Did n't you tell me , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , speaking very slowly at the commencement , and boiling up as he went on , `` did n't you tell me as ` ow that you had n't no happetite , and yet I finds you seizin ' the meat wot 's to serve the kitchen for dinner and the parlour for lunch -- Vot do you mean by sich haudacity , you great long-legged Scotch sinner ? '' 
`` Vell , but , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , calmly , but firmly , `` fightin ' vo n't do : I does n't grudge you the matter o ' the mutton , but there must be unanimity and concord , or we shall n't kill no foxes . 
Binjamin 's a fine bouy , '' continued he , looking at him , `` and will fulfil the duties of his station , by which means alone a man can rise to heminence and distinction -- hem ! 
-- so now jest be'ave and settle yourselves quietly to your dinners , and do n't let me have any more nonsense '' -- saying which Mr. Jorrocks walked deliberately out of the kitchen , and shut the door loudly upon the party . 
But though our worthy friend had thus apparently settled the difficulty , he was too good a judge not to see the importance of an early understanding between Pigg and Benjamin as to their relative situations ; and , as the latter had to be lowered to the advancement of the former , Mr. Jorrocks had to summon all his dexterity to reduce the one without giving a triumph to the other . 
Not that Ben would have been difficult to replace , or indeed any loss , but Mr. Jorrocks did not like losing all the training he had given him , and which he still flattered himself would work him into a good and cheap servant . 
Besides , Jorrocks had committed himself to Ben by ordering him another pair of top boots in lieu of the brown paper ones , and it was hopeless expecting to get another pair of legs that they would fit . 
Mr. Jorrocks knew the boy too well to suppose that he would easily brook having any one put over him , and the way of doing it occupied our master 's thoughts all the afternoon , and through his dinner . 
As the shades of evening were succeeded by winter 's darkness , and Mr. Jorrocks had emptied his third beaker of brandy and water , he stirred his fire , and rang for candles . 
Mr. Jorrocks then arranged the candles so that one threw a light on the boy and the other on his book , without their being too near the fire to suffer from the heat . 
Thus prepared , he gave the fire a finishing poke , and clearing the voice with a substantial hem ! 
`` You must eschew tip cat , and marbles , and takin ' backs from bouys i ' the streets , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , `` and turn the main-cock o ' your mind entirely on to what Mr. Delmé Radcliffe well calls the Noble Science . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks paused , for it was as far as he had arranged matters in his mind , and the answer rather put him out . 
`` Now , Binjimin , '' at length resumed he , opening his book apparently at random as he spoke , `` this book is the werry best book wot ever was written , and is worth all other works put together . 
repeated Mr. Jorrocks , casting up his eyes to the ceiling , `` My vig , wot a title ! 
said Mr. Jorrocks , `` I 've opened it at page 268 , and how his opinions tally with my own . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , looking up again at the ceiling . 
repeated Mr. Jorrocks , after pausing for an answer . 
responded Mr. Jorrocks , bristling as he spoke , `` I 'll tell you then , you warmint . 
`` Now then , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , searching in the table of contents for the chapter he wanted , `` I wants to tell you wot the great Mr. Beckford says about the vipper-in , and I begs you 'll pay ` tikler ` tention to it , for every word deserves to be printed i ' letters o ' gold , and then , when you understand the duties o ' your hoffice , James Pigg and you will go ` and-in - ` and together , like the sign of the Mutual Assurance hoffice , and we shall have no more wranglin ' about shoulders o ' mutton or who 's to have the upper ` and . 
The master , the ` ounds , and the servants , are one great unity , radiatin ' from a common centre , like the threads of a Bedfordshire bobbin pillow -- hem -- and all that sort o ' thing -- Now , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , turning to the book , -- `` here 's the chapter wot I wonts , -- No. 9 , page one hundred and twenty-two , and again , let me entreat your earnest attention . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks then commenced reading as follows : -- ``` With regard to the vipper-in , he should be attentive and obedient to the ` untsman ; ' -- attentive and obedient to the ` untsman , you hear , Binjimin , that is to say , always on the look-out for orders , and ready to obey them -- not ` anging back , shufflin ' , and tryin ' to shirk 'em , but cheerful and willin ' ; ` and as his ` oss , ` says the immortal author , ` will probably have most to do , the lighter he is the better , though if he be a good ` ossman the objection of his weight will be sufficiently counterbalanced . ' 
-- That 's a beautiful idee , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , fixing his eyes on the boy , and one to which I must ` eartily say ` ditto . ' 
``` He must not be conceited ! ' 
No , indeed he must not , if he 's to serve under me , and wishes to ` scape the ` quaintance of my big vip . 
No conceited beggar will ever do for J. J. ` I had one formerly , ''' continued Mr. Jorrocks , reading on , ``` who , ` stead of stoppin ' the ` ounds as he ought , would try to kill a fox by himself . 
`` Dash my vig if it is n't , '' exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , `` a nasty , dirty , shabby , selfish trick into the bargain . 
`` That 's excellent sense and plain English , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , looking at the boy . 
``` He should always maintain to the ` untsman 's holloa . ' 
`` Good sense again , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks . 
``` He must always be content to hact a hunder part . ' 
``` He must always be content to hact a hunder part . ' 
Mr. Jorrocks then omitted the qualifying sentence that follows , and proceeded in his reading . 
``` His talent must be born with him , ''' repeated Mr. Jorrocks , `` that is to say , he must have the bump of Fox-un-ta-tiveness werry strongly deweloped ; '' -- adding to himself , `` wonder if that beggar , Binjimin has it . '' 
He then resumed his reading . 
``` My reasons are , that good ` ounds -LRB- bad I would not keep -RRB- , -- Nor I , nouther , ' -- observed Mr. Jorrocks , -- ``` oftener need the one than the other ; and genius , which in a vipper-in , if attended by obedience , his first requisite , can do no ` urt : in an ` untsman , is a dangerous , though a desirable quality ; and if not accompanied with a large share of prudence , and I may say , ` umility , will oftentimes spoil your sport and ` urt your ` ounds . 
A gen ` leman told me that he heard the famous Will Dean , when his ` ounds were runnin ' ` ard in a line with Daventry , from whence they were at that time many miles distant , swear exceedingly at the vipper-in . ' 
`` A werry improper proceedin ' on his part , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , without looking off the book . 
`` ' w provokin ' , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , `` absolutely distressin ' -- enough to make a Harchbishop swear . 
continued he , thinking the case over . 
Presently , a loud snore interrupted our friend , and looking up , Mr. Jorrocks discovered Benjamin sound asleep , with his head hanging over his left shoulder . 
Shutting the book in disgust , Jorrocks took a deliberate aim at his whipper-in 's head , and discharged the volume with such precision , that he knocked the back off the book . 
Benjamin then ran roaring out of the room , vowing that Jorrocks had fractured his skull , and that he would `` take the law of him '' for it . 
Having now got a huntsman , and arranged with Duncan Nevin for mounting him until he fell in with screws of his own , Mr. Jorrocks felt if he had business matters arranged in the City , he would be all ready for a start ; `` business first , and pleasure arterwards , '' having always been one of his prudential mottoes . 
Accordingly he slipped down by express-train to the Loopline station , on the Lilywhite and Gravelcoin lines , to meet his traveller -LRB- representative as he calls himself -RRB- Bugginson , to wet samples , and hear how things were looking in the Lane -- and the up-train not fitting cleverly , Mr. Jorrocks repaired to the Imperial Hotel , where , being as an M.F.H. , `` rayther above the commercials , '' he turned into the sumptuously furnished coffee-room . 
There he found a couple of regular cut - 'em - down swells , viz. , Captain Arthur Crasher of the Horselydown Hussars , and Captain Blucher Brusher , of the Leatherhead Lancers , carousing after a week 's career with Sir Peregrine Cropper 's hounds . 
Mr. Jorrocks 's entry rather disturbed them . 
`` Old boy 's made a mistake , '' whispered the hussar , raising his eyebrows as our creaking-booted friend deposited his reversible coat and writing-case on the side-board -- the captain adding aloud , `` what shall we have to dwink ? '' 
`` Do us no harm , I des-say , '' replied Brusher , staring intently at Jorrocks , adding , '' ` spose we say clart ? '' 
`` Well I think I never had a better week 's work , '' observed Crasher , throwing himself back in his chair , and eyeing Jorrocks , to see what effect the announcement would have upon him . 
Help yourself , and let 's dwink fox-hunting , '' continued he , filling a bumper and passing the claret-jug to his friend , or his foe , whichever he considered him . 
`` Ah , fox - ` untin ' indeed , '' grunted old Jorrocks from behind his Times newspaper -- `` glad you do n't ` unt with me -- should ` ave to insure all my ounds ' lives and my own too , I should think . '' 
The other captain quickly followed , peeping over the Times as he passed to see whether Jorrocks was laughing , and hurried up stairs , taking three steps at a stridé . 
`` Got a rummish customer there , I guess , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , as the groom now re-entered the room to pick up the waifs and strays . 
`` Ah , that ` illdo ye no good , my frind , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks ; `` that ` illdo ye no good . 
See , '' continued he , '' ` eres a shillin ' for ye -- get yourself a glass o ' summut warm and comfortable -- that ` illwerry likely give you the cholera . '' 
asked Mr. Jorrocks , who had now arranged himself with a coat-lap over each arm before the fire . 
`` ` Deed , '' smiled Mr. Jorrocks . 
whispered he . 
`` Hup the spout , '' jerking upwards with his thumb . 
`` I thought he looked like a fast ` un , '' rejoined Mr. Jorrocks . 
asked Mr. Jorrocks . 
ejaculated Mr. Jorrocks , thinking he would n't like to keep horses on those terms . 
`` Well , '' continued he , thinking it might lead to something , '' ` ave ye aught good for anything ? '' 
said Mr. Jorrocks , wondering if they would carry Pigg . 
asked Mr. Jorrocks in an off-hand sort of way . 
`` Oh , it 's not for myself , '' retorted Mr. Jorrocks , with a frown and a toss of the head ; `` I 'm a commercial gent , an # s. d. man , not one o ' your cut-across country chaps ; only , if I could pick up a thing cheap that would ride and go in ` arness ` casionally , I would n't mind a trifle . 
But I 'm not a figurante -- not a three figur ' man at all , '' added he , -- `` far from it -- keeps no cats wot do n't catch mice . '' 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , `` why the man talked as if he ` ad twenty . '' 
Just then , Castors , the landlord , came to say that Mr. Bugginson had arrived , and availing himself of the introduction , Mr. Jorrocks sought an opportunity , after he got matters arranged with his traveller , for having a little conversation with Castors , beginning on indifferent subjects , and drawing gradually up to the Captain , when , finding the groom 's statement pretty well confirmed , Mr. Jorrocks slipped with Castors into the stable to have a look at the nags . 
`` You see , '' said Jorrocks , in an under tone , `` I 'm only a tradesman -- a post-hoffice directory , not a peerage man -- and I does n't give extravagant , out o ' the way prices for nothin ' -- least of all for ` osses , but if it so ` appens as you ` spects that these quads o ' the captin 's come to grief , why I would n't mind takin ' of them at a low moderate figur -- twenty , or five-and-twenty pund ` praps -- or maybe hup to thirty -- jest ` cordin ' as they looked out o ' doors by day-light , sooner nor they should be degraded i ' the ` bus or get into an old ooman 's cruelty-wan . '' 
`` As to their ` untin ' qualities , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , with a pshaw and a pish , I does n't look at 'em at all i ' that light . 
`` So , '' continued Jorrocks , `` if you find yourself in a fix , you know where to send to , '' our friend diving into his pocket as he spoke , and fishing out an enormous steel-clasped , purple-backed , bill-case , from whence he selected one of his city cards , `` Jorrocks & Co. , Grocers and Tea Dealers , St. Botolph 's Lane , '' and presented it to Castors , who received it with a bow . 
They then passed by a side-door into the bar , where successive beakers of brandy and water beguiled the time and caused Mr. Jorrocks to be very late , or rather very early -LRB- past three A. M. -RRB- in getting back to Handley Cross . 
As Mr. Jorrocks sat at a late breakfast -- his wigless aching head enveloped in a damp towel -- the pawing of a horse at the trellised archway of Diana Lodge , caused him to look up from his well-spread table to reconnoitre the movement . 
exclaimed he , jumping up in ecstacy , and bolting his bottom piece of muffin . 
ejaculated Belinda , almost involuntarily , with a blush and a smile , and Jorrocks ran foul of Betsy in the passage , as she came to announce that `` Mr. Stobbs was at the gate . '' 
`` Allow me to introduce my friend Mr. Stobbs -- Yorkshire gentleman , sir , of great property -- Mr. Stobbs , Mr. Jorrocks ; Mr. Jorrocks , Mr. Stobbs , '' adding , sotto voce , to Stobbs , `` member of the Right Worshipful Company of Grocers . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks raised his hat , and Mr. Stobbs did the same , and then Bowker , offering an arm to each , they proceeded on their way . 
`` I ` opes it 's all right , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , twisting his watch in his fob , and tripping over a heap of something that lay in his way . 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks , as he reached the landing , of a forbidding-looking one-eyed hag , sitting in a little curtained corner , partitioned from the scene of action by a frowsy green counterpane . 
The yells and screams of the spectators , the baying of the dogs , the growling of the bears , the worrying of the combatants , and the appearance of the company , caused a shudder through the frames of Mr. Jorrocks and the Yorkshireman . 
`` There 's a brace of plummy ones ; '' exclaimed another , as Bowker and Jorrocks stood up together . 
Slender Billy 's boy , a lad of nine years old , had the first run at him , and brought the badger out in his mouth , after which it was drawn by terriers at so much a run , during which Mr. Jorrocks criticised their performances , and with the aid of Charley Stobbs succeeded in selecting one for the glorious old Surrey . 
That introduction ripened into intimacy , and many were the excursion our friends had together , Jorrocks finding cash , and the Yorkshireman company . 
But for Jorrocks , and perhaps Belinda , Stobbs would very soon have left the law , whose crotchety quibbles are enough to disgust any one with a taste for truth and straightforward riding ; and this lengthened episode brings us back to the point from which we started , namely , Charley 's arrival at Handley Cross . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , bouncing out in his sky-blue dressing-gown and slippers , as Charley appeared at the garden-gate , where we have most unceremoniously kept him standing during his introduction . 
continued Mr. Jorrocks , wringing his hand , and hopping about on one leg ; `` most ` appy indeed ! 
Now , come in , '' said he to Stobbs , `` and get some grub ; and let 's ` ear all about it . '' 
asked Mr. Jorrocks . 
In the evening Mr. Jorrocks celebrated the event with a couple of bottles of fine fruity port , and a night-cap of the usual beverage -- `` B. and W. '' as he briefly designates his brandy and water . 
N6201045 OUR Master took a cooling draught -- a couple of Seidlitz powders -- the next morning , intending to lie at earth as he said , and was later than usual in getting down stairs . 
Bragg indeed , '' grunted Mr. Jorrocks when he read it , `` you must think I 've a deal more o ' the Michaelmas bird i ' me than I ` ave to believe you wrote this afore you got my letter . 
There , Batsay , '' said he , as the handsome maid now entered with the hissing urn , `` take that , '' handing it to her , `` and make curl-papers o n't , and do n't you be so ` eavy on my witey-brown . '' 
The next letter he selected was from Mr. Bowker . 
Then before Mr. Jorrocks got half through his city letters and made his pencil observations thereupon -- who to do business with , whose respectability to inquire into , who to dun , who to decline dealing with , the gossiping Handley Cross Paul Pry , with its list of arrivals , fashionable millinery , dental surgery advertisements , & c. , having passed the ordeal of the kitchen , made its appearance with the following important announcement : -- `` Will meet on Wednesday at the Round of Beef and Carrots , Apple-dove-road , and on Saturday at the Mountain Daisy , near Hookey 's Hutch , each day at ten o'clock . 
`` I am , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , with a grin , `` comin ' it strong , ar n't I ? '' 
`` O , I sha 'n' t be much troubled on the Wednesdays , '' rejoined Mr. Jorrocks ; `` shall jest make that long or short ` cordin ' as it suits . '' 
`` In course , '' replied Jorrocks . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , his eyes glistening as he spoke . 
`` Ah , true , so it would , '' assented Mr. Jorrocks , thinking he must attend to appearances at first , at all events . 
`` Not prepared , '' mused Jorrocks -- `` not prepared . 
`` Indeed , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks -- `` wonder ` ow he looks in 'em . 
`` Yes , he is , '' assented Mr. Jorrocks ; '' ` ope he 's keen . '' 
observed Jorrocks , `` and I makes no doubt ` ill train on . 
After a vigorous attack upon the muffins , kidneys , fried ham , marmalade , and other good things adorning Mr. Jorrocks 's breakfast table , our Yorkshire friend again tried to draw the great M.F.H. for a day . 
asked he . 
`` Do n't know , '' grunted Jorrocks from the bottom of his coffee-cup . 
This Jorrocks would n't stand . 
Then Stobbs thought it would do Jorrocks a vast deal of good to have a hump on one of his great rough horses . 
`` Do n't know that , '' grunted Mr. Jorrocks ; `` Gabey seems to be of a different ` pinion , '' added he , as the noble old peacock now emerged from under a sun-bright Portugal laurel , and stretching his neck , and flapping his wings , uttered a wild piercing scream . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks ; adding , as he caught up his right foot with a shake of his head , `` Gabriel Junks is seldom wrong , and my corns are on his side . '' 
Still Stobbs persevered , and , by dint of agitation , at length succeeded in getting Jorrocks not only to go out , but to have a draw in Newtimber Forest ; Stobbs observing , and Jorrocks assenting , that there would be very little more trouble in running the hounds through the cover than in trotting them along the road . 
And , with some misgivings , Jorrocks let Stobbs go to make the arrangements , while he applied himself vigorously to his letters . 
The oracle Gabriel having continued his monitions , Mr. Jorrocks thought to make the absence of the boy an excuse for not going , but now having both Stobbs and Pigg ranged against him , he was soon driven from the attempt . 
Pigg said `` Squi-er Stobbs wad de quite as weal as Ben , '' and Jorrocks , little loth at heart perhaps , at length hoisted himself on to Arterxerxes with a swag that would have sent a light-carcassed horse over , letting the now smartly-clad Pigg ride the redoubtable Xerxes . 
So with Stobbs in front , Jorrocks with the hounds , and Pigg behind , they set off at a gentle trot , telling the inquirers that they were only going to exercise , a delusion that Mr. Jorrocks 's hat seemed to favour . 
Bump , bump , -- jog , jog , -- on they went ; Mr. Jorrocks now chiding , now coaxing , now dropping an observation fore or aft , now looking at the sky , and now at his watch . 
`` Des say we shall find pretty soon , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks ; `` for they tells me the cover has not been disturbed this long time ; and there 's lots of lyin ' -- nice , and dry , and warm -- foxes like damp beds as little as Christians . 
-- Mr. Jorrocks ' ` ounds , in fact ! 
added he , looking at the man , who stood staring with astonishment . 
`` Now , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , standing erect in his stirrups , and pointing with his whip , which had the effect of making half the pack break towards the cover , -- `` Now , '' said he , as soon as he had got them turned , `` this is a good big wood -- ` two ` undred acres or more -- and they tells me the foxes generally lie on the risin ' ground , towards the clump . 
and `` Gently , Wenus ; '' `` Gently , Lousey '' -LRB- Louisa -RRB- , with the cracks of the whips of Mr. Jorrocks and his huntsman . 
`` Now , Pigg , my frind , let 's have a touch o ' north country science , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , bringing his horse alongside of his huntsman 's . 
roared Pigg , cramming his spurs into his horse , and dashing past Jorrocks like a shot . 
went Jorrocks 's in deeper and more substantial notes , and in a very short time , the body of the pack were laid on the scent , and opened the concert with an overpowering burst of melody . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , in raptures , as each hound put his nose to the ground , and acknowledged the correctness of the scent . 
added he , thumping the end of his horn upon his thigh , as though he were cutting large gun-waddings out of his breeches . '' 
continued he , ramming the spurs into Arterxerxes 's sides , to induce him to change his lumbering trot into a canter , which having accomplished , Mr. Jorrocks settled himself into a regular home seat in his saddle , and pounded up a grass ride through the centre of the wood in a perfect frenzy of delight , as the hounds worked their way a little to his right with a full and melodious cry . 
now cried Pigg , crossing the main ride at a canter , and nearly knocking Jorrocks off his horse , as he charged him in his stride . 
cried Mr. Jorrocks , cracking his ponderous whip at some lingerers that loitered on the ride , questioning the correctness of their comrades ' cry . 
repeated he , with redoubled energy . 
added he , as they went to cry . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , in ecstacies . 
So saying , he gathered up his reins again , thrust his feet home in the stirrups , crammed the spurs into his horse , and rolled back on the ride he had just come up . 
now cried our master , pulling up short and holding his hand in the air , as though he had a hundred and fifty horsemen at his tail to check in their career . 
again he exclaimed ; `` whoay , ` oss , whoay ! '' 
trying to get Arterxerxes to stand still and let him listen . 
They 've overrun the scent , '' continued he , listening , as the chorus gradually died out ; `` or , '' added he , `` he may have got to ground . '' 
`` new screamed Jorrocks , as a magnificent fellow in a spotless suit of ruddy fur crossed the ride before him at a quiet , stealing , listening sort of pace , and gave a whisk of his well-tagged brush on entering the copse-wood across . '' 
`` roared Mr. Jorrocks , putting his finger in his ear , and holloaing as loud as ever he could shout ; and just as he got his horn fumbled past the guard , Dexterous , Affable , and Mercury , dashed across the ride , lashing their sterns and bristling for blood , and Pigg appeared a little below cantering along with the rest of the pack at his horse 's heels . '' 
`` roared Mr. Jorrocks ; `` just by the old hoak-stump . 
ah , ware ` eel -- that 's not the vay of him ; he 's hover to the left , I tells ye . 
That 's him ! 
Mercury has him . 
observed Mr. Jorrocks , as Pigg joined him in the ride . 
Now the fox takes a full swing round , but wo n't quit -- now he cuts across -- now Mr. Jorrocks views him , and swears he 'll have his brains as well as his tongue for supper . 
Pigg has him next , and again comes Mr. Jorrocks 's turn . 
observed Mr. Jorrocks to James Pigg , as they met again on the rising ground at the top of the ride , where Mr. Jorrocks had been fifteen times and Pigg seventeen , both their horses streaming with perspiration , and the blue and yellow worsted fronts of the bridles embossed with foam . 
`` Dash my vig , bu it 's a million aud a half of petties , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , looking at his watch , and seeing it wanted but twenty minutes to four , `` that we adwertised , for there 's a wast o ' go left in him yet , and he 'll take the shine out of some of our ` ounds before he is done with them -- send them dragglin ' ` ome with their sterns down -- make 'em cry capevi , I 'm thinking . '' 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , the picture of despair ; `` Would eat him , brush and all , sooner than that . 
Mr. Jorrocks is elated and excited beyond expression . 
The hounds are evidently working the fox , but the fear of a fresh one rather mars his enjoyment . 
The hounds turn short , and Pigg and Charles again join Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` exclaims Mr. Jorrocks in ecstacies -- '' Who hoop ! 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , the picture of despair -- `` wot shall I do ? 
continued Mr. Jorrocks , trotting on in the line they had taken . 
A bridle-gate let him out of cover , and from the first hill our master sees his hounds going like pigeons over the large grazing grounds of Beddington Bottoms , with Pigg and Stobbs a little in the rear , riding as hard as ever their horses can lay legs to the ground . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , eyeing Pigg going as straight as an arrow , which exclamation brought him to his first fence at the bottom of the hill , over which both horsemen had passed without disturbing a twig . 
roared Mr. Jorrocks , seizing the reins and whip with one hand and the cantrel of the saddle with the other , as Arterxerxes floundered sideways through a low fence with a little runner on the far side . 
`` And my ladyship Jorrocks ! '' 
Thus Mr. Jorrocks proceeded for a mile or more , until he came upon a red-cloaked gipsy wench stealing sticks from a rotten fence on the left . 
inquired he , pulling up short . 
roared Mr. Jorrocks , sticking spurs into his horse , and grinning with rage at the idea of having pulled up to listen to such nonsense . 
`` Opes I shar n't , '' muttered Mr. Jorrocks , trotting on to get out of hearing . 
Away he went , blob , blob , blobbing through the deep holding clay as before . 
Presently he pulled up again with a `` Pray , my good man , ` ave you seen my ` ounds -- Mr. Jorrocks 's ` ounds , in fact ? '' 
bellowed he , as the countryman stood staring with his hand on his spade . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , starting off again , `` was there ever sich a misfortinate indiwidual as John Jorrocks ? 
-- there surely never was sich a worthless beast lapped in leather as you , '' giving Arterxerxes a good double thonging as he spoke . 
continued he , `` I wish I was well back at the Cross , with my ` ounds safe i ' kennel . 
`` Pray , my good man , '' inquired he of a drab-coated , big-basketed farmer , on a bay cart-horse , whom he suddenly encountered at the turn of the road , '' ` ave you seen anything of my ` ounds ? 
Mr. Jorrocks 's ` ounds , in fact ? '' 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks , brightening up . 
`` Bad go this , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , rubbing his hand down his coat-sleeve , and raising his face to ascertain the precise amount of the fall . 
inquired he of a troop of satchel-slung youths , plodding their ways homeward from school . 
`` Twenty minutes , '' repeated Mr. Jorrocks , aloud to himself ; `` twenty minutes -- may be a werry long way off by this ; foxes travel fast . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , `` vot a run ; if we do n't kill werry soon , it 'll be pitch dark , and then there 'll be a pretty kittle o ' fish -- th ' ` ounds will kill all the ship -LRB- sheep -RRB- i ' the country -- shall have a bill as long as my harm to pay . '' 
Fear lent fresh impetus to our worthy friend , and tightening his hold of Arterxerxes 's head , who now began tripping and stumbling , and floundering along in a most slovenly manner , Mr. Jorrocks trotted on , and reaching Hookem-Snivey , saw by the foot-people standing on the churchyard wall , that the hounds were `` forrard ; '' he turned down a lane to the left of the village stocks , in the direction the people were looking , and catching Staunton-Snivey in the distance , set off for it as hard as ever he could tear . 
A pretty clattering he made down the stony road . 
At Staunton-Snivey , he learned that the hounds had just crossed the turnpike on to the Downs , with the fox `` dead beat close afore them ; '' and still unwilling to give in , though every moment increased his difficulties , he groped open a bridle-gate , and entered upon the wide-extending Plain . 
The drizzling rain too became changed into larger , heavier drops , and thrusting his hat upon his brow , Mr. Jorrocks buttoned his coat up to the throat , and wrapping its laps over his thighs , tucked them in between his legs and the saddle . 
Dismal and disheartening were his thoughts , and many his misgivings for his rashness . 
muttered he , `` wot a most momentous crisis -- lost ! 
`` Ord rot it , '' said he , `` it 's not never no use persewerin ' , may as well give in at once and ` ark back to Snivey ; my Berlins are wet through , and I shall be drenched in another second . 
`` It is the ` orn , '' exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , after sitting listening for some time , with his hand to his ear ; `` it is the ` orn , Pigg 's not far off ! 
Mr. Jorrocks then drew out his horn , and puffed and blew most lustily , but the raging tempest scattered the notes before they were well out of his mouth , and having exhausted his breath , he again paused , horn in hand , to listen . 
Between each blast of the raging hurricane , the faint notes of the horn were heard , some coming more fully as the gale blew more favourably , and a fuller one falling on his ear , during a period of partial lull , Mr. Jorrocks determined on advancing and endeavouring to rejoin his lost huntsman . 
exclaimed he , getting Arterxerxes short by the head , and digging the spurs freely into his sides . 
`` Great henterpriseless brute -- do believe you 'd rayther ` ave a feed o ' corn than the finest run wot ever was seen , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , cropping him . 
`` If ever mortal man catches me in such a quandary as this again , '' exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , `` I ` opes -- oh , dear ! 
roared he , ramming the spurs into Arterxerxes , who had suddenly shied off with a loud snort . 
ejaculated Jorrocks , still cramming in the spurs . 
`` went a donkey , greatly to the relief of Mr. Jorrocks 's mind , who had clenched his huge hammer-headed whip by the middle , so as to give an assailant the full benefit of its weight . 
Out then went his horn again , and the donkey brayed a full accompaniment . 
cried Jorrocks , grinning with vexation , `` never saw a donkey yet that knew when to ` old his tongue . 
There goes the vind with my ` at -- lucky it 's tied on , '' added he , trying to catch it as it dangled at his back , `` or I should never have seen it no more . 
I 'll lead you , you nasty hugly brute , for I do believe you 'll brick my neck , or my back , or both , arter all ; '' so saying , Mr. Jorrocks clambered down , and getting on to the sheltered side of the animal , proceeded to plunge and roll , and stagger and stumble across the common , with the water churning in his great boots , in the direction of the distant lights . 
`` The bell ` illbe somewhere here , I guess , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , dismounting and running his hand up either side of the door-posts . 
So saying , having grasped the bulky handle of a wall-ensconced bell , he gave it a hearty pull , and paused as they say for an answer . 
observed the groom of the chamber , after a mutual stare , which Mr. Jorrocks did not seem likely to interrupt . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , stamping and shaking himself , `` seem vet ; I 'm just as vet as a man can be and no vetter ; but what shall I do with my ` oss ? 
`` Yes , '' added Mr. Jorrocks ; `` and tell Pigg to let him have some warm gruel directly , and to get him well done hup , for he 's had a hard day . 
Werry clever of the chap , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , `` runnin ' to ground here -- seems a capital house -- wot a passage ! 
Jorrocks then stumped in . 
`` This way , if you please , sir , '' said the groom of the chamber , motioning him across a magnificent old baronial hall , and turning short up a well-lit , softly-carpeted winding staircase , he preceded Mr. Jorrocks , with a chamber candle , along a lengthy gallery , all hung with portraits of grimvisaged warriors , and small-waisted , large looming ladies . 
`` This is your room , sir , '' said he , at length , opening a partially closed door , and ushering Mr. Jorrocks into a splendidly furnished apartment , whose blazing fire , gleaming on the rich crimson curtains and hangings of the room , imparted a glow that long exposure to the unruly elements made appear quite enchanting . '' 
exclaimed the grateful Mr. Jorrocks , throwing his hat and whip upon the sofa , and plunging into the luxurious depths of a many-cushioned easy chair . 
`` Yes , I should , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , `` werry much -- and a little brandy , if you 've no objection . '' 
All this passed with such extraordinary rapidity -- the events of the day had been so numerous and exciting -- the transition from the depths of misery to the height of luxury so sudden , and , above all , the perfect confidence of the servant so seductively convincing , that not doubting of the accuracy of every thing , and placing all to the credit of his renowned name and the acuteness of his northern huntsman , Mr. Jorrocks proceeded with the aid of a boot-jack to suck off his adhering boots , and divest himself of his well-soaked garments . 
Seeing Mr. Jorrocks advancing rapidly to a state of nudity , he placed them on a table near the fire , and pointing to a bell beside the bed , observed that if Mr. Jorrocks would ring when he was ready , he would come and conduct him to the drawing-room . 
`` Wonder if Pigg 's killed the fox , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks to himself , pouring out half a tumbler of brandy and filling the glass up with hot water . 
`` Capital fun ` unting , to be sure , '' said he , sipping away ; '' ` specially ven one gets into a good quarter like this , '' continued he , jerking his head , `` but desperation poor fun sleepin ' on a common ! '' 
and thereupon , after a few more preliminary sips , he drained off the tumbler . 
`` May as wel vet both eyes , '' observed he , as he felt the grateful influence of the brandy upon his nearly exhausted frame , saying which he poured himself out another half tumbler of brandy , and adding sugar and lemon , drank off a good part of it , and left the remainder till he got himself washed . 
`` Werry considerate this , '' said he , -- `` werry considerate indeed , '' he repeated , taking a large Turkey sponge out of the handle of a hip bath of warm water , shaded from the fire by a glass screen , inside of which upon a rail hung a row of baked towels . 
`` Kettle too , '' said he , now attracted by its simmering , `` may as well have a boil ; '' so saying , he emptied the contents into the bath , and pulling off his wig , proceeded to wash and disport himself therein , using the sponge as if it was his own . 
In the midst of his ablutions the door opened , and through the glass screen he saw a servant in a dark coat and scarlet waistcoat enter , and hastily retire as he caught a glimpse of our white Hottentot-like hero squatting in the water . 
Out Mr. Jorrocks got and bolted the door , and hearing something going on in the passage , he listened for a moment and caught divers scraps of conversation , apparently between a servant and his master , such as , `` Why , you stupid fool , do n't you know the room ? 
look along the passage ; the doors are all so much alike , no wonder a fool like you is puzzled ; '' saying which the voices moved along , and Mr. Jorrocks heard knocking and opening of doors all along the gallery , until they gradually died away in the distance . 
roared Jorrocks , in a voice of thunder . 
replied Mr. Jorrocks , in the same sweet tone as before . 
In a few minutes there was a renewed and increased noise outside , and Mr. Jorrocks now recognised the bland voice of his friend the groom of the chamber . 
`` Beg pardon , sir , '' said he softly through the door , `` but would you allow me to speak to you for a moment ? '' 
`` Certainly , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks ; `` talk through the door . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks , to be sure ! 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , in disgust . 
`` grunted Mr. Jorrocks , `` that wo n't do ; at all ewents , I ca n't part with the garments . '' 
`` My good frind , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , altering his accents , '' ` ow is it possible for me to part with the garments when I 've nothin ' o ' my own but wot 's as drippin ' wet as though I 'd been dragged through the basin of the Paddi n'ton Canal ? 
`` No , I vo n't , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , `` and that 's the plain English of it ! '' 
So saying , he swaggered back to the fire with the air of a man resisting an imposition . 
He then mixed himself a third tumbler of brandy and water . 
It may be well here to mention that the mansion in which Mr. Jorrocks so suddenly found himself was Onger Castle , where Michael Hardy , the founder of the hunt , found himself at the end of his long and successful run . 
No sooner was the name `` Jorrocks '' announced , than a shout of triumph and a roar of laughter burst from all present ; and after learning the particulars of his arrival , which seemed to fill every one with ecstasies , -LRB- for during the long wait before dressing , they had talked over and abused all their absent friends , -RRB- his lordship begged the gallant captain to be pacified , and put up with a suit of his clothes for the evening . 
`` It was no use being angry with old Jorrocks , '' he observed , `` whom every body said was mad ; and he trusted the amusement he would afford the company would atone for the inconvenience he had subjected his good friend the captain to . '' 
Captain Widowfield was a stout big fellow , as bulky as Jorrocks , and much taller , and being proud of his leg , was wont to adorn his lower man in shorts on high days and holidays ; so having drawn on a pair of fine open-ribbed black silk stockings , over the gauze ones , Mr. Jorrocks speedily found himself in a pair of shorts , which , by dint of tight girthing , he managed to bring up to the middle of his calves . 
The Captain 's cravat was of black satin , the waistcoat a white one , articles , as Mr. Jorrocks observed , that could be reefed or let out to fit any one , and having plunged into the roomy recesses of a blue coat , with Conservative buttons , he surveyed the whole in the cheval glass , and pronounced them `` werry good . '' 
He then exchanged the captain 's lily and rose worked slippers for his patent leather pumps , and the brandy acting forcibly on an empty stomach , banished all diffidence , and made Jorrocks ring the bell , as though the house were his own . 
replied Mr. Jorrocks , placing himself before the fire with a coat-lap over each arm . 
inquired Jorrocks -- `` Onger Castel , in fact ? '' 
`` Oh , never mind , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , `` where there 's ceremony there 's no frindship -- I makes no doubt I shall be werry welcome -- See ; there 's five shillin 's for you , '' giving him a dollar . 
`` exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , looking at his watch ; `` ten minutes past seven , and not dined yet ; what will the world come to next ? 
Mr. Jorrocks was up in an instant . 
`` My Lord , ` necessitas non habet legs , ' as that classical stableman , Mr. Pomponius Hego , would say -- or , ` ` unger makes a man bold , ' as I would say -- I 'm werry glad to see you , '' saying which he shook his lordship 's hand severely . 
`` Thank ` e , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , `` thank ` e , my lordship , '' as the existence of his better-half was brought to his recollection ; '' ` opes I shar n't find her as I left her . '' 
inquired his lordship with well-feigned anxiety . 
`` Oh , no , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , raising his eye-brows with a shrug of his shoulders ; `` oh , no , only I left her in a werry bad humour , and I ` opes I shall not find her in one when I gets back -- haw , haw , haw , -- he , he , he , -- s ` pose your ` at -LRB- hat -RRB- covers your family -- wish mine did too ; for atwixt you and I and the wall , my lordship , women are werry weary warmints . 
You 've got a werry good shop here -- capital shop , I may say , '' added he , surveying the rich orange silk furniture and gilding of the room . 
So saying , Mr. Jorrocks , having set his back against the far wall , took a coat-lap over each arm , and thrusting his hands into Captain Widowfield 's breeches pockets , proceeded to step the apartment . 
Despite the prevailing non-wineing fashion , every body , save Captain Widowfield , drank wine with Mr. Jorrocks , and before the dessert appeared , the poor gentleman , what from the effects of brandy on an empty stomach before dinner , and wine on a full one during it , began to clip her Majesty 's English very considerably . 
`` Never were such ` ounds as mine , '' he kept hiccupping , first into one neighbour 's car and then into another . 
`` Never were such ` ounds , -LRB- hiccup -RRB- certainly -- hurrah , I say , -LRB- hiccup -RRB- Jorrocks is the boy ! 
You must come and ` unt with me , '' hiccupped he to the gentleman on the left . 
Mr. Jorrocks hooped and holloaed at the top of his voice -- an exertion that put the finishing stroke to his performances , for on attempting to resume his seat he made a miscalculation of distance , and fell with a heavy thump upon the floor . 
After two or three rolls he was lifted into his chair , but speedily resuming his place on the floor , Walker was summoned with two stout footmen to carry him to bed . 
Captain Widowfield followed to make sure of his clothes ; the gap caused by Mr. Jorrocks ' secession was speedily closed in , and the party resumed the convivialities of the evening . 
The events of the day , together with the quantity of brandy and wine he had drank , and the fatigue consequent upon his exertions , combined to make Mr. Jorrocks feverish and restless , and he kept dreaming , and tossing , and turning , and tumbling about , without being able to settle to sleep . 
First , he fancied he was riding on the parapet of Waterloo Bridge with Arterxerxes , making what he would call a terrible fore-paw -LRB- faux pas -RRB- , or stumble ; next , that he was benighted on the common , and getting devoured by shepherds ' dogs ; then , that having bought up all the Barcelona nuts in the world , and written to the man in the moon to secure what were there , he saw them become a drug in the market , and the firm of Jorrocks and Co. figuring in the `` Gazette . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks is a drownin ' -- oh , dear , oh , dear , will nobody come ? 
replied Mr. Jorrocks , blobbing and striking out for hard life with his white cotton night-capped head half under water ; `` Vy , I 'm drownin ' , . 
`` No ; get a boat , '' responded Mr. Jorrocks , thinking there was little choice between hanging and drowning . 
`` Come to this side , '' cried one , `` and I 'll lend you a hand out ; '' thereupon Mr. Jorrocks struck out with a last desperate effort , and dashed his head against the wall . 
They then pulled him out of the bath , and with great care and condolence put him to bed again . 
He was still rather drunk -- at least , not quite sober ; for when pressed to exchange his wet shirt for a dry one , he hugged himself in it , exclaiming , `` No , no ; they 'll worry it ! 
-- a benighted fox-hunter -- been out with Mr. Jorrocks 's hounds . '' 
Indeed , as Mr. Jorrocks says , there 's no colour like scarlet . 
Sure enough , there were Loraine Smith 's famous pictures of the Quorn Hunt , the progenitor of the now innumerable race of sporting prints ; `` Bagging the Fox ; '' `` The Rendezvous of the Smoking Hunt at Braunstone , '' in which gentlemen appear with great meerschaums in their mouths ; `` The Loss of the Chaplain , '' exhibiting a reverend gentleman somewhat in Mr. Jorrocks ' predicament -- in danger of drowning , if he were not in equal danger of hanging ; `` The Meeting at Grooby Pool ; '' `` The Victory of obtaining the Brush , '' & c. ; all stretched on canvass , with broad gilt borders , and ranged round the room . 
`` Mr. Jorrocks was nothing but a good un . 
If it was n't for him , he 'd never stop i ' the South . '' 
On Pigg trotted as well as he could with a pack of hounds without a whipper-in , and catching a view of Mr. Jorrocks ' broad red back rounding a bend of the road , he gave a puff of his horn that acted like magic . 
Mr. Jorrocks stopped as though he were shot . 
Turning short back , he espied his huntsman and the hounds , and great was the joy and exultation at meeting . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , in ecstasies , `` vere 's his brush ? '' 
`` exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , `` vy , man , you should ride with it at your osses ' side . 
-- run a bit of vipcord through his snout , and let the world see the wonders we 've done -- you 've no proper pride about you ! 
Thus Mr. Jorrocks and Pigg proceeded at a foot 's pace , relating their mutual adventures . 
The stables and kennel were besieged by inquirers , and Mr. Fribbleton , the man-milliner , who edited the `` Paul Pry , '' having been granted an audience , managed from Mr. Jorrocks 's account to manufacture the following article for the second edition of his paper . 
It was headed -- `` Brilliant Run with Mr. Jorrocks 's Hounds ! 
N6201056 `` Here he was chased by a woodman 's dog , and the hounds came to a momentary check ; but Mr. Jorrocks , being well up , made a scientific cast forward , and getting upon grass , they hit off the scent at a meuse , and went at a racing pace down to Crowland , through Lady Cross Park , leaving Bilson a little on the right , and so on to Langford Plantations , from thence by King 's Gate to Hookem-Snivey , and on by Staunton-Snivey to the Downs , crossing at Depedean , leaving the Windmill to the right , and the Smugglers ' Cave on the left . 
Mr. Jorrocks went like a bird , and earned a title to a niche among the crack riders of England . 
Mr. Jorrocks wrote the following letter to Bill Bowker : -- `` Dear Bowker , `` Your 's to hand , and note the contents . 
J. J. '' Captain Doleful , ever anxious for the prosperity of the town and his own emolument , conceived that a hunt dinner on the night of his ball would have the effect of drawing divers rural parties to the town who might not otherwise honour him with their presence , and he lost no time in communicating the idea to the worthy master , Mr. Jorrocks . 
Of course the éclat it would confer on the hunt , and the brilliancy it would reflect on Mr. Jorrocks 's mastership , were the main points Captain Doleful urged on behalf of his proposal ; and Mr. Jorrocks , nothing loth to indulge in a good dinner , at which he was to play first fiddle , readily came into the proposition , and the following notice was inserted in the `` Paul Pry : '' -- `` There will be a Hunt Dinner , at the Dragon Hotel , on the night of the Master of the Ceremonies ' Ball , at which Members of the Hunt and the public in general , are invited to attend . 
On the Monday he bespoke an audience with Mr. Jorrocks to put the finishing stroke to his arrangements . 
He was duly received in the dining-room of Diana Villa , where pens , ink , and paper were laid for his coming . 
The dinner , he assured the worthy master , was calculated to make him eminent in the eyes of all men , and most materially to aid the financial department of the hunt . 
`` There will be , '' said he , `` a gathering from all quarters . 
`` Well , there can be no difficulty whatsomever at all , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , `` in making them a werry ` andsome speech -- beautiful speech , I may say , but in course they ca n't expect me to tell them that I consider any sport better than ` unting . '' 
said Mr. Jorrocks , turning it over in his mind whether he could do such violence to his feelings as to praise the sport of coursing , or call it sport at all , for the sake of the three sovereigns he would get by Captain Couples becoming a member of the hunt . 
`` Werry well , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , `` werry well , there can not be not never no objection whatsomever at all to sayin ' somethin' pleasant and soapy of all the warious amusements , but it is werry difficult and inconwenient to have so many cut and dried speeches , as well as one 's dinner aboard at the same time . 
`` Then we must jest dot down wot we think should be given , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , `` and also wot I should say , for it is far more than probable , indeed I should say most likely , that in the heat and noise , and lush and flush , and one thing and another , I shall forget one half o ' the toast , and possibly give the coursin ' man to the fiddlin ' feller , or the cricketer instead of the quoit-player . '' 
Thereupon Mr. Jorrocks took pen , ink , and paper , and proceeded to draw out his list of toasts . 
`` In course , ` the Queen , and her stag ` ounds , ' will come first , '' observed he , writing the words at the head of a long slip of paper -- adding , `` bumper toast . 
`` Well , then , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , `` let 's see what should come next ? 
`` With all my ` eart , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , placing the Prince 's name after her Majesty 's . 
Mr. Jorrocks wrote down -- adding the words -- `` improve breed of ` osses -- promote sport -- amuse lower orders -- mount cavalry -- lick the world , '' as the headings for his speech . 
`` Come now , jog on , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , looking at the nib of his pen , `` we 've only got five toasts ready as yet : should n't we give Fox-unting ? '' 
Mr. Jorrocks then added Mr. Yarnley 's name to the list of toasts , adding the words , `` proprietors of covers and promoters of fox - ` unting , '' and the following headings for a speech , `` Considerate gentleman -- free from selfishness -- good example . '' 
`` We should cheer this toast , I think , '' added Mr. Jorrocks , '' ` specially as I s ` pose the gemman takes no rent for his covers . '' 
`` I believe not , '' replied Captain Doleful , upon which Mr. Jorrocks put the word `` cheers '' after `` good example . '' 
`` He must be a werry big blockhead , then , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , laying down his pen , and stretching out his legs as though he were going to take `` the rest . '' 
`` Never mind , '' said Captain Doleful , `` Couples 's guineas will be as good as any other man 's ; and , as I said before , a chairman is not expected to swear to all he says -- your business is to endeavour to please every one , so that they may go home and tell their wives and daughters what a jolly , delightful , at-all-in-the-ring sort of gentleman Mr. Jorrocks is . '' 
I 'll give the Merry ` Arriers afore Coursin ' , howsomever , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , putting down the words Hare - ` unting ; `` Will there be any currant-jelly boy to return thanks ? 
To this toast Mr. Jorrocks added the word -- `` nose -- fine music -- pleasant -- soup . '' 
`` Now , '' said he , `` we 've got the Queen and the Staggers -- Prince Halbert -- Prince of Whales -- Strider and the Turf -- Fox - ` unting -- Yarnley and Proprietors of Covers -- the Merry ` Arriers . '' 
`` Well , if you must have it , you must , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , writing down the word : `` coursin ' . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks added the words `` fine amusement . '' 
`` The Chair , '' wrote Mr. Jorrocks , `` that 's me . 
`` With all my ` eart -- I can stand a wast of praise , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks . 
added Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Werry good , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , writing down `` Capt. Doleful , M.C. , not sportsman -- pleasant feller -- nice ball -- pumps in pocket -- tickets at bar -- guinea . 
`` Werry well now , '' said Mr. Jorrocks at last , dotting up the column of toasts with his pen , `` that 's two , four , six , seven , eight , ten , twelve , fourteen , sixteen . 
`` A gen ` lman and his ` ounds , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , `` but they 'll have had a gen ` leman and his ` ounds when they 've had me . '' 
`` Aye , aye , I 'll vip them off to you when I think they 've had enough , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Five o'clock , sir , and no waiting -- Mr. Jorrocks swears he 'll take the chair at five precisely , whether it 's served or not , '' adds the waiter , with a grin . 
Then Mr. Jorrocks deranged her whole system by insisting upon having a sucking pig and roast goose that she intended for centre dishes , right under his nose at the top of the table ; added to which , the fish was late in coming , and there was not half as much maccaroni in the town as would make an inn dish . 
`` Jest so , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , adjusting a capacious shirt-frill in the glass . 
Mr. Jorrocks was uncommonly smart . 
Sky-blue coat lined with pink satin , finely starched white waistcoat , new canary-coloured shorts , below which stood a pair of splendid calves , encased in ganze white silk stockings , and his feet appeared in shining shoes with silver buckles . 
Jorrocks stepped in , and Benjamin mounted behind with all the dignity of a seven-foot figure footman . 
Mr. Snubbins , the landlord , a choleric round-faced little man , with a snub nose and a pimple on the end of it , had put himself into a white waistcoat , with his best blue coat and black kerseymere shorts , to officiate behind Mr. Jorrocks ' chair , and hearing our master 's name bandied about on his arrival , met him at the foot of the stairs with all becoming respect , and proceeded to conduct him into the waiting-room . 
All things , soup , fish , joints , vegetables , poultry , pastry , and game , being at length adjusted , and the covers taken off to allow them to cool , Mr. Snubbins borrowed a candle from the low end of the table , and forthwith proceeded to inform Mr. Jorrocks that dinner was served . 
roars Mr. Jorrocks , rising , and hitting the table with an auctioneer 's hammer , `` Mr. Wice-President , I say ! '' 
he repeats , in a louder and more authoritative tone , amid cries of `` Chair ! 
`` I rises , '' says he , looking especially important , `` to propose a toast , a bumper toast in fact , that I feels confident you will all drink with werry ` earty satisfaction -- it is the health of our young , wirtuous , and amiable Queen -LRB- applause -RRB- , a werry proper toast to give at a great sportin ' dinner like this , seein ' as how she is a werry nice little ` ooman , and keeps a pack of stag - ` ounds . 
And now for the toast , '' added Mr. Jorrocks , raising a brimming bumper high in hand : `` The Queen and her Stag - ` ounds ! '' 
After resuming his seat for a few seconds , during which time he conned the next toast in his mind , Mr. Jorrocks , rose and called for another bumper , just as Captain Doleful was rising to return thanks on behalf of her Majesty . 
Mr. Jorrocks being an expert chairman , from frequent practice at `` free-and-easys , '' went on pretty briskly at starting , and the company had hardly drained their glasses , and got settled after cheering , before his hammer was at work again , and he called for another bumper toast . 
Having given `` The Prince of Whales , '' as he called him , and `` the rest of the Royal Family , '' `` Gentlemen , '' said he , rising , glass in hand , `` I have now to propose to your favourable consideration an important branch o ' British diwersion , and one for which this country long has , and ever will , stand most howdaciously conspicuous -LRB- cheers -RRB- . 
I am sure , gentlemen , you will all agree that racin ' is one of the noblest and most delightful sports goin ' , and honoured as we are , this evenin ' , by the presence of one of the brightest hornaments o ' the British turf , '' -LRB- Mr. Jorrocks looking most insinuatingly down the table at Strider , as much as to say , `` That will do you , my boy . '' -RRB- 
Jorrocks was right in his surmise , for no sooner was the name pronounced , than there was such a thumping of the baize-covered tables , such a kicking of the floor , and such a shouting and clapping of hands , that the concluding words of his speech were audible only to the reporter , who was accommodated with a small round table and a large bottle of port immediately behind the chair . 
He was happy to see that his humble exertions in the great and good cause had not been altogether thrown away , for , in the list of races for next year , he saw many names that had never been put down before , and having now got a master of hounds whose name was closely associated with everything that was sporting and popular , he made no doubt things would proceed in a true railway style of progression , and the name of Jorrocks would be followed by every well-wisher to that noble animal , the horse . 
Mr. Strider looked all ways except straight at Mr. Jorrocks , who very complacently proceeded with his list of toasts . 
`` Mr. Wice-President , '' roared Mr. Jorrocks , above the clamour that now began to prevail , as tongues became loosened with the juice of the grape , `` Mr. Wice-President , having drank the first of all sports , let us not forget another werry pleasant branch of ` unting that many delight in who can not partake of the other , and which is useful as well as pleasant , I mean ` are-unting ; it is a werry nice lady-like amusement ; and though we had no ` are-soup at dinner , I makes no doubt we have some werry keen ` are-unters at table for all that . 
''' While Mr. Jorrocks was delivering himself of this eloquence , an evident uneasiness prevailed among divers fat , ruddy-faced members of the Dotfield hunt , chiefly dressed in single-breasted green coats , with bright buttons , and drab breechers , with woollen stockings , who were scattered among the company , as to who should acknowledge the honour that was done their calling , and gradually they turned to a sportsman near Mr. Jorrocks , one of the many masters who , bolder than the rest , returned thanks in a dribbling , cold-hunting sort of speech , while some dozen stood up to signify their approbation of the sentiments of the speaker , and their sense of the honour that had been individually done them . 
Coursing followed hare-hunting , according to previous arrangement , which Mr. Jorrocks described as a fine useful sport , and expatiated largely on the merits of '' ` are-soup , '' and `` jugged ` are . '' 
roared Mr. Jorrocks , like Jupiter himself , and the noise was quelled on the instant . 
` Ookey Valker , '' said Mr. Jorrocks in an under tone . 
` Ookey Valker , '' again said Mr. Jorrocks , blowing his nose . 
''' The latter words were delivered in something between a screech and a yell , but fortunately the unearthly sound was immediately quelled by the instantaneous rising of the company , who , in the most uproarious manner -- some standing on their chairs , others with one leg on a chair and another on the table -- roared forth the most deafening discharge of applause that ever was discharged in the Dragon , while Mr. Jorrocks sat wondering how long it would last . 
After a lapse of some minutes , order began to be restored , the company gradually got shuffled into their seats , and , filling himself a brimming bumper of port , Mr. Jorrocks at length rose to return thanks . 
`` Well , now , dash my vig , '' said , he , sticking his thumbs into the armholes of his waistcoat , `` but frind Miserrimus has buttered me uncommon -LRB- laughter and cheers -RRB- . 
A werry little more might have made one doubt his sincerity . 
Strider now drew himself from under the table , and shaking a fist towards Mr. Jorrocks , while his eyes looked across , and down , and round the room , everywhere but at the chairman , he stalked off , followed by Couples , and Couples 's son , and a gentleman for whom Couples had paid , and brought in the chaise , amid ironical cheers from the blues , who encouraged Mr. Jorrocks by the most vociferous applause . 
`` Believe me , my beloved bouys , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , perfectly unconscious of the movement or the mischief he was doing , `` that ` untin ' , ` untin ' , ` untin ' , is the sport ! 
Oh , '' said he , with up-turned eyes , `` vot a martyr I am to the chase ! 
said he , stooping , and looking at his list ; `` Ah ! 
roared he , resuming an erect position , `` gen ` lemen ! 
Doleful , on hearing Jorrocks put this finishing stroke to his hash , wrung his hands in agony , and rushed out of the room , vowing , as he went down-stairs , that Jorrocks was the biggest ass -- the greatest fool -- the stupidest sinner , that ever came to Handley Cross . 
roared Mr. Jorrocks , as he saw Doleful bolt . 
`` Well , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , `` as the gen ` leman 's hoff , it 's no use i ' finishin ' my oration ; so , ` stead of the ` ealth of Old Doleful , I begs to propose , most cordially , that I sit down . '' 
Our friend then resumed his seat amidst great applause from the blues , and was considering how he could introduce a limping song he had composed in honour of Doleful , when a sudden rush of green and dark coats , headed by Strider , poured noisily into the room , and elbowed their way back to their places . 
-- `` I rise to propose a resolution , '' roared Strider , holding a slip of paper upside down ; `` I rise to propose a resolution , '' now getting the paper the right way for reading , `` that I feel assured will be acceptable to the majority of this meeting -- I move -LRB- reading -RRB- that Jorrocks John is the shabbiest fellow and greatest humbug we ever had at Handley Cross ! '' 
And Jorrocks , who had been crouching like a tiger for his spring , immediately rose amid immense uproar , and declared that he would move as an amendment , that `` Jorrocks was a brick ! '' 
and putting the amendment , he declared that `` the bricks had it , '' whereupon a scene of indescribable confusion ensued , the green coats going in at the blues like bulls , and upsetting some half dozen of them before they knew where they were , while Jorrocks , getting hold of Strider , dealt a heavy blow in his ribs , and then split his coat up to the collar , just as a green biscuit dish grazed our master 's head and knocked off his wig . 
Jorrocks lost a coat-lap , which now flaunts as a banner-screen in the drawing-room of Mrs. Royston of the Dotfield hunt . 
Mr. Jorrocks ' popularity , with Belinda 's sweetness and beauty , went far to undermine the throne Mrs. Barnington had set up for herself . 
No sooner did it occur to her , than off she darted to Mr. Jorrocks 's drawers , where , amid a goodly collection of letters , she succeeded in finding Captain Doleful 's one , stating that `` the Lady of the M.F.H. came on after members of the royal family , and before all bishops ' wives and daughters , peeresses , knights ' dames , justices ' wives , and so forth . '' 
The Captain was shy for a day or two , and Mr. Jorrocks , being more intent upon hunting than etiquette , the poor lady was left to her own devices . 
Yours , in haste , `` Julia Jorrocks . 
The former talked at Captain Doleful instead of to him , sometimes pretending to doubt whether the Jorrocks ' would go , fearing they would not , for vulgar people seldom liked getting so completely out of their element . 
`` You see , '' said he , `` I am vice-president -- then , Mr. Jorrocks is rather a sitter -- not that I mean to say he gets drunk , but you know he is fond of society , gay and careless about time , and there are so many toasts to propose and so many speeches to make , that I fear it is utterly impossible to say what time we may get away , and I -- -- '' `` Well , but , '' interrupted Mrs. Jorrocks , `` the dinner has nothin ' to do with the dance ; if Jun chooses to lower ` imself by gettin ' drunk , that 's no reason why you should , and one wice can always appoint another wice , and wicey wersey , I suppose . '' 
He was not done abusing Mr. Jorrocks , when Miss Jelly entered with a bed-candle , and a little jug of warm water . 
She had laid his dress out on the bed ; his red and white turban , beaded and feathered , with a barley-sugar half-moon , surmounted his baggy trousers ; the red jacket was airing before the fire , and scarlet and white rosettes appeared on the insteps of the slippers . 
Seeing he was disturbed in his mind , Miss Jelly merely intimated that it wanted ten minutes to nine , and withdrew quietly below . 
There was no time to lose ; so hastily doffing his hunt-coat , & c. , Captain Doleful was soon in his baggy trousers ; and having stamped over-head , Miss Jelly was speedily with him , assisting him into his drawn linen vest , over which came the embroidered scarlet jacket , with baggy linen sleeves , tightening at the wrist ; a long blue scarf encircling his waist , displaying the gilt handle of his militia sword . 
One withering look she gave , and then drawing herself up into a sort of concentrated essence of grandeur , towered past , followed by old Jorrocks minus his coat-tail ; and our worthy master , thinking to do all proper honours to the wife of a gentleman who subscribed so liberally to his hounds , immediately asked her to dance , which being indignantly refused , he consoled himself by taking all the pretty girls in the room by turns , who unanimously declared that he was a most agreeable , energetic old gentleman , and an excellent dancer . 
And owing to the spirit with which Mr. Jorrocks kept it up , that ball was productive of a most prolific crop of offers , which , we need scarcely say , sent the Jorrocks funds up very considerably Mr. Jorrocks 's tongue being now well laid in for talking , he determined to keep it going , by giving another sporting lecture . 
Being , however , of opinion that a lecture that was worth listening to , was worth paying for , he determined to charge a shilling a head entrance , as well for the purpose of indemnifying himself against the expenses of the room , & c. , as of giving Pigg the chance of any surplus there might be over for pocket-money , of which useful article James was rather short . 
Precisely as the clock was done striking seven , Mr. Jorrocks ascended the platform , attended by a few friends , and was received with loud cheers from the gentlemen , and the waving of handkerchiefs from the lady part of the audience . 
When the applause had subsided , Mr. Jorrocks advanced to the front of the platform -LRB- which was decorated as before -RRB- , and thus addressed the audience : -- `` Frinds and fellow-countrymen ! 
repeated he , throwing out his arms , and casting his eyes up at the elegant looping of his canopy . 
`` How warious are the motives , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , looking thoughtfully , `` that draw men to the kiver side . 
`` Bliss my ` eart , wot a many ways there is of enjoyin ' the chase , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , `` and ` ow one man is led into folly and extravagance by another ! 
''' -LRB- `` Haw , haw , haw , '' grunted Mr. Jorrocks , in company with several of his audience . -RRB- 
a laugh in which the whole room joined , till the mirth got up into a roar , which Mr. Jorrocks availed himself of to pay his respects to a stiff tumbler of brandy and water that now began to send forth its fragrance from the table at the rear of the platform -RRB- . 
Smacking his lips , he thus resumed -- `` So much for the force of example , gen ` lemen ; -- had my frind been in black , the crowd would n't have come . 
These fine tight things , '' continued he , taking hold of his sky-blue coat , lined with pink silk , and looking at his canary-coloured shorts , `` are all well enough for dancin ' in , but for real scrimmagin ' out-door work , there 's nothin ' like room and flannel ; -- good long-backed coats , with the waistcoat made equally warm all round , and the back to come down in a flap , and plenty of good well-lined laps to wrap over one 's thighs when it rains . '' 
-- Mr. Jorrocks suiting the action to the word , and describing the cut of each article as he went on . 
`` Berlin gloves are capital for ` unting in , '' continued he ; `` they keep your ` ands warm , and do to rub your nose upon in cold weather . 
-- It is to it that he looks for the means of payin ' his rent , and giving his hamiable wife and accomplished darters a new piannet , and a scarlet welwet bonnet a-piece , with a black feather drooping over the left hear -LRB- Mr. Jorrocks looking slyly at Mrs. J. as he said this -RRB- ; and young and heedless men , if even they have no compassion on the old cock-farmer , should think what distress they will cause to the hens if they lose their scarlet welwet bonnets with the appurtenances . 
`` Gentlemen , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , looking very irate , `` I 'm sorry for your mirth -- -LRB- hisses and laughter -RRB- -- shocked at your immorality , in fact ! 
Mr. Jorrocks again retired , and recomposed himself with another draught of brandy and water . 
`` Now , '' said he , licking his lips , as he returned to the front of the platform ; `` let ingenuous youth suppose himself at the meet , and that he has been presented to the M.F.H. , to whom the greatest respect and reverence should always be paid , for there 's no man to compare to him i ' point o ' greatness . 
``` Yes , he is ; for I see he wears boots as well as shoes , ' pointing to speedy-cut boots . '' 
Sir Richard , Sir Tatton , Mr. Jorrocks , -- are terms that may be thrown in at random , jest as the butter seems to go down . 
`` In course these chaps have ` igh wages , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , `` or they could ` nt ` ave such himperence . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` And now , '' continued the worthy lecturer , casting his eyes up to his canopied curtain , as he jingled the silver in his canary-coloured shorts , `` And now , if I had a few words ` bout cost , ` bout old # s. d , , I think I 'd be ready for a start . 
I would n't insult Mr. Jorrocks by offerin ' of him money ! '' 
`` Insult , '' exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , looking very irate , `` jest as if I was a likely man to be insulted with the hoffer of money . 
`` Well , then , the requirements o ' the master bein ' satisfied , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , buttoning up and slapping his breeches ' - pocket , `` let ingenuous youth turn his ` tention to the stable . 
I often think , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks musingly , `` that it would be a capital thing to pass ingenuous youth generally through a sort of Chobham camp to learn 'em wot they can really do without . '' 
Every man , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , sententiously , `` wot prefers his ` ealth to the interests o ' the Seidletz pooder makers , will get as much ` unting as ever he can afore Christmas . 
added he , rubbing his elbows against his sides as if anxious for the fray . 
''' Here Mr. Jorrocks paused , apparently for the purpose of recollecting something . 
`` There 's a bit o ' potry due here , '' observed he ; `` but somehow or other it vo n't come , to halloo ! 
And yet that 's not exactly the place it should have come in at nouther , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , recollecting himself ; `` that scrap is meant for the meet ; throwin ' off is thus described by Peter Beckford , or some other gen ` l'man wot described it to him . 
`` Now that 's poetry and sense too , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , smacking his lips ! 
Mr. Jorrocks then took his newly-bound Beckford from the table at the back of the platform , and read as follows : -- `` ` Ow musical their tongues ! 
''' `` Now , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , smacking his lips again , `` that 's what I call real prime stuff -- the concentrated essence of ` untin ' -- the XXX of sportin ' , so different from the wire-spun , wishy-washy yarns of modern penny-a-liners , who smother their meanin ' -LRB- if they have any -RRB- in words . 
Mr. Jorrocks reads : -- ``` Mark ` ow he runs the cover 's hutmost limits , yet dares not wentur forth ; the ` ounds are still too near ! 
Now if our frinds ` ead him not , he will soon be off ! 
screamed Mr. Jorrocks , at the top of his voice . 
continued he , holding his hand in the air . 
`` So am I , my beloved ` earers , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , after a pause ; `` and must let off some steam , or I shall be teachin ' you to over-ride the ` ounds . '' 
So saying , Mr. Jorrocks retired to the back of the platform , and cooled himself with a fresh glass of hot brandy and water . 
Presently he returned , and thus resumed his discourse . 
`` Here let me hobserve , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , `` that it 's a grand thing for ingenuous youth to get a view of the warmint at startin ' ; by so doing he gets a sort of wested interest in the fox , and rides arter him as he would arter a thief with his watch . 
Mr. Jorrocks suiting the action to the word , straddling and working an imaginary horse with his arms . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , smacking his lips . 
When it subsided , Mr. Jorrocks , returning to his volume , said , `` Peter now does a little potry , and we 'll do ditto . 
`` That 's capital , too , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , conning the matter over , `` werry superior readin ' , indeed , but some ` ow or other , I thinks I likes old Peter better ; it comes more nattural like . 
Mr. Jorrocks then read as follows : -- ``` It was then the fox I saw , as we came down the ` ill ; -- those crows directed me which way to look , and the ship ran from ` im as he passed along . 
-- Galloper no longer keeps his place ; Brusher takes it -- see ` ow he flings for the scent , and ` ow impetuously he runs ! 
` Ow heagerly he took the lead , and ` ow he strives to keep it . 
He reaches ` im ! 
''' `` Capital , indeed , '' exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks ; `` most excellent , I may say . 
Blow me tight , if such readin ' does n't parfectlie bust me , '' added he again , retiring to the brandy , amidst the loud and long-continued applause of the company . 
`` Well now , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , returning , rubbing his lips preparatory to resuming his reading , `` Peter does a bit o ' cunnin ' , and I 'll elucidate it . 
That 's capital , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , -- `` he 's right unless he 's wrong ; right one day p ` raps , and wrong another , for he ca n't control the fox who may fancy to break at one pint one day and another the next . 
`` But come , let 's see wot our hauthor makes on ` im in cover , '' resumed Mr. Jorrocks , returning to his Beckford -- `` Peter 's at the potry again , I declare , '' said he , clearing his throat for the following : -- ``` ` Eavens ! 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , turning up his eyes to the sporting looping of his canopy , `` werry fine indeed ! 
Mr. Jorrocks then read as follows : -- ``` Listen ! 
The wip 's been wrong , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , with a shake of his head , `` or , '' continuing his reading , ``` we have changed at last . ' 
Changed at last , '' repeated Mr. Jorrocks , sorrowfully , `` bad luck to those changes , '' observed he , they are the werry deuce and all in ` unting . 
Dash my buttons , but I remembers a desp ` rate cunnin ' Charley , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , `` that used to go away from Ticklefield-gos , in Crampshire , and , arter runnin ' a wide ring , would return and pashin ' hup another fox , would lie quiet hisself . 
`` But Peter , '' says Mr. Jorrocks , '' ` opes to ` old on with the ` unted fox , and this is wot he says to his Ben '' -- Mr. Jorrocks reading -- `` Now , my lad , mind the ` untsman 's alloo , and stop to those ` ounds which he encourages , ' -- which does n't mean that the vip 's to make a haffidavit that that 's the ` untsman 's alloo , '' continued he , looking knowingly at Ben , for a reason which will appear in Mr. Jorrocks 's Journal , `` but that he 's to stop all such ` ounds as are not runnin ' the way the ` untsman 's ollooin ' ; he 's to maintain to the ` untsman 's olloo in short , and stop sich ` ounds as diwide from it , '' explained Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Well , let 's ` ave that sentence over again , '' said he , referring to his volume . 
``` Now , my lad , mind the ` untsman 's halloo , and stop to those ` ounds which he encourages . ' 
He is right ! 
that doubtless is the ` unted fox ; -- that doubtless is the ` unted fox , '' repeated Mr. Jorrocks , thoughtfully , -- `` ay , '' added he , `` they 're all the ` unted foxes that anybody sees . 
Well now , '' continued the worthy lecturer , conning the page , '' ` ere 's a reg ` lar yard and a ` alf o ' potry , describin ' , wot Pomponious would call the ` second bust amost as terrible as the fust ' -- the difference atwixt Peter and Pompey , ye see , bein ''' added Mr. Jorrocks , looking off the book , `` that Peter is all for the pack , and Pompey for the performers , or ` customers , ' as they call the crack riders i ' the cut-me-downs . 
Howsomever , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , reverting to the poetry , `` it 's a prime sample of a sportin ' scurry , and if I shall n't be fatiguein ' on ye , I 'll spout it . '' 
`` So , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , closing the volume with a clap , and chucking it to Pigg in the background , `` they cut ` im down , but do n't ` ang ` im up to dry . '' 
now exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks at the top of his voice , advancing to the front of the platform , causing silence throughout the room . 
repeated he , holding up his hand ; `` appallin ' sound ! '' 
added he mournfully , `` fearful to the forrard , and dispiritin ' to all . 
continued Jorrocks , resuming that volume -- `` Ah , I have it , the fox has been ` eaded or they have changed at last . 
he flies , nor yields To black despair . 
But one loose more and all His wiles are wain . 
Thro ' ev'ry ` ome-stall , and thro ' ev'ry yard , His midnight walks , pantin ' , forlorn , he flies . ' 
`` And , dash my vig , he makes me pant too , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , holding his obese sides . 
Now make yours -- you see that ship-dog as coursed the fox ; get forrard with your ` ounds , and make a wide cast , ' during which time , '' continued the worthy lecturer , `` we are all ` sposed to be sittin ' quietly givin ' our quads the wind , and all ` oldin ' our tongues -- a most desirable thing , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , looking knowingly round the room . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks ; `` feels for all the world as if I was there . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , `` that weary incomprehensible , incontrollable phenomenon ! 
Believe me , my beloved ` earers , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , `` there 's nothin ' so queer as scent , ` cept a woman ! 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , resuming his reading as the noise subsided . 
I wish he may ` ave stopped there ! 
Mind that old ` ound , ` ow he dashes o'er the furze ; I think he winds ` im . 
Aye , there he goes . ' 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , straddling and working his arms , as if he were riding . 
He then resumed his reading . 
``` It is nearly over with ` im ; had the ` ounds caught view , he must ha ' died . 
He will ` ardly reach the cover ; see ` ow they gain upon ` im at every stroke ! 
``` Now be quiet , and he can not ` scape us ; we ` ave the wind o ' the ` ounds , and can not be better placed : ` ow short he runs ! 
he is now in the werry strongest part o ' the cover . 
he 's put to his last shifts . 
Now Mischief is at his ` eels , and death is not far off . 
now they are at him agin ! 
` ow terribly she presses ! 
''' Here Mr. Jorrocks put his finger in his ear , and gave a `` Who-hoop ! '' 
Three cheers for Mr. Jorrocks were then called for , and given with such vehemence as to amount to nine times nine , and one cheer more , during which the worthy master kept bowing and scraping on the platform , until he got a crick in his neck from the exercise . 
Mr. Jorrocks would seem to have had another bye-day with Ben while Pigg 's clothes were making , when Ben did not cut any better figure than he did on the boiled lobster one . 
Having got the hounds into cover , as soon as ever Mr. Jorrocks began to yoicks and cheer , and crack his whip , exhorting the hounds to `` rout ` im out ! 
Mr. Jorrocks adds to his confused note of the transaction : -- `` Incorrigible bouy ! 
Good mind to stuff him full o ' Melton dinner pills , and see if they will give him any knowledge o ' the chase . '' 
He also seems to have had several `` bye '' and other days at `` Pinch-me-near '' forest , when a light-coloured fox beat him so often as to acquire the name of the `` old customer . '' 
Replied as follows : -- ``` M.F.H. John Jorrocks presents his compliments to Mr. Joshua Peppercorn , and is sorry to hear of the death of his prad , but the M.F.H. ` as enough to do to mount himself and his men without subscribin ' to find other folks i ' quads . 
Wrote as follows : -- ``` M.F.H. John Jorrocks presents his compliments to Mrs. Margaret Lucas , and is sorry to ` ear of the sitivation of her patent mangle , but the M.F.H. having laid it down as a rule never to subscribe to redeem patent mangles , ca n't depart from it in her case . ' 
We also glean from the journal that Mr. Jorrocks allowed Pigg to cap when they killed ; but Pigg , not finding that process so productive as he wished , hit upon the following novel expedient for raising the wind : -- Seeing that a great many young gentlemen appeared at the meet who never attempted to get to the finish , Pigg constituted himself a sort of Insurance Company , and issued tickets against hunting accidents -- similar to what railway companies issue against railway ones . 
Mr. Jorrocks , we may observe , seems to have been in the habit of filling his sherry flask with brandy when going into a stiff country -- a thing of very frequent occurrence with our friend . 
THE above day deserves a more extended notice than it receives in Mr. Jorrocks 's journal . 
He writes that `` somehow or other in shavin ' , he thought they 'd ` ave mischief , '' and he went into the garden as soon as he was dressed to consult the prophet Gabriel Junks , so that he might take his pocket Siphonia in case it was likely to be wet , but the bird was not there . 
Then just as he had breakfasted and was about ready for a start , young May , the grocer , sent him a horse to look at , and as `` another gen ` l'eman '' was waiting for the next offer of him Charley and Mr. Jorrocks stayed behind to try him , and after a hard deal , Mr. Jorrocks bought him for # 30 -- which he makes a mem. : `` to call # 50 . '' 
Pigg , who as Mr. Jorrocks says in his journal , is only a lusus naturæ , or loose ` un by natur ' , tosses off glass after glass , smacking his lips and slapping his thigh , getting noisier and noisier with each succeeding potation . 
Now he would sing them a song , now he would take the odds ag ` in Marley Hill , then he would tell them about Deavilboger 's farm , and how , but for his foreelder John , John Pigg , ye see , willin ' his brass to the Formary ye see , he 'd ha been a gen ` l'man that day and huntin ' his own hunds . 
here 's Jorrocks ! 
Mr. Jorrocks drew up with great dignity , and placing his fist in his side , proceeded to reconnoitre the scene . 
Mr. Jorrocks signified his dissent by a chuck of the chin , and an ominous shake of the head . 
Jorrocks , angrily . 
Jorrocks , contemptuously . 
Jorrocks , with emphasis . 
Jorrocks , looking indignantly round on the now mirth-convulsed company . 
`` Oh , sir , it is all paid , '' replied Miss D'Oiley , smiling as sweetly upon Jorrocks as she did on the generality of her father 's customers , for she had no more heart than a punch-bowl . 
`` twigged Mr. Jorrocks , adding , with a grunt , `` and that 's wot these critters call sport ! '' 
replied Mr. Jorrocks , brandishing his big whip furiously ; adding , `` I 'll see ye leadin ' an old ooman 's lap-dog ` bout in a string afore you shall ` unt 'em . '' 
`` You may gan to the devil himself , '' retorted Mr. Jorrocks , vehemently -- `` you may gan to the devil himself -- I 'll see ye sellin ' small coals from a donkey-cart out of a quart pot afore you shall stay wi ' me . '' 
roared he , with a defiant flourish of his fist . 
`` You 're a hignorant , hawdacious , rebellious rascal , and I 'll see ye frightenin ' rats from a barn wi ' the bagpipes at a ` alfpenny a day , and findin ' yoursel , afore I 'll ` ave anything more to say to ye , '' rejoined Mr. Jorrocks , gathering up his big whip as if for the fray . 
Jorrocks , thinking he had done enough , then took his horse from Charley Stobbs , and hoisting himself on like a great crate of earthenware , whistled his hounds away from the still stupified Pigg , who sat blinking and staring and shaking his head , thinking there were two Jorrocks 's on two Arterxerxes ' , two Ben 's , two Charley Stobbs 's , and something like five-and-forty couple of hounds . 
The field remained behind praising Pigg and abusing Jorrocks , and declaring they would withdraw their subscriptions to the hounds if Pigg `` got the sack . '' 
Jorrocks was desperately angry , for he had had an expensive `` stop , '' and came bent on mischief . 
His confusion of mind made him mistake the road home , and go by Rumfiddler Green instead of Muswell Hill . 
roared he , as old Ravager threw his tongue lightly but confidentially , and Jorrocks cheered him to the echo . 
roared he , looking round at Charley as he gathered himself together for a start . 
Now as Jorrocks would say , Beckford would say , `` where are all your sorrows and your cares , ye gloomy souls ! 
Mr. Jorrocks takes off his cap and urges the tail-hounds on . 
Jorrocks , cocking his cap on his ear , seats himself plump in his great saddle , and , gathering his reins , gallops after them in the full grin of delight . 
A convenient meuse , however , inviting the fox onward , he abandoned the line and pursued his course over some bare , badly-fenced pastures , across which Mr. Jorrocks cheered and rode with all the confidence of a man who sees his way out . 
The pace mended as they went , and Jorrocks hugged himself with the idea of killing a fox without Pigg . 
Jorrocks then began to bet himself hats that he 'd kill him , and went vowing what he would offer to Diana if he did . 
There was scarcely any promise too wild for him to make at this moment . 
The fox , however , was not disposed to accommodate Jorrocks with much more plain sailing for the purpose , and seeing , by the scarlet coats , that he was not pursued by his old friends the Dotfield harriers as at first he thought , and with whom he had had many a game at romps , he presently sunk the hill and made for the stiffly-fenced vale below . 
exclaimed Jorrocks , shortening his hold of Arterxerxes , and putting his head straight as he used to do down the Surrey hills , `` Blow me tight ! 
` Owever , thank goodness , ` ere 's a gap and a gate beyond , '' continued he , as his quick eye caught a gap at the corner of the stubble field he was now approaching , which getting through , he rose in his stirrups and cheered on the hounds in the line of the other convenience . 
`` continued Jorrocks , rib-roasting Arterxerxes . 
The gate was locked , but Jackey -- we beg his pardon -- Mr. Jorrocks -- was quickly off , and setting his great back against it , lifted it off the hinges . '' 
cried he to Charley , who had pulled up as Jorrocks was dancing about with one foot in the stirrup , trying to remount . 
`` repeated he , with desperate energy , as he made another assault at the saddle . 
continued he , now lying across the saddle , like a miller 's sack . 
The hounds , who had been running with a breast-high scent , get their noses to the ground as they come upon fallow , and a few kicks , jags , and objurgations on Jorrocks 's part , soon bring Arterxerxes and him into the field in which they are . 
cries Jorrocks , holding up his hand and reining in his horse , inwardly hoping the fox might be on instead of off to the right , where he sees his shiny friend , long Tommy , meandering smoothly along . 
cheers Jorrocks , as the sage feathers and scuttles up the furrow . 
`` continued Mr. Jorrocks , cheering the rest on -- adding as he looks at them scoring to cry , `` wot a petty it is we ca n't put new legs to old noses ? '' 
Jorrocks sees if he does n't look sharp he 'll very soon be run out of scent , so getting hold of his hounds , he makes a rapid speculation in his mind as to which way he would go if he were the fox , and having decided that point , he loses no time in getting the pack to the place . 
-- Jorrocks is right ! 
-- Ravager 's unerring nose proclaims the varmint across the green head-land , and the next field being a clover ley , with a handy gate in , which indeed somewhat influenced Jorrocks in his cast , the hounds again settle to the scent , with Jorrocks rolling joyfully after them , declaring he 'd be the best ` untsman under the sun if it war n't for the confounded lips . 
Away he now crams , up the field road , with the hounds chirping merrily along on his right , through turnips , oat stubble , winter beans , and plough . 
`` Dash his impittance , but he 's taken us into a most unmanageable country . '' 
observes Mr. Jorrocks , shading his eyes from the now outbursting sun with his hand as he trotted on , eyeing the oft occurring fences as he spoke . 
`` Lost all idee of where I ham , and where I 'm a goin ' , '' continued he , looking about to see if he could recognise anything . 
Hills , dales , woods , water , were equally new to him . 
now go the hounds upon an old dead thorn-fence , stuck on a low sod-bank , making Jorrocks shudder at the sound . 
Over goes Stobbs without doing anything for his followers . 
Now , '' cries Jorrocks , cantering up , cracking his whip , as if he wanted to take it in stride , but in reality to frighten Ben over to break it . 
groaned Jorrocks ; `` you 're of no more use wi ` ounds than a lady 's - maid , -- do believe I could make as good a wipper-in out of a carrot ! 
now roared Jorrocks , pretending to put Arterxerxes resolutely at it , but in reality holding him hard by the head , -- `` Get off , ye useless apology of a hosier and pull it down , or I 'll give you sich a wopping as 'll send you to Blair Athol for the rest of the day , '' exclaimed our half-distracted master , brandishing his flail of a whip as he spoke . 
cried Mr. Jorrocks , applying his whip freely to ` Xerxes , and giving Ben a sly , accidental cut . 
` Xerxes floundered over , nearly crushing Ben , and making plain sailing for Jorrocks . 
The hounds had now shot a few fields ahead , but a flashey catching scent diminishing their pace , Mr. Jorrocks was soon back to them yoicking and holding them on . 
`` cheered he , taking off his cap , as Priestess endorsed Ranger 's promissory note on a very wet undrained fallow -- '' Yooi , over he goes ! 
They were now upon sound old pasture , lying parallel with tortuous Tommy , and most musical were the hounds ' notes as each in turn prevailed -- Mr. Jorrocks had lit on his legs in the way of gates , and holloaed and rode as if he did n't know what craning was . 
cheered he , addressing himself to the now leading hound , `` forrard on ! 
Jorrocks , though desperately anxious to get them on better terms with their fox , trots gently on , anxiously eyeing them but restraining his ardour , by repeating the old couplet , -- `` As well as shape full well he knows , To kill their fox they must ` ave nose . '' 
`` Aye , aye , but full well he knows also , '' continued our master , after he had repeated the lines three or four times over , `` that to kill their fox they must press ` im , at some period or other o ' the chase , which they do n't seem at all inclined to do , '' continued he , looking at their indifferent slack mode of proceeding . 
So saying , Mr. Jorrocks out with his tootler , and giving a shrill blast , seconded by Charley 's whip , proceeded to go down wind , and up wind , and round about wind , without however feeling a touch of his fox . 
At length scarce a hound would stoop , and old black Lucifer gave unmistakeable evidence of his opinion of matters by rolling himself just under Jorrocks 's horse 's nose , and uttering a long-drawn howl , as much as to say , `` Come , old boy ! 
roared Jorrocks , cutting indignantly at him with his whip , `` rot ye ! 
continued he , as the frightened hound scuttled away with his tail between his legs . 
Just as Mr. Jorrocks was reining in his horse to blow his hounds together , a wild , shrill , view holloo , just such a one as a screech-owl gives on a clear frosty night , sounded through the country , drawing all eyes to Camperdown Hill , where , against the blue sky , sat a Wellington-statue-like equestrian with his cap in the air , waving and shouting for hard life . 
The late lethargic hounds pricked their ears , and before Mr. Jorrocks could ejaculate the word `` Pigg ! '' 
observed Mr. Jorrocks to himself , `` wot a pipe the feller ` as ! 
and returning his horn to his saddle , he took a quick glance at the country for a line to the point , instead of crashing after Charley Stobbs , who seemed , by the undue elevation of his horse 's tail on the far side of a fence , to be getting into grief already . 
`` There ` illbe a way out by those stacks , '' said Mr. Jorrocks to himself , eyeing a military-looking line of burly corn stacks drawn up on the high side of a field to the left : so saying he caught Arterxerxes short round by the head , and letting in the Latchford 's , tore away in a desperate state of flutter and excitement , the keys and coppers in his pockets contributing to the commotion . 
Here our fat friend had the misfortune to consult farmer Shortstubble , instead of trusting to his own natural instinct for gaps and gates , and Shortstubble put him on a line as wide of his own wheat as he could , which was anything but as direct a road as friend Jorrocks could have found for himself . 
However , Camperdown Hill was a good prominent feature in the country , and by dint of brisk riding , Jorrocks reached it in a much shorter time than the uninitiated would suppose he could . 
Now getting Arterxerxes by the mane , he rose in his stirrups , hugging and cramming him up the rugged ride to the top . 
When he reached the summit , Pigg , whose sight was much improved , had hunted his fox with a very indifferent scent round the base of the hill , and having just got a view , was capping the hounds on as hard as ever his horse could lay legs to the ground , whooping and forcing the fox away into the open . 
ejaculated Jorrocks , eyeing Pigg putting one of Duncan Nevin 's nags that had never seen hounds before at a post and rail that almost made him rise perpendicularly to clear . 
continued Mr. Jorrocks , as with a flounder and scramble James got his horse on his legs on the far side , and proceeded to scuttle away again as hard as before . 
`` Do believe he 's got a view o ' the varmint , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , eyeing Pigg 's cap-in-hand progress . 
continued Mr. Jorrocks , still eyeing James intently , and wishing he had n't been too hard upon him . 
`` Of all ` bominable vices under the sun that of hintemperance is the most degradin ' and disgustin , '' continued our master emphatically , accompanying the assertion with a hearty crack of the whip down his leg . 
Jorrocks now gets a view of the varmint stealing away over a stubble , and though he went stouter than our master would have liked if he had been hunting himself , he saw by Pigg 's determined way that he was master of him , and had no doubt that he would have him in hand before long . 
Open went the gate at the bottom of the hill , down Jorrocks made for the Long Tommy ford , splash he sent Arterxerxes in just like Johnny Gilpin in Edmonton Wash , -- '' -- throwing the water about , On both sides of the way , Just like a trundling mop , Or a wild goose at play . '' 
And then rising in his stirrups and setting up his great shoulders , Jorrocks tore up the broken Muggercamp lane , sending the loose stones flying right and left as he went . 
`` If they can but pash him past Ravenswing-scar , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , eyeing the leading hounds approaching it , `` they 'll mop ` im to a certainty , for there 's nothin ' to save ` im arter it . 
If we do but kill ` un , I 'll make sich a hofferin ' to Bacchus as ` illperfectly ` stonish ` im , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , settling Arterxerxes agoing again . 
groaned he , cropping and rib-roasting the horse with his whip . 
He does n't seem to care much about the whip , and no longer springs to the spur . 
He begins to play the castanets too in a way that is anything but musical to Mr. Jorrocks 's ear . 
Mr. Jorrocks , having established a comfortable landing-place on a grassy mound , proceeded to dismount from the nearly pumped out Arterxerxes , and pile himself on to the much fresher Xerxes , who had been ridden more as a second horse than as a whippein 's . 
exclaimed he , eyeing the hounds , streaming away over a hundred-acre pasture below . 
now exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , eyeing the wide stretching vale before him . 
`` To guide a scent well over a country for a length of time , through all the changes and chances o ' the chase , and among all difficulties usually encountered , requires the best and most experienced abilities , '' added he , shortening his hold of his horse , as he now put his head down the steep part of the hill . 
Away Jorrocks went wobbling like a great shape of red Noyeau jelly . 
Jorrocks hears them , and spurs on in hopes of a nick . 
Fortune favours him , as she generally does the brave and persevering , and a favourable fall of the land enables our friend to view the fox still travelling on at an even , stealthy sort of pace , though certainly slower than the still pressing , squeak , squeak , yap , yap , running pack . 
Pigg and Charley are in close attendance , and Jorrocks nerves himself for a grand effort to join them . 
`` Rot ye , '' adds Jorrocks , as the horse turns tail , `` I 'll bind ye ` prentice to a salmon pickler . '' 
The next field is a fallow , but Jorrocks chooses a wet furrow , up which he spurts briskly , eyeing the country far and near , as well for the fox , as a way out . 
`` Thank ` ee , '' cries Jorrocks , as he slips through the gate . 
There is nothing now between him and the hounds , save a somewhat rough piece of moorland , but our master not being afraid of the pace so long as there is no leaping , sails away in the full glow of enthusiastic excitement . 
gasps the heavily perspiring Mr. Jorrocks , throwing himself exhausted from his horse , which he leaves outside the now riotous ring , and making up to the object of his adoration , he exclaimed , `` O Pigg , let us fraternise ! 
`` Whereupon Jorrocks seized Pigg by the middle , and hugged him like a Polar bear , to the mutual astonishment of Pigg and the pack . 
`` A -- a -- a wuns man , let 's hev ' him worried , '' repeated James , as Jorrocks danced him about still harder than before , `` Tear ` im and eat ` im ! 
`` roars Pigg , discharging himself of the fox , which has the effect of detaching Jorrocks , and sending him to help at the worry . 
Great was Mr. Jorrocks 's joy and exultation . 
Then when they saw what had happened , they changed their tunes , declaring it was a regular preconcerted do , abused both James and Jorrocks , and said they 'd withdraw their subscriptions from the hounds . 
`` grunted Mr. Jorrocks , throwing it down , `` that ` counts for the bird not bein ' forthcomin ' this mornin ' . 
Wot business has he out of his own shop , I wonder . '' 
Fearing , on second thoughts , that Mello might try to make him pay for him , and that too at the rate of the mania price for poultry , Mr. Jorrocks thought it best to traverse the killing altogether , which accordingly he did by the following answer . 
`` M.F.H. John Jorrocks presents his compliments to Dr. Sebastian Mello , and is much surprised to receive a note complaining of the M.F.H. 's peacock , Gabriel Junks , havin ' slain the Doctor 's dung-ill cock . 
And having despatched Ben with it , and given him instructions to find out , if he could , whether any one saw the bird at work , Mr. Jorrocks proceeded to make the following entry in his journal : -- `` Letter from Bowker , requesting the loan of a 50l . 
Sulphur Wells Hall '' To which Mr. Jorrocks makes a `` Mem . 
Passing over some intermediate matter , chiefly about horses that people sent for him to look at , believing on the strength of his lecture that he would not require them to be warranted -- a supposition that they found themselves mistaken in , we come to the following entry about a gentleman with whom we shall presently have the pleasure of making the reader acquainted . 
To which Mr. Jorrocks replied as follows : -- `` M.F.H. John Jorrocks presents his compliments to Mr. Marmadue Muleygrubs , and in reply to his purlite favour duly received , begs to say that he will be ` appy to dine and sleep at Cockolorum Hall as soon as ever his other ` unting arrangements will enable him to meet on that side of the country ; and that with regard to the subscription so ` andsomely promised to his ` ounds , it can be paid either to his credit at Bullock and Hulker 's in the Strand , or to the M.F.H. 's account at Stumpey and Co. 's here -- `` Handley Cross Spa , `` Diana Lodge . '' 
`` You will be sorry to hear , '' says he to Mr. Jorrocks , `` that the Slender is found guilty , and ordered to be scragged on Monday morning , for though they have not found the exciseman , the jury found Billy guilty . 
The following bunch of anathemas seem to have been produced by Mr. Jorrocks being brought up short by a double ditch , with a fence most unjustifiably mended with old wire-rope , whereby our energetic master lost another of the `` finest runs wotever was seen , '' from Screecher Gorse to earth at Sandford Banks -- time and distance , anything that anybody liked to call it ! 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , starting out of his sleep at something like thunder over-head -- rumble , rumble , tumble , went a stack of chimneys , and Mr. Jorrocks was on the floor in an instant . 
Blast went the wind , and in came his window -- `` Vot next ? 
as the frog said when his tail dropped off , '' exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , wondering what was going to happen -- over went the looking-glass , which was dashed to atoms , two five-pound notes were whisked about the room , and the clothes-horse came clattering among the jugs . 
`` It 's a confounded wind , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , running after the five pound notes , `` wonder wot 's the meanin ' of it all -- fear th ' ` ounds will be werry wild , '' recollecting that they were to meet at the `` World Turned Upside Down , '' on the Hookem-Snivey road . 
`` This is summut new at all ewents , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , eyeing a large laurel torn up by the roots in the garden , `` that tree never had such a hike afore in its life , '' and as he looked , the back-door flew open with a crash that split it from top to bottom . 
`` Wish there may n't be mischief , '' said he , huddling on his dressing-gown and running down-stairs , recollecting there was something about repairs in his agreement . 
Here he found the soot covering the drawing-room carpet , and the kitchen floor strewed with bricks and mortar -- `` Oh dear ! 
oh dear , '' exclaimed he , `` here 's a terrible disaster , five punds worth of damage at least , and , ord rot it ! 
`` Shall never get to the World Turned Upside Down to-day , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , eyeing the scene of desolation , and wishing what he saw might be the extent of the mischief . 
`` Pity to lose a day too , '' added he , thinking it might only be a squall . 
He now sought the refuge of the parlour , but oh ! 
what greeted him there ! 
`` Now blast it , Batsay , '' roared Mr. Jorrocks , as a gust of wind swept a row of china off a chiffonier , `` Now blast it Batsay , vot in the name of all that 's hugly are you arter now ? '' 
screamed Mr. Jorrocks , whisking his dressing-gown round as he spoke ; `` Hair the ` ouse , it 's hairy enough already ! 
saying which , Mr. Jorrocks whisked his dressing-gown the reverse way , and bounced out of the room , lest he might be tempted into the indiscretion of an oath . 
The wind having abated , Mr. Jorrocks thought he might as well make up with her , as a sort of peace-offering to Æolus . 
`` Now , Batsay , '' said he , in a mild agreeable tone , `` I 've never had cause to find fault with you afore , but really on a vindy day like this , it does seem rayther unkind lettin ' old Boreas take the run o ' the ` ouse in -- '' `` It war n't old Borus , '' replied Betsey , colouring brightly . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , hurrying out , `` that confounded young carpenter 's been here again ! 
Whish -- Wha-s-s-sh -- blash -- roar went the wind , as Mr. Jorrocks left the room . 
Stobbs would n't get up , and Mr. Jorrocks got through breakfast alone under very chilly disheartening uncomfortable circumstances . 
`` Well , better luck next time , '' said Mr. Jorrocks to himself , hurrying away from the scene of discomfort . 
inquired he of James , who he found turning the horses round in their stalls , preparing for a start . 
`` It 's werry cold , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , thumping his right hand across his chest . 
repeated Mr. Jorrocks briskly ; `` wot business have you to be cold ? 
The boy still went on blubbering , wiping his eyes with the back of his hands , imparting a little of their dirt to his face . 
Pigg and Benjamin turned their cap 's peak backwards , and Mr. Jorrocks shortened his string two holes . 
Had Mr. Jorrocks guessed it was any thing but a high wind , he would never have gone . 
shouted Mr. Jorrocks , but the wind scattered their voices in all directions . 
They were kept there for ten minutes at least , when Mr. Jorrocks had recourse to his horn , and gave it a twang that brought Tom Take-ticket out in a hurry . 
exclaimed he ; `` is it you , Mr. Jorrocks ? 
`` But I am , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks ; `` and I 'll thank you to hopen the gate . 
Having got his stamps , Tom turned the key in the lock , and a blast blew the gate against the post with a crash that shivered it to splinters . 
exclaimed Jorrocks , eyeing the fallen horseman , `` that 's too bad ! 
Mr. Jorrocks 's horse swerved , and nearly capsized him . 
`` Let 's get shelter , '' said he , making for the yard , `` or ther 'll be mischief , I 'm blow 'd if there wo n't . '' 
`` Mine host , '' Jemmy Lush , or the `` Old World , '' -- as he was familiarly termed -- was almost frantic . 
He , poor man , had retired to rest early , and almost the last thing he did , was to arrange some twigs in the yewtree horse-tail , and train a couple of shoots at the rider 's heels for spurs . 
`` Oh , Mr. Jorrocks ! '' 
exclaimed Jemmy , waddling out of the house in his shirt-sleeves , his tapster 's apron flying up to his bottle nose , displaying the substantial form of his garterless legs , and his breeches open at the knee ; `` Oh , Mr. Jorrocks , I 'm ruined , sir ! 
replied Mr. Jorrocks , cheeringly grasping his hand as he spoke , `` plant another , and I 'll warrant you 'll see it grow . '' 
`` That man and hoss -- '' and here his feelings choked his utterance . 
He would have siad that Mrs. Jemmy and he planted it on their wedding-day , and had long regarded it as their first-born . 
`` Surely no man in his senses will come to ` unt such a day as this , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , slackening his horse 's girths as he spoke ; `` would deserve to have a commission of lunacy taken out again him for his pains if he did . '' 
Leaving Benjamin in the barn , Mr. Jorrocks and Pigg sought the shelter of the house . 
`` I shall never get over it , '' exclaimed he , as Mr. Jorrocks entered , whip in hand : `` ruined , sir ! 
`` Vy the vind has certainlie paid you a hawful wisit , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , looking at the trees lying across each other outside ; `` but it would have been worser if it had broke them . '' 
`` Oh , it 's not them I cares about , '' exclaimed Jemmy , pulling the petticoat about his ears ; `` it 's not them , nor the great oak at the bottom of the field -- kept the sun off the grass ; those are my landlord 's . 
It 's my bush I 'm bad about ; '' and thereupon he pulled the petticoat up to his bottle nose , and burst into tears . 
`` It 's his beautiful bush , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , in a whisper . 
`` Come , cheer up , old buoy , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , soothingly , `` and let 's have a drop o ' comfort . 
He dived into his apron pocket , and ringing the bell , ordered his misses to bring glasses and the bottle . 
With the first glass he said little ; the second , not much more , but the petticoat began to droop from his ears ; and at the third , he had it upon his shoulders . 
`` It 's an ill wind that blows nobody good , '' at length observed he , with a sigh . 
observed Mr. Jorrocks ; adding , `` I s ` pose the tree would be worth summut ? '' 
`` But nothing like so valuable as my bush ; '' and thereupon he heaved a sigh , and pulled the petticoat about his ears . 
Just then a man passed the window , with a couple of horses , and Mr. Jorrocks ran to look at him . 
He was dressed in a very old hat , with a new cockade in it , a faded green neckcloth , a stained red waistcoat , a fustian frock and trousers , with thick shoes and worsted stockings , and wore moustachios . 
He rode a weedy chesnut , and led an unhappy-looking grey , the latter decorated with a running martingale and a noseband , and sundry rings and contrivances . 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks , with great importance . 
`` Captain Smith and Lieutenant Brown , '' replied the soldier-groom saluting him . 
`` It 's all the same to me , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Then you 'd better cut away and meet them , and say that unless good payin ` subscribers , to the amount of thirty pounds , cast up , I shallnt ' cast off ; '' adding , as he wheeled about , `` Do n't think any man with thirty pence he could call his own would turn out such a day as this . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks returned to the parlour , and was beginning a dissertation upon hunting , when Pigg entered the room , with a spade over his shoulder , and addressed Jemmy Lush with -- `` Now gan and water your buss with your tears , ` ars gettin ' it oop again . '' 
The `` Paul Pry '' of that week contained a long list of damage and disasters , and Mr. Jorrocks learnt from the heading of the article that he had been out in a `` terrible hurricane . '' 
In his mem . 
of the day 's doings in his Journal , he adds this passage from his friend Beckford : -- `` Take not out your ` ounds on a werry windy day . '' 
The hounds were to meet there in the morning , and Mr. Jorrocks had written to apprise his unknown host of his coming . 
Being rather late , and having a hack , Mr. Jorrocks had driven a turn faster than usual , and as he cut along the sound drive , the Hall was soon before him . 
Mr. Jorrocks knew all about him , though Mr. Muleygrubs did not know he did . 
`` Quite genteel , I declare , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , eyeing the mansion as he pulled up at the door , and clambered down his vehicle to give the massive bronze helmet-handled bell a pull . 
`` Perfect castle , '' added he ; '' ` opes I shall n't get soused , '' recollecting his last adventure in one . 
The spacious folding-doors were presently opened by an ill-shaped , clumsy-looking youth , in a gorgeous suit of state livery , and a starched neck-cloth , so broad and so stiff as perfectly to pillorise him . 
A quantity of flour concealed the natural colour of his wild matted hair , while the ruddiness of a healthy complexion was heightened by a bright orange-coloured coat , with a white worsted shoulder-knot dangling at the side . 
His waistcoat was a broad blue and white stripe , breeches of scarlet plush , and white silk stockings , rather the worse for wear , as appeared by the darning up the calf ; stoutish shoes , with leather strings , completed the costume of this figure footman . 
said Mr. Jorrocks in his usual free-and-easy way , `` Now , young man ! 
-- See , now , '' continued he , pulling out the gig-seat , `` put that i ' my bed-room , and jest give them ` ere tops a rub over for the mornin ' , '' producing a pair of mud-stained boots that he had worn the last day 's hunting ; `` it wer n't no use bringin ' a clean pair , '' observed he , half to himself and half to the servant , `` for they 'd a ' got crumpled i ' the comin ' and those wo n't take no more cleanin ' . 
`` That way , '' said stiff-neck , extending his left arm like the wand of a telegraph , as he stood with the dirty top-boots in the other , saying which he wheeled about , and re-entered the house , leaving Mr. Jorrocks to find his way as he could . 
`` Here , young man , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , `` jest put up my ` oss afore ever you start to adorn yourself ; and if you take well care of him , I 'll give you ` alf-a-crown i ' the mornin ' . 
He 's a clipped ` un , and wo n't take no cleanin ' , '' continued he , eyeing the smoking , curly-coated brute , and wondering whether the chap would believe him or not . 
This matter being arranged , Mr. Jorrocks ferreted his way back to the front , and , opening the door , passed through the green folding ones of the porch , and entered a hall beyond . 
as Mr. Jorrocks observed . 
`` said Mr. Jorrocks aloud to himself , as be glanced them over . 
A `` Hush , my dear , '' and scuttling along the passage , reminded Mr. Jorrocks that he was not at home , so , dropping his tails ; and pulling his wig straight , he made for the recently opened door . 
This let him into a passage , lighted with flickering , ill-established lamps , along which he kept till he came to a pink sheep-skin mat before a door , at which he paused , and presently turning off , he entered a room , in which he found a lady and a bunch of excited children . 
The former rose , and concluding she would be the `` missis , '' Mr. Jorrocks tendered the hand of fellowship , and then gave each child a chuck under the chin ; nor was he wrong in his conjecture , for Mrs. Marmaduke Muleygrubs immediately began apologising for the absence of her lord . 
Mr. Jorrocks ``` Oped his grace would n't ` urry himself . '' 
`` It was very provoking , '' she continued , without regarding Mr. Jorrocks 's observation ; `` but the whole country came to him for justice , and Duke could hardly be said to have a moment to himself . 
Not but that Duke 's affection for the Queen would prompt him to serve her as long as he could , but -- '' Just as she had got so far , the door opened , and Duke himself appeared , smoothing down his cuffs after the exercise of his magisterial functions . 
He was a little , round-about , pot-bellied , red-faced , bald-headed , snub-nosed , chattering chap , who , at first sight , would give one the idea of being very good-natured , if it were not notorious that he was the most meddling , officious , ill-conditioned little beggar in the county . 
`` Mr. Jorrocks , I presume , '' said he , rubbing his fat hands as he advanced up the room . 
`` replied our Master , extending his hand . 
`` Make no apology , '' interrupted Mr. Jorrocks ; `` where there 's ceremony there 's no frindship . '' 
`` Not I , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks carelessly ; `` never was in any commission , save one , as agent for Twankay 's mexed teas , and a precious commission it was -- haw ! 
He intended to patronise Mr. Jorrocks , whereas the latter seemed to think himself on a perfect footing of equality . 
But then Duke did n't know that Mr. Jorrocks knew about the stays . 
Pulling out a great gold watch , our host asked his wife what time they dined . 
-LRB- Duke included the kitchen department in his magisterial functions . -RRB- 
`` Half-past six , my dear , '' replied his wife , with great humility . 
`` Never touch lunches , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , disdainfully . 
Wonder you do n't dine at a reasonable hour , though , '' added he . 
observed Mr. Jorrocks ; `` for I 'm well-nigh famished as it is . 
muttered Mr. Jorrocks , chucking the costly volume down ; adding , aloud to himself , `` Wot business ha ' you wi ' Peerages , I wonder ? '' 
`` Well , now then , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , turning short round and buttonholeing his host , while he looked at him as Muleygrubs would at an unwilling witness ; `` Well , now then , tell me ` bout the foxes -- ` ave you plenty on 'em ? '' 
`` That 's good , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , winking and poking him in the ribs ; `` that 's good -- for though I 'm ` appy to dine wi ' people , yet still the ` unt is the real thing I comes for ; and I always says to folks wot ask me to stir hup their covers , ` Now , do n't let us ` ave any ` umbug . 
Mr. Jorrocks , having thus broken the ice , proceeded , in a most energetic manner , to give Mr. Muleygrubs his opinions upon a variety of subjects connected with the chase , the breeding and rearing of hounds , the difference of countries , the mischief of too much interference , killing above ground and digging , uncertainty of scent , signs and indications , with a glance at the impositions of keepers , all of which , being Hebrew to Mrs. Muleygrubs , and very nearly Hebrew to her husband , caused her to slink quietly away with her chicks , leaving her husband to the mercy of the `` extraordinary man '' he had been so indiscreet as invite . 
Poor Mr. Muleygrubs could n't get a word in sideways , and was sitting the perfect picture of despair , when rumble , dumble , dumble , dumble , went a great gong , startling Mr. Jorrocks , who thought it was another hurricane . 
`` An old-fashioned custom we still preserve , '' said Mr. Marmaduke casually , observing Mr. Jorrocks 's astonishment ; `` that gong was brought by one of my ancestors from the holy wars -- shall I show you to your room ? '' 
`` If you please , '' said Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Here 's a fine twopenny ` ead and farthin ' tail , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , whisking his candle about as he examined it . 
The absence of fire , and the coldness of the apartment holding out little inducement for dallying , Mr. Jorrocks was soon in his blue coat and canaries , and returned to the drawing-room just as the stiff-necked boy announced Mr. , Mrs. , and Miss Slowan , who were quickly followed by Mr. and Miss De Green , who apologised for the absence of Mrs. De Green , who was suffering under a violent attack of tic-doloreux . 
He then wheeled out , and placed himself at the head of a line of servants , formed by the gentleman Mr. Jorrocks had seen in the yard ; a square-built old man , in the Muleygrubs livery of a coachman ; Mr. De Green 's young man in pepper-and-salt , with black velveteens ; and Mr. Slowan 's ditto , in some of his master 's old clothes . 
Muleygrubs -LRB- who was now attired in a Serjeant 's coat , with knee-buckled breeches and black silk stockings -RRB- offered his arm to Mrs. Slowan , Mr. De Green took Miss Slowan , the Professor paired off with Miss De Green , and Mr. Jorrocks brought up the rear with Mrs. Muleygrubs , leaving Jacob Jones and Mr. Slowan to follow at their leisure . 
observed Mr. Jorrocks , as they passed along the line ; adding , `` You come it strong ! '' 
Well , I does n't know ` bout that , '' grunted Mr. Jorrocks , forcing his way up the room seizing and settling himself into a chair on his hostess right ; `` Well , I does n't know ` bout that , '' repeated he , arranging his napkin over his legs , `` women waiters again the world , say I ! 
`` I 'll tell you a rum story about grace , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks to Mrs. Muleygrubs , as he settled himself into his seat , and spread his napkin over his knees . 
Mrs. Muleygrubs either did not understand the story , or was too intent upon other things ; at all events , Mr. Jorrocks 's haw ! 
Mr. Jorrocks said he did n't like the latter , it always reminded him of `` a cold in the ` ead . '' 
The pea-soup he thought werry like oss-gruel ; -- that he kept to himself . 
Mr. Jorrocks 's countenance fell five-and-twenty per cent. , as he would say . 
He very soon despatched one of the six pieces of skate , and was just done in time to come in for the tail of the haddock . 
`` The Duke ` illcome on badly for fish , I 'm thinkin ' , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , eyeing the empty dishes as they were taken off . 
`` Oh , Marmaduke do n't eat fish , '' replied Mrs. M. `` Oh , I does n't mean your Duke , but the Duke o ' Rutland , '' rejoined Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Nothin ' left for Manners , I mean , mum , '' explained Mr. Jorrocks , pointing to the empty dish . 
Mr. Jorrocks asked Mrs. Muleygrubs to take wine , and having satisfied himself that the sherry was bad , he took My-dearer , which was worse . 
`` Bad ticket , I fear , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks aloud to himself , smacking his lips . 
growled Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Are you a hard rider , Mr. Jorrocks ? '' 
now asked his hostess , still thinking anxiously of her dinner . 
`` Come that 's more like the thing , '' said Mr. Jorrocks aloud to himself , eyeing the procession . 
said Mr. Jorrocks to himself , half inclined to have a mental bet on the subject . 
`` May be saddle o'mutton and chickens , '' continued he , pursuing the speculation . 
`` You 've lots o ' plate , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks to Mrs. Muleygrubs , glancing down the table . 
Stiffneck now proceeded to uncover , followed by his comrade . 
He began at his master , and , giving the steam-begrimed cover a flourish in the air , favoured his master 's bald head with a hot shower-bath . 
Under pretence of admiring the pattern , Mr. Jorrocks had taken a peep under the side-dish before him , and seeing boiled turnips , had settled that there was a round of beef at the bottom of the table . 
ejaculated Mr. Jorrocks , involuntarily . 
inquired Mr. Muleygrubs of his wife . 
`` Yes , my dear , '' responded his obedient half . 
``` Murder most foul , as in the best it is ; But this most foul , base , and unnattaral , ''' muttered Mr. Jorrocks , running his fork through the breast of the unhappy turkey . 
replied Mr. Jorrocks ; `` ding dong 's French for turkey . '' 
`` Are yours good hounds , Mr. Jorrocks ? '' 
now asked the lady , thinking how awkwardly he was carving . 
added our friend , with a broad grin of delight on his ruddy face . 
asked he , holding nearly half of it up on the fork preparatory to putting it on his own plate . 
Mr. Jorrocks was not the only person who wondered `` what had set him there . '' 
`` Are yours greyhounds , Mr. Jorrocks ? '' 
The turkey being only very so-so , and the rein-deer tongue rather worse , Mr. Jorrocks did not feel disposed to renew his acquaintance with either , and placing his knife and fork resignedly on his plate , determined to take his chance of the future . 
He remembered that in France the substantials sometimes did not come till late on . 
Stiffneck , seeing his idleness , was presently at him with the dish of mince . 
Mr. Jorrocks eyed it suspiciously , and then stirred the sliced lemon and meat about with the spoon . 
He thought at first of taking some , then he thought he would n't , then he fixed he would n't . 
`` No , '' said he , `` no , '' motioning it away with his hand , `` no , I likes to chew my own meat . '' 
The rissoles were then candidates for his custom . 
`` Large marbles , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks aloud to himself -- '' large marbles , '' repeated he , as he at length succeeded in penetrating the hide of one with a spoon . 
`` Might as well eat lead , '' observed he aloud , sending them away too . 
`` I often thinks now , '' observed he , turning to his hostess , `` that it would be a good thing , mum , if folks would ` gree to give up these stupid make-believe side-dishes , mum , for nobody ever eats them , at least if they do they 're sure to come off second best , for no cuk that ever was foaled can do justice to sich a wariety of wittles . '' 
but , Mr. Jorrocks , how could you send up a dinner properly without them ? '' 
`` The great Duke o ' Wellington -- no ` fence to the present one , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , with a low bow to the table -- `` who , I 'm proud to say gets his tea o ' me too , -- the great Duke o'Wellington , mum , used to say , mum , that the reason why one seldom got a hegg well biled was , 'cause the cuk was always a doin ' summut else at the same time , and that hobservation will apply purty well to most cuking hoperations . '' 
`` Well , then , you 'd have no plate on the table , I presume , Mr. Jorrocks ? '' 
`` Plate on the table , mum -- plate on the table , mum , '' repeated Mr. Jorrocks , with the same provoking prolixity , `` why I really does n't know that plate on the table 's of any great use . 
observed Mr. Jorrocks , eyeing it , thinking if he could help himself he might yet manage to make up his lee-way : `` thought there was dark puddins comin ' , '' observed he to his hostess . 
`` Never saw it afore , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks . 
Mr. Marmaduke helped the pie very sparingly , just as he had seen the butler at Onger Castle helping a pâté de fois gras ; and putting as much on to a plate as would make about a mouthful and a half to each person , he sent Stiffneck round with a fork to let people help themselves . 
Fortunately for Mr. Jorrocks , neither Mr. nor Miss De Green , nor Miss Slowan nor Mr. Muleygrubs took any , and the untouched plate coming to him , he very coolly seized the whole , while the foot-boy returned to the dismayed Mr. Muleygrubs for more . 
`` Well , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , `` I 've no objection -- none wotever -- only , while these clumsey chaps o ' yours are runnin ' agin each other with it , the wittles are coolin ' -- that 's all , '' said our Master , placing half a partridge on a plate , and delivering it up to go on its travels . 
Thinking it cut well , Mr. Jorrocks placed the other half on his own plate , and taking a comprehensive sweep of the crumbs and bread sauce , proceeded to make sure of the share by eating a mouthful of it . 
He need not have been alarmed , for no one came for any , and he munched and cranched hi portion in peace . 
He then eat the snipe almost at a bite . 
`` What will you take next , Mr. Jorrocks ? '' 
asked his hostess , disgusted at his rapacity . 
`` Thank ` ee , mum , thank ` ee , '' replied he , munching and clearing his mouth ; `` thank ` ee , mum , '' added he , `` I 'll take breath if you please , mum , '' added he , throwing himself back in his chair . 
`` Have you killed many hares , Mr. Jorrocks ? '' 
now asked his persevering hostess , who was sitting on thorns as she saw an entering dish of blancmange toppling to its fall . 
`` responded our Master , vehemently , for he had an angry letter in his pocket from Captain Slaughter 's keeper , complaining bitterly of the recent devastation of his hounds -- a calamity that of course the keeper made the most of , inasmuch as friend Jorrocks , as usual , had forgotten to give him his `` tip . '' 
During this interval , our Master having thrust his hands deep in the pockets of his canary-coloured shorts , reconnoitered the table to see who would either ask him to take wine , or who he should honour that way ; but not seeing any very prepossessing phiz , and recollecting that Mrs. J. had told him the good old-fashioned custom was `` wulgar , '' he was about to help himself from a conveniently-placed decanter , when Stiffneck , seeing what he was at , darted at the decanter , and passing behind Mr. Jorrocks 's chair , prepared to fill to his holding , when , missing his aim , he first sluiced our Master 's hand , and then shot a considerable quantity of sherry down his sleeve . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , furiously indignant ; `` Rot ye , do ye think I 'm like Miss Biffin , the unfortunate lady without harms or legs , that I ca n't ` elp myself ? '' 
continued he , dashing the wet out of his spoon cuff . 
`` Now , that 's the wust o ' your flunkey fellers , '' continued he in a milder tone to Mrs. Muleygrubs , as the laughter the exclamation caused had subsided . 
`` That 's the wust o'your flunkey fellers , '' repeated he , mopping his arm ; `` they know they 'd never be fools enough to keep fellers to do nothin ' , and so they think they must be constantly meddlin ' . 
Now , your women waiters are quite different , '' continued he ; `` they only try for the useful , and not for the helegant . 
`` But you surely could n't expect ladies to be waited upon by women , Mr. Jorrocks , '' exclaimed his astonished hostess . 
`` I would though , '' replied our Master , firmly , with a jerk of his head -- `` I would though -- I 'd not only ` ave them waited upon by women , but I 'd have them served by women i ' the shops , ` stead o ' those nasty dandified , counter-skippin ' Jackanapes 's , wot set up their himperences in a way that makes one long to kick 'em . '' 
`` How 's that , Mr. Jorrocks ? '' 
asked the lady with a smile , at his ignorance . 
as if a woman 's -- I beg pardon -- a lady 's wants were never to be satisfied -- Oh dear , and with Christmas a comin ' on , '' shuddered Mr. Jorrocks , with upraised hands ; `` wot a lot o ' squabbles and contentions ` illshortly be let loose upon the world -- bonnets , ribbons , sarsnets , bombazeens , things that the poor paymasters expected ` ad come out of the ` ouse money , or been paid for long ago . '' 
While Mr. Jorrocks was monopolising the attention of the company by the foregoing domestic `` lector '' as it may be called , the denounced domestics were clearing away the sweets , and replacing them with a dish of red herrings , and a very strong-smelling , brown soapey-looking cheese . 
Mr. Jorrocks , '' exclaimed his host , up the table ; `` good cheese , eh ? '' 
`` Excellent cheese , do n't you think so , Mr. Jorrocks ? '' 
The first glare of light being out of their eyes , they proceed to distribute themselves according to their respective notions of good-natured faces ; Magdalene Margery going to Mrs. Slowan , Leonora Lucretia to Miss De Green , and Victoria Jemima to Mr. Jorrocks , who forthwith begins handling her as he would a hound . 
asks he , mistaking her sex . 
Mr. Jorrocks -- `` Charmin ' child ! '' 
asked he ; ``` Gravity , ' -- ` Notable , ' -- ` Habigail , ' -- ` Mischief , ' p ` r ` aps ? '' 
added he , running over the names of some of his lady hounds . 
`` Ah , Wictoria Jemima , '' repeated Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Werry purty names both on 'em , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` How many children have you , Mr. Jorrocks ? '' 
now asked the lady thinking to pay him off for some of his gaucheries . 
N6201075 `` ` Ow many chi-e-l-dren ` ave I , mum , '' repeated Mr. Jorrocks , thoughtfully . '' 
`` Oh dear , I 'm afraid you 've been a sad mischievous boy , Mr. Jorrocks , '' observed the lady , motioning Stiffneck to put the almond-backed spongecake rabbit straight on the table . 
Apples , pears , foreign grapes , all sorts of unwholesome fruit , having been duly handed round , the wine next set out on its travels ; and Mr. Jorrocks , who had looked in vain for a water-biscuit , again turned his attention to the now lip-licking child . 
`` Well , my little dear , '' said he , stroking down her head , and then tempting her to rise to a piece of sponge-cake held above her nose , `` well , my little dear , '' repeated he , giving her it , `` do you like barley-sugar ? '' 
Mr. Jorrocks -- `` Ah , sugar candy ; sugar candy 's grand stuff . 
Mr. Jorrocks -- `` A commercial gen ` leman , my dear . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks -LRB- with humility -RRB- -- `` No ; not a great gempleman like Pa. . 
He 's a Peerage man , I 'm only a Post Hoffice Directory one , '' Mr. Jorrocks looking slyly at his host as he said it . 
`` Howsomever , never mind , '' continued our Master , helping himself liberally as the fleet of bottles again anchored before him , `` Howsomever , never mind , when you comes to see me at Andley Cross , I 'll give you a pund o ' sugar candy , and show you my ` ounds , '' added he , passing the bottles . 
Mr. Jorrocks being the stranger , the politeness of the party was directed to him . 
inquired Professor Girdlestone , cornering his chair towards Professor Jorrocks . 
`` In course I ` ave , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks ; `` I ` unts the country , and am in all parts of it at times -- ven I goes out of a mornin ' I does n't know where I may be afore night . '' 
continued he : `` what opportunities you have of surveying nature in all her moods , and admiring her hidden charms ! 
The -- '' `` I ran a fox into them werry rocks , I do believe , '' interrupted Mr. Jorrocks , brightening up . 
The geological formation -- '' `` Oh , I does n't know nothin ' about the geo-nothin ' formation o ' the thing , '' interposed Mr. Jorrocks hastily , `` nor does I care ; I minds the top was soft enough , as most tops are , but it got confounded ` ard lower down , and we broke a pick-axe , a shovel , and two spades afore we were done , for though in a general way I 'm as indifferent ` bout blood as any one , seein ' that a fox well fund w ' e me is a fox as good as killed , and there is not never no fear o ' my ` ounds bein ' out o ' blood , for though I says it , who p ` raps should n't , there 's no better ` untsman than I am , but some'ow this begger had riled me uncommon , ` avin ' most pertinaciously refused to brik at the end o ' the cover I wanted , and then took me a dance hup the werry steepest part o ' Higham Hill , ` stead o ' sailing plisantly away over Somerby water meadows , and so on to the plantations at Squerries -- '' `` That 's the very place I 've been cudgelling my brains the whole of this blessed day to remember , '' exclaimed the Professor , flourishing his napkin . 
`` interrupted Mr. Jorrocks , `` I wish I 'd ` ad a bucket on it wi ' me , for I really believe I should ha ' got the fox , for though I holds with Beckford , that ` ounds ` ave no great happetite for foxes longer nor they 're hangry with 'em , yet in a houk , as we expects each dig to be the last , one forgets while one 's own hanger 's risin , that theirs is coolin ' , and though we worked as if we were borin ' for a spring -- '' `` That 's very strange ! '' 
Now I as a justice of the peace of our sovereign lady the Queen -- perhaps you are not in the Commission of the Peace , are you , Mr. Jorrocks ? '' 
`` Not I , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , carelessly . 
interrupted Mr. Jorrocks ; `` give us the wine , and let 's have a toast : wot say you to fox ' - unting ? '' 
`` Do , '' exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks eagerly , `` and take to ` unting instead , -- make you an honorary member of my ` unt , -- far finer sport than sittin ' in a ` ot shop with your ` at on ; ``` Better to rove in fields for ` ealth unbought , Than fee the Doctor for a nauseous draught . 
The wine circulated languidly , and Mr. Jorrocks in vain tried to get up a conversation on hunting . 
`` rejoined Mr. Jorrocks , encouragingly . 
`` Rayther not , thank ye , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , `` not the stuff for me . 
-- By the way now , I should think , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , with an air of sudden enlightenment , `` that some of those old ancient hancestors o ' yours have been found o ' claret . '' 
`` Does n't know , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , musingly , `` but I never hears your name mentioned without thinking o ' small claret . 
-LRB- ruse , -RRB- exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , putting his forefinger to his nose , and winking at Mr. De Green -- '' gone to the cellar . '' 
``` Ungry as when I sat down , '' remarked Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Little savage , '' rejoined mr. Jorrocks , `` should like to make a drag of him for my ` ounds . '' 
Having resumed his seat , Mr. Jorrocks rose and with great gravity addressed him as follows : -- `` Sir , in your absence we have ` ad the plissur o ' drinkin ' your werry good ` ealth , coupled with the expression of an ` ope that the illustrious ` ouse of Muleygrubs may long flourish in these your ancestral and baronial ` alls , '' a sentiment so neat and so far from the truth as to draw down the mirth-concealing applause of the party . 
`` Mr. Jorrocks and gentlemen , '' said Mr. Muleygrubs , rising after a proper lapse of time , and holding a brimmer of wine in his hand , `` Mr. Jorrocks and gentlemen , '' repeated he , `` if any thing can compensate a public man for the faithful performance of an arduous and difficult office -- increased by the prolixity of the laws and the redundancy of the statute-book , it is the applause of upright and intelligent men like your-selves -LRB- hear , hear -RRB- . 
He who would administer the laws faithfully and impartially , needs the hinward harmour of an approving conscience , with the houtward support of public happrobation -LRB- hear , hear -RRB- . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks ; `` you speak like Cicero ! '' 
`` Gentlemen , '' said Mr. Muleygrubs , looking very indignantly at Mr. Jorrocks , `` I thank you for the honour you have done me in drinking my health , and beg to drink all yours in return . '' 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks , with a malicious grin , after Mr. Muleygrubs had subsided into his seat . 
said Mr. Jorrocks , `` that 's the gent to whom we 're so much indebted for reformin ' our street cabs . 
Mr. Jorrocks then proceeded to compare the different expense of town transit , and , with the subject apparently well in hand , was suddenly done out of it by the stone-professor on his mentioning the subject of water-carriage . 
That 's ` ow chaps brick their necks , '' added he . 
He was the founder of our family , and -- '' `` Then , let 's drink his ` ealth , '' interposed Mr. Jorrocks , finding the wine did not circulate half as fast as he could wish . 
`` A werry capital cock , and every way worthy of his line ; '' saying which he seized the decanter , and filled himself a bumper . 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks , pointing to the portrait next Sir Jonathan , a Roman senator-looking gentleman , wrapped in a loose pink and white robe . 
`` Well , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , knowingly , `` that 's no reason why it should not be his great-grandfather too ; I should say our ` ost 's werry like Shakespeare , partiklar about the ` ead -- and , if I recollects right , Shakespeare said summut about justices o ' the peace too . '' 
muttered Mr. Jorrocks , buzzing the bottle . 
`` Have n't had half a drink ; Here 's good sport for to-morrow '' said he , sipping his wine . 
`` You ` unt with us , in course , '' observed he to the professor . 
`` Oh , indeed , no , '' said Professor Girdlestone , `` that is quite out of my line ; I am engaged to meet Mr. Lovel Lightfoot , the eminent geologist , to examine the tertiary strata of -- '' `` Well , then , '' interrupted Mr. Jorrocks , `` all I 've got to say is , if you meet the fox , do n't ` ead him ; '' saying which he drained his glass , threw down his napkin , and strutted out of the room , muttering something about justices , jackasses , and fossil fools . 
`` Weary of state without the machinery of state , '' Mr. Jorrocks gladly took his chamber-candle to retire to his twopenny head and farthing tail . 
No reproving nightmare censured Mr. Jorrocks for over-night indulgence , and he awoke without the symptoms of a headache . 
His top-boots had got the mud washed off , and his red coat and drab shags stood invitingly at the bed-foot . 
He was soon in them and downstairs . 
`` Good morning , Mr. Jorrocks ! '' 
exclaimed our J. P. , with extended hand ; `` I fear you 've not slept well , you are down so early ; hope the bed was comfortable , best in the house , barring -- '' `` O , quite comfey , thank ye , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks ; `` only I have had as much of it as I want , and thought I 'd have a turn round your place afore breakfast . 
``` There is a freshness in the mornin ' hair , And life , what bloated ease can never ` ope to share ; ''' replied Mr. Jorrocks . 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks . 
A peacock on each of those towers would look noble , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , turning to the castle as they sauntered along the garden . 
`` Down upon them , I think , '' chuckled Mr. Muleygrubs to Mr. Jorrocks , as they returned to the house . 
observed Mr. Jorrocks , inquiringly . 
`` Dress the poliss up as flunkeys , I s ` pose , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` No doubt it is , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , adding , aloud to himself , as the bearings of the case crossed his mind , `` and the best thing for the thief too . 
In the present instance the police were not of much avail , for the weavers , having seen the justice into his castle , pocketed the hammerheads and cut their sticks . 
`` We always go to the people of the first consequence first , '' replied the churchwarden , in a tone more directed to Mr. Jorrocks than to Mr. Muleygrubs . 
This was a clencher -- proclaimed in his own baronial hall , in the presence of Mr. Jorrocks , as the greatest man and largest landowner in the parish , was something . 
`` Well , '' said he , with a relaxing brow , `` put me down for a couple of guineas . '' 
exclaimed Mr. Muleygrubs , hastily pushing the purveyor of ancestors aside , and drawing Mr. Jorrocks onward to the breakfast-room . 
`` Come , there 's plenty to eat , at all ewents , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks aloud to himself , as he advanced to greet Mrs. Muleygrubs , and give the little Muleygrubs the morning chuck under the chin . 
`` S'pose you 've a party comin ' this mornin ' , '' continued he , looking at the cups , and then pulling out his watch ; `` five minutes to ten by ` Andley Cross , '' said he : '' ` ounds will be here in twenty minutes -- Pigg 's werry punctual . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks said , `` Nothin ' could be more proper . '' 
Five minutes elapsed , and he looked again at his watch , Reader , if you are a non-fox-hunting housekeeper , and ever entertain fox-hunters , never let them wait for their breakfasts . 
asked Mr. Jorrocks , impatiently , as Mr. Muleygrubs entered the room after his deal for the ancestor ; '' ` ounds 'll be here in no time . '' 
`` ` Deed but there is , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks ; `` punctuality is the purliteness o ' princes , and I does n't like keepin ' people waitin ' . '' 
Meanwhile Mr. Jorrocks worked away at his breakfast , first at the solids , then at the sweets , diversified with a draught at the fluids . 
Mr. Jorrocks looked at his watch , and the children raise a cry of `` Here they come ! '' 
as James Pigg and Benjamin were seen rounding a belt of trees , with the hounds clustered at Pigg 's horse 's heels , while a Handley Cross helper on Mr. Jorrocks 's horse assisted to whip in . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks ; `` I 'll give them a Seidlitz pooder a-piece when they gets ` ome . '' 
`` Be bund to say he does , '' grunted Mr. Jorrocks , aloud to himself , with a knowing jerk of his head . 
`` aspirated Mr. Muleygrubs , as if correcting Mr. Jorrocks 's pronunciation : `` Is it possible you know all their names ? '' 
`` Quite possible , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , making for the window that had just been opened . 
Giving one of his well-known shrill gallery whistles , the pack caught sight of their master , and breaking away , dash through the windows , demolishing the glass , upsetting the children , and seizing all the dainties left on the breakfast-table of Cockolorum Castle . 
Mr. Jorrocks bolted out of the window , and , by dint of whooping and holloaing , aided by the foot-boy 's endeavours , succeeded in drawing off the delinquents , and sending Ben in for his cap , desired him to apologise for not returning to bid his hostess adieu , on the plea that the hounds would be sure to follow him . 
The commotion was not confined to the house , and Ethelred the gardener 's nerves were so shook , that he forgot where to enlarge the bag fox , which he did so clumsily , that the animal , as if in revenge , made straight for his garden , followed by Jorrocks , and the whole train-band bold , who made desperate havoc among the broccoli and winter cabbages . 
The poor , confused , half-smothered brute took refuge up the flue , from whence being at length ejected , our `` indifferent man about blood '' celebrated his obsequies with `` ten miles straight on end '' honours . 
He then made a show of drawing again but as `` P-a-a-r shoots the fox , '' we need not state the result . 
Mr. Jorrocks 's introduction to the `` old customer '' originated in a very bumptious , wide-margined letter from the great Mr. Prettyfat , deputy surveyor of the wretched forest of Pinch-me-near . 
It was always `` her Majesty and I , '' or , `` I will consult with her Majesty 's Ministers , '' or `` my Lords Commissioners of her Majesty 's Treasury , and I think there should be a new hinge to the low gate , '' or , `` the Secretary of the Treasury and I differ about cutting down the shaken oaks on the North-est Dean , as I think they will recover . '' 
In this dilemma , it occurred to him that Jorrocks was the proper person to apply to , and hearing that he was a grocer in the city , who took a subscription to his hounds in the country , he concluded Jorrocks was a better sort of rat-catcher , who they might employ by the day , month , or year , so with the usual contempt of low people for those who make money , he concocted the following foolscapped sheet of impertinence , which he directed `` On her Majesty 's service , '' and sealed , with royal butter-pat sized arms : -- `` Pinch-me-near Forest House . 
`` Sir , `` I am directed by the Right Honourable the Commissioner in charge of her Majesty 's Woods and Forests to desire that you will inform me , for the information of the Right Honourable the Lords Commissioners of her Majesty 's Treasury , what you will undertake to exterminate the foxes in the Royal Forest of Pinch-me-near for ? 
So that the Right Honourable the Commissioner in charge of her Majesty 's Woods and Forests may be enabled to give the Right Honourable the Lords Commissioners of her Majesty 's Treasury their choice as to the mode of proceeding . 
`` To Mr. Jorrocks , `` Handley Cross Spa . '' 
To which Mr. Jorrocks , after a little inquiry , replied as follows : -- `` Diana Lodge , Handley Cross '' `` Dear Prettyfat , `` Yours to hand , and note the contents . 
Now , Mr. Jorrocks 's bagman , Bugginson , or `` representative , '' as he calls himself , had , since his master 's elevation to the fox-hunting throne , affected the sportsman a good deal , dressing in cut-away coats , corduroy trousers , and sometimes even going so far as gosling-green cords and very dark tops , and talking about our ` ounds , our country , and so on , and this great swell strayed incautiously , at half-cock -LRB- for it was after luncheon -RRB- , into Mr. Chaffey 's repository at Muddlesworth , in company with a couple of local swells , when , as bad luck would have it , the worthy auctioneer was dispersing the `` splendid hunting establishment '' of Sir Guy Spanker , under a writ of execution from the Sheriff of Fleetshire . 
Bugginson simpered , chucked up his chin , haw-haw 'd , and thanked him , but was `` only making up his number ; '' and having remained sufficiently long to look as if he was quite unconcerned , he repaired to his hotel , to take another look at the animals , which he thought of turning loose upon the town during the night , when an unfinished letter to his master -- we beg pardon , his `` principal '' -- stating who he had seen , who he had `` drawn , '' who he had been told was `` respectable , '' and who the reverse , caused him to alter his plans , and to add a P.S. , saying he hoped Mr. Jorrocks would allow him to offer him a Christmas box , in the shape of ten couple of very fine fox-hounds , late the property of Sir Guy Spanker , Baronet , which he had had the good fortune to meet with , and which he would forward by the 9.30 A.M. luggage train , with directions to be passed on to the Lily-white Sand Line , by the 11.20 . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , on reading the announcement . 
repeated he , with a hearty slap of his thigh . 
At first he was half inclined to work the wires , and bid Bugginson keep them himself . 
On second thoughts , however , he recollected that rope was cheap enough , and as he was drawing some of his hounds rather fine -LRB- being desperately addicted to bye-days -RRB- , with the Pinch-me-near proposal in hand , he thought they might be worth looking at , perhaps . 
Accordingly , he despatched Pigg to the station , who in due time arrived with what James called `` a cannyish lot o ' hunds , only they had n't getten ne neames , '' names being a thing Bugginson never thought of asking for , or the Sheriff of Fleetshire of supplying . 
These Jorrocks condemned without a hearing , and so reduced the lot to eight couple . 
Mr. Jorrocks told Pigg they were a draft from the Quorn , with a good deal of the Trueman blood in them ; and though James did say he was `` warned they 'd be good for nout , or they wad n't ha ' parted with them at that time of year , '' still the announcement had a very favourable effect in ingratiating them in Pigg 's favour . 
Thus reinforced , Mr. Jorrocks ventured to broach the subject of another bye-day , against which Pigg had lately been protesting , vowing that Jorrocks would have both `` husses and hunds worked off their legs afore he knew where he was . '' 
asked Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` All bog and bother , '' suggested Mr. Jorrocks . 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
Mr. Jorrocks -LRB- in astonishment -RRB- . -RRB- 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , `` wot an age of impruvment this is ! '' 
`` Aye , '' continued Pigg , turning his quid , `` and now they 're gannin ' to growin ' a crop o'pea-sticks on the same grund . '' 
`` I wish they 'd grow faggot sticks , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , `` for Batsey uses an uncommon lot lightin ' the fires ; but ` owsomever , never mind , that 's not the pint -- the pint is , that we 'll go to the forest , and take this new lot of ` ounds , and see wot they 're made on . '' 
`` You on young Hyson , me on Arterxerxes , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Do the great rumblin ' - stomached beggar good , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks ; `` goes jest as if he ` ad a barrel o ' milk churnin ' in his inside . '' 
`` Oh , never fear , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , carelessly , `` there are as good fish in the sea as ever came out on it . 
long , wot ` illpay for one , '' he continued , hustling the silver vigorously in his pantaloon pocket . 
`` Jest so , '' assented Mr. Jorrocks . 
AS if Mr. Jorrocks 's hunting appetite grew by what it fed upon , he passed a very restless , feverish night , dreaming of all sorts of hunting casualties , and greatly diturbing Mrs. Jorrocks 's repose by his evolutions . 
At length , thinking he was throwing down a stone wall , to pick up his fox , he set his feet against her with such force as sent her flying out of bed , and so finished the performance . 
Early as he was , however , Pigg , who had not gone to bed at all , was before him , and when Mr. Jorrocks got down-stairs , he found him at a sumptuous breakfast with Batsey in the back kitchen . 
Setting Pigg off to the stable , Mr. Jorrocks took his place at the table , and rated Batsey soundly for encouraging a man of Pigg 's `` unsteady ` abits . '' 
How the dispute might have ended is doubtful , for in the midst of it Batsey gave Mr. Jorrocks a kidney so hot off the fire , that he burnt his mouth , and as he danced about the kitchen floor , unable to retain it , yet unwilling to give it up , she took advantage of the opportunity and slipped quietly away , to have a cry in her own room . 
It was so dark when Pigg gave Mr. Jorrocks his horse , that our master was obliged to feel along his back to his tail , to be sure that he had n't got hold of Xerxes instead of Arterxerxes ; for though if our friend had been selling him , he would have sworn that Xerxes was far the best of the two -- finest oss wot ever was seen , in fact -- yet an inconvenient jerk he had with his hind-quarters in his jumps , more than counter-balanced any little additional speed he had over Arterxerxes . 
It took Mr. Jorrocks more time to get shuffled back into his saddle after a leap on Xerxes , than Arterxerxes would have lost by his steady laborious plodding , to say nothing of the inconvenience of riding on a horse 's neck , instead of on his back . 
Master and man spurred briskly on , Jorrocks acting whipper-in , and Pigg yoicking and coaxing the hounds to him as best he could . 
They cleared the town , and got to the Whickenby Gate before the ` pike-man was up ; and violent was the clattering , and dread the denunciations that Jorrocks hurled at his white cotton night-capped head , when at length he popped it out to inquire the cause of the row . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks after a careful survey of the now developed scene . 
repeated he , pointing with his ponderous whip towards a dark mass in the distance . 
`` retorted Mr. Jorrocks anxiously , spurring Arterxerxes vehemently , an insult that the animal resented by a duck of his head and a hoist of his heels . 
`` The beggar 's not hup yet I do believe , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , spurring the great splaw-footed Arterxerxes right on to the trimly shaven grass-plot in the centre of the carriage ring . 
Rising in his stirrups , and clearing his throat with a prolonged y-e-a-u-u-p ! 
as he prepared his big whip for execution , he gave such a cannonade of a crack , as sounded through the house and reverberated in the forest . 
replied Mr. Jorrocks , whose ears had served him better . 
`` said Mr. Jorrocks , `` let me talk to ` im . '' 
ejaculated Jorrocks , catching Arterxerxes short round by the head -- `` Lets off ! 
grinned Mr. Jorrocks , pulling short up and standing erect in his stirrups . 
Off with the couples , Pigg , '' added he , turning to James , who was already on the ground disengaging the draft . 
A shrill blast of the horn gets them into a smaller compass , and Mr. Jorrocks trots on preceded by the man , to show him he where last saw the fox . 
Old Ravager first drops his stern , feathers , but speaks not , when one of the new noisy ones immediately gives tongue , and the sage taking a fling in advance , gave something between a squeak and a note , which being immediately endorsed by the rest , they drive with an echoing crash into the thick of the forest . 
asked Mr. Jorrocks , pulling short up , with his hand to his ear . 
`` It 's the confounded hecho , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , still listening attentively . 
`` Then turn them , '' rejoined Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Torn them thysel ' , '' retorted Pigg , dropping his elbows and starting off at a canter . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , eyeing his fast receding huntsman diving into the thicket -- `` Wot 's he a leavin ' me ` ere fore ? '' 
continued he , feeling the desolation of his position . 
`` Wish I may ever find my way out , '' continued he , looking around on the grey unhealthy scene of stunted desolation . 
Jorrocks spurred him , and jagged him , and cropped him , and called him all the great lumberin ' henterprizeless beggars he could think of . 
In the excess of his energy -- he overshot the mark , and kept right on , instead of turning short up a track on the left . 
The one he kept , from a uniformly rotten surface , now became alternately soft and hard , the water standing in the hollows like baths , and these , Arterxerxes , as if suspicious of treachery , commenced leaping , but possibly finding the trouble greater than he expected , he soon took to blundering through them , squirting the muddy water about in all directions . 
Another unmistakable twang , and Mr. Jorrocks determined to alter his course . 
Accordingly he swung Arterxerxes short round , and turned him up another rushy , waterlogged track , that seemed to lead in the direction of the horn . 
`` Blow me tight , '' muttered Mr. Jorrocks , shortening his hold of his horse , `` I wish I may n't be gettin ' bogged , '' and scarcely were the words out of his mouth ere Arterxerxes floundered up to the shoulders in a moss hag , shooting our friend softly over his head on to his side . 
repeated Jorrocks , jerking himself off to the side . 
`` Dash the beggar , '' groaned Jorrocks , as he saw him rolling his great hind quarters away in the distance -- `` Dash the beggar , but I wish I was a top on ` im , I 'd give ` im summut to run for , '' so saying , our Master gathered himself together , and skirting the moss hag , commenced the unpleasant performance of running in top-boots . 
groaned Mr. Jorrocks , as a stitch in his side suddenly stopped him . 
`` ejaculated Mr. Jorrocks , '' there ! 
`` repeated he , as he lay among the rotten fragments . 
He would ride `` his tail off , '' then recollecting how little he had , he `` would ride him till he dropped . '' 
Then he would `` skin him alive , and make his hide into a hair trunk '' -- then he would cut it into whip thongs -- next into shoe-strings -- finally he would give him to `` the first mugger he met . '' 
replied Mr. Jorrocks , eyeing him as though he expected an immediate stand and deliver ; `` Hurt , sir ! 
retorted Mr. Jorrocks , bridling up . 
rejoined Mr. Jorrocks , feeling he had been making a great fool of himself . 
`` In course you can , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks ; `` you can catch my ` oss for me . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
Mr. Jorrocks , brightening up -- `` Wot ! 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` It ` illbe Mr. Jorrocks , I dessay , '' observed the man , with an air of enlightenment . 
`` Indeed , '' mused Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Humph , '' grunted Mr. Jorrocks , not being quite so sure of that . 
`` Let 's at it , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , brightening up . 
`` Honour bright , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks ; `` would n't peach if it was ever so -- '' `` Well , I do n't think any friend of Pigg 's would , '' said the man , gaining courage ; so saying , he wheeled about , and beckoning Jorrocks to follow him , led the way , across the sharp sandy heath , towards a precipitous range of rocks , whose heights commanded an extensive view over the forest and surrounding country . 
you 've nothin ' to fear , '' cried he , seeing Jorrocks stood irresolute , `` there 's no honester man in the world than your humble servant . '' 
This let him into the smuggler 's ante-room , a cold , damp , dropping den , formed from a natural cavity in the rock . 
Mr. Jorrocks stood transfixed . 
He thought he had never seen a greater beauty . 
Mr. Jorrocks did as he was bid , and sat lost in the novelty of the scene , the beauty of the lady , and the savouriness of the pig 's - fry she was cooking . 
`` Much plissur , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , who all of a sudden waxed `` uncommon hungry . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks played a most satisfactory knife and fork , declaring , as he topped up with a heavy cannonade of whiskey , that he could n't have dined better with the Grocers ' Company . 
`` Capital , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , replenishing his glass . 
`` You do me proud , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , returning the salute . 
Mr. Jorrocks next looked towards the lady , who acknowledged the compliment with a sweet glance . 
The smuggler then , as in duty bound , gave the health of his royal partner , the Queen , after which other loyal and patriotic toasts followed , and Mr. Jorrocks gave the ladies generally , adding , as he leered at his hostess , that he `` liked a fine well-flavoured ooman . '' 
He then began to get noisy . 
Then , as he rolled about on his stool , forgetting there was no back to it , he lost his balance , and kicking up the ricketty table with his toes , came heavily down on his back . 
And next day Pigg gave such a wonderful account of the run , and how he would have killed the fox half-a-dozen times if he had only had Jorrocks to help him , that our Master , forgetting all his promises to Diana , very soon had another turn at the forest . 
Mr. Jorrocks 's next adventure in the hunting line originated in a very furious letter from a gentleman , signing himself `` John Gollarfield , farmer , Hardpye Hill , '' complaining bitterly of the devastation of his henroost , and calling loudly for vengeance against the foxes . 
Mr. Jorrocks , arrayed in his best pink , jogged pompously on with his cavalcade , receiving the marked attention of the country . 
Arrived at the hill , he turned into a grass field to give his hounds a roll and hear the news of the day -- how Miss Glancey was after Captain Small -- how Mrs. Buss had captivated old Frill . 
Some thought they were coarse , some thought they were common , but when they heard they were drafts from the Quorn , they were unanimous in thinking they must be good -- especially when Mr. Jorrocks broadly hinted he had given Day ten guineas a couple for them . 
Down he came with a roar that shook the earth to the very centre , and sent the field flying in all directions . 
Mr. Jorrocks , who was on foot among his hounds , immediately rushed to his horse , which Ben had let loose , but making a bad shot at the stirrup , he became a point d' appui for the bull , who after him with a vigour and determination that looked very like a finisher . 
And having succeeded by the aid of gates in placing a couple more inclosures between them , Mr. Jorrocks sought a rising ground from which he thought over the magnitude of his adventure , and how he would like to have Leech to draw him taking the leap . 
And having gained breath as he magnified it , and having duly congratulated himself upon his escape , he out with his horn and blew his hounds together , leaving Hardpye Hill as he came , and entering among the anathemas in his Journal the following : -- `` Con-found all farmers say I , wot do n't tie up their bulls ! '' 
Pigg , who had just paid his second morning visit to the hen , did not make any decided objection to the proposal , backed as it was by Mr. Jorrocks 's plausible observation , that at that critical season of the year it `` be'oved them to get every day they possibly could , '' and it was not until they reached the Copperchink Gate , and Pigg pressed a sovereign on the woman 's acceptance for the toll , desiring her , when told to wait for his change , to `` keep it , '' adding , that their '' ` ard maister had plenty o ' brass , '' that Jorrocks was aware how matters stood . 
Recollecting , however , the `` Cat and Custard-pot '' scene , Mr. Jorrocks did not make any observation , but quietly getting his silver , trotted on as if it was `` all right , '' hoping Pigg would sober as he went . 
At length Mr. Jorrocks got him raised and scraped , and stuck straight on his horse , and they proceeded on their course together . 
Arrived at the wood , Mr. Jorrocks , thinking the best plan would be to humour him , said if Pigg would go one way , he would go the other , which James assenting to , the hounds dashed into cover , and master and man proceeded to `` yoicks '' and crack their whips , having the hounds in a widening space between them . 
The wood was thick and rough , and as Jorrocks proceeded , Pigg 's unearthly notes gradually died out , and our Master had all the noise to himself . 
cried Jorrocks , fishing at him with his whip as he approached , which only caused the horse to start and rush past him at a gallop . 
`` W-h-o-a-y , my man , '' roared Jorrocks , as the horse went scuttling down the ride without rhyme or reason . 
`` Con-found the hanimal , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , as he eyed him staring about from side to side with the reins all dangling about his feet . 
`` Con-found the hanimal , '' repeated he , `` was there ever sich a daft divil as that ? 
Well , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , spurring on to where Lavender was feathering , -- `` well , needs must when a certain old gen ` lman drives , but if I ` ad my own way , it would be ` ` ome , sweet ` ome , ' for me . 
for anything that any body likes to say , '' continued our Master , staring his eyes out as he gets his horse short by the head . 
continued he , as a great banging hare bounced out of the wood , and took down the ride with Lavender full cry after her , and Jorrocks cracking his whip full cry after Lavender . 
At length he stopped her , and taking advantage of the partial scoring to cry off the hounds , he out with his horn and blew a shrill reverberating blast that drew out the rest , and away he rode with the hounds all clustering about his horse 's heels as if he was going to lay them on to a scent , but in reality to get them out of cover . 
The horn operated doubly , for a smock-frocked countryman , having caught Pigg 's horse , came cantering up to its sound , and Jorrocks and he were presently on the Woodford and Handley Cross road . 
Promising the man half a crown and his dinner for seeing him safe home , Mr. Jorrocks started away at a brisk trot , hoping he was getting rid of Pigg for good . 
The justice , seeing the maudlin state he was in , humoured the application , but pretending it would be necessary , in consequence of a recent decision , that a man may help himself to a horse to forward him on a journey , to see that Mr. Jorrocks had not taken it for that purpose , he got Pigg into his dog-cart and had him driven over to Handley Cross . 
And when Mr. Jorrocks reproved him for his improprieties , he replied that he -LRB- Jorrocks -RRB- `` had ne business out a hontin ' on a drinkin ' day . '' 
`` Humph , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , reading it at breakfast as he dry-shaved his chin , `` Humph -- got to the end of his tether has he ? 
Loopline , with its piles of dirty snow and yards of icicles , looked very different to what it did on Mr. Jorrocks 's former visit , and even Castors seemed greatly the worse for wear . 
asked Jorrocks , greeting him familiarly as he found him pacing restlessly up and down the stable yard . 
`` You do n't say so , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks compassionately , `` why do n't you take a leetle o ' the old remedy -- ` ot with -- '' `` Ah , ` ot with , '' sighed Castors with a shake of his head , as he fixed his watery grey eyes earnestly on Jorrocks , to see if he was not one of the many customers with whom he drunk for the `` good of the house . '' 
repeated he , as if nothing loth to try the remedy . 
said Mr. Jorrocks , producing a sample as he spoke . 
`` Oh , it 's Mr. Jorrocks ! '' 
now exclaimed Castors brightening up , `` It 's Mr. Jorrocks , -- you 'd get a bill from me , sir , did n't ye ? 
`` Ah , ` osses , indeed , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` No time this for buying ` osses , old bouy -- glass down to fecit -- country bund hup in a hiron frost and like to continue under snow for the next two months ; '' Mr. Jorrocks breathing heavily on the bright pure atmosphere as he spoke . 
`` Never know 'd it stand when it was so desp ` rate ` ard , '' added he , with a heavy emphasis on the `` desp ` rate . '' 
How he wished the Captain had gone to the Cross Keys , the White Hart , any house but his . 
`` You 'd better look at the tea , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , still holding the sample out on the palm of his hand , `` Tea ` illbe hup you 'll see , and you 'd better buy afore it rises . 
`` Well , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , pocketing the sample , and buttoning his brown bear cloth jacket comfortably up to the throat , `` I 'll go into the town and see what I can do with the grocers there ; '' so saying he swaggered off , without noticing Castors ' exclamation of `` You 'll be back to the sale then ! 
At length the hammer fell on both the proud animals , and on Flaps , the saddler of Loopline , declaring his principal , Mr. Jorrocks was found to be the purchaser of both Talavera at twenty-eight and Corunna at thirty pounds . 
Mr. Jorrocks then adjourned to inaugurate his purchase with brandy and water , and let Castors know what a great man he really was . 
Mr. Jorrocks , however , mollified him with the old specific , and also succeeded in selling him a couple of chests of tea , Lapsang Souchong and strong Congou -- which he managed to deduct from the price of the horses . 
And Handley Cross being reduced to a state of perfect torpor by the frost , the news that old Jackey , as they profanely called Mr. Jorrocks , had bought some new nags , was a great accommodation , and drew divers parties to the station to criticise them as they came . 
why , faith , Barney , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , raising his eyebrows , puffing out his cheeks , dangling his seals , and looking the very essence of good-natured innocent simplicity ; `` oh ! 
So saying , Mr. Jorrocks passed his purchase to his friend , who felt flattered by the favour , and complimented Pigg with a sovereign . 
The storm weighed heavily on Mr. Jorrocks 's spirits , and James Pigg d -- d the south country , and swore `` they never had seck weather i ' the north . '' 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , brightening up ; `` somehow the day feels softer ; but the hair generally is after a fall . 
`` Ah , that 's all werry good talkin ' , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , shaking his head , and jingling the silver in his breeches-pocket ; `` that 's werry good talkin ' , '' repeated he , `` but there are sich things as osses necks to be considered . '' 
`` Do n't know , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , smiling at his huntsman 's keenness . 
`` Ah , the missis is nothin ' , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , `` had Gabriel been there it would have been summut like ; good bird Mrs. Junks , but has ` nt Gabey 's delicate perception ` bout the weather -- follows -- never takes a lead . 
So saying , our master drew on his American overshoes , and returned to the consolations of the cupboard . 
Despite Mr. Jorrocks ' opinion of her , Mrs. Junks was a true prophet . 
His crest was erect , his neck feathers slightly ruffled , and as he lifted one foot and then the other out of the snow , there was an air of comfort in his walk that told of other feelings than that of frost -- Mr. Jorrocks went out at the back-door in his slippers , and poking his finger into the snow , proclaimed it was a thaw -- a large drop splashing on his wig confirmed the judgment -- spouts began to trickle , then to run , sewers to overflow , streets stood in snowbroth , and the prospect of a return to verdure and animation was the only consolation for wet-footed walkers . 
Mr. Jorrocks soon began to wax uncommonly eager , and he , who had reproved Pigg 's ardour , now in turn proposed a day -- a quiet bye , just by their two selves to see '' ` ow the country looked and when they could begin to advertise . '' 
And as luck would have it , they fell in with a high-conditioned old flyer , who led Pigg such a dance as never was seen , and left Mr. Jorrocks stuck in a snow wreath in Eastfieldlane , out of which he had to be dug at an expense of seven shillings , the tinkers who found him refusing to put in a spade until he said what he 'd give . 
That cooled our master 's courage for a week , at the end of which time , things got into working order , and the establishment soon assumed such a form as tempted Mr. Jorrocks into the indiscretion disclosed in the following chapter . 
The great Mr. Ego having exalted the horns of the principal hunts in the kingdom , was now spending his time pleasantly between London and Paris -- living at Calais -- from whence he emerged at short notice to attend buttering matches in England ; and the glowing account he gave of some great man 's establishment , caused Mr. Jorrocks to pant for that enduring fame which statuary and stationary best can give . 
Accordingly he made the overture contained in the following letter : -- `` Dear Mr. Hego , `` If your intercourse with Dukes and other great guns o ' the world , leaves any margin for the doin 's of the pop-guns o ' the chase , I shall be werry ` appy if you will come here and take a look at our most provincial pack . 
The following is Mr. Ego 's answer : -- `` Dear Mr. Jorrocks , -- `` You remind me of Catullus ! 
Pick me out an easy-going , sure-footed , safe-leaping horse , with a light mouth , and let him have a Whippy-saddle on -- I ca n't ride in any other . 
I like a bed-room with a southern aspect , -- the feathers above the mattress , if you please ; wax-candles and Eau de Cologne , will pitch the tune for the rest , Compliments to Mrs. Jorrocks , from , dear Jorrocks , `` Yours very truly , `` Pomponius Ego . 
Where , then , is the master of hounds , where the huntsman , where the whip , where the member of a hunt , whose heart does not beat responsive with Mr. Jorrocks ' , on this trying occasion ? 
Who , in the familiar language of low life , does not wish him well out of it ? 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , in astonishment ; `` you surelie do n't mean to say so . '' 
`` repeated Mr. Jorrocks , with a sneer and an indignant curl of his lip ; `` a skeulmaister ! 
`` Quite true , I assure you , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks ; `` and if by any unlucky chance he blames an ` untsman , or condemns a pack , it 's all dickey with them for ever ; for no livin ' man dare contradict him , and every one swears by wot he says . '' 
`` You must exert your hutmost powers , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , most emphatically ; `` for dash my vig , if we fail , I , even I -- John Jorrocks himself , will go perfectly mad with rage and wexation . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
Wot can fame do for Jorrocks ? 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , `` those ifs are the deuce and all in ` unting -- There 's nothin ' so difficult to ride as an ` if . ' 
`` Black bitch , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , thoughtfully , `` black bitch -- Wot should we want with black bitch when we have all the ` ounds out ? '' 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , with an air of sudden enlightenment , `` I 've often seen chaps in welweteen with guns at cover sides , but never knew what they were there for . 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` No , Pigg , no , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , shaking his head and jingling a handful of silver in his pantaloon pocket ; `` it must be summut more genuine -- Tally ho ! 
then elbows and legs -- elbows and legs ; '' Mr. Jorrocks suiting the action to the word , by straddling and working an imaginary horse with his arms . 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
With much fear , and many misgivings for his rashness in asking Ego to come , Mr. Jorrocks at length consented to intrust the management of the day 's sport to his northern huntsman , and the feeder . 
The evening before Mr. Ego was to arrive , James Pigg communicated the find , the run , and the finish , to Mr. Jorrocks , with such other information as would enable our master to ride to points without exciting suspicion , and Mr. Jorrocks undertook to say as much to Benjamin as would put the boy on his mettle , without letting him too much into the secret . 
Accordingly , when Stobbs left the dining-room to play his usual game of beggar-my-neighbour with Belinda , Mr. Jorrocks rang the bell , and desired Betsy to send in the boy . 
The latter entered in his usual sneaking way , knowing that he had been guilty of several `` piccadillies , '' as his master would call them , for which he deserved to be well bastinadoed . 
`` Now , Binjimin , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , eyeing his whipper-in with one of his most scrutinising looks ; `` now , Binjimin , '' repeated he , with great dignity , `` you are on the eve of a most mo-men-tous crisis ! '' 
`` You are werry fond o ' marmeylad , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , after a short pause , during which he considered how he had best put the point . 
`` But , ` ark to me again , Binjimin , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , holding up his finger , and knitting his brow at the boy ; ``` Ark to me again , Binjimin , if by any chance you bitch the thing , if all does not go on smoothly and well on your part , so far from givin ' of you any marmeylad , I 'll take you to one of the new-fangled matrimony-shops , and tie you hup with a stout gipsey wench , with sich a small hindependence of her own as ` illfind you in tons of misfortin ' and black language , fresh from the pit 's mouth , and make you miserable from now till the first Monday arter eternity . '' 
`` So now make yourself scarce , and mind wot you 're at , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , dismissing him . 
A thick white rind powdered the face of nature , and Mr. Jorrocks found himself with a beautiful silver-foliaged window in the morning . 
Still the evergreens in the garden exhibited no symptoms of a nipping , and as the night-clouds cleared off and the sun stood forth all lurid in the firmament , he congratulated himself on the appearance of opening day . 
Mutual salutations being over , and having got rid of his husks , breakfast was attacked with a true railway appetite -- kidneys , chops , eggs , muffins , crumpets , toast , red herrings , all the delicacies of the season in short , that make one 's mouth water to write , vanished in succession , aided by large draughts of undeniable tea and coffee from `` the Lane , '' as Mr. Jorrocks calls his place of business . 
At length they completely topped up , and after begging some brandy to put in his flask , Ego rose from his seat and began pacing about the room and looking out of the window , as men are in the habit of doing who want to be commencing a `` New Series '' of the periodical occupations of life . 
Forth sallied Ego and Jorrocks ; up went the bed-room window for Betsy to look out , Mrs. Jorrocks appeared framed in the lower one , with a face of most rubicund hue , while Belinda peeped past the green and white chintz curtain , and had her glimpse of the scene . 
said Mr. Jorrocks , pulling up short at the gate , seizing Ego by the arm as he pointed to his stud ; `` there ! 
Binjimin , '' said he , turning to the boy , `` take up those stirrups three ` oles , and do n't let me catch you ridin ' like a dragon . 
There , '' said he , as Ego got himself into his saddle on Talavera , `` you are mounted -- delightful ! 
`` roared Jorrocks , as the horse began fidgetting and hoisting , on feeling his foot in the stirrup . '' 
A bold effort lodged him in the first floor of the saddle , and , gathering up his reins , Jorrocks turned Arterxerxes ' head from the house , the horse walking with his fore legs , and kicking with his hind ones , an example immediately followed by the other three . 
to him ! 
to him ! 
Jorrocks now began to feel the full force of his situation , and inwardly wished himself well out of it . 
`` A niceish lot of hounds , '' observed Ego , casually , as he brought his horse alongside James Pigg , `` to look him over , '' as he calls it ; and Pigg , who was rather sprung , instead of capping him , gave him a most unceremonious stare . 
Why , Jorrocks , to be sure ! 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks , who had had a suck at his monkey , riding up at this critical period . 
`` A very good motto , Mr. Jorrocks , '' observed Ego ; `` a very good motto . 
`` A werry good fault , too , at this time o ' year , we shall soon work them fine enough , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks . 
good joke that , Mr. Jorrocks , eh ? '' 
Mixed pack , '' repeated Jorrocks , gaily , adding : `` dogs I thinks correct the wolatile natur ' o ' the betches . 
I ` old wi ' Mr. Craven Smith , '' continued he , `` that though the betches are quicker nor the dogs , they do not always show the same sport , or kill the most foxes -- another thing is , I likes plenty o ' music , and the betches are not so free wi ' their tongues as the dogs , and sometimes slip away without one 's knowing it , which is inconwenient , as it does n't look well for a gen ` l'man , ` specially for an M.F.H. , to go gallopin ' ` bout the country , exclaimin ' , ` ` Ave you seen my ` ounds ? 
''' `` That will not often happen with you , Mr. Jorrocks , I should think , '' observed Ego , smiling at our friend 's substantial form . 
`` Nothin ' , '' replied Jorrocks , '' ` specially wi ' sich beauties as mine , '' looking lovingly down upon the pack . 
`` Fairish lookin ' hanimals ` mong 'em , '' retorted Jorrocks ; `` fairish lookin ' hanimals ` mong 'em ; I tells ye wot , '' continued he , drawing breath , `` if they 're not ` zactly the ` andsomest pack o ' ` ounds i ' the kingdom , they 're the steadiest -- the wisest -- and the best ! '' 
`` I 'm not a conceited hass , '' observed Jorrocks , boiling up , `` wot thinks every thing I ` ave is the best , and if I ` ears of good blood anywhere , I 'll ` ave it -- as I said afoor , I does n't care twopence ` bout tin , further nor as it enables me to pursue the plisures o ' the chase . '' 
`` To hobtain a good run , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , vehemently , without noticing either of these interruptions , `` to hobtain a good run , your ` ounds should not only ` ave good abilities , but they should be hexperienced and well ` quainted with each other . 
To guide a scent well over a country for a length o ' time , through all the hintricacies and difficulties o ' the chase , requires first chop abilities , '' added he with a hearty slap of his thigh . 
`` There 's a fine ` ound , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , again arresting the great man 's attention , by pointing out old Ravager , now trotting singly along the footpath . 
continued Mr. Jorrocks , rising in his stirrups , and chucking him a bit of biscuit for answering to his name . 
In fact , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , sousing himself into his great saddle , and dropping his voice as he took Ego confidentially by the elbow , `` in fact , you ca n't say too much in praise o ' the pack -- Quads neither . 
I 'm not a wain man , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , `` far from it -- but merit should be noticed , and it 's not never of no manner of use keepin ' one 's candle under a bushel . 
asked he , anxiously . 
replied Ego , with another slight upward curl of his lip . 
Our friends then bumped on for some time in silence , Jorrocks wondering what Ego thought of him , and Ego wondering if Jorrocks was really the liberal indifferent man about money he represented himself to be . 
Jorrocks was half inclined to ask Ego how he proposed buttering him , lest there might be any mistake , but just as he was going to pop the tender question , Arterxerxes gave such a terrible stumble , as nearly sent him out of his saddle . 
He then took to jagging and objurgating the horse , which put it out of his head , and by the time he got himself and his horse appeased , he was thinking of his dinner . 
said Mr. Jorrocks , pointing to the field as they turned from the road and entered the wide expanding common , `` wot an ` unt mine is ! 
holload Jorrocks to him , `` come and be presented to the mighty Hego . 
roared Jorrocks to his secretary , who was poking about among the group on a long-tailed rat of a pony , with a slip of paper in his hand and a pencil between his teeth , `` come and pay your devours to Hego , the man wot makes us all famous . 
This be my sec. , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks to Ego , adding , in a lower tone , `` Does a little word-combin ' himself at times -- signs himself Junius Secundus -- you twig ! '' 
`` Proud to make the personal acquaintance of Junius Secundus , '' observed Ego , bowing and laying his hand upon his breast . 
`` This be old Barleycorn , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks , stopping a jolly-looking farmer , in dark clothes , on a good-looking brown horse ; `` a werry good friend to ` unting -- always goes fust over his own wheat . '' 
Pomponius Ego vouchsafed him a bow . 
`` Here comes a cove now , '' observed Jorrocks , laying hold of Ego 's arm . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , with an emphasis . 
But ` ere comes a good chap , '' continued he , `` Ridge the slater , gives ten pund , and pays it too . 
continued Jorrocks , beckoning him , come this way , and let me be the makin ' on you . 
``` Ere 's another good chap , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , `` Pigott the master plasterer -- M.P. , as he calls himself . 
continued Jorrocks , hailing him , `` let me do the splendacious by you . 
`` And ` ere 's another good cove , '' continued Jorrocks , `` Sugar the grocer . 
growled Mr. Jorrocks , adding aloud to himself , `` shall n't interduce you , then . 
This is not a bad chap , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , nodding towards a square-built man in white moleskin breeches , an olive-coloured coat , and boots to match , who now turned a well-shaped gray upon the heath . 
`` This is a shabby screw , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , pointing to a man in a rusty Bath-bricky scarlet , riding a badly-clipped ewe-necked dun . 
And , by the way , reminds me , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , turning short on his secretary , '' ` ow do the chaps buck up now that they 've got wot they want in the way of an ` untsman ? '' 
`` Well , but that 's all nonsense , '' ejaculated Mr. Jorrocks , `` that 's all nonsense . 
I 'll tell ye wot ye must do , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , `` I 'll tell ye wot you must do , '' repeated he , boiling up , `` you must get a set of hinterest tables , and charge every man Jack on 'em five per cent . 
`` Well , I thinks that right , '' retorted Mr. Jorrocks , adding : `` if I was to get over the left wi ' Bullock and Ulker , d'ye s ` pose they would n't charge me five per cent. , or may be more ? 
Just then Mr. Gillyflower spying the master as he cantered along , pulled short up , and taking his cigar from his lips , accosted Mr. Jorrocks with -- `` Holloa ! 
Mr. Jorrocks deigned no answer . 
`` Here 's a fine hunting morning , Mr. Jorrocks , '' he continued in a somewhat subdued tone , seeing our distinguished stranger . 
`` A werry bad ` untin ' mornin , ' I should say , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , looking very irate , and unconsciously spurring his horse , who was still fidgetting about , from the effects of the ginger . 
`` A werry bad scentin ' one , I should say , '' rejoined Mr. Jorrocks , ramming the spurs into his horse , which the animal acknowledged by a sudden and desperate kick , which fairly shot our master over its head . 
Ego , Fleeceall , Gillyflower , Barnington , Dis arter six , Two upon ten , and half-a-dozen more , all leaped off their horses at once , while Gillyflower caught the hat and wig , and was loud in his hopes that Jorrocks was n't hurt . 
`` exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , his eyes sparkling with rage , as he scrambled up and replaced his lost head-gear , '' hurt , Sir , '' he repeated , looking as though he would eat him , `` no , Sir -- not at all -- rather the contrary ! 
`` and Mr. Jorrocks seeing the stranger arranging his whip as if for action , and knowing Pigg 's pugnacious disposition , immediately gave the signal for throwing off , and in an instant the glad pack were frolicing over the greensward of the heath , with the now contracting crowd pressing on after them . 
South Grove , as our readers may remember , was the scene of Mr. Jorrocks 's former bag-fox exploit , and was well adapted for such experiments . 
Another great advantage it possessed for Mr. Jorrocks was , that sundry bridle-roads all made for the next cover , and yet each by itself appearing to lead in a different direction , no one who did not know them would think of following him . 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , as Ego neared them ; adding , `` now Binjimin , mind your eye ! 
`` exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , fist in side , hoping Ego might not hear the riot . 
It 's now near leaving time , and Mr. Jorrocks and the field come up in long drawn file . 
exclaims he , dropping his ponderous whip down his leg with a heavy crash , `` if we do but manish it , ` ow ` appy I shall be ! 
One twang of his horn is all Pigg gives , and then sticking it into his boot , he gets out of cover , hustles his horse , and settles himself into his seat . 
Mr. Jorrocks , who has come pounding along , in a state of desperate perspiring excitement , all eyes , ears , and fears through his pet line of gates , jumps with his man at the point in the lane where the drag has crossed . 
Both are in such a stew , that Jorrocks can only articulate , `` Headies ! 
The scent lies parallel with the lane , and Mr. Jorrocks , whose horse and whose self are nearly pumped out , keeps on the hard road , followed by a heterogeneous tail of mud-stained , elbowing horsemen . 
Jorrocks , who is well laid in on the road for a view , screeches and halloas them on . 
`` O , Mr. Jorrocks ! 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , easing his horse , and eyeing them topping the fence between the pasture and arable land : `` we may now have a little breathin ' time , and see if they can ` unt as well as run . 
He 's up the furrow . 
Mr. Jorrocks is right . 
`` Not a bit of it , '' replies Mr. Jorrocks , knowing better . 
roars he to the forward roadsters , who are now getting among the hounds . 
`` Then you hossifer in the ninety-fust regiment , wot looks like an ` air-dresser , ` old ` ard , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , trotting on , adding most unconcernedly , `` Cast 'em forrard , Pigg ! 
`` Werry rum , Pigg , '' said Mr. Jorrocks winking significantly to his huntsman , as the latter trotted round with his hounds ; `` werry rum -- for once cast back -- clear the way there , gen ` lemen , if you please , clear the way , who knows but you are right upon the line o ' scent ! '' 
cried Mr. Jorrocks to the horsemen who were clustering about , thinking of any thing but what they ought . 
that 's bad , '' muttered Mr. Jorrocks to James Pigg ; `` where the deuce can the fool ha ' gone ? '' 
exclaimed Ego , who had now got draggled up ; `` your huntsman must be mad , Mr. Jorrocks ! '' 
`` Ill lay a guinea ` at to a ` alf-crown wide awake he recovers his fox for all that , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , with a good deal more confidence than he felt . 
`` If he does I 'll eat him ! '' 
Mr. Jorrocks was in a desperate stew . 
exclaimed he , as they got out of hearing , `` I 'd give the world to finish wi ' blood . 
Jorrocks . 
looking back at the hounds all straggling behind Mr. Jorrocks 's horse . 
Mr. Jorrocks pockets the rebuke , and bestirs himself to get the hounds on to his huntsman ; Pigg trots on , letting them feel for the scent as they go . 
Mr. Jorrocks bumps on , vowing all sorts of vows to Diana , if she will only ` ave the kindness to assist him that once . 
He would give her a hat and feather ! 
He would give her a swan 's - down muff and tippet ! 
Nay , he would stand a whole rig-out at Swan and Hedgar 's ; pettikits , bustle , and all ! 
`` Yonder he is ! '' 
inquires Mr. Jorrocks , all eyes , like Gabriel Junks 's tail . 
Now Pigg crushes through the Bullfinch at the far end , followed by Mr. Jorrocks , who does n't even ask `` What there 's on t ` other side ? '' 
Mr. Jorrocks gets off his horse , and throwing his hat in air , catches it again , and then kicks the crown out , while his heaving horse stretches and shakes himself after his unwonted exertion . 
Up comes Ego , and Mr. Jorrocks , with brush in one hand and crownless hat in the other , greets him on one leg , waving the proud trophy about , and hurraying at the top of his voice , `` Hurrah ! 
Allow me , Mr. Pomponius Hego , '' says he , `` to present you with the brush of the werry gamest old thief o ' the world whatever was seen . 
So saying , Mr. Jorrocks , resuming his equilibrium , presented Ego with the brush , who received it with laudable condescension . 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks ; `` eat your sandwiches and find another fox , or eat your sandwiches and cut away ` ome ? '' 
`` So be it , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks . 
Having got it , Mr. Jorrocks stuck the crown in the best way he could , and , remounting his horse , returned to Handley Cross in state , and great exultation . 
In the evening he entertained Mr. Ego to a sumptuous banquet , the particulars of which are recorded by him in the following chapter . 
`` All the world has heard of the renowned John Jorrocks -- renowned as a citizen -- renowned as a wit -- and renowned as a sportsman ; but all the world may not know , until I have the pleasure of proclaiming it , that I have lately done Mr. Jorrocks the honour of paying him a visit at Handley Cross Spa . 
But a few words by way of introduction : I first became acquainted with Mr. Jorrocks at a soapey-tailed pig-hunt at Mousley Hurst , which I attended for the purpose of furnishing an original article on our great national sports and pastimes for the ` Encyclopedia ' the ` Quarterly Review ' the ` Heavy Triumvirate , ' ` Fraser , ' and ` Blackwood 's ' Magazines ; and liking Mr. Jorrocks ' looks , I entered into conversation with him , without his having the slightest idea who I was . 
I subsequently met him at our excellent friend Ackermann 's , when , on a regular introduction , he fully developed those feelings of reverential awe that necessarily pervade even the most obtuse when suddenly ushered into the presence of transcendent genius , that -- means -- me . 
Of Mr. Jorrocks 's early life , habits , tastes , pursuits , & c. , I would gladly furnish the numerous and intelligent readers of the ` Heavy Triumvirate ' with some account , but unfortunately it does not lie in my power to accomplish so desirable an object . 
Of his present fame , however , there is no doubt ; and if he owes his position in the commercial world solely to the efforts of his own head , who will deny that it does him very great credit ? 
`` One day , as I was polishing off , and weaving the quotations into an admirable article on the breed of the unadulterated ` Genuine Jack-Ass , ' which many of the readers of the ` Heavy Triumvirate ' will doubtless anxiously look for , I received an invitation from Mr. Jorrocks to inspect the Handley Cross hounds , of which I need hardly inform my readers he is the master . 
In the first place , Mr. Jorrocks , being a master of hounds , will naturally be supposed to have to mount his own men , and offering me the loan of a horse under such circumstances , converted such a favour into a double obligation . 
He accompanied the offer with an invitation to stay with him . 
Prior to throwing off , Mr. Jorrocks presented the principal members of his hunt to me , by all of whom I was received with marked respect , and , I am sorry to add , that he was also thrown off himself , by his horse pitching him over its head -- an accident which I saw once occur to my friend Count Pitchinstern , at his château one morning , when I was chatting , with the charming Countess on my arm . 
I also remember , many years ago , as my readers may suppose it is , when I say it was in the days of Mr. Corbet , in Warwickshire , seeing Will Barrow , his huntsman -- and a better never cheered hound -- get precisely a similar fall , at the same time of day , just as he was turning his horse 's head for the cover , and strange to say , I observed Mr. Jorrocks acted just as Will did on that occasion -- he scrambled up as quick as he could , and remounted his horse . 
After a good deal of cold and slow hunting , we at last worked up to our fox , and Mr. Jorrocks most politely presented me with the brush , in terms far too flattering and complimentary to admit of my repeating it here . 
-- At five o'clock precisely , for no man is more punctual than Mr. Jorrocks , I found myself comfortably seated with my legs under his mahogany , in a delightful little party , formed of my estimable host and his lady , a very Venus , and suggesting , by her complexion , the words of the Poet of Love , ` ut flos ` & c. Miss Belinda Jorrocks , their niece , a most lovely and fascinating young creature , the Diana of private life , ` rosy , with dew ' as Moore says . 
Mr. James Stobbs , a Yorkshire gentleman -- heir , I understand , to a pretty fortune , and who was evidently making love to Miss Belinda , and another gentleman of the name of Smith , `` Being always most anxious for the accuracy of my statements , I have written twice to Mr. Jorrocks , to inquire which it was , but regret to add , that up to this time , the 25th of the month , I have not yet received an answer . 
`` Any particulars of the establishment of so celebrated a gentleman as Mr. Jorrocks , will , I am sure , be interesting to the innumerable readers of the ` Heavy Triumvirate ' I may , therefore , mention the first thing that occurred to me on returning to sensibility on the following morning . 
at length I cried , after the knock had been more than once repeated , and in obedience to the order , little Benjamin , Mr. Jorrocks 's ` buoy ' of all work , presented himself at my bed-side . 
His whole person was enveloped in an old faded green baize apron , but there was no mistaking the rogueish ginnified countenance that appeared above it , even if he had suffered his tongue to lie dormant , which was not the case . 
exclaimed he , in the slangy , saucy dialect , peculiar to the lower orders in London , ` I say , guv ` nor , Betsy complains ! ' 
`` Mr. Jorrocks , however , I suppose , gets Ben on such terms as makes it convenient for him to put up with his impudence , as on no other score can I reconcile the idea of his keeping such a scoundrel . 
One word more relative to Mr. Jorrocks , and , for the present , I take leave of my most respected friend , of whom none but himself can be his parallel . 
It may not , perhaps , be generally known , that prior to Mr. Jorrocks becoming master of the Handley Cross Fox Hounds , his amiable lady and he did not live upon the most amicable terms , and frequent feuds disturbed the serenity of Great Coram Street . 
When Mr. Jorrocks , who had anticipated all sorts of flattering encomiums and agreeable comparisons -- that would place him in the front rank of sportsmen , and astonish the chaps in the city -- read the foregoing , he was half frantic with rage , and kept dashing the Heavy Triumvirate about the room , until he knocked all the number to pieces . 
He then deliberately kicked it together , and , taking the tongs , burnt it before a slow fire under a heavy discharge of depreciatory anathemas and declarations that it was as much out of date as an old six inside coach . 
Porker then got a shutter , and , aided by a comrade , shot Mr. Pigg down in Mr. Jorrocks 's back kitchen . 
The next number of the `` Paul Pry '' newspaper contained a neatlyworded paragraph , stating that their numerous readers would be glad to see by an advertisement in their first page that a subscription had been set on foot by certain influential parties , for the purpose of presenting Mr. Jorrocks 's excellent Highland huntsman with a becoming testimonial , which would afford all well-wishers of their unrivalled Spa , who did not partake of the exhilirating pastime of the chase , an opportunity of testifying their admiration of a man who contributed so much to the prosperity of the place ; while the great `` we '' said he was sure all sportsmen would eagerly rush to do honour to one whose keenness was only equalled by his success . 
Finding there was nothing to be got out of Mr. Jorrocks in the way of cash , they proceeded to coax him into being a decoy , by representing how injurious it would be to Pigg if his master did n't appear to sanction the proceeding ; and ultimately Mr. Jorrocks put his name down for a guinea , our master paying the shilling , and making them mark him down `` then and there , '' as he said , as having paid the whole . 
They then went to Captain Doleful , who , appalled at the amount Mr. Jorrocks had given , would fain have backed out of it altogether , on the plea of not being a fox-hunter ; but the committee urging the same arguments upon him that they had upon Mr. Jorrocks , he at length consented to write himself down for a sovereign , on the assurance that it would `` never be called for , '' a delusion in which he indulged until a county-court summons enlightened him on the subject . 
After many days of declining sport , including two or three after the old customer , the following ominous paragraph at length appeared in the `` Paul Pry , '' under the head of `` Mr. Jorrocks 's hounds will meet at Furzy Lawn Turpike , on Wednesday , at nine o'clock precisely . '' 
At nine o'clock , half blinded , half baked , and quite bothered , Mr. Jorrocks gave the signal for leaving the meet . 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks , coming up , horn in hand , preparing to call his hounds out of cover . 
`` Well , never mind , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , `` this is our last day , and high time it was ; but we must n't let it be blank , if we can ` elp it -- so let 's try Sywell plantation -- the grass at all ewents will carry a scent , and I should like to hear the Jenny Linds again afore we shut up , if it was only for five minutes . '' 
Out went the horns -- Mr. Jorrocks determined to have a blow , if he could have nothing else , and the hounds came straggling out of cover , some lying down at his horses ' heels , others staring listlessly about . 
Captain Shortflat 's opinion was caught by Master Weekly -LRB- at home for the measles -RRB- , who immediately sported it as his own to his school-fellow , Master Walker -LRB- at home for the hooping-cough -RRB- ; and it at length coming to Mr. Bateman 's ears , he immediately attributes their slackness to the fact of their being fed on meal before hunting , which of course he considered was done to save flesh , and thereupon Mr. Jorrocks is voted an uncommon great screw . 
Sywell plantations are blank , Layton spinney ditto ; then they take a three-miles ' saunter to Simonswood , where they find a hare , and at two o'clock Mr. Jorrocks announces that he will draw Warrington Banks , which is the last cover in his draw , and then give in . 
The sun is very powerful , and Mr. Jorrocks gives his hounds a lap at a stream before putting them into cover . 
Mr. Jorrocks listens with delight , for though a kill is hopeless , still a find is fine -- Captain Shortflat turns pale . 
exclaims Mr. Jorrocks , seeing him blindly pushing the wrong way -- `` make for the big hash a top of the crag and you 'll have 'em . '' 
exclaims Mr. Jorrocks , chucking his hat in the air . 
-LRB- He could not afford to kick out the crown . -RRB- 
lisps Captain Shortflat , wringing Mr. Jorrocks ' hand . 
rejoined Mr. Jorrocks , pocketing his wig . 
cries Mr. Jorrocks to a boy , the animal having taken advantage of the commotion to make his way to the well . 
After a longish pause , during which there appeared to be a considerable scuffle going on , Pigg 's voice is at length heard calling his hounds out of cover ; and as his head pops above the bushes , Mr. Jorrocks exclaims , `` Is ' t a dog , Pigg ! '' 
The last day closes -- Mr. Jorrocks lingers on the ride , eyeing his hounds coming to the horn , till at last all are there , and he has no other excuse for staying ; with a pensive air he then turns his horse 's head for Handley Cross . 
His own wardrobe , consisting of the clothes in which Mr. Jorrocks hired him -LRB- vide p. 148 -RRB- , being clearly inapplicable , his hunting ones were then canvassed ; but considering that he was to appear in the character of an out-of-luck gentleman , it was determined to draw on De Pledge 's ample stores for a becoming suit . 
The speech was the most difficult thing to manage , for though Taws , the schoolmaster , wrote him out several most appropriate ones , Pigg could never be induced to get one by heart , relying , like many untried orators , on the occasion supplying the needful . 
N6201091 On the appointed day , Batsay having borrowed one of Mr. Jorrocks 's best frilled shirts , and Mr. Barnington 's washerwoman having supplied him with one of that gentleman 's orthodox collars , Pigg was seen turning out of De Pledge 's side-door in an uncommon `` get up . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks , though rather jealous of the whole proceeding , had arrived sky-blued and canaried all the same , and was forming part of a select circle round the intense swell of a chairman , when `` Mister Pigg ! '' 
Jorrocks followed , closely pressed upon by the company at large , who soon filled the not very long , long room of the Salmon . 
`` exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , kicking him under the table , fearing he would pitch into the chairman . 
One sluiced him with water , another took off his Joinville , a third opened his vest , a fourth suggested he 'd be better for some brandy , while Mr. Jorrocks hinted that perhaps he 'd had enough . 
Mr. Jorrocks , who had eyed the watch as it lay on the table , with the look of an old acquaintance , now begged leave to examine it , and finding the name and number as he expected -- `` Green , Ward , and Green , No. 1157 , '' he coolly claimed it , -- his fair friend of the frying pan having pawned it at De Pledge 's a few days after the Pinch-me-near forest day . 
So whatever happened to others , Mr. Jorrocks at least came in for his own . 
exclaimed Jorrocks , dropping his pen with evident alarm ; `` Pollis ! 
thinking he had come to take him up for stealing the watch . 
`` ejaculated Jorrocks . '' 
The gentleman , however , who had followed close upon Betsey 's heels , here made his appearance , and Mr. Jorrocks found himself confronted with the man of law . 
He was a hairy , seedy , well set-up , military-looking man , dressed in a shabby hook-and-eyed braided blue frock coat , which concealed as well the deficiency of linen as of waistcoat . 
His trousers were very broad , badly washed cords , strapped under a pair of boisterous badly-soled boots . 
Altogether , he was a sort of cross between a serjeant and a circus-master . 
He was a draft from the rural police in an adjoining county , where his dissolute habits had procured him a hint that his `` resignation would be accepted , '' an arrangement that enabled the chief Constable to give him high testimonials for his present situation , to obtain which , of course , he represented to the innocent Justices he had resigned his former appointment . 
But we will let his interview with Mr. Jorrocks speak for his general performances . 
interrupted Mr. Jorrocks , still thinking there was some mistake , and that the Superintendent would be collaring him after all . 
`` Oh , ah , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , dry-shaving his chin . 
`` I did lose my ticker , '' thinking perhaps the less stir he made about it the better ; especially now that he had got it safe in his fob . 
interrupted Mr. Jorrocks , thinking how well they had run a false scent . 
`` grunted Mr. Jorrocks , thinking they had better leave them alone . 
`` grunted Mr. Jorrocks again , beginning to see through the object of the mission . 
`` grunted Mr. Jorrocks , preparing to peruse it . 
1 4 0 Expenses incurred by Superintendent Shark going to Blatherfield to see Mr. Jaw in the case 0 4 0 Mr. Jaw not being able to attend to it , Superintendent Chizeler proceeding to Hurlington to see Mr. Law 0 5 0 Gig hire , including ostler and horse 's keep 0 12 0 Paid conveyance from Nutfield to Rushton to see and try to get up evidence , including ostler 0 11 6 Gig hire for Superintendents Shark and Chizeler from Gilderdale to Airylane , making inquiry after a certain witness , including ostler 0 11 6 Personal expenses for that day and night for Superintendents Shark and Chizeler 0 7 6 Extra expenses for Superintendent Shark 's horse at Gilderdale , 4 nights , he having to use it occasionally in making inquiries into the above very serious and aggrivated case , including ostler 0 12 6 Total 5 17 6 `` Well , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , with a chuck of his chin , after reading it ; `` I dessay it 's all right -- at least I does n't know nothin ' to the contrary -- you 'd better take it to the chap who employed you , and see wot he says . '' 
`` Well , but , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , dry-shaving his chin ; `` well , but s ` pose the party likes to lose his property , there 's no law ` gin his bin ' ` commodated , I s ` pose . '' 
but surely you can follow your fox , that 's to say , your thief , into another man 's country , and take ` im , prowided you do n't dig ` im , '' retorted Mr. Jorrocks , indignantly , reasoning by analogy to fox-hunting . 
asked Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Well , I do n't know nothin ' ` bout nothin ' o ' the sort , '' resumed Mr. Jorrocks , twisting and turning the bill about , to see if he would like it better in any other position . 
You do take my life when you take the means whereby I live , '' exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , boiling up , as he doubled up the bill , and thrust it back upon his visitor . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , rising from his seat , and rushing to the window . 
Sure enough it was Gabriel Junks ; and after a short pause , another scream , more shrill and piercing , confirmed Mr. Jorrocks 's surmise . 
Seizing his hat he rushed into the garden . 
Gabriel Junks rushed from his retreat , and having picked up the crumbs , stood eyeing Mr. Jorrocks with a head-on-one-side sort of leer , which he at length broke off by another loud scream , and then a rattling spread of his tail . 
Mr. Jorrocks and the bird were thus standing vis-à-vis when James Pigg made his appearance . 
`` I 'll lay a guinea ` at to a ` alf-crown gossamer , there 's goin ' to be rain , '' said Mr. Jorrocks to his huntsman , pointing to the bird . 
`` Deil bon me if ar care , '' replied Pigg ; `` ar has n't getten ne seeds , nor nothin ' -- may be Deavilboger wad like a sup , '' his mind harking back to `` canny Newcassel . '' 
`` Well but , do n't ye see , if it rains we can have an ` unt , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , astonished at his huntsman 's stupidity . 
`` Vy no -- not exactly , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , not relishing an entire repetition ; `` but s ` pose we have another turn at the old customer -- go out early , and drag up to the warmint , find him when he 's full -- may be a cock , or a hen , or a Gabriel Junks aboard , '' looking at the bird still strutting about with his tail spread . 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
Junks , however , persisted in his admonitions , and Mr. Jorrocks felt so certain it would rain , that he had Pigg into the parlour in the evening to make arrangements for the morning . 
Mrs. Jorrocks , Belinda , and Stobbs , had gone out to tea , and Mr. Jorrocks was left all alone . 
Mr. Jorrocks was all for Pinch-me-near , while Pigg recommended Hew-timber Forest . 
N6201092 Of course Jorrocks carried his point . 
About nine Betsey brought the supper-tray , and Jorrocks would treat Pigg to a glass of brandy-and-water . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , holding up his glass . 
Mr. Jorrocks gave Ravager . 
The fire began to hiss , and Mr. Jorrocks felt confident his prophecy was about to be fulfilled . 
`` Look out of the winder , James , and see wot ` un a night it is , '' said he to Pigg , giving the log a stir , to ascertain that the hiss did n't proceed from any dampness in the wood . 
`` repeated Mr. Jorrocks , looking round in astonishment ; '' smells o ' cheese ! 
Mr. Jorrocks undid the fastening and threw up the sash . 
`` exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , drawing in his hand , and giving his thigh a hearty slap ; `` did n't I tell you so ? '' 
repeated he , `` I was certain it was a goin ' to rain , that Gabriel Junks was never wrong ! 
So saying , Mr. Jorrocks and Pigg replenished their glasses , and drank to `` the health of Gabriel Junks . '' 
Pigg then would treat his master to a song -- a song about ard Squier Lambton and his hunds ; so , ejecting his quid and filling a bumper , he chaunted the following , our Master chiming in , and substituting the name of Jorrocks for that of Lambton in the chorus : -- Tune -- `` Weave a Garland . 
''`` Though midnight her dark frowning mantle is spreading , Yet time flies unheeded where Bacchus resides ; Fill , fill then your glasses , his power ne'er dreading , And drink to the hounds o'er which Lambton presides . 
Then drink , & c. '' And Jorrocks did drink , and did whoop , and did holloa , and did shout , till he made himself hoarse . 
His spirits , or the brandy spirits , seemed to have fairly run away with him . 
At length he began to cool down and think of the morrow . 
`` Now you and I 'll have an ` unt , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Oh , never mind him , '' replied Jorrocks , with a chuck of the chin , `` never mind him ; no sayin ' when he may be ` ome -- gone fiddlin ' out with the women . '' 
`` So you shall , '' rejoined Mr. Jorrocks ; `` and poached heggs into the bargain . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks was equally early , having been greatly tormented by the old customer , who had appeared to him in his dreams in a variety of ways -- now running between his legs and upsetting him , now nearly blinding him with a whisk over his eyes from his sandy brush , again , as the chairman of a convivial meeting of foxes who did nothing but laugh and make finger fans to their noses at him , crying , `` Ah , cut his tail ! 
and mimicking his holloas and hunting noises ; next sitting on a high stool , in his own counting-house , writing a letter to `` Bell 's Life '' and the `` Field , '' declaring he was the worst sportsman and greatest humbug that ever got upon a horse ; anon , as a bull , with a tremendous fox 's brush , charging him , as Gollarfield 's bull charged him on the Hardpye Hill day , which ended as usual in our master flooring Mrs. Jorrocks , who vowed she would appeal to Dodson and the court for the protection of injured ribs . 
Altogether Jorrocks was sadly put out and was full of envy , hatred , malice , and all uncharitableness against the old customer . 
`` This be more like the thing , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , hoisting himself into his saddle with a swag that made old Arterxerxes grunt again ; `` if there ar n't a scent this mornin ' , there ar n't no hallegators ; '' with which wise observation he turned his horse towards the kennel . 
`` Turn 'em all out , '' said he to Pigg , adding aloud to himself , `` We 'll ` ave a good cry at all ewents . '' 
Jorrocks pulled up , as well to reconnoitre as to see if he could hit off the smuggler 's cave , which he had never been able to do , though he made as diligent search as the agitation of pursuing the old customer would allow . 
He now eyed the sun-bright forest far and near , north , south , east and west , but identifying feature he saw none . 
`` You take the far side , and cross by the crag , '' said Mr. Jorrocks to Pigg ; `` Charley will keep on this , and ven I hears you twang th ' ` orn , I 'll throw th ' ` ounds into cover ; '' saying which , Mr. Jorrocks turned short round , and Stobbs assumed the place that Pigg had just occupied in the rear . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , turning up his jolly face , beaming with exultation ; `` wot a many delicious moments one loses by smooterin i ' bed ! 
Glad I 've got on my cords ` stead o ' my shags , for it 's goin ' to be werry ` ot , '' continued he , looking down on a pair of second or third-hand whites . 
to the hounds , with a wave of his hand , as Pigg 's horn announced he had taken his station . 
holloaed Mr. Jorrocks , riding into cover among the stunted underwood . 
`` There 's a touch of a fox , '' said Mr. Jorrocks to himself , as Priestess put her nose to the ground , and ran mute across the road , lashing her sides with her stern . 
A gentle whimper followed , and Mr. Jorrocks cheered her to the echo . 
`` The warmint 's astir , '' said he ; `` that 's jest where we hit on him last time . '' 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , delighted to hear the old bitch 's tongue ; `` a fox for a pund ; ten if you like ! '' 
`` Dash my vig , he 's been here , '' says Mr. Jorrocks , eyeing some feathers sticking in a bush ; `` there 's three and sixpence at least for an old fat ` en , '' wondering whether he would have to pay for it or not . 
The hounds strike forward , and getting upon a grassy ride , carry the scent with a good head for some quarter of a mile , to the ecstatic delight of Mr. Jorrocks , who bumps along , listening to their music , and hoping it might never cease . 
`` cries Mr Jorrocks , turning his horse round ; `` gone to the low crags I 'll be bund -- that 's the way he always goes ; I 'll pop up ` ill , and stare him out o ' countenance , if he takes his old line ; '' saying which , Mr. Jorrocks stuck spurs into Arterxerxes , and , amid the grunts of the horse and the rumbling of the loose stones , succeeded in gaining the rising ground , while the hounds worked along the brook below . 
The tawny owl , scared from his ivied crag , faces the sun in a Bacchanalian sort of flight ; wood-pigeons wing their timid way , the magpie is on high , and the jay 's grating screech adds wildness to the scene . 
Warm in the woody dell , half-circled by the winding brook , where rising hills ward off the wintry winds , the old customer had curled himself up to sleep , till evening 's dusk invited him back to the hen-roost . 
That outburst of melody proclaims that he is unkennelled before the pack ! 
Mr. Jorrocks , having gained his point , places himself behind a gnarled and knotted ivy-covered mountain ash , whose hollow trunk tells of ages long gone by , through a hole in which he commands a view of the grass ride towards the rising ground , upon which the `` old customer '' generally wends his way . 
There , as Mr. Jorrocks sat , with anxious eyes and ears , devouring the rich melody , he sees what , at first sight , looked like a hare coming up at a stealthy , stopping , listening sort of pace ; but a second glance shows that it is a fox -- and not only a fox , but his identical old friend , who has led him so many dances , and whose lightening fur tells of many seasons ' wickedness . 
Mr. Jorrocks can hardly contain himself , and but for his old expedient of counting twenty , would infallibly have halloaed . 
The fox comes close up , but is so busy with his own affairs , that he has not time to look about ; and before Mr. Jorrocks has counted nine , the fox has made a calculation that the hounds are too near for him to break , so he just turns short into the wood before they get a view . 
Up they come , frantic for blood , and dash into the field , in spite of Mr. Jorrocks 's efforts to turn them , who , hat in hand , sweeps towards the line the fox has taken . 
Now they are on him again , and Mr. Jorrocks thrusts his hat upon his brow , runs the fox 's tooth of his hat-string through the button-hole of his roomy coat , gathers up his reins , and bustles away outside the cover , in a state of the utmost excitement -- half frantic , in fact ! 
He tries the opposite side , but Pigg , who is planted on a hill , heads him , and he is beat off his line . 
The dell narrows towards the west , and Mr. Jorrocks rides forward to view him away . 
Pigg 's horn on one side , and Jorrocks 's on the other , get the hounds out in a crack ; the countryman mounts one of his carters , the other runs away with the plough , and the three sportsmen are as near mad as anything can possibly be . 
Now Jorrocks ! 
`` exclaims Mr. Jorrocks , rolling off his horse , and diving into the middle of the pack , and snatching the fox , which old Thunderer resents by seizing him behind , and tearing his white cords half-way down his legs . '' 
`` exclaims he , dancing about with it over his head , `` if ever there was a warmint properly dusted it 's you , '' looking the fox full in the face ; `` you 've been a hugly customer to me , dash my vig if you hav n't ; '' and thereupon Mr. Jorrocks resumed his capers , singing , `` Unrivalled the ` ounds o'er which Jorrocks presides ! 
Then drink to the fox - ` ounds , The ` igh-mettled fox - ` ounds , We 'll drink to the ` ounds o'er which Jorrocks presides . '' 
The cart-horsed countryman has one , and Jorrocks holds the fox , while Pigg performs the last rites of the chase . 
With whoops and holloas Jorrocks throws the carcass high in air , which , falling among the baying pack , is torn to pieces in a minute . 
MR. JORROCKS now began sorting and righting his hunting clothes , seeing what boots and things would patch and come out again , and what might be condemned as no use keeping . 
Two pair of shags he thought would do again , and he would give a pair of old moleskins the benefit of a doubt . 
One pair of boots -- the Pinch-me-near-Forest ones -- were a good deal gone at the toe , but he would consult Welts the cobbler before he cast them . 
Then as he sat in judgment on his coats , folding up No. 1 with the care and respect due to the best one , regarding No. 2 as werry good when not beside a better , and saying that No. 3 would do `` werry well for a wet day ; '' Betsey came to say that some gents . 
wanted to see him . 
It was a deputation from the Handley Cross Infirmary , come to ask him to give a sporting lecture in aid of their funds , which , as usual , were very low . 
Mr. Jorrocks hesitated at first , for he wanted to ease the steam of his hunting enthusiasm down to business-like pitch before he returned to Great Coram Street and the City . 
However , as they were very pressing , and flattered him agreeably , he at length consented , and the lecture was duly announced , as well by placards and hand-bills as by sending the bellman about . 
Precisely at eight o'clock , on the appointed night , Mr. Jorrocks entered the lecture-room -LRB- the long room of the Dragon -RRB- by the president 's door , and ascended the raised platform immediately on the left . 
He was dressed in the full evening costume of the hunt -- sky-blue coat , lined with pink silk , canary-coloured shorts , white waistcoat , and white silk stockings , and looked uncommonly spruce -- his pumps shone with French polish . 
Immediately as Mr. Jorrocks entered , the whole company rose and greeted our hero with a volley of most enthusiastic cheers , which continued for some minutes , and appeared greatly to affect the worthy gentleman , who stood bowing and grinning like a Chinese monster on a mantel-piece . 
continued Mr. Jorrocks , with up-turned eyes , `` wot a many things are wantin ' to ` unt a country plisantly -- things that would never enter the ` ead of a sailor ! 
`` But gently , old buoy , gently , '' continued he , in a more subdued tone , `` your wehimence has got the bit between its teeth , and with borin ' ` ead is runnin ' clean away with you -- steady there , steady . 
Mr. Jorrocks paused for some seconds , as if overcome by his feelings . 
At length he resumed : `` Here , '' said he , `` we have closed a most beautiful season . 
Mr. Jorrocks again made a long pause , and appeared lost in thought . 
At length he resumed . 
`` Great Coram is a lovely street , '' said he `` the trees within the rails , and the wines within the areas , flourish and expand with all the wigour of foliage and wegetable life in the purest and most salubrisome spots . 
Mr. Jorrocks retired to the back of the platform , and Pigg presently brought him a stiff tumbler of brandy-and-water , which considerably revived our old friend , but still he did not feel quite equal to the resumption of his lecture . 
He therefore announced that his Pigg would favour the company with one of his national melodies , after which he had no doubt he should be able to go on , and Pigg , after a few minutes confab with his Master , who wanted him to sing , `` Unrivalled the ` ounds o'er which Jorrocks presides ! '' 
advanced to the front of the platform , and with a bob of his head and a kick of his heel , said , `` Gen ` l'men , wor ` ard Maister 's getin ' the gripes , and ar 's gannin ' to sing ye a sang till he gets better . '' 
`` Now , '' continued he , `` what ar 'll sing ye ` illbe yen o ' the bonniest sangs that iver was sung , arle aboot ard Squier Lambton and his h ` unds , and a grand hunt that they had fre Fox-hill , afore mast o ' ye were born ; and when ar stamps wi ' my foot , ye mun all join chorus . '' 
When the enthusiastic applause , produced by the foregoing , had subsided , there was a general call for Mr. Jorrocks , who advancing to the front of the platform thus addressed the company : -- `` Beloved ` earers , you must ` scuse my pursuin ' the subject o ' the chass -- it 's too much for my feelin 's . 
Here Mr. Jorrocks put a half-crown piece over his , and suiting the action to the word , proceeded amidst universal laughter and applause , -- `` Meets an acquaintance . 
For gen ` lemen , '' continued Mr. Jorrocks , `` I 'll lay a guinea ` at to a gooseberry , when two men meet with little to say , that that is the conversation wot passes . 
`` But let us leave the gloomy subject , '' continued he , `` and gather hup our points for a finish . 
A forest of hands were held up for hunting ; on the other question being put , no one was found in favour of it , whereupon Mr. Jorrocks concluded amidst loud and long-continued applause , by complimenting them on their choice , calling on every man to put his shoulder to the wheel , and do his possible in support of himself and the `` Handley Cross Fox Hounds . '' 
A large party sat down to supper after the lecture ; and we are happy to add that a subscription was opened for the purpose of presenting Mr. Jorrocks with a solid token of esteem in the shape of a silver steak dish , with a model of himself on Arterxerxes on the cover . 
The following was the strength of Mr. Jorrocks a stud at the close of the season . 
Arterxerxes did most of Mr. Jorrocks 's work , and Xerxes could carry half-a-dozen Bens every day in the week , so that Pigg and Charley came in for most of the work of the others , Charley never having gone to the trouble of getting any more horses than the one he brought with him . 
Thus , if Mr. Jorrocks was yoicking on one side of a cover on Arterxerxes , and Ben all hot-ing ''' Yo hote , ' to make hounds hunt . '' 
it on the other side on Xerxes , there would be such a neighing and whinnying , and exchanging of compliments all the time , as greatly to interfere with our master 's attention to his hounds , and when the horses caught sight of each other , Xerxes would take the bit between his teeth , and rush to his friend Arterxerxes , making a rubbing-post of him and his rider in defiance of resistance on the part of Benjamin , and remonstrance on the part of Mr. Jorrocks . 
He had commenced life as a leather-plater , and done hard service on some country courses , and after experiencing the vicissitudes of fortune in the hands of various masters of different callings , had descended into the hands of a smuggler , when he was seized by the Excise , well weighted with contraband goods , and publicly sold to Mr. Jorrocks for fourteen pounds ten shillings . 
He was a raking goer , but a nasty wriggling beast to ride , continually throwing his head in the air , to the danger of his rider 's countenance . 
His mouth , too , was deadened on one side , and he had a careless rushing sort of way of going at his fences , but he never tired , and could go through heavy ground with wonderful ease to himself . 
He used to jump and squeal with a cow-like action at first going out , and could gallop pretty well for a mile or so , after which he would shut up , and be dull and heavy the rest of the day . 
He was a dull , under-bred brute , with very little taste for hunting . 
Young Hyson was a neat horse , and a good goer , but quite unmade when Mr. Jorrocks bought him . 
-- Pigg and he used to roll about tremendously at first . 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks in a more amiable mood than usual when his stud was abused . 
`` True , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks ; '' ` ay 's dear -- so is corn -- but how 's one to get rid of these sort of animals , think ye ? 
`` I does n't know that , '' said Mr. Jorrocks who had rather an affection for the Dismal , and thought he would do for his Boobey Hutch . 
Mr. Jorrocks having considered Pigg 's suggestions , and being up to all the tricks of horse-auctions , agreed to send his six , on condition of the sale being well advertised , and his stud especially mentioned as being sold in consequence of his wishing to remount his men on horses more suitable to the country . 
Accordingly advertisements were inserted in all the papers and lists distributed far and near , headed `` Great Stud Sale , '' and describing Mr. Jorrocks 's horses as masters of great weight , that had been regularly hunted all the season with the Handley Cross Fox-hounds . 
James Pigg arrived first , and so well done were his horses , that Mr. Jorrocks almost hoped they might return as he saw them pass along the street to the yard . 
It was a nine-stall one , and there were two horses belonging to two fast-going foot-captains , and a mare the property of a water-drinker , along with Mr. Jorrocks 's . 
Mr. Jorrocks launched an uncommonly smart new taglioni for the occasion , a brown-striped leopard 's skin looking duffle , all decorated in front with tassels and cords , with pockets of various size and position , bound with nut-brown velvet : the standing-up collar and pointed cuffs were of nut-brown velvet also , and it was lined and wadded throughout with rustling silk . 
Thus he swaggered into the yard , his hands stuffed into the lower tier of pockets , and his great tassels pattering against his Hessian boots as he walked . 
There was an easy indifference in his air which plainly said he did n't care whether he sold his horses or not . 
His appearance was the signal for Mr. Palmer , the auctioneer , to quit the Dragon bar , where he was sipping a glass of cold brandy and water , and forthwith he emerged with a roll of catalogues and his hammer in his hand . 
He was a rosy-gilled , middle-aged , middle-sized man , who had failed twice in the hosiery line , once in the spirit-way , and once in the Temperance Hotel line . 
He was sprucely dressed , as most auctioneers are , wearing a superfine velvet-collar 'd great-coat , open in front , displaying a superfine black coat and waistcoat , with a clean white neckcloth , and small shirt-frills , secured by a handsome brooch . 
Having saluted Mr. Jorrocks with becoming respect , they paired off for a few minutes , to arrange the puff preliminary for his horses . 
At the back was a short step-ladder , upon the top stair of which Mr. Palmer mounted , and Mr. Jorrocks perched himself on the one immediately below . 
After some very inferior rubbish had been passed or disposed of , Mr. Jorrocks 's turn drew on , and Arterxerxes ' great Roman nose was seen peeping out of the stable-door , when at the word `` Out ! 
`` Now , gentlemen , '' said Mr. Palmer , with a preparatory hem , looking the horse full in the face , `` this is lot one of Mr. Jorrocks 's stud , The celebrated horse , Arterxerxes ! 
familiar to every one in the habit of hunting with the celebrated hounds over which his distinguished owner has the honour to preside . '' 
`` Presides with such ability , '' growled Mr. Jorrocks , in the auctioneer 's ear . 
`` Over which his distinguished owner presides with such ability , '' repeated Mr. Palmer . 
`` He is , as you see , a horse of great power and substance , equal to the -- '' `` Say speed ! 
`` whispered Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` He is , as you see , a horse of great power , speed , and substance , equal to any weight -- '' `` How can we see his speed ? '' 
`` He is , as you see , gentlemen , '' resumed the auctioneer , `` a horse of great power , speed , and substance , up to any weight , and quiet -- '' `` Quiet enough , '' observed a bystander , `` if you had n't figged him . '' 
`` And is only sold , '' continued the auctioneer , `` because his owner has no further use for him . '' 
`` He 's an undeniable leaper ! 
`` whispered Mr. Jorrocks . 
observed the auctioneer , `` Temperate at his fences , '' prompted Mr. Jorrocks , adding , `` Vy do n't you go on , man ? '' 
`` roared Mr. Jorrocks , an exclamation that produced a burst of laughter , during which Mr. Palmer turned again , and had a conference with Jorrocks behind . 
After a few seconds ' parley , during which Mr. Jorrocks assured the auctioneer that he 'd set to and sell the `` osses '' himself , if he did n't take care , Mr. Palmer resumed , in a more submissive tone , -- `` I was going to observe , gentlemen , '' said he , `` that as you are not all in the habit of hunting with the celebrated hounds in this neighbourhood , that this horse is the property of the renowned Mr. Jorrocks , and has been ridden by him during the whole of the past season , and is equal to any weight you can possibly put upon him . '' 
`` Aye is he ! 
`` Now ` bout Surrey , '' whispered Mr. Jorrocks . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , patting the orator 's back . 
`` Now ` bout the cut-me-downs , '' whispered Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` Werry good , '' said Mr. Jorrocks , chuckling and rubbing his hands . 
roared Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` repeated Mr. Jorrocks , `` I never varrants -- would n't varrant that he 's an oss , let alone that he 's sound . '' 
replied Drab-coat , examining the horse 's eyes as he spoke ; adding , `` I 'm not sure but he 's a-goin ' blind , too ! '' 
`` What teeth he has ! '' 
`` You must have length somewhere ; and I 'm blow 'd he har n't got it nowhere else , '' rejoined a confederate . 
`` ` Ard as iron , '' whispered Mr. Jorrocks . 
rejoined Drab-coat , punching his fat sides . 
muttered Mr. Jorrocks , over the rostrum : `` I 'll skin you alive ! '' 
Just as the fatal blow was about to be struck , Jorrocks 's conscience smote him at parting with a faithful old animal that had carried him triumphantly through many a glorious chase -- the model , too , of his mount on the silver steak dish handle -- causing him to blurt out `` three ` underd ! 
This gave the thing a fillip , and Dismal Geordy was knocked down to Captain Shortflat for eight-and-twenty pounds , ten more than Mr. Jorrocks gave for him . 
The captain then received the usual compliments on his purchase , one man asking him if he was `` fond of walking ; '' another observing that he supposed the captain had purchased the horse for his farm , to which latter the captain replied , with a growl , that he had bought him to go in a bathing machine -- a retort that had the effect of suppressing the rest of their chaff . 
Mr. Jorrocks having instructed James Pigg what to do , and taken an affectionate leave of Gabriel Junks , set off for London , leaving Mrs. Jorrocks and Co. to follow as soon as Mrs. Jorrocks had paid her bills and left her P. P. C. 's . 
The idea originated in the circumstance of Mr. Jorrocks ' horse Xerxes being unsold , which Captain Doleful thought might be got for a trifle , and seemed to have been put to all the purposes a horse is capable of performing . 
Having weighed the pros and cons , and inquired the horse 's character of every body about the town , our cautious M.C. at last ventured to write the following letter about ten days after Mr. Jorrocks 's return to London : -- `` Dear Mr. Jorrocks , -- I regret much to learn that your horse Xerxes still remains on hand . 
I was in hopes some of the indifferent judges would have taken a fancy to him , and relieved you of an animal confessedly unsuited to your purpose ; but that not being the case , I trouble you with this , to say that Miss Lucretia Learmouth is in want of an animal to draw her four-wheeled chaise about , and make himself generally useful , and I should be happy to be of any service in recommending him to her . 
Price , I should observe , will be the first consideration , therefore please put him in at the lowest possible figure . 
Of course I presume he is what they call ` all right . ' 
On a close examination of his countenance , I perceive sundry grey hairs scattered about : -- is not this symptomatic of age ? 
With compliments to the ladies , who , I hope , arrived safe , believe me , dear Mr. Jorrocks , `` Yours , very sincerely , `` Miserrimus Doleful , M.C. `` Handley Cross Spa . 
The following was Mr. Jorrocks 's answer : -- `` Dear Doleful , -- Yours is received , and note the contents . 
The following was Captain Doleful 's rejoinder : -- `` Dear Mr. Jorrocks , -- Your polite letter merits my warmest gratitude . 
Believe me , ever , dear Mr. Jorrocks , `` Yours , very truly , `` Miserrimus Doleful , M.C. `` Handley Cross Spa . 
Mr. Jorrocks took the hint , assumed the indifferent , and wrote as follows , for the delay of a post or two : -- `` Dear Doleful , -- Handsome is wot handsome does . 
The captain did not exactly like this letter , but not being easily choked , he returned to the charge with the following answer : -- `` Dear Mr. Jorrocks , -- At the risk of being thought importunate , I again venture to intercede very respectfully on behalf of the young and beautiful orphan who has sought my assistance in the matter of a horse . 
Hoping you will accede to a proposition so reasonable , believe me , dear Mr. Jorrocks , `` Ever yours , very faithfully , `` Miserrimus Doleful , M.C. `` To John Jorrocks , Esq. , `` Great Coram-street , London . '' 
The following was Mr. Jorrocks 's answer to the proposition : -- `` Dear Doleful , -- I does n't see the wit of your offer . 
Finding Mr. Jorrocks was not to be worked upon in his way , and that there was nothing to gain by personating Miss Lucretia , Captain Doleful determined to come forth in his own character , and wrote as follows : -- `` Dear Mr. Jorrocks , -- I have just received yours , and regret to inform you that Miss Lucretia Learmouth has been suddenly called into Scotland by the alarming illness of a beloved relative , whereby all occasion for a horse is , of course , done away with . 
The difficulty of making this announcement is , however , relieved by the circumstance of my willingness to place myself in her shoes ; I therefore beg to say , I shall be glad to take the horse , provided , of course , he is all right , & c. , and will send you the money on hearing from you . 
Dear Mr. Jorrocks , `` Yours , very truly , `` Miserrimus Doleful , M.C. '' Mr. Jorrocks thus closed the bargain : -- `` Dear Doleful , -- I 'm sorry Lucretia 's gone . 
The following correspondence will show how he attempted it : -- `` Dear Mr. Jorrocks , -- I am sorry to say your horse is very ill , labouring , we think , under pulmonary consumption . 
He is dreadfully emaciated , and labouring under a hooping-cough , that is distressing to himself and his hearers . 
I thought he looked queer when I bought him , as I remarked a nervous quivering of the tail after a slight gallop over Bumpmead . 
It is unfortunate , but you , as a great horse-master , know these sort of accidents will happen , and it is well the loss falls on one so well able to bear it as the wealthy Mr. Jorrocks . 
With compliments and best wishes to Mrs. and Miss Jorrocks , who , I hope , are both well , believe me to remain , dear Mr. Jorrocks , `` With great sincerity , yours very sincerely , `` Miserrimus Doleful , M.C. `` To John Jorrocks , Esq. , `` Great Coram-street , London . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks was rather puzzled how to act on receipt of this . 
His first impulse was to tell the Captain that he was a dirty fellow ; and , indeed , he wrote a letter to that effect , but , with praiseworthy prudence , he kept it over night , and his wrath being somewhat appeased by the operation of writing , the old adage of `` least said being soonest mended '' came to his assistance , and induced him to concoct the following : -- `` Dear Doleful , -- Yours is received , and note the contents . 
`` Yours to serve , `` John Jorrocks , M.F.H. '' This , as may be supposed , was not at all satisfactory , so the captain immediately fired off the following : -- `` Dear Mr. Jorrocks , -- I fear I was not so intelligible as I ought to have been in my last hurried communication . 
Wishing you every happiness , I remain , with compliments to the ladies , dear Mr. Jorrocks , `` Ever yours very faithfully , `` Miserrimus Doleful , M.C. `` To John Jorrocks , Esq. , `` Great Coram-street , London . 
Still Mr. Jorrocks was determined not to take the hint , and , after the delay of a post or two , concocted the following : -- `` Dear Doleful , -- I am werry sorry to hear so bad an account of my old frind Xerxes . 
He saw Mr. Jorrocks was laughing at him , and determined to show fight : -- `` Dear Mr , Jorrocks , -- I wish to state to you , very plainly and explicity , that the horse Xerxes is unsound , and was so when you sold him , and that I mean to return him . 
If there is any stable in particular you wish him sent to , please to let me know by return of post , as he now stands at your expense . 
Then as Doleful read it over , and thought it rather tart , he softened it with the following plaisanterie : -- `` P.S. -- The tea is very good . 
Mr. Jorrocks was equally determined , as appears by his answer : -- `` Dear Doleful , -- I thought you 'd have been more of a conjurer , than to s ` pose I 'd take back a 25l . 
`` Mr. Jorrocks , Grocer , `` Great Coram-street , London . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks 's answer was very short : -- `` Dear Doleful , -- I does n't know nothin ' wot an honest English jury may do for you , but this I knows , I 'll do nothin ' . 
And Doleful , seeing that all negotiation was hopeless , rushed off to that last consolation of the injured -- a lawyer , -- who advised that he had a capital case if he took it to the superior courts ; and Doleful assenting , he immediately prepared for having a pop at friend Jorrocks . 
ALTHOUGH we have hitherto refrained from mentioning it , such mishaps procuring little sympathy , Mr. Jorrocks 's hounds were not quite so steady as they might be , and sundry sheep had been laid to their charge during the season , with more or less appearance of probability . 
To be sure , most of these accusations Mr. Jorrocks had combatted successfully , vowing that it was `` downrightly ridicklous to charge his ` ounds wi ' nothin ' o ' the sort ; that they would n't look at ship , let alone touch 'em ; '' an assertion that Pigg always backed by declaring his readiness to fight anybody who doubted it . 
On the memorable `` old customer '' morning , however , as Mr. Jorrocks was making all sail round the road by the green fields of Primrose-side Hill , hitting and holding , and grinning and scolding as usual , what should he see but his skirting friends , Limner and Sultan -- some of the Bugginson lot -- nip up a young lamb and pass on as if nothing particular had happened , and Mr. Jorrocks 's aphorism being , as he told Ego , '' ` andsome is wot ` andsome does , '' he determined not to keep such dainty customers , who wanted to have lamb before their master . 
These and similar mishaps set Mr. Jorrocks a-thinking , after the enthusiasm of the victory was over , whether there were n't others that he would be as well without , and considering that there were many mere `` show partners , '' as he called them , hounds that did little or nothing in the way either of finding or trouncing a fox , and that meal was werry dear and flesh scarce , he determined to rid himself of some of the sleeping partners of the chase . 
Mr. Jorrocks , who was well up to his tricks , had often vowed `` he 'd ` ang ` im when he got ` ome , '' but had always relented when he came to see ` ow ` andsome he looked on the flags , and felt his coaxing winning ways . 
Resolute , indeed , was Jorrocks 's model hound . 
`` Take his ` ead atween your knees , '' he used to say to judges or would-be judges who came to wile away an hour in the kennel ; `` Take his ` ead atween your knees , and see the width of his ribs be'ind the shoulders . 
Now stand sideways , '' he would exclaim , `` and look at his legs -- see ` ow straight they are ! 
Jorrocks had consulted Pigg about splitting Resolute 's tongue with a sixpence , to try to make him musical , just as boys try to make their magpies talk by a similar expedient . 
Clamorous was a dweller , and insisted upon throwing his tongue and hunting every yard of the line , though his comrades might be fields before him with the scent . 
He was a crooked-legged , flat-sided , loose-loined beggar , that Jorrocks had made sundry ineffectual attempts to get rid of by riding over . 
Then Limner and Sultan had rather corrupted the good manners of some others ; a skirting hound , like a skirting rider , being always sure to have a good many followers ; and altogether Jorrocks decided that there were five or six couple he would be just as well shot of . 
Now it so happened that young Mr. Barege , son of the late head of the firm , Barege , Tissue , and Caps , whom some of our fair readers will perhaps remember occupying the beautiful plate-glassed premises , Nos. 21 , 22 , and 23 , Threadneedle Street ; either fired with noble emulation of Mr. Jorrocks , or of his own proper accord , thinking perhaps to advance himself in society ; had taken the Gambado country , vacant by the retirement of Mr. Slack , and , with all the generous ignorance of a beginner , as soon as ever he read the advertisement , he thought it was the very thing for him : so filling his porte-monnaie full of five-pound notes , he railed down to Handley Cross , in a desperate stew lest any one should be there before him . 
`` Ar wad n't tell ye a lee ` bout them , ar assure you , for wor ` ard maister 's a most particklar man ` bout the truth -- leers and drunkards bein ' things he ca n't abeer , and if iver he catches a man either drunk or tellin ' a lee , he off 's wi ' ` im at yence , and if arl gen ` l'men would de the like , and give true and proper c ` aracters of sarvents , they 'd be far better sarved , and we should n't hev a lot of nasty , idle , druuken dogs fillin ' the places o ' good men , and ye may ` pend upon it , if ar was to tell ye out but the ` zact truth , and wor ` ard maister were to ken , he 'd gi me the sack , se its ne use me sayin ' nothin ' but wot 's the real truth , and no mistake -- '' `` Well , well , '' interrupted Mr. Barege , who was too well up in the puffing art , not to see through it , `` Well , well , that ` illdo , that ` illdo -- I dessay the hounds are good -- Mr. Jorrocks , I know , is a pretty good judge ; and you say he 's only parting with them because he 's reducing his establishment -- what I want to know is the price -- the neat unadorned price , without any superfluous flourish or badinage . '' 
The admission , that Jorrocks was a good judge , encouraged Pigg , and knowing that a purchaser would have no opportunity of trying the hounds before autumn , he determined to , what he calls , `` lay it on . '' 
IN due time the great suit of Doleful v. Jorrocks reached maturity . 
Just as they passed the end of Cross Street , Mr. Jorrocks , who had driven his solicitor , Mr. Fleeceall , over from Handley Cross in his dogcart , fell in behind ; and what with the coach , the liveries , the brazen trumpets ' sound , the crowd , and the gig with John Jorrocks , M.F.H. , painted up behind , things wore a very imposing appearance . 
Four mornings did Mr. Jorrocks fall into the rear of Mr. Marmaduke Muleygrubs ' coach , each morning showing the fading finery of the set-out : the trumpeters ' boots grew less bright , the harness lost its polish , Marmaduke 's ruff began to droop , and on the fourth morning the stiff-necked flunkies appeared in black cravats . 
Still , despite all the worthy high sheriff 's assurances to Mr. Jorrocks , that he would make the judge take his cause out of order , Baron Botherem went pertinaciously through the list according to the order in which they had been set down . 
The fourth day was the last , and there were four special jury cases to be tried , Doleful v. Jorrocks being the third , the briefs in those before it being of such a size as to make the trials appear well calculated to last for ever . 
It was a dull , uninteresting affair , respecting the liability of an insurance office , and the verdict was heard with apparent indifference by a crowded court , all anxious for Doleful v. Jorrocks to be called on . 
The jury-box was at length cleared , the judge supplied with fresh pens and a few green-shaded block-tin-standed compos scattered promiscuously about the bar-table , while the crier made proclamation for all special jurors in the action of Doleful v. Jorrocks to appear and answer to their names . 
Mr. Jorrocks , having the entrée , plants himself behind the judge 's chair , and Captain Doleful confronts him below , near the witness-box . 
Jorrocks , he understood , was manager of the Handley Cross fox-hounds , a situation that enabled him to obtain all manner of information relative to horses ; and he regretted to see a man whose appearance was respectable so far losing sight of all honour and gratitude , as to avail himself of his superior knowledge to the injury of a friend , to whom he was under the greatest obligations , and who had fought and bled for his country . 
Jorrocks , in another line , was also a servant of the public , and he could not but regret services so dissimilar should have been unfortunately brought in collision by the misconduct of either party . 
He would not trouble the jury , at that late hour of the night , with a detailed account of the obligations Mr. Jorrocks was under to the plaintiff , not only for obtaining him the mastership of the Handley Cross hounds but also for introducing him to the élite of the aristocratic society frequenting the celebrated Spa ; but he would content himself by showing how Jorrocks now sought to kick down the ladder by which he had risen to fame by injuring the man to whom he was under such onerous obligations . '' 
My client 's amiable and unsuspecting nature never allowing him to imagine that he had so long fostered a viper in his bosom -LRB- casting a contemptuous look at Mr. Jorrocks -RRB- , went on , day by day , and for several days , in the hope that the change was merely occasioned by a difference of treatment or of food , and that the horse would speedily resume his wonted appearance ; but , alas ! 
He went on , from bad to worse , and when at length the consuming fever had worked deeply into his constitution , my unsuspecting client , awaking from the trance of confidence in which he had been so long enthralled , wrote to the defendant , representing how matters stood ; that individual , so far from expressing his regret at the inconvenience he had caused my client , and offering to take back the horse , actually treated the matter with levity , and added insult to injury , by laughing at the man he had so basely defrauded . 
`` Were it not for the appearance of the defendant in court , and the voluminous brief I see before my learned friend Mr. Chargem , I should have imagined that judgment would be suffered to go by default , as in the case of an undefended action ; and even now , gentlemen , I am at a loss to imagine what defence my learned friend 's ingenuity will enable him to offer ; for I submit , under the guidance of his lordship , that it is clear law , that where an article is asked for to answer a particular purpose , the seller impliedly warrants that it is fit for that purpose , so that even should I fail in my proof of actual warranty , which , however , I do not anticipate , I shall still be entitled to your verdict on the general construction of the agreement ; for , had my client been in want of a coughing , consumptive horse , he would have asked this defendant , Jorrocks , if he had such an animal , instead of which , throughout the transaction , he goes on the principle of obtaining a useful , though not a handsome horse . 
This Pigg is huntsman and general stable manager to the defendant Jorrocks , and seems to be a convenient sort of person , on whom Jorrocks foists such jobs as he does not like to take upon himself , and Pigg will be placed in the witness-box to show that he was the accredited servant of the defendant , from which a legal axiom arises , laid down by the great Lord Ellenborough himself , in the case of Helyear v. Hawke -LRB- Espinasse , page 72 -RRB- ; that if a servant is sent with a horse by his master , and gives directions respecting his sale , that the servant thereby becomes the accredited agent of his master , and what he says respecting the horse is evidence . 
`` You are , I believe , huntsman to Mr. Jorrocks , the defendant in this action ? '' 
-- `` Yes ar is , '' replied James , brandishing his hat over the brass rail of the witness-box , `` but ar de believe gin ar had me reets , ar 'd be a gen ` l'man this day , and huntin ' me own h ` unds , only ye see , mar foreelder John -- John Pigg , ye see -- '' `` Well , never mind about your foreelder , John , '' interrupted Mr. Bolster , `` We want to know about Mr. Jorrocks ; and you say you are huntsman to him . 
Now , tell me , do you remember a horse he had , called Xerxes ? '' 
`` He died ! '' 
`` Ah , but before he died , whose hands did he pass into ? '' 
`` Now , Mr. Brady , '' said Mr. Burley Bolster , eyeing him through his spectacles ; `` you are , I belive , a servant with Mr. Jorrocks ? '' 
-- `` Remembers accompanying Captain Doleful to Mr. Jorrocks 's stables , when he bought the horse . 
The captain said , Mr. Jorrocks would soon pick up another . 
Had a blow-up with James Pigg about the merits of their masters -- that is to say , about Mr. Jorrocks and Captain Doleful . 
Witness replied , that the captain was as good a man as his master , and that he , witness , would n't stay in a place to be ` bused as he understood Mr. Jorrocks ` bused his servant . 
`` Will swear positively that the horse coughed on his way from Mr. Jorrocks 's stable to Captain Doleful 's . 
Remembers being sent for to attend a horse that Captain Doleful had bought of Mr. Jorrocks . 
Captain Doleful , no great conjuror in horse-flesh , treats for a horse in Mr. Jorrocks ' stud . 
There is a good deal of haggling , as you have seen , about the transaction , Captain Doleful offering Mr. Jorrocks less than he asks , and Mr. Jorrocks , on the other hand , insisting on his price . 
Mr. Jorrocks holds out no temptation to get him to buy ; on the contrary , he admits the horse is not first-rate ; but , speaking of him in the language of friendship , Mr. Jorrocks says he is calculated for much honourable exertion in many of the minor fields of horse enterprise , which , I suppose , is a figurative mode of saying , that if he is not fit for a hunger , he will make what the defendant would call a werry good ` chay-oss -LRB- laughter . -RRB- 
Despite my learned friend 's sneering ignorance , and talking of him in the disrespectful way he did as this Jorrocks and that Jorrocks , he could not conceal from himself , -- still less from you , gentlemen of the jury , that he was keenly alive to the celebrity and importance of my most distinguished client , -- a gentleman whose name precludes the idea of his being mistaken for any other , and who , in every relation of life , has worn the broad arrow mark of probity and honour ! '' 
Why , that the horse coughed on his way from Mr. Jorrocks ' stable to that of the travelling showman . 
Was well acquainted with James Pigg and with all Mr. Jorrocks ' horses . 
`` I do n't know that , '' replied Mr. Heartley , one of the top-booted gentry ; `` I am neither satisfied that there was a warranty , nor yet that the horse was unwell when he left Mr. Jorrocks ' stable . '' 
Those gentlemen who are of opinion that Mr. Jorrocks warranted his horse will have the kindness to hold up their hands . '' 
The heated hall is cleared -- Mr. Jorrocks sleeps in the judge 's chair , his wig is awry -- James Pigg and the crier are nodding , back to back , in the witness-box -- Benjamin is curled up on the bar-table -- and the attorneys and their clerks are huddled together at opposite corners , lest they should fight in their sleep . 
He returned to Handley Cross long before people were stirring ; but Miss Jelly 's watchful eye `` traced the day 's disaster in his morning face . '' 
But for the pleasure of trouncing Jorrocks , he could have had the thing tried quite as well in the county court for 5l . 
So Doleful set up to be cock of the walk , and longed for old Jorrocks back , that he might snub him . 
Doleful 's day of triumph soon arrived , the monotony of Mr. Jorrocks ' summer life seeming likely to be more than compensated by the busy incidents of the autumn . 
Scarce were the rejoicings for his victory over Doleful finished ere our worthy friend found himself involved in a more delicate and difficult dilemma than he had ever yet known . 
The report of the action about the horse having done good service to the London papers in the dulness of autumnal news , Mr. Jorrocks ' conduct and career had been greatly canvassed by cautious citizens , and among others by his next-of-kin , with whom our worthy friend had long been on indifferent terms , or rather no terms at all . 
The expense of Mr. Jorrocks ' hounds was estimated in a like ratio , though they did not perhaps cost much above as many hundreds . 
Mr. Martin Moonface , the celebrated Chancery lawyer , and Mr. Percy Snobb , appeared as counsel for the inquiry ; Serjeant Horsefield and Mr. Coltman , as counsel for Mr. Jorrocks . 
Mr. Jorrocks appeared in court , taking his seat beside the learned sergeant , with two papers of Garraway 's sandwiches before him , one labelled `` beef , '' the other labelled `` ham . '' 
The name of the gentleman whose state of mind you are this day called upon to consider , as my learned friend has already told you , is Jorrocks , head of the firm ` Jorrocks and Co. , ' tea-dealers and grocers , in the City of London ; and in his commercial relations , I am free to admit , that his character and conduct are not only irreproachable , but exemplary in the highest degree . 
Still , as is generally found to be the case in these inquiries , the blameless tenor of his grocer 's life is mixed up with a strong undercurrent of eccentricity , which has long been observable ; and as the murmuring rill , strengthened by tributary streams , rolls on with growing strength until its force attracts the notice of the world , and calls for measures to restrain the torrent of its impetuosity , so Mr. Jorrocks ' oddity has gone on increasing until the present inquiry has become absolutely and indispensably necessary . 
`` roared Mr. Jorrocks , from the opposite side of the table , indignant at the unsportsmanlike appellation . 
How long this custom has prevailed , is immaterial to the present inquiry , but I believe I am instructed to say , that so far back as the year 1812 Mr. Jorrocks took an active -- I may say , a prominent part , in the festivals -- for such , I believe , is their character , that have been held in the county of Surrey . 
Accompanying Mr. Jorrocks onward then from his prominent though subordinate situation in the county of Surrey , we at length find him -- I think it was in the course of last winter -- elected the premier of a festival -LRB- here Serjeant Horsefield intimated in a whisper that the technical term was hunt -RRB- -- I thank my learned friend , '' continued Mr. Moonface , -- `` hunt is the term -- elected the premier of a hunt , called the Handley Cross Hunt , and it is , gentlemen , his doings in that capacity that you are more particularly called upon to examine , to form an opinion of the soundness or unsoundness of his understanding . 
The promoters of it say that Mr. Jorrocks is neglecting his business , and dissipating his means in mad and unnatural pursuits ; while the law says , and wisely does it say it , that a man is not to be permitted to waste his substance in idle , wild , and unprofitable speculations ; and when acts are committed which militate against good sense , it becomes the duty of those who are interested in the preservation of a family to call twelve honest , enlightened , conscientious men together to consider the acts that have been committed , and to ask of themselves whether they are the acts of a man blessed with sound discretion , or the acts of one who , though shrewd and intelligent in many respects , is yet visited with some unfortunate weakness that tends to nullify and destroy all the other faculties of which he may be in possession . 
`` I have already stated , that in the autumn of last year Mr. Jorrocks allowed himself to be dubbed the Master of the Handley Cross Hunt ; and it is from that period that we seek to annul his transactions , and to declare his incompetency to manage his affairs . 
The wasteful , profligate expenditure of his substance is not the only charge against Mr. Jorrocks ; he has outraged the law of the land , and sought the vengeance of offended justice . 
`` Gentlemen of the jury , '' continued Mr. Martin Moonface , very slowly and deliberately , `` Jorrocks is , to all intents and purposes , a rioter . 
So that you see Jorrocks has not only placed himself in jeopardy , but all those whose wildness , weakness , or wickedness , induced them to join the phalanx round his standard . 
`` What was the cause of its supineness I know not , but government certainly permitted these outrages ; and during the whole of last winter , up to the very outburst of spring , Mr. Jorrocks continued this extraordinary career , without let , suit , molestation , hindrance , or interruption . 
During the whole of that time he never once visited the city of London , or his commercial concerns in St. Botolph 's Lane , or seemed to recollect that he had anything to attend to but these hunt-festivals or meetings . 
`` Nor were Mr. Jorrocks 's eccentricities and extravagances confined to the day-time . 
I am instructed that public dinners were held , at which he was in the chair , avowedly for the purpose of promoting and organising these illegal meetings ; speeches were delivered in praise of them , songs were composed in honour of their doings by day , and night brought no rest to the unquiet spirits that reigned triumphant at Handley Cross . 
Not so with Mr. Jorrocks . 
He convened a public meeting of all the disorderly inhabitants of Handley Cross , and delivered a speech or lecture in praise of himself and his doings , and in eulogy of the unaccountable amusement that has brought him into this unhappy position . 
`` After this , Mr. Jorrocks returned to his house in Great Coram Street , and resumed his attendance in St. Botolph Lane with his former punctuality , to the great joy of his friends , who began to flatter themselves that he had fairly got over his frenzy ; when , unfortunately , it broke out with redoubled violence . 
He had been taking his usual ride in the Regent 's Park , when the sight of some black and blighted dahlias , hanging their heads , and drooping in all directions , completely upset his philosophy . 
It was not the sudden destruction of these bright and many-coloured beauties that struck the feeling chord of a too sensible imagination , and conjured up mournful reflections on the precarious tenure of all earthly endearments , for far different , I grieve to say , were his thoughts on that occasion . 
exclaimed he in delight , ` it is a frost ! 
And so , because Jenkins 's dahlias were cut down by the frost , Jorrocks saw cause to rejoice at the circumstance -- unfortunate individual ! '' 
roared Mr. Jorrocks , in a rage at being considered a subject for Mr. Martin Moonface 's pity . 
-LSB- The commissioners interpose with great gravity , amid the uproarious laughter of the spectators ; and Mr. Jorrocks eyes Mr. Martin Moonface as though he would eat him . -RSB- 
`` Well , then , gentlemen of the jury , as I was observing , the sight of these weather-stricken dahlias had such an effect upon his imagination -- and awful , indeed , is it to contemplate such a visitation -- that instead of pursuing his ride , as he was wont to do , one-and-twenty times round the inner circle , he immediately turned his horse 's head towards home , ate a hurried breakfast , and set off by the Lilywhite-sand Railway for Handley Cross , without giving the slightest intimation to his poor distracted wife , whose feelings may be imagined but can never be described , and without sending any notification whatever to his partners in St. Botolph Lane . 
The authorities -- the churchwardens , overseers , constables , & c. , interfered -- a fracas took place between them and Mr. Jorrocks and his men , while in the act of stacking , which ended in the stackers being captured and taken before the magistrates of Handley Cross . 
The commissioners here intimated they would like to retire for a few minutes ; and during their absence , the court became a scene of great uproar , Mr. Jorrocks protesting at the top of his voice against the whole proceedings , inquiring most emphatically -- '' ` Ow vas I to know , wen I stacked the ` osses , that it was a goin ' to turn ` ot weather again ? '' 
Remembers Mr. Jorrocks 's entry into Handley Cross when he came to take possession of the hounds , and heard his speech from the balcony at the Dragon Inn -- understood the general purport of it , but not the detail . 
-- Had a quarrel with Mr. Jorrocks after he made the clothes ; not because Mr. Jorrocks considered them ill-made , but because he insisted on witness going out to hunt . 
Did not consider Mr. Jorrocks insane because he paid for them . 
Never said he was cracked or insane . 
-- Might have said Mr. Jorrocks was flighty . 
Meant that he rode fast ; not that he was mad . 
Mr. Jorrocks rode second in the procession . 
A man in a black velvet cap and a scarlet coat rode a little in advance of him . 
Mr. Jorrocks wore a broad-brimmed hat . 
Was alarmed at the whole thing , not at Mr. Jorrocks 's winking at her as she passed . 
Never said Mr. Jorrocks was mad . 
-- Had heard Mr. Jorrocks was deranged . 
Might have said she thought his attics badly furnished . 
Mr. Jorrocks 's hounds met at the toll-bar on the Cadby road . 
Witness was working among his winter cabbages , when his attention was attracted to the cry of dogs , which grew louder and louder ; presently three or four entered the garden at the east end , near where there is a watering-place for cattle , and almost at the same moment a loud crash among the glass at the other end attracted his notice , and he saw a man in a black cap and scarlet coat , and a brown horse , over head in a melon-frame . 
Mr. Jorrocks , who had come up in the meantime , stood erect in his stirrups , looking over the fence just by the melon-frame , encouraging the man , and blowing a horn to drown his cries for assistance . 
Mr. Jorrocks appeared to be encouraging him , crying , `` Have at him my beauty ! 
and blowing his horn . 
Never told Tom Straw , the ostler at the Dragon , that Mr. Jorrocks kept crying , `` Go it , Binjamin ! 
Had had many conversations with Mr. Jorrocks on the subject of the melon-frame , but never could obtain any final satisfaction . 
One of the objections Mr. Jorrocks made to pay the price he set upon his melon-frame was , that the witness had lost them the fox by stopping his man . 
Should say Mr. Jorrocks was not `` all there , '' though he would not go so far as to say he was mad . 
Knows Mr. Jorrocks well , and has been acquainted with him for many years -- perhaps ten or a dozen . 
Mr. Jorrocks has been in the habit of riding in the inner circle all that time , almost every morning throughout the summer season . 
Canters round and round , perhaps eight or ten times , and then walks his ` oss away . 
Witness has often conversed with him ; generally before he began cantering , or after he was done . 
Had never received any complaints against Mr. Jorrocks for furious riding . 
Once had a complaint against him for winking at a nursery-governess . 
Believes he winks at the nursery-maids ; but witness does not consider it any business of his . 
Considers Mr. Jorrocks a very agreeable gentleman . 
Remembers him once riding his ` oss into the ring with a blanket under the saddle . 
The blanket was folded when he entered the ring , but Mr. Jorrocks let it down about the osss sides before he began to canter . 
It was a fine bright morning , and Mr. Jorrocks overtook him on the bridge by the Archery ground , as witness was on his way to the inner circle . 
Mr. Jorrocks seemed much pleased , and as they entered the circle he exclaimed , as he looked over the nursery-ground palings , `` Hurrah ! 
Did not continue his ride , but after a pause of a few seconds gave witness half-a-crown , and cantered away . 
Never thought there was any thing odd in Mr. Jorrocks doing so . 
When witness told Mr. Jorrocks the nursery-governess had complained of his winking at her , he said he did it to clear the circle of her , for she was so hugly she frightened his ` oss . 
The nursery-maids are all fond of Mr. Jorrocks , -- he generally carries barley-sugar in his pockets for the children . 
Witness thinks it was a reddish-coloured ` oss that Mr. Jorrocks said had the tic-douloureux . 
Mr. Jorrocks never talked to witness about dahlias , -- has heard him inquire after the potato-tops , -- asked whether they were black or not . 
Seemed always very anxious for winter -- has heard him say , if he had his own way , he would strike summer out of the almanack . 
Never considered Mr. Jorrocks mad -- mad gentlemen generally walk in cloaks , -- some ride , and have their keepers on ` oss-back in livery after them , -- those are of the richer class . 
Considers Mr. Jorrocks quite the reverse of insane . 
Michael Brown , one of the churchwardens , called upon him , and told him that Mr. Jorrocks of London was down , and employing carts to collect all the dead horses , and that they were leading them to Grant 's paddock , just at the back of the Methodist chapel . 
Mr. Jorrocks was not present . 
Witness returned to his house , and after a consultation with the other churchwardens , wrote Mr. J. the following note : -- `` The churchwardens of the parish of St. James , Handley Cross , present their respectful compliments to Mr. Jorrocks , and having heard that you have bought all the dead horses in Handley Cross , desire to be informed what purpose you intend putting them to . 
He found Mr. Jorrocks in the paddock , superintending the stacking of the carcasses , which were placed one upon another like a stack . 
Mr. Jorrocks having read the note , took a pencil out of his pocket-book , and wrote at the bottom : -- `` Soup ! 
`` You be -- `` Yours , & c. , `` J. J. '' The special constables were then called out , and after a desperate conflict , succeeded in capturing Mr. Jorrocks , James Pigg , and Benjamin . 
-- There had been a sharp frost at Handley Cross for two or three days before Mr. Jorrocks 's arrival , -- seemed as if we were going to have an early winter . 
Had an idea that Mr. Jorrocks was buying the horses up to feed his hounds upon . 
Does not know how many hounds he keeps , or whether they could eat a horse for breakfast , another for dinner , and another for supper . 
Will not swear that Mr. Jorrocks bought the whole fifty-three horses that died -- knows that there were a great many by the size of the stack . 
Supposing the hounds to consume three horses a-day , and the flesh to keep for a month , does not know that Mr. Jorrocks 's act was otherwise than prudent . 
`` Now , then , sir , would you have the kindness to tell the jury what you know respecting the unfortunate gentleman , Mr. Jorrocks , whose case we are met here to inquire into ? '' 
growled Mr. Jorrocks , stuffing a ham sandwich into his mouth . 
continued he in the same strain , as Mr. Moonface , having extracted as much as he wanted out of the doctor , sat down , in order to let his `` learned friend '' endeavour to counteract what he had said , by cross-examination . 
`` Werry good , '' growled Mr. Jorrocks , thrusting the last ham sandwich into his mouth . 
This was the case of the promoters ; and a waiter , with a napkin twisted round his thumb , having whispered something in the ear of the chief commissioner , the learned gentleman looked at his watch , and immediately adjourned the court . 
Mr. Jorrocks was accommodated with a seat in the reporters ' place , immediately behind his counsel . 
He spoke in so low a tone of voice at the commencement , that it was with difficulty the reporters could catch what he said : but , with his usual urbanity , he obligingly supplied the deficiency by revising their reports . 
`` Gentlemen of the jury , '' said he , `` if my learned friend , Mr. Martin Moonface , with his splendid talents and vast acquirements , rose under circumstances of difficulty and embarrassment , how much greater must be my perplexity , in introducing myself to your notice , to attempt to grapple with and rebut the grave and voluminous charges with which his speech has loaded the inquiry , standing as I do without the manifold advantages of which my learned friend is so pre-eminently possessed ? 
`` In opening this great and important case -- great , I may call it , for it involves the liberty of many of the aristocracy of this country , and important it most certainly is , as regards the position of my most respectable client -- my learned friend , Mr. Martin Moonface , introduced Mr. Jorrocks with an exordium upon the singularity of his name . 
My client , as you may see , '' pointing to Mr. Jorrocks in the reporters ' place , `` is one , whose hey-day of youth has been succeeded by the autumn of maturer years ; and shall I surmise for one moment in the presence of a jury , drawn from the very heart of this , the first city of the world -- that a man entering trade binds himself irrevocably to the counter -- with no bright prospect of affluence and ease to gild the evening of his days , flitting in the vision of his mental horizon ? 
Mr. Jorrocks was then , gentlemen , just out of his apprenticeship , which he had served with such credit to himself and satisfaction to the firm , that they took him into partnership the moment they were able , and the firm then became Grubbins , Muggins , Potts , Crow , Tims , and Jorrocks . 
Gentlemen , Grubbins and Muggins shortly after paid the debt of nature ; but so great was the attention and ability of my client , that , instead of adding the number these deplorable events deprived the firm of , by fresh partners , Crow and Jorrocks divided the duties of one partner between them , and took in Mr. Simpkins , who had long filled the office of western traveller , and the partnership deed was then drawn out in the names of Potts , Crow , Tims , Jorrocks , and Simpkins . 
I need not follow my respectable client through the long labyrinth of years that followed , or through the weary mazes of commercial transactions and speculations which throve under his auspices ; -- suffice it to say , that revolving years found Mr. Jorrocks constant and sedulous at his warehouse , until the man who entered as the junior partner of the house stood at the head of a firm so long and so extensive , that it became necessary to condense its name under the title of Jorrocks & Co. . 
My learned friend commenced with a broad general rule , that any man following a pursuit at variance with trade must necessarily follow it to the detriment of the former , forgetting all the while , that though in trade , Mr. Jorrocks is so far independent of it as to be able to recreate himself , how and when he pleases , just as though he never had anything to do with it . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks ; `` so it may ! 
`` Really , Mr. Jorrocks , '' observed the chief , `` we shall have to order you out of court if you persist in interrupting counsel . '' 
`` Now do , Mr. Jorrocks , '' interposed the learned Sergeant , very mildly , `` let me argue your case for you , or else take it in hand entirely yourself ; for between us we shall make nothing of it . '' 
`` True , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks , `` true ; too many cooks always spoil the broth ; but just say now that ` unting is the sport of kings , the image of war without its guilt , and only five-and-twenty per cent of its danger . '' 
`` But though I make this statement broadly and unequivocally , '' continued the learned Serjeant , without noticing Mr. Jorrocks 's suggestion , `` I take a still higher ground , and say that my client 's means entitle him to follow what pursuit he pleases , regardless of all pecuniary considerations . 
Censured , gentlemen , you observe , is the term ; so that even if Mr. Jorrocks had devoted both day and night , and the whole of his income and energy , to the amusement of hunting , censure , and not a commission of lunacy to deprive him of the management of his affairs , would be all that he merited . 
So that you see , gentlemen , so far from Mr. Jorrocks 's pastime being fitting subject of censure , it even becomes matter of encomium and recommendation . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , `` werry good indeed -- werry good indeed ; say it 's the sport of kings , the image of -- . '' 
The commissioners again interpose , and vow they will turn Mr. Jorrocks out , or commit him for contempt of court . 
The sergeant again acts as mediator , Mr. Jorrocks growling something about `` werry ` ard that a man might n't kick up a row in his own court ! '' 
`` Better to rove in fields for ` ealth unbought , Than fee the doctor for a nasty draught ; '' observed Mr. Jorrocks to himself , in one of his whispers , which produced a roar of laughter , during a long pause the learned Serjeant made . 
`` My learned friend 's feelings were shocked at Mr. Jorrocks 's exultation at the sight of the drooping dahlias , and would fain draw a conclusion that a person who rejoiced at the return of winter must necessarily be insane ; but consider , gentlemen , before you adopt such an idea what might be your situation if the sight of the snowdrop or crocus , drawing from you an exclamation of delight at the sight of returning spring , was to deprive you of the management of your affairs , and perhaps , of your liberty ! 
`` All you have heard , the evidence of Lumpkin , the evidence of Sniffle , -- Miss Sniffle I should say , the evidence of Savoy , and the evidence of Greenwood , prove nothing but the devotion of Mr. Jorrocks to a highly popular pleasurable sport ; and even the constable Strong , when detailing the act which principally caused the issuing of this commission , admitted that , for aught he knew to the contrary , the purchase and stacking of the horses was a prudent and commendable act . 
Fortunately , however , I am in a situation to prove that whatever Mr. Jorrocks has done in the way of management has been prudent and cautious , that his character is humane and moderate , and his uniform conduct all that can be desired of an honest grocer and a good man . 
I am aware that I have not acquitted myself to the unfortunate gentleman -- unfortunate in being placed in such a situation -- in the manner I could have wished ; but I feel confident , when you have heard the evidence I shall now proceed to offer , that you will come to the only conclusion open from the premises , namely , that Mr. Jorrocks is not only a rational , but a highly talented man . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks , whose spirits rose thirty per cent . 
with the eloquence of his advocate , now mounted upon the table , and , dancing about on one leg , declared he would `` beat them arter all , '' -- offering to lay any one a guinea ` at to a sou ' - wester that he did ; upon which Pigg , seeing the Jury eyeing him , exclaimed , `` Had the gob thon ard gouk . '' 
Where-upon nothing would serve Jorrocks but Pigg should sing them one of his national melodies , -- should sing them , `` Unrivalled the ` ounds o'er which Jorrocks presides . '' 
but Pigg was impervious , telling his master `` he 'd desarve arl he gat gin he went ramin ' on that way . '' 
He has on a pair of Mr. Jorrocks 's drab shags and top-boots ; and , as a red coat would be inappropriate in a court of justice , he preserves the character in a bright green one , with a black velvet collar , and a hare on a dead gold button , with a burnished rim . 
His capacious chest is covered with foxes ' heads on a double-breasted , worsted-worked , brown waistcoat , and his green cashmere neckcloth is secured in front with a gilt coach-and-four brooch . 
He has a cane-whip stick in one hand , and a hat with a red cord to it in the other . 
said Serjeant Horsefield , eyeing him intently , as one does a person we think we have seen before . 
`` You are well acquainted with Mr. Jorrocks , the gentleman respecting whom we are met together this day ? '' 
-- `` Have known Mr. Jorrocks long and intimately . '' 
I wish you , as an old and intimate friend of Mr. Jorrocks , to state the impression that gentleman 's general conduct creates in your mind . '' 
-- `` Mr. Jorrocks ' general conduct , I should say , is very much the conduct of opulent merchants generally , -- he takes care of the pence and lets the pounds take care of themselves , -- he 's very rich . '' 
`` Then you consider him a good man of business ? '' 
`` And in his amusements you consider him sober and rational ? '' 
He 's president of our free-and-easy , chairman of the incorporated society of Good Fellows , and recorder of the Wide-awake Club . '' 
`` Certainly , '' replied Bill , tapping his boot , or rather Mr. Jorrocks ' boot , with his Malacca cane-whip stick . 
`` You have heard , I suppose , of Mr. Jorrocks 's purchase of horses , -- will you tell the Court your opinion of it ? '' 
Am I to understand , then , that you consider buying and stacking the horses was a prudent step on the part of Mr. Jorrocks ? '' 
-- `` Undoubtedly so ; -- war and all things considered , he must either have stacked or potted them . '' 
`` Pray , Mr. Bowker , '' inquired Mr. Smith , the Islington toy-shopkeeper , looking uncommonly wise , `` may I inquire if Mr. Jorrocks is a Poor-law guardian ? '' 
`` No he 's not , '' replied Mr. Bowker , with a sneer . 
-- `` Then you are not speaking from your own knowledge when you say Mr. Jorrocks ' hounds would eat a brace of horses a-day ? '' 
I want you to give a direct negative or a direct affirmative to that question , -- whether , for anything you know to the contrary , Mr. Jorrocks 's hounds might not eat three horses a-day , as well as two . '' 
-- `` No , sir ; -- might not Mr. Jorrocks 's hounds eat three horses a-day for anything you know to the contrary ? '' 
-- `` You say Mr. Jorrocks is a good man of business -- takes care of the pence and leaves the pounds to take care of themselves , -- I suppose from that , you mean to say he is penny wise and pound foolish . '' 
-- `` Pardon me ; no such thing -- pounds are supposed to be better able to take care of themselves than pence -- Mr. Jorrocks has a very proper respect for a sovereign -- very loyal ! '' 
`` You mentioned some clubs , I think , Mr. Bowker , that Mr. Jorrocks belongs to ; pray what is the nature of them ? '' 
`` And Mr. Jorrocks is the president of this society ? '' 
-- `` Mr. Jorrocks is the president of this society . '' 
`` And Mr. Jorrocks is recorder of that society ? '' 
-- `` Mr. Jorrocks is recorder of that society . '' 
`` Does he sit in state there also , in a crown and robes , with a Jerusalem round his neck ? '' 
`` You are , I believe , '' said he , `` a medical gentleman in extensive practice at Handley Cross , and well acquainted with Mr. Jorrocks ? '' 
`` observed Mr. Jorrocks aloud to himself , adding , '' No doubt about it . '' 
Mr. Moonface then proceeded to cross-examine Roger Swizzle : -- `` You say , Mr. Swizzle , '' said he , `` that you are in a great way of practice ; pray is it among gentlemen afflicted with Mr. Jorrocks ' infirmity ? '' 
`` Now ; Pigg , '' said Serjeant Horsefield , `` you are , I believe , huntsman to Mr. Jorrocks , and as such , have the management of his hounds and horses ? '' 
`` Well , Mr. Pigg , '' commenced Mr. Moonface , in a familiar tone , `` and so you fill the distinguished post of huntsman in this celebrated hunt , of which Mr. Jorrocks is the head ? '' 
It was for them to consider whether Mr. Jorrocks had carried the thing so far as to amount to insanity . 
It certainly did appear a most extraordinary pursuit for a rational being to devote himself to , in the manner Mr. Jorrocks appears to have done ; and with that observation he should leave the case in the hands of the jury . '' 
`` Aye , fancy him ! '' 
They then talked Jorrocks over . 
One knew his face , another his figure , a third his `` fist , '' having had a bill of his once . 
It was generally admitted that he was `` respectable , '' indeed , as Mr. Rounding observed , if he had n't been his friends would n't have troubled a commission , and as Rounding 's feeding time was then long past , he got them to return into Court , where he delivered a verdict of `` Insanity , '' adding that `` Mr. Jorrocks had been incapable of managing his affairs since he took the Handley Cross Hounds . '' 
The annoyance of such a thing as a commission of lunacy is enough to drive a sane man mad ; and Mr. Jorrocks 's indignant outburst and threatening conduct were construed into violence , and a removal for quiet insisted upon by the promoters of the commission . 
To Hoxton then he went , to the large brick house , with the pond behind , and the tall poplars before it , which stands so gloomily secluded as almost to mark itself out for such an asylum . 
it 's a pity but he 'd stuck to the Surrey -- might have gone on with them for long . '' 
`` I do n't know that , '' rejoined the captain , recollecting that he was the man who got Mr. Jorrocks to take the Handley Cross Hounds ; `` it would have broken out some other way -- set fire to his house , perhaps , or some such thing . '' 
exclaimed Mrs. Jorrocks , who dreaded fire ; `` it seems like a hinterposition of Providence , that he did take them then . '' 
`` Been better for me if he 'd set fire to his house , '' observed Captain Doleful , with a ghastly smile . 
`` Mr. Jorrocks is rich , too , '' observed Captain Doleful . 
`` He was afore he took the ` ounds , '' replied Mrs. Jorrocks . 
`` Oh , but the hounds could n't hurt him -- small establishment -- large subscription . '' 
`` They might turn his head , but they could n't hurt his pocket -- at least , if he has what people say . '' 
She had certainly encouraged Belinda to like him , and there , perhaps , she was to blame -LRB- without knowing what he had -RRB- , but then Mr. Jorrocks was the great promoter of the thing , and she had only now acquired the power of putting a veto upon it . 
`` Nay , do n't say that -- do n't deceive me -- you 've seen old mother Jorrocks -- you 've some idea what she 's driving at . '' 
Next day saw Mr. Bowker and charley Hansoming it to Hoxton to see Mr. Jorrocks , for it was the unanimous opinion of all the common law clerks with whom Bowker associated , that the verdict could not be sustained . 
Indeed , Mr. Shoestring , Serjeant Mustymug 's clerk , contended that all people were more or less mad on some subject or other , and that it would be quite as consistent to shop Mr. Catchball for constant cricketing , or Mr. Troller for fishing , as Mr. Jorrocks for hunting . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , running to receive them , `` werry kind indeed , '' continued he , jumping about on one leg , exhibiting a pair of clogs in which he had been digging ; `` these are most comfortless quarters . 
I 've had nobody to talk to , '' continued he , `` since I came here , except you poor booby among the cabbages , and a most uneasy companion he is . 
Thus Mr. Jorrocks rattled on in his usual strain , first on one subject , then on another , and not always waiting for an answer to his questions . 
Of course Dr. -- maintained he was mad . 
He had lucid intervals certainly , but as soon as ever the subject of hunting was mentioned , off he went at a tangent . 
Mr. Bowker rather disconcerted him , when he hinted that he would like the Chancellor to see Mr. Jorrocks ; and when he proclaimed himself to be a gentleman of the law , and talked about a `` habeas corpus , '' the doctor 's countenance fell amazingly . 
After much shuffling backwards and forwards work , many protestations from the mad doctor , that the indiscretion of his friends would very materially retard , if not altogether prevent , Mr. Jorrocks 's recovery , the solicitors at length agreed upon requesting a private examination by the Chancellor , which was kindly vouchsafed , his lordship having been struck by the perusal of the proceedings as published in the newspapers , and having , moreover , some little curiosity to see the distinguished subject of the inquiry . 
Accordingly it was arranged that Mr. Jorrocks should wait in his lordship 's private room for the rising of his court . 
`` Is Mr. Jorrocks here ? '' 
`` Mr. Jorrocks is here ! '' 
`` Do n't let me disturb you , pray , '' rejoined the gentleman , bowing , and motioning Mr. Jorrocks to be seated . 
Our friend , however , being up , took a coat-lap over each arm , and turning his back to the fire confronted the enterer . 
`` Coolish evening , this , Mr. Jorrocks , '' observed the gentleman , rubbing his hands as he approached the fire ; `` I hope your accommodation is comfortable at Hoxton ? '' 
`` Any thing but , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks ; `` at least I shall be werry glad to let you have it if you like . 
`` Indeed I do n't , replied Mr. Jorrocks ; `` consols were at ninety-two and a quarter when they shopped me ; do n't know what they may be now , wot with the weather and Nicholas Rumenough 's wagaries , '' adding half to himself and half to his interrogator , `` wish I could send Pigg over to fight him . '' 
`` I should think so , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks . 
Mr. Jorrocks . 
inquired Mr. Jorrocks . 
`` They say you are mad about hunting , I understand , '' observed the gentleman after a laugh at Mr. Jorrocks 's acuteness . 
`` Ah , -- ` unting 's the thing '' -- exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks -- `` the sport of kings -- but , however , never mind , we wo n't talk about that , '' added he , checking himself , and saying , `` I wish the old gentleman would come . '' 
`` Once , '' replied Mr. Jorrocks . 
There goes , '' observed Mr. Jorrocks aloud to himself . 
-- `` Well , never mind , I 'll tell you something , '' continued he , after a pause -- ``` Unting exemplifies wot the grammarians call the three degrees of comparison : -- stag-unting is positively bad , ` are - ` unting is comparatively good , and fox - ` unting superlatively so . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , starting ; `` have I been talking all this nonsense to the Chancellor ? 
countinued he , wringing his hands and stamping , `` wot a confounded old jackass I am ! 
You may be an enthusiast ; but I think , sir , '' turning to the doctor , `` Mr. Jorrocks seems perfectly able to do without your assistance , and I should recommend your letting him go home quietly from here , '' so saying , his lordship bowed and retired . 
exclaimed Mr. Jorrocks , as his lordship got out of hearing ; and seizing the mad doctor with one hand , and desiring Charley to take him by the other , they danced three reels with him till the mad doctor could dance no longer . 
Mr. Jorrocks then having kicked out the mad doctor 's hat-crown , politely placed the remains on his head and shoved him out of the door . 
`` roared Mr. Jorrocks , an exclamation that caused Captain Doleful to drop his fork , his whiskers to fall from his face , and Mrs. Jorrocks to swoon on the floor . 
Jorrocks then installed himself in his rightful position , and insisted on Doleful staying to see `` ow ` appy they would all be . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks 's early , but unseen friend , Sir Archy Depecarde , had a sister , one Mrs. Brantinghame , for whom he was anxious to do something at somebody-else 's expense , and hearing of Doleful 's disappointment , he bethought him it was the very time to fix a wife upon him , knowing that when a man has made up his mind to commit matrimony , he will often take up with the next best chance that offers , rather than go without a wife . 
As Doleful sat munching away , he made a mental inventory of what he saw ; bright plate , beautiful creaseless linen , crystal-like glass , noiseless butler , powdered footman , everything quite genteel ; could n't be done under two thousand a year -- no not for a halfpenny under two thousand a year -- and he contrasted it with old Jorrocks 's rough and ready style , his bustling Batsay , bubbly Binjimin , and duplicate dishes . 
Mamma tried Jorrocks 's famous horse recipe upon her , advised her to be to his faults a little blind , and to his virtues ever kind ; but Mrs. Doleful declared , she would rather to anything than return to him , and though , with bitter anguish , of Peter Bullock and Captain Capers , and the other gentlemen she had jilted . 
The Conqueror very handsomely settled himself , not quite so good an investment as Charley Stobbs made with pretty Belinda , Mr. Jorrocks having come down with what old Miss Freezer described as `` something v -- a -- a -- ry handsome , '' and promised them a thousand every time she has twins . 
Pigg therefore made the best of his way home and providing himself with a cutting whip , surprised Ben in the parlour in the act of refreshing himself with some of Mr. Jorrocks 's marmalade , which he was scooping out of the pot with his thumb . 
Taking him as he would a hound by the ear , Pigg pitched into him , exclaiming at the top of his voice , `` Ar 'll teach ye te gallop mar h ` ussus , it will ' e -LRB- whack -RRB- -- it will ' e -LRB- crack -RRB- -- it will ' e -LRB- smack -RRB- . '' 
Mr. Jorrocks therefore being without a whip , and in order as he says that they may all break their eggs at the same end , has allowed Pigg to choose his own , who , kennin as he says , `` Jist sic another chap as hissel , what used to whop in to the Tynedale , '' he has written to engage him , character being no object with Pigg , and Mr. Jorrocks and Pigg have entered into a compact that master and man are not both to get drunk on the same day . 
Moreover , Mr. Jorrocks has offered to increase Pigg 's wages if he will make Batsay , who we are sorry to say has had to get her stays let out again -- an honest woman . 
This is to be permanently added to his country , and the Right Honourable the Lords Commissioners of her Majesty 's Treasury having very properly dismissed the Honourable the Commissioner in charge of her Majesty 's Woods and Forests , together with his Scotch Sylvan oracle , Mr. Prettyfat is again pretty comfortable and able to turn his attention to his poultry , of which he has appointed Mr. Jorrocks grand protector . 
Mr. Jorrocks 's country is full of foxes , many of which he hopes to make cry `` Capevi , '' and as the ordnance hedge-hashers have made hunting comparatively easy where they have carried on their operations , he anticipates being able to scramble about in tolerable safety . 
He has begun greening his breeches knees among the hazel bushes , cub hunting , and arranged his meets for the first week in November , of which he has kindly sent us the following card : -- N6201118 
