Stuart 's cavalry was passing in review before Lee , who was about to commence his march toward Gettysburg . 
They will remember the martial form of Stuart at the head of his sabreurs ; how the columns of horsemen thundered by the great flag ; how the multitude cheered , brightest eyes shone , the merry bands clashed , the gay bugles rang ; how the horse artillery roared as it was charged in mimic battle -- while Lee , the gray old soldier , with serene carriage , sat his horse and looked on . 
Among the illustrious figures gazed at by the crowd , two were the observed of all observers -- those of Lee and Stuart . 
Stuart , the chief of cavalry of the army , was altogether different in appearance . 
Some readers may regard this picture of Stuart as overdrawn ; but it is the simple truth of that brave soul . 
He had his faults ; he loved praise , even flattery , and was sometimes irascible -- but I have never known a human being more pure , generous and brave . 
Stuart had approached the flag-staff and , doffing his plumed hat , had saluted Lee , who saluted in return , and complimented the review . 
Lee , followed by his staff , rode toward his quarters ; and Stuart set out to return to his own . 
We had ridden about half a mile , when Stuart turned his head and called me . 
I rode to his side . 
`` I wish you would ride down toward Beverly 's Ford , Surry , '' he said , `` and tell Mordaunt to keep a bright lookout to-night . 
Stuart cantered on singing . 
In a few minutes he was out of sight , and I was riding toward the Rappahannock . 
Ifthe reader has done me the honor to peruse the first volume of my memoirs , I indulge the vanity of supposing that he will like to be informed how I became a member of General Stuart 's staff . 
I was revolving this important subject in my mind , when I received a note from General J. E. B. Stuart , Jackson 's friend and brother in arms . 
Forty-eight hours afterward I was at Stuart 's head-quarters , near Culpeper Court-House . 
When I entered his tent , or rather breadth of canvas , stretched beneath a great oak , Stuart rose from the red blanket upon which he was lying , and held out his hand . 
As he gazed at me in silence I could see his face flush . 
`` You remind me of Jackson , '' he said , retaining my hand and gazing fixedly at me . 
I bowed my head , making no other reply ; for the sight of Stuart brought back to me also many memories ; the scouting of the Valley , the hard combats of the Lowland , Cold Harbor , Manassas , Sharpsburg , Fredericksburg , and that last greeting between Jackson and the great commander of the cavalry , on the weird moonlight night at Chancellorsville . 
Stuart continued to gaze at me , and I could see his eyes slowly fill with tears . 
he murmured . 
* He remained for a moment gazing into my face , then passing his hand over his forehead , he banished by a great effort these depressing memories . 
His bold features resumed their habitual cheerfulness . 
With these words Stuart seated himself at his desk , wrote a note , which he dispatched by a courier to army head-quarters ; and then throwing aside business , he began laughing and talking . 
Stuart was Lee 's right hand , and when he made a request , the War Office deigned to listen . 
Four days afterward , I was seated under the canvas of a staff tent , when Stuart hastened up with boyish ardor , holding a paper . 
`` Here you are , old Surry , '' -- when he used the prefix `` old '' to any one 's name , he was always excellently well disposed toward them , -- `` the Richmond people are prompt this time . 
You see now , my dear reader , how it happened that in June , 1863 , Stuart beckoned to me , and gave me an order to transmit to General Mordaunt . 
* His words . 
AsI rode toward the Rappahannock to deliver Stuart 's order to General Mordaunt , the wide landscape was suddenly lit up by a crimson glare . 
And calling an officer , he said : -- `` You will conduct this lady to General Stuart , reporting the circumstances attending her capture . '' 
An hour afterward I had passed through Culpeper Court-House , crossed the fields , and had reached General Stuart 's head-quarters . 
Stuart 's tent , or rather the strip of canvas which he called one , was pitched beneath a great oak on a wooded knoll about a mile south of the little village . 
Before the tent of Stuart , a man on guard , with drawn sabre , paced to and fro with measured steps . 
These were the figures of Stuart , the `` gray woman , '' and a young aid-de-camp . 
`` Farewell , madam , '' said Stuart , bowing and laughing ; `` I am sorry to have made your acquaintance under circumstances so disagreeable to you ; but I trust you will appreciate the situation , and not blame me . '' 
`` You will have an opportunity of seeing the Confederate capital , '' said Stuart , smiling . 
Stuart had ordered the prisoner to be conducted thither , and detained at the village tavern , under guard , until morning , when she would be sent to Richmond . 
Stuart laughed in reply . 
`` That is a curious person that Mohun sent me , '' he said ; `` at first she was disdainful enough ; but I paid her a few compliments , and now she is in an excellent humor , as you saw . '' 
`` Well , Mohun is a trump , '' said Stuart . 
Stuart remained silent for some moments , and then I heard him sigh . 
`` Do you know , my dear Surry , '' he said , `` that if people heard us talk in this way , they would call us libertines -- immoral -- any thing ? 
` Stuart would be one of the greatest soldiers in the army , if he did not drink so hard ! ' 
* And others add : ` if he were not a libertine . ' 
Stuart 's head sank , and he uttered a weary sigh . 
`` They will not let me alone , '' he muttered , `` and yet I am here fighting for my country . 
And he rose to his feet . 
She died while I was fighting near Middleburg in the fall of ' 62 -- that nearly broke me down -- '' And Stuart paused and covered his eyes with his hand . 
For a moment his breast heaved -- something like a sob issued from the brave lip , whereon the heavy mustache trembled . 
† he murmured . 
And dashing a tear from his eyes , Stuart walked to the door of his tent , from which he gazed forth upon the stars . 
Then all at once I heard Stuart call out : `` Orderly ! '' 
And walking fifty steps , Stuart caressed the glossy neck of his mare `` Lady Margaret , '' who was tethered to a bough , and looked around affectionately at her master . 
In a moment the tent , the wooded knoll , the whole vicinity was ringing with the uproarious notes of the mirth-inspiring banjo ; and Sweeney was chanting , as only that great master couldchant , the mighty epic of the sabreurs of Stuart : -- The staff and couriers quickly assembled , the servants were grouped in the starlight , the horses beneath the boughs turned their intelligent heads -- and leading in the uproarious chorus might have been heard the sonorous and laughing voice of Stuart . 
* The real words of Stuart 's prisoner . 
* This was actually said of Stuart . 
† His words . 
Then Stuart yawned ; said with a laugh , `` Good morning , gentle - men ! '' 
as was his habit when he wished to work ; and the tent was soon deserted . 
I rose , made my brief toilet , and went toward Stuart 's tent where a light was shining . 
He was writing busily at his desk , as fresh and gay as on the preceding evening . 
His enormous constitution defied fatigue . 
He was a young man of about twenty , of slight figure , beardless face , and an expression so shy and retiring that he seemed ready to blush if you spoke to him . 
He wore , nevertheless , the uniform of a captain of artillery ; and I remember wondering how this girlish and shrinking personage , with the large , sad eyes , had come to hold a commission . 
`` Captain Davenant , of my horse artillery , Colonel Surry , '' said Stuart . 
`` Davenant has been on a scout across the Rappahannock , to keep his hand in , '' said Stuart , busily writing . 
His confusion seemed to deprive him of the power of utterance . 
said Stuart , laughing and continuing to write with his back turned , as he spoke . 
`` I am going to move in half an hour , Hagan , '' said Stuart , still writing busily . 
And Stuart buckled on his sword , drew on his gauntlets , and mounted his horse . 
I was beside him . 
Not to be ready when Stuart was -- was to be left behind . 
He waited for nobody . 
His staff soon learned that . 
As Davenant 's horse was awaiting him , he was as prompt as Stuart desired . 
Stuart was playing with his glove , which he had taken off and dangled to and fro . 
His brows were knit , and he was reflecting . 
We did not interrupt him , and in ten minutes we were all clattering over the main street of the hamlet . 
Stuart pushed on by the tavern , without pausing , in the direction of Fleetwood , when just as he reached the eastern suburbs of the town a small one-horse wagon , leaving the place , attracted his attention . 
Stuart looked keenly at the wagon , called to the driver to halt , and demanded whither he was going , and on what business . 
Stuart peered under the coal-scuttle bonnet . 
`` And this is your ` old woman ' my friend , '' he said with a laugh . 
laughed Stuart , and riding on without further words , he left the countryman free to proceed on his way . 
We crossed a little stream , rode on toward Fleetwood , and had nearly reached Brandy when Stuart suddenly reined in his horse . 
`` Do you know I think , '' he said , `` that I have done a foolish thing ? '' 
Stuart nodded . 
In two hours the head-quarters tents were pitched upon Fleetwood Hill beyond Brandy , and Stuart sent his provost marshal to Culpeper Court-House , with orders to conduct the prisoner taken by Mohun on the preceding night , to General Lee , for examination . 
Upon this point , a note left by the lady directed to `` General Stuart '' would probably give information . 
And the provost wound up by handing the note to Stuart . 
He read it with an air of decided ill-humor . 
Then throwing it upon his desk , burst into a laugh . 
`` Well , Surry , '' he said , `` who is right and who is wrong , now ? 
And he pointed to the note , which I opened and read . 
It was in a delicate female hand , and ran as follows : -- `` General Stuart will pardon the attempt his captive is about to make , to effect her escape . 
He made himself quite charming in their brief interview , but liberty is sweet . 
With these words , Stuart dismissed the whole subject , turned to his desk , and in a moment was busy at his official writing . 
Onthe same evening I was riding with Stuart toward Culpeper Court-House . 
he said , with a laugh . 
`` Well , that is the word , '' he replied ; `` I am not afraid of the Yankees , but I am of gossips -- above all , of the valorous correspondents of the newspapers . '' 
Stuart cantered on , playing with his glove as usual . 
he laughed . 
With which words Stuart broke into a song , cantered on more rapidly , and passing without drawing rein through the Court-House , soon reached General Lee 's head-quarters on an eminence beyond . 
I had the honor to receive his salute , and to press his hand , and then I set out with General Stuart for Fleetwood . 
Stuart drew rein . 
he said . 
And rapidly dismounting , Stuart entered the ball-room . 
Before I had time to reflect upon this singular incident , I heard the voice of Stuart . 
he said . 
`` A gay ball , '' said Stuart , as we rode along ; `` but do you remember my instinct , Surry ? '' 
Stuart had scarcely spoken when rapid hoof-strokes were heard in front , and a horseman shot by . 
`` Have you seen General Stuart ? '' 
Stuart dismounted and entered his tent . 
`` You see I was right , Surry , '' he said turning toward me , `` and there is something in my instinctafter all ! '' 
At that sound Stuart leaped to the saddle , and rode rapidly toward the front . 
Fifteen minutes afterward his head-quarters had vanished . 
Stuart 's left , under William H. F. Lee , was opposite Welford 's ; his centre , under Jones , opposite Beverly 's ; his right , under Hampton , toward Kelly 's ; and a force under Robertson was posted in the direction of Stevensburg , to guard the right flank . 
Stuart rode on rapidly down Fleetwood Hill , and was soon opposite Beverly 's Ford where the enemy had crossed in force . 
In face of the bursting shell , the blue tirailleurscould not advance ; and Stuart sent an order to Hampton to move in and attack on the right . 
The troopers of the Gulf States advanced at the word ; their dense column was seen slowly moving , with drawn sabre , across the plain ; the moment of decisive struggle seemed rapidly approaching , when suddenly a heavy blow was struck at Stuart 's rear . 
I had been directed by him to ascertain if `` every thing had been sent off from Fleetwood , '' and to see that no papers had been dropped there in the hurry of departure . 
I had already turned to ride back to Stuart , when my attention was attracted by a column of cavalry advancing straight on Brandy -- that is , upon Stuart 's rear . 
The horse artillery returned the fire , and I hastened back with the intelligence to Stuart . 
`` It is only a squadron I suppose , '' he replied with great coolness . 
Stuart was cut off , and hemmed in between two powerful bodies of Federal cavalry , supported by infantry and artillery . 
He had come rapidly from the front , and now threw himself into the combat like the bloodhound to which Stuart had compared him . 
His sad smile had disappeared ; his cheeks were flushed ; his eyes fiery ; -- leaping from his horse , he seized the sponge-staff of a gun , from which all the cannoneers had been driven , and ramming home a charge of canister , directed the gun upon a column of the enemy . 
Before he could fire , a Federal cavalryman rode at him , and cut furiously at his bare head , with the full weight of his sabre . 
The Federal artillery was seized upon , and their cavalry driven back -- but at that moment a heavier force still was seen advancing upon Stuart from the direction of Kelly 's ford . 
Stuart was fighting , so to say , from the centre outwards . 
The enemy were in his front , in his rear , and on both his flanks . 
If they closed in , apparently , he would be crushed as in a vice . 
The iron hand would strangle him . 
Stuart 's `` heart of oak '' bore the strain . 
He was aroused , stung , his cheeks burned , his eyes flamed -- but the man was sufficient for the work . 
I looked closely at him . 
`` Do or die '' was plain on his face . 
From that instant I never had any doubts about Stuart . 
He rushed two pieces of artillery to a knoll in front of the line of Federal horsemen . 
* All at once I saw a column of cavalry coming up from the river , and turning to Stuart , said : -- `` General , what cavalry is that ? '' 
Stuart exclaimed . 
* The great force of the enemy sweeping down on Stuart 's flank was thus routed . 
Stuart held with his cavalry , indeed , the whole Fleetwood range . 
The long thunder of his artillery said to the enemy , `` Come on ! '' 
Stuart 's loss was also great -- even his staff was not spared . 
But Stuart had won the greatest cavalry fight of the war . 
* His words . 
† His words . 
Ina room of the `` Barbour House '' on Fleetwood Hill , Stuart was writing a dispatch to General Lee . 
I was gazing at the eldest -- the superb beauty with the disdainful eyes , who had held that wit-combat with her circle of admirers -- when Stuart finished his dispatches , and turned round . 
he said briefly to a member of his staff . 
The officer was looking at Stuart , who had grasped his hand . 
He winced as the general pressed it , and turned paler , but said nothing . 
exclaimed Stuart , laughing . 
Well , that happens , '' said Stuart -- `` Frequently , general , '' said Mohun ; `` and this one was verydear , indeed -- most tenderly attached to me , I assure you . 
`` Well , Mohun , '' said Stuart , who was not looking at him ; `` I am going to send you across the river on a reconnoissance to-night . '' 
As he did so , he staggered , and Stuart raised his eyes . 
he exclaimed . 
The horsemen of Stuart were going to move in an eccentric orbit . 
These are my memoirs , reader , not a history of the war ; I describe only what I saw , and am going to ask you now , to `` follow the feather '' of Stuart . 
Stuart was promptly in the saddle , and when Lee began to move , advanced north of the Rappahannock , drawing a cordon of cavalry across the roads above Middleburg , to guard the approaches to the mountain . 
The troopers of Stuart kept watch over fifteen miles of front , and through this wall of sabres the Federal eye could not pierce . 
Stuart is regarded by many as only a brave `` raider . '' 
It was on occasions like this , however , that he performed his greatest services . 
Everywhere he confronted the enemy in stubborn battle ; and the work was hard . 
It was fighting , fighting , fighting -- now , as in 1862 , when he covered Lee 's retreat after Sharpsburg . 
It was a war of giants which Fauquier and Loudoun saw in those days -- and not until the rear of Lee 's column had nearly reached the Potomac , did General Hooker by a desperate effort succeed in driving Stuart back . 
1863 , Stuart 's head-quarters had been established in a house on the roadside above Middle burg . 
We had been fighting all day ; had returned only at nightfall : and I was exchanging a few words with Stuart , before following the staff to rest , when all at once a third personage , who seemed to have arisen from the floor , stood before us . 
His presence was so sudden and unexpected that I started . 
Then I looked at him , curiously . 
He was a man of about forty , thin , wiry , and with a nose resembling the beak of a bird of prey . 
His eyes , half buried under bushy eyebrows , twinkled like two stars . 
His mouth was large and smiling ; his expression exceedingly benignant . 
Stuart uttered an exclamation of satisfaction . 
he said . 
And turning to me he introduced the new comer as `` Mr. Nighthawk , one of my ` private friends , ' and true as steel . '' 
asked Stuart ; `` experience tells me that you have something of importance to communicate ? '' 
He spoke without reserve , for General Stuart had informed him that he might do so before me ; and I was startled to find the number of private friends the South had in the North . 
He had a perfect understanding plainly with persons of the highest political position ; and Stuart listened with the greatest interest to the speaker , whose low voice never rose above the half-whisper by which I had been impressed on his first opening his lips . 
`` So the summing up of all is , '' said Stuart , `` that our friends are not too hopeful ? '' 
Mr. Nighthawk made no reply ; and Stuart reflected for some moments without speaking . 
Then rousing himself : -- `` I forgot , '' he said . 
said Stuart , laughing . 
Stuart knit his brows and reflected . 
Then he called to the orderly . 
`` Well , '' said Stuart , `` that was a bold stroke , but the lady was handsome enough to make friends . 
exclaimed Stuart . 
Atdaybreak , Stuart was going at full gallop to the front . 
exclaimed Stuart , darting to the front . 
Stuart was driven back , and was returning doggedly , when the gun for which he had sent , galloped up , and unlimbered in the road . 
said Stuart , grimly . 
And turning round to me , he said , pointing to a hill in rear -- `` Post three pieces on that hill to rake all the roads . '' 
The enemy advanced in overpowering force -- drove Stuart back beyond his head-quarters , where they captured the military satchel of the present writer -- and still rushing forward , like a hurricane , compelled the Confederate cavalry to retire behind Goose Creek . 
On the high ground there , Stuart posted his artillery ; opened a rapid fire ; and before this storm of shell the Federal forces paused . 
Long columns of cavalry , heavy masses of infantry and artillery at every opening , right , left , and centre , showed that the task of driving back Stuart was not regarded as very easy . 
Stuart galloped to his guns , pouring a steady fire from the lofty hill . 
exclaimed Stuart . 
For the hundredth time I witnessed that entire indifference to danger which was a trait of Stuart . 
The fire at this moment was so terrible that I heard an officer say : -- `` General Stuart seems trying to get himself and everybody killed . '' 
Stuart paid no attention to him . 
He had no eyes or thought for any thing but the enemy . 
His cheeks were flushed , his eyes flamed -- he resembled a veritable king of battle . 
From Stuart my glances passed to Davenant . 
His coolness impressed me deeply . 
While giving an order , a shell burst right in his face , enveloping horse and rider in a cloud of smoke -- but when the smoke drifted away , he was sitting his horse unmoved , and giving the order as quietly as before . 
Stuart held his ground for an hour on the high hills of Goose Creek , but it then became plain that he was going to be driven back . 
The enemy had felt him , and discovered that the game was in their own hands . 
Now they rushed on his right , left and centre , at the same moment -- cavalry , infantry , and artillery rolling on like a torrent -- crossed the stream , charged the hill -- in a moment a bitter and savage combat commenced for the possession of the crest . 
Stuart rushed toward the guns . 
As he reached them a cannon ball carried off the head of a cannoneer , and his horse reared with fright , nearly trampling on the headless trunk which spouted blood . 
exclaimed Stuart . 
And he gave the order to limber up . 
Stuart the valiant , the obstinate , the unshrinking was driven ! 
On the other roads , Stuart 's right and left were rapidly retiring . 
His centre at Upperville seemed devoted to destruction . 
I was ten yards from Stuart , just at the edge of the town , when a picked body of Federal horsemen darted straight upon him . 
Stuart fell back to the range of mountains a mile below Paris : crowned the upland with his artillery , and determined to retreat no further . 
Stuartwas sitting his horse beside Davenant 's guns , which from the slope grinned defiance at the enemy , when hoof-strokes were heard from the direction of the village of Paris , in his rear , and a party of horsemen ascended the mountain . 
He was clad in an old gray uniform , almost without decorations ; wore a black round-head hat ; his beard was long , matted and brown , like the full mustache : and the expression of the countenance was calm , almost phlegmatic . 
Longstreet halted beside Stuart , and grasping his hand , conversed with him for some moments . 
All at once , Longstreet turning to the gray-headed officer , with a brief apology for his remissness , introduced him to Stuart as `` General Davenant . '' 
Stuart saluted , and exchanged a pressure of the hand with the courtly old officer . 
`` Your son , Will , has fought like a hero to-day , general , '' he said . 
`` Those words are worth another grade of rank , general , '' he replied . 
As he spoke , Will Davenant came up and greeted his father with blushing pleasure . 
`` We do n't think much of the cavalry , you know , '' said the urchin , sotto voce , `` it takes the infants to do the work -- but old Stuart is a trump ! '' 
Half an hour afterward Stuart and Longstreet had finished their conversation , and exchanging a grasp of the hand , separated -- the latter to return to Ashby 's Gap . 
Soreand restive at the reverse which had come to balance his victory of Fleetwood , Stuart bivouacked near Paris , that night , and made every preparation to attack at dawn . 
At daylight he was in the saddle , and spurred to the high ground commanding Upperville . 
All at once he checked his horse . 
Stuart 's blue eye flashed , and half an hour afterward he was advancing at the head of his cavalry . 
Pressing on through Upperville , and over the trampled fields beyond , he continued to advance upon Middleburg , and near that place came up with the rear of the enemy . 
Stuart returned to his former head-quarters amid a drenching rain ; and this recalls an incident very honorable to the brave soldier . 
As night descended , dark and stormy , Stuart gazed gloomily at the torrents of rain falling . 
he said , with a sigh , `` they will have a hard time to-night . '' 
Then suddenly turning to his servant , he added : -- `` Spread my oil-cloth and blankets under that apple tree yonder . 
`` Certainly I am , '' was his reply , `` I do n't intend to fare better than my men ! '' 
* And an hour afterward Stuart was asleep under the apple-tree , with a torrent pouring on him . 
Before sunrise Stuart was up , and walking uneasily to and fro . 
As the day wore on , he exhibited more and more impatience . 
Stuart rapidly drew him into a private apartment ; remained in consultation with him for half an hour ; and then came forth , with a smile of evident satisfaction . 
Stuart set out apparently to follow them -- but that was only a ruse to blind busybodies . 
A quarter of a mile from head-quarters he leaped a fence , and doubled back , going in the direction now of Manassas . 
At daylight on the next morning he had forced his way through the Bull Run mountain . 
Two hours afterward he had made a sudden attack on the enemy 's infantry . 
Stuart ` sfight near Haymarket , here alluded to , was a gay affair ; but I pass over it , to a scene still gayer and decidedly more pleasant . 
We were all tired and hungry -- the general no less so than his staff -- and when an invitation was sent to us by a gentleman near Bucklands , to come and sup with him , we accepted it with fervor , and hastened toward the friendly mansion . 
An excellent supper was plainly in preparation for the bold Stuart and his military family ; and that gay and gallant cavalier , General Fitz Lee having also been invited , the joy of the occasion was complete ! 
Stuart threw his plumed hat upon a chair , and drew near the foot of the table . 
He looked round with a gay smile . 
Stuart made a low bow , and said : -- `` All are here , madam ! '' 
And he who had uttered these words advanced into the apartment . 
He was a young man , about twenty-three , of medium height , graceful , and with a smile of charming good humor upon the lips . 
His hair was light and curling : his eyes blue : his lips shaded by a slender mustache . 
His uniform was bran new , and decorated with the braid of a lieutenant . 
Yellow gauntlets reached his elbow , he wore a shiny new satchel , and in his hand carried a brown felt hat , caught up with a golden star . 
Stuart grasped his hand warmly . 
he exclaimed . 
And turning to the company , he added : -- `` My new aid-de-camp , Lieutenant Herbert , ladies . 
So much I knew -- and I was soon to hear how he had come to be Stuart 's aid . 
Stuart going in . 
I knew him well , and he was tenth cousin to my grandmother , which you know counts for a great deal in Virginia . '' 
Stuart had ridden on ahead of his column , through the immense deserted camps around Wolf Run Shoals , attended only by two or three staff officers . 
Stuart did not obey the order . 
I had drawn my sword , but before I could go to Stuart 's assistance , Tom shot ahead of me . 
Two of the enemy had caught up with Stuart , and were making furious cuts at him . 
He parried the blow of one of the Federal cavalry-men -- and the other fell from the saddle , throwing up his hands as he did so . 
Stuart led the charge , and seemed to enjoy it with the zest of a fox-hunter . 
He had indeed escaped from a critical danger . 
He had pushed on with a few of his staff , as I have said , to Fairfax Station , had then stopped and slipped his bridle to allow his horse to eat some `` Yankee oats , '' and while standing beside the animal , had been suddenly charged by the party of Federal cavalry , coming down on a reconnoissance from the direction of the Court-House . 
So sudden was their appearance that he was nearly `` gobbled up . '' 
He had leaped on the unbridled horse ; seized the halter , and fled at full speed . 
The enemy had pursued him ; he had declined halting -- and the reader has seen the sequel . 
* Stuart pressed the party hotly toward Sanxter 's , but they escaped -- nearly capturing on the way , however , a party of officers at a blacksmith 's shop . 
asked Stuart . 
And Tom Herbert 's expression was so melancholy that Stuart burst into laughter . 
`` You may have lost your flute , Tom , '' he said , leaning on his shoulder , `` but you have won your spurs at least , in the cavalry ! '' 
Atdaylight , on the next morning , Stuart had crossed the Poto mac into Maryland . 
He had advanced from Wolf Run Shoals to Fairfax Court House , where the men rifled the sutlers ' shops of tobacco , figs , white gloves , straw hats , and every edible and wearable : -- then the column pushed on toward Seneca Falls , where the long wavering line of horsemen might have been seen hour after hour crossing the moonlit river , each man , to prevent wetting , holding above his head a shot or shell taken from the caissons . 
Then the artillery was dragged through : the panting horses trotted on , and the first beans of day saw the long column of Stuart ready to advance on its perilous pathway to the Susquehanna , by the route between the Federal army and Washington . 
The word was given , and with the red flags fluttering , Stuart moved toward Rockville , unopposed , save by a picket , which was driven off by the advance guard . 
Without further incident , he then pushed on , and entered the town in triumph . 
A charming reception awaited him . 
Doors and windows were crowded : bright eyes shone ; red lips laughed ; waving handkerchiefs were seen everywhere ; and when Stuart appeared in person , he was received with wild rejoicing . 
He bowed low , removing his plumed hat , but suddenly intelligence came which forced him to push on . 
Stuart led the charging column -- the warlike teamsters were soon halted -- the trains became our spoil -- and with countless kicking mules driven onward in droves before them , the cavalry , escorting the captured wagons , continued their way toward Pennsylvania . 
Moving all that night , Stuart came to Westminster , where Fitz Lee , the gallant , drove the enemy 's cavalry from their camp , and the town fell into the hands of Stuart . 
Chambliss , leading Stuart 's advance , pushed ahead and drove in a picket . 
Then that brave soldier rushed on , and seemed intent on taking the place , when I was sent by Stuart to order him `` not to go too far . '' 
I came up with Chambliss as he was charging , but had scarcely given him the order , when he was charged in turn by a heavy force and driven back . 
To avoid being carried away with them , I diverged into a field , when all at once Stuart appeared , retreating at full gallop before a party who were chasing him . 
Stuart and myself retreated at a gallop , boot to boot ; leaped ditches and fences ; and got off in safety . 
A few moments afterward his artillery opened its thunders . 
So the night came on , and Stuart 's great train moved . 
But Stuart determined not to abandon them , and they were dragged on -- a line stretched to infinity ! 
Whole columns went to sleep , in the saddle , as they rode along ; and General Stuart told me afterward , that he saw a man attempt to climb over a fence , half succeed only , and go to sleep on the top rail ! 
But after that good sleep , side by side with the great Carolinian , things looked far more real , and pushing on I again caught up with Stuart . 
He advanced steadily on Carlisle , and in the afternoon we heard artillery from the south . 
was his reply . 
Stuart sent in a flag , demanding a surrender : this proposition was politely declined ; and for fear that there might possibly remain some doubts on the subject , the Federal commander of the post , opened with artillery upon the gray cavalry . 
As soon as the enemy 's response to the flag of truce had been received , Stuart advanced his sharp-shooters , replied with his artillery to their own , and dispatched a party to destroy the extensive United States barracks , formerly used as cantonments for recruits to the army . 
An hour afterward Stuart ceased firing , the conflagration died down ; back into the black night sank the fair town of Carlisle , seen then for the first and the last time by this historian . 
The guns were silent , the cavalry retired ; and Stuart , accompanied by his staff , galloped back to a great deserted house where he established his temporary head-quarters . 
He had just received a dispatch , by courier , from General Lee . 
Stuart 's brows were knit , and he mused gloomily . 
Suddenly he turned and addressed me . 
`` You were right , Surry , '' he said , `` those guns were at Gettysburg . 
I bowed ; Stuart reflected for some moments without speaking . 
Then he suddenly said : -- `` I wish you would go to General Lee , and say I am coming , Surry . 
From the captured horses I selected the best one I could find , and burying the spurs in his sides , set out through the black night . 
Ten minutes afterward , I was riding to find General Stuart , who had sent me with a message just before the charge . 
Thesun was sinking red and baleful , when I reached Stuart , beyond the left wing of the army . 
Stuart had narrowly escaped death or capture in the melée ; and Fitz Lee had fought hilt to hilt with the Federal horsemen , repulsing them , and coming back laughing , as was his wont . 
Meade , following slowly , was met at every step by Stuart 's cavalry ; but finally faced his adversary . 
Stuart followed , bringing up the rear with his cavalry column ; and the whole army was once more on the soil of Virginia . 
Crossingto the south bank of the Potomac , Stuart established his head-quarters at `` The Bower , '' an old mansion on the Opequon . 
The family at the ancient hall were Stuart 's cherished friends , and our appearance now , with the red flag floating and the bugle sounding a gay salute as we ascended the hill , was hailed with enthusiasm and rejoicing . 
All at the `` Bower , '' loved Stuart ; they love him to-day ; and will love him always . 
His tents were pitched on a grassy knoll in the extensive grounds , beneath some ancient oaks resembling those seen in English parks . 
The great tree on the grassy knoll , under which Stuart erected his own tent , is called `` Stuart 's Oak '' to this day . 
Suddenly , as I mused thus , dreaming idly under the great oak which sheltered me , I heard a voice from Stuart 's tent , sending its sonorous music on the air . 
Stuart 's head-quarters were full of the most mirthful sounds and sights . 
Hagan listens to him yonder with a twinkle of the eye -- Hagan the black-bearded giant , the brave whose voice resembles thunder , the devotee and factotum of Stuart , whom he loves . 
Suddenly Stuart starts up and exclaims : -- `` Stop that , Sweeney ! 
In the autumn of 1867 , I revisited the old hall where those summer days of 1863 had passed in mirth and enjoyment ; and then I wandered away to the grassy knoll where `` Stuart 's oak '' still stands . 
those days were dust , and Stuart sang and laughed no more . 
Stuart was dead ; -- his sword rusting under the dry leaves of Hollywood , and his battle-flag was furled forever . 
The hall was there as before ; the clouds floated , the stream murmured , the wind sighed in the great tree , as when Stuart 's tent shone under it . 
Stuart 's head-quarters disappeared -- we bade our kind friends good-bye -- and , mounting , set out for the Lowland , whither Lee 's column was then marching . 
Stuart kept his lynx-eye on all the fords of the two rivers , having his head-quarters in the forks of the streams not far from their junction . 
I often asked myself these questions -- he persisted in giving me no clue to the secret -- but I felt a presentiment that some day I should `` pluck out the heart of his mystery . '' 
Stuart 's cavalry had moved out on the right flank to protect the column from the observation of the enemy . 
Stuart leaped to saddle , and , preceded by his red flag rippling gayly in the wind , set out from his head-quarters in the direction of the mountains . 
He was entering on his last great cavalry campaign -- and it was to be one of his most successful and splendid . 
Grand physical health , a perfectly fearless soul , the keenest thirst for action , a stubborn dash which nothing could break down -- all this could be seen in the face and form of Stuart , as he advanced to take command of his column that day . 
On the next morning at daylight he had-struck the enemy . 
Here Stuart came suddenly upon them , and drove in their pickets : -- a moment afterward he was galloping forward with the gayety of a huntsman after a fox . 
said Stuart . 
And he pointed to a gorge in the little mountain before us . 
Stuart wheeled and beckoned to Gordon , the brave North Carolinian , who had made the stubborn charge at Barbee 's , in 1862 , when Pelham was attacked , front and rear , by the Federal cavalry . 
With which words Stuart went at a gallop and joined Young . 
That gay and gallant Georgian was at the head of his column ; in his sparkling eyes , and the smile which showed the white teeth under the black mustache , I saw the same expression of reckless courage which I had noticed on the day of Fleetwood , when the young Georgian broke the column on the hill . 
Stuart explained his design in three words : -- `` Are you ready ? '' 
Stuart exclaimed , as long lines of prisoners appeared , going to the rear , `` a fair beginning , at least ! '' 
And he rode on rapidly . 
Stuart 's orders were to protect the march of Ewell from observation ; and this he accomplished by simply holding the Federal cavalry at arm 's - length . 
Stuart had taken his position , with his staff and couriers , on a hill . 
Here , with his battle-flag floating , he watched the skirmishers , -- and then gradually , the whole party , stretched on the grass , began to doze . 
Stuart laughed , and mounted his horse . 
he said , `` look at Surry 's hat ! '' 
At nightfall the enemy was still in position , and Stuart had not advanced . 
Stuart pushed on their track down the Sperryville road , passed the village of Griffinsburg , and near Stonehouse Mountain came on , and pushed them rapidly back on Culpeper Court-House . 
Stuart asked . 
The words acted upon Stuart like the blow of a sword . 
A wild excitement seemed to seize him . 
he shouted -- for we were riding ahead without support ; `` bring up the cavalry ! 
And drawing his sword , Stuart rushed at full gallop , alone and unattended , toward the Federal infantry , whose gun-barrels were seen glittering in the woods . 
Never had I seen him more excited . 
He was plainly on fire with the idea of capturing the whole party . 
shouted Stuart , his drawn sword flashing as he forced his horse over fallen trees and the debris of the great deserted camp . 
As his men darted upon them , they suddenly halted , came to a front-face , and the long line of gun-barrels fell , as though they were parts of some glittering war-machine . 
For the second time Stuart had charged infantry and broken them . 
Pushing on now through the great deserted camps of Stonehouse Mountain , he descended upon Culpeper . 
I was sitting my horse near Stuart and Gordon . 
They were both laughing -- indeed , Stuart seemed laughing throughout the campaign . 
he said ; `` he has crossed and driven them . '' 
`` Thank you , colonel , '' General Lee said , with his grave but charming courtesy ; `` tell General Stuart to continue to press them back toward the river . '' 
Ewell bowed and turned to obey -- I returned to Stuart . 
He was pushing the Federal cavalry `` from pillar to post . '' 
Driven back from the hill , where they had planted their artillery , they had retreated on Brandy ; Stuart had followed like a fate ; Gordon , sent round to the left , struck their right flank with his old sabreurs ; Fitz Lee , coming up on the right , thundered down on their left -- and in the woods around Brandy took place one of those cavalry combats which , as my friends , the novelists say , `` must be seen to be appreciated ! '' 
Fitz Lee had repulsed Buford on the Rapidan ; followed him on his retreat , harassing him at every step -- when , just as Buford reached Brandy , with Fitz Lee at his heels , Kilpatrick descended on Fitz Lee 's rear by the Sperryville road , and Stuart thundered down on his ! 
Thus Fitz Lee was pursuing Buford ; Kilpatrick , Fitz Lee ; and Stuart , Kilpatrick ! 
General Fitz was the man for a `` tight place , '' however -- and `` his people , '' as he called his cavalry , soon cut through to Stuart . 
In the dusky woods near Brandy , Stuart sat his horse , looking toward the Rappahannock , and laughing still . 
He was talking with brave Fitz Lee , whose stout figure , flowing beard , and eyes twinkling with humor , were plain in the starlight . 
Stuart had driven the enemy at every step . 
He had charged their infantry , cavalry , and artillery , routing all , -- and he was once more in sight of Fleetwood Hill , where he had defeated them in the preceding June . 
In sight of it took place two of Stuart 's hardest combats -- and both were victories . 
Bysunrise Stuart was pushing rapidly up the bank of the Rappahannock toward Warrenton Springs . 
Stuart followed , and came up with their rear retreating over the bridge at Warrenton Springs . 
Stuart turned , and saw , not far from him , the Jefferson Company who had charged so gallantly at Stonehouse Mountain . 
A movement of his hand , and they were charging over the bridge . 
Stuart 's face was fiery . 
he shouted . 
And placing himself in front of the men , sword in hand , he led them through the ford , in face of a heavy fire , charged up the opposite slope , and the Federal skirmishers scattered in wild flight . 
As the column moved on , Stuart galloped along the line toward the front . 
He had just faced death with these men , and at sight of him they raised a cheer . 
Stuart turned : his face glowed : rising in his stirrups , he took off his hat and exclaimed : -- `` Bully for the old Twelfth ! '' 
Stuart disappeared , followed by tumultuous cheers , and his column continued to advance upon Warrenton ahead of the army . 
He had ridden on for a quarter of an hour , when he turned to me , and said : -- `` I am getting uneasy about things at Culpeper . 
Meade had been delayed much by uncertainty as to his adversary 's designs -- had scarcely advanced beyond the Rappahannock -- and the object of Stuart was to discover his position and intentions . 
That was the work always assigned to the `` Eyes and Ears '' of the army -- Stuart 's cavalry ; and the stout cavalier , now at the head of his column , was on for the railroad , along which the enemy must retreat . 
Stuart steadily advanced , and about sunset had passed Auburn , when , as he was riding at the head of his column , a messenger rode up hastily from Gordon , holding the rear . 
said Stuart . 
Stuart turned and galloped back . 
Stuart gazed at them keenly . 
As he sat looking toward them , a staff officer from the front came up rapidly . 
Stuart looked at Gordon . 
`` A real trap , '' he said coolly , knitting his brows . 
he asked . 
Stuart 's voice was never cooler . 
He looked quietly at the huge column cutting off his retreat . 
he all at once exclaimed . 
And tearing a leaf out of his dispatch-book , he wrote a hasty note to General Lee . 
Stuart described his situation , and proposed that Rodes , then near Warrenton , should attack at dawn -- when he would open with his artillery , charge with his horsemen , and cut his way out . 
Stuart was caught in a veritable trap . 
On both sides -- in his rear and his front -- were passing heavy corps of Federal infantry ; their numerous artillery ; and their long-drawn columns of cavalry . 
If we were once known to be lurking there , good-bye to Stuart and his men ! 
It seemed miraculous that some noise did not betray Stuart 's hiding-place ; but an Unseen Eye seemed to watch over him , and an Unseen Hand to guard him . 
Stuart was never cooler . 
On his horse , at the head of his men , he betrayed no emotion . 
You would not have known , except for his subdued tones when speaking to some one , that he and his command were in a veritable `` tight place . '' 
Cool and resolute , he was equal to any event . 
Certain capture or destruction of his whole force was imminent . 
But they evidently felt perfect confidence in Stuart . 
Stuart rose erect in his saddle , and looked in the direction of the sound , his eyes glowing . 
Stuart darted to his guns . 
On his countenance was a grim smile . 
he exclaimed . 
Stuart did not allow the panic to subside . 
His sharp-shooters opened at the same instant a determined fire ; the great cavalier went at full speed to the head of his column : -- then rushing like an avalanche , troopers and artillery , charged the column in front , burst through , trampling it as he went , and at a gallop the gray horsemen , with guns following , broke out ; and were again free . 
Stuart was out of the trap . 
From one of the `` tightest places '' that a commander was ever in he had extricated his whole command . 
Once in safety , he turned like a wild boar on his enemies . 
In ten minutes his artillery had taken a new position -- its thunders had opened -- its roar told the army , that his feather still floated , his star was still in the ascendant . 
They had already split the air with shouts in honor of the cavalry , on that evening at Warrenton Springs , when Stuart charged through the ford . 
`` Hurrah for Stuart ! '' 
And let me add that the stout cavalier keenly enjoyed his popularity . 
He was brave and fond of glory -- approbation delighted him . 
In his ears , praise , sympathy , admiration , sounded sweet . 
Hill had been sent in that direction to intercept the enemy 's retreat , but on the afternoon succeeding the adventure of Stuart , an ugly blow was dealt him on the banks of Deep Run . 
He came up with the enemy 's rear guard under their brave General Warren ; assailed it in front of an embankment furiously , and suffered a heavy repulse . 
From the hill above Bristoe , General Lee , accompanied by Stuart , looked out in the direction of Manassas . 
Nothing prevented the cavalry , however , from `` feeling '' the enemy in their new position ; and Stuart rapidly advanced to Bull Run , across which Fitz Lee drove the Federal horsemen . 
A raid toward their rear , by Stuart , followed . 
He moved toward Groveton ; deflected to the left , and crossed the Catharpin in a violent storm ; advanced next day toward Frying-Pan ; then striking the Second Corps of Meade , and throwing it into confusion , by producing the impression that his force was Lee 's whole army , he quietly retired by the way he had come . 
A picked division was sent out in pursuit of the daring raiders -- and this force of horsemen , about three thousand in number , hurried across Bull Run to punish Stuart . 
There was the march toward Chantilly , amid the drenching storm , when Stuart rode along laughing and shouting his camp songs , with the rain descending in torrents from his heavy brown beard . 
It seemed hard to understand , but the fact was perfectly evident , that Stuart was retreating . 
Could General Stuart intend to leave them in the Yankee lines again ? 
he could not ! 
He could not have the heart to ! 
Was he coming to see them ? 
With a bound he was in the saddle -- I saw him turn and make a gay salute toward the ladies on the steps , and then we set out at full speed across the fields to rejoin Stuart . 
He was evidently engaged with the enemy . 
I remembered Stuart 's significant smile ; the absence of Fitz Lee ; a trap had evidently been laid , and General Kilpatrick had fallen into it . 
He was to move toward Auburn , while Stuart retreated upon Warrenton , pursued by Kilpatrick . 
Then Fitz Lee was to attack the enemy in flank and rear , from the direction of Auburn -- his cannon would be the signal for Stuart to turn . 
Stuart retired steadily on Warrenton . 
When the Federal rear approached Buckland , Fitz Lee came in on their left flank , and then Stuart turned like a tiger , and bore down on the head of their column . 
Those carbine shots came from Stuart as his men charged . 
We had set out at full speed to rejoin Stuart , as I have said ; but he saved Tom and myself the trouble of riding very far . 
He came to meet us , at full gallop , with drawn sabre , driving the Federal troopers in disorder before him . 
In ten minutes we had caught up with Stuart . 
He was leading his column in person . 
Stuart is down on him like a lion ! '' 
`` Yonder he is -- Colonel Darke ! '' 
`` I am sorry to meet him , '' he said , in a low tone . 
`` He would not strike me yonder , in Pennsylvania , when I was in his power . '' 
`` But he has sworn to kill you to-day ! '' 
`` I have just heard him swear that ! 
Stuart and Fitz Lee had united their forces ; in one solid column they pressed the flying enemy , banging and thundering on their rear with carbines and cannon . 
`` Stuart boasts of having driven me from Culpeper ; '' he is reported to have said just before the fight , `` and now I am going to drive him . '' 
But Stuart was not driven . 
On the contrary , he drove Kilpatrick . 
Such was the dramatic termination of the last great cavalry campaign of Stuart . 
The affair came to be known as `` The Buckland Races , '' and Stuart 's old sabreurs still laugh as they recall the comedy . 
Now for the sad scene which I witnessed , as I rode back with Stuart . 
Passing a small house , a poor woman came out , and with eyes full of tears , exclaimed , addressing Stuart : -- `` Oh , child ! 
* Stuart stopped . 
He was riding at the head of his staff , preceded by his battle-flag . 
Not a trace of amusement was seen on his features , as he heard himself addressed in that phrase , `` Oh , child ! '' 
he said , in his grave , kind voice . 
Stuart seemed deeply affected . 
`` Well , they are not coming back , my good woman , '' he said , in a voice of deep feeling . 
`` I hope not , at least , '' Stuart replied , in a low tone . 
Stuart returned to his bivouac in the pine wood near Verdiersville , where he had slept without tents , by his camp-fire , all these freezing nights . 
Then the army began to move ; soon it resumed its former position ; the cavalry was sent to watch the fords of the Rapidan ; and Stuart returned to his own head-quarters near Orange Court-House , gayly singing , as he had left them to advance and meet the enemy . 
Stuart called his head-quarters `` Wigwam Independence , '' but the officers of his staff gave them the sobriquet of `` Coon Hollow ; '' and I adopt in my memoirs the old familiar designation . 
-- and Stuart 's tent was the most comfortable of all . 
He had stretched a large canvas beneath some sheltering trees ; and filling up the opening at each end with a picturesque wicker-work of evergreens , ensconced himself there in his sylvan lodge , like some Robin Hood , or ranger of the greenwood in old times . 
The woodland haunt and open air life seemed , at first , to charm the bold cavalier ; nothing seemed wanting to his happiness , lost here in the forest : but soon the freezing airs `` demoralized '' even the stout cavalryman , and he exchanged his canvas for a regular tent of the largest description , with a plank floor , a camp-couch , and a mighty chimney , wherein sparkled , ere long , a cheerful fire of hickory , driving away the blasts of the cold winter nights , which were sent on their way with song . 
Such was Stuart 's own domicile . 
to be dead , was yet king of the woodland revels ; Stuart joined in his songs , to the music of the banjo ; and not seldom did the bright faces of fair ladies shine on us , bringing back all the warmth of the summer days -- the blue sky , the sunshine , and the smiles ! 
In the woods on the crest above , the winds sighed : but in the hollow below , the banjo rattled ; laughter resounded ; great fires roared ; and , as though in open defiance of winter and its tempests , Stuart , carolled in his clear and sonorous voice , his favorite ditty , `` The dew is on the blossom . '' 
Stuart is dead -- more than one of my dear companions have followed him -- but their voices sound again , their eyes again flash , their friendly smiles linger in memory . 
But for me , Stuart is singing there now as then -- and will sing in my memory forever ! 
Stuart 's cavalry is watching . 
For this volume is not a history of the war in Virginia , but the memoirs of a staff officer belonging to Stuart 's cavalry . 
One night -- it was the night of the first of May -- I was sitting in General Stuart 's tent , looking into his blazing log fire , and musing . 
Stuart was writing at his desk , by the light of a candle in a captured `` camp candlestick , '' and from time to time , without turning his head , ejaculated some brief words upon any subject which came into his head . 
After writing ten minutes , he now said briefly : -- `` Surry . '' 
laughed Stuart . 
* replied Stuart , laughing ; `` but how about Mohun ? 
And Stuart wheeled round and pointed to a chair . 
he said . 
said Stuart , rising and moving to the fireplace , where he stood basking in the warmth . 
* A favorite phrase of Stuart 's . 
`` A profound maxim , '' laughed Stuart ; `` friends are useful -- that was your principle ? '' 
said Stuart , with sudden earnestness and attention . 
Stuart knit his brows , and buried his hand in his beard . 
Sud denly he called out to the orderly : -- `` Have two horses saddled in five minutes ! '' 
And seizing his hat , he said : -- `` Get ready to ride to General Lee 's head-quarters with me , Nighthawk ! '' 
The clerical looking emissary put on his respectable black hat . 
Stuart said , turning with a piercing glance to him . 
exclaimed Stuart . 
Stuart seized it , read it hastily , and uttered an exclamation of satisfaction . 
Ten minutes afterward he was going at full speed , accompanied by Nighthawk , toward General Lee 's head-quarters . 
Soonafter daylight , on the next morning , Stuart was up , and writing busily at his desk . 
He was perfectly cool , as always , and his manner when I went in exhibited no sort of flurry . 
I was seated by the fireplace when Stuart finished a dispatch and came toward me . 
The next moment he threw himself upon a chair , leaned his head upon my shoulder , and began to caress one of his dogs , who leaped into his lap . 
he laughed . 
I saw Stuart was talking to rest himself . 
`` There is no chance , Surry , '' he said , gravely . 
`` I believe in God and our Saviour , with all my heart , '' said Stuart , solemnly . 
`` On the contrary , you show it -- to me at least -- even in trifles , '' I said , moved by his earnestness . 
Stuart shook his head , smiling with a sadness on his lips which I had never seen before . 
* Stuart paused , and leaned his arm upon the rude shelf above the fireplace , passing his hand over his forehead , as was habitual with him . 
`` A hard campaign is coming , Surry , '' he said , at length , more cheerfully ; `` I intend to do my duty in it , and deserve the good opinion of the world , if I do not secure it . 
His face glowed as he spoke ; in his dazzling blue eyes burned the fire of an unconquerable resolution , a courage that nothing seemed able to crush . 
Years have passed since then , a thousand scenes have swept before me ; but still I see the stalwart cavalier , with his proud forehead raised , and hear his sonorous voice exclaim : -- `` Virginia expects every man to do his duty ! '' 
* * His words . 
* His words . 
* His words . 
`` Hurrah for Stuart ! 
He is a man to count on ! '' 
General Grant will cross the Rapidan to-night -- by to-morrow evening his whole force will probably be over -- and I expect to procure some important information before I return to General Stuart . 
It was Stuart , riding at the head of his staff and couriers . 
In a moment he had come up , and promptly halted me . 
he exclaimed with a laugh , `` wandering about here in the Wilderness ! 
I reported the state of things in front , and Stuart exclaimed : -- `` All right ; we are ready for them ! 
* Stuart laughed , and began to sing -- As the martial voice rang through the shadowy thickets , I thought , `` How fortunate it is that the grave people are not here to witness this singular ` want of dignity ' in the great commander of Lee 's cavalry ! '' 
Stuart was going to fight hard -- meanwhile he sang gayly . 
Heaven had given him animal spirits , and he laughed in the face of danger . 
He laughed and sang on this night when he was going to clash against Grant , as he had laughed and sung when he had clashed against Hooker -- when his proud plume floated in front of Jackson 's veterans , and he led them over the breastworks at Chancellorsville , singing , `` Old Joe Hooker , will you come out of the Wilderness ! '' 
Stuart cantered on : we turned into the Brock road , and I found myself retracing my steps toward the Rapidan . 
We soon reached Ely 's Ford , and I conducted Stuart to Mordaunt 's bivouac , which I had left at dusk . 
He had just wrapped his cloak around him , and laid down under a tree , ready to mount at a moment 's warning . 
said Stuart , grasping his hand . 
Stuart looked toward the river , and listened attentively . 
And passing his hand through his beard he muttered half to himself : -- `` I wonder if Grant can have made any change in his programme ? '' 
Stuart turned toward me suddenly . 
`` Well , colonel , '' he said , in a resigned tone , `` I must give up my private business -- duty calls . 
And disappearing , he put out the light -- issued forth in rear of the house -- mounted a horse concealed in the bushes -- and rejoined me in front . 
`` Swartz will not know what to think , '' he said , as we rode rapidly toward the river ; `` he knows I am the soul of punctuality , and this failure to keep my appointment will much distress him . '' 
We soon reached the spot where Stuart awaited us . 
At sight of Nighthawk he uttered an exclamation of satisfaction , and explained in brief words his wishes . 
Stuart gave him a few additional instructions , and having listened with the air of a man who is engraving the words he hears upon his memory , Nighthawk disappeared in the darkness , toward the private crossing , where he intended to pass the river . 
Half an hour afterward , Stuart was riding toward Germanna Ford . 
Stuart then turned back in the direction of Chancellorsville , where Nighthawk was to report to him , before daylight , if possible . 
* His words . 
Something told me that he was intimately connected with the business which had occasioned the appointment between Nighthawk and Swartz -- and at the first words which I uttered , I saw that I was not mistaken . 
An hour afterward , I had rejoined Stuart . 
I had been sent by General Stuart with an order to General Hampton , who commanded the cavalry on Hill 's right . 
Will you inform me where I can find General Stuart ? '' 
General Hampton asked a number of questions , Nighthawk replied to them , and then the latter begged me to conduct him to General Stuart . 
I did so without delay , and we soon reached Stuart 's bivouac , where he was talking with his staff by a camp-fire . 
At sight of the blue figure he scarcely turned ; then suddenly he recognized Nighthawk , and burst into laughter . 
he exclaimed , `` here you are at last ! 
Nighthawk hung his head , and sighed audibly . 
Stuart shook his head . 
`` Well , I hope you got the $ 600 bounty , '' said Stuart , laughing . 
Nighthawk shook his head . 
And , fixing his eyes intently upon vacancy , Nighthawk commenced in a low , monotonous voice : -- `` The following movements are ordered for the 5th May , 1864 . 
` It is really wonderful , '' said Stuart , gravely . 
`` You see , '' said Nighthawk , returning to his original voice , so to speak , `` you see , general , this would have been of some importance yesterday . '' 
`` It is very important now , '' said Stuart ; `` it indicates Grant 's programme -- his wish to get out of the Wilderness . 
* Stuart laughed . 
* `` So much the better , '' said Stuart : `` the general that does not manœuvre sacrifices his men : and I predict that General Grant will soon alter his programme . '' 
Stuart had ordered his horse to be saddled , and now mounted to go to General Lee 's head-quarters . 
`` He said to Warren , ` I hear Hood is to take Stuart 's place . 
I am glad of it , for Stuart is the best cavalry officer ever foaled in North America ! '' ' 
Does the reader remember the brave Breathed , commanding a battalion of the Stuart horse artillery ? 
I first spoke of him on the night preceding Chancellorsville , when he came to see Stuart , at that time he was already famous for his `` do-or-die '' fighting . 
A Marylander by birth , he had `` come over to help us : '' had been the right-hand man of Pelham ; the favorite of Stuart ; the admiration of the whole army for a courage which the word `` reckless '' best describes ; -- and now , in this May , 1864 , his familiar name of `` Old Jim Breathed , '' bestowed by Stuart , who held him in high favor , had become the synonym of stubborn nerve and élan , unsurpassed by that of Murat . 
Unfortunately for him , General Custer , who commanded the expedition , was to find the Stuart horse artillery in winter quarters near . 
That night Stuart went after them : their officers held a council of war , it is said , to decide whether they should not bury their artillery near Stannardsville , to prevent its capture . 
Sent by Stuart with a message to the brave `` General Fitz , '' I reached him near Spottsylvania Court-House , at the moment when he had just ordered his cavalry to fall back slowly before the advancing enemy , and take a new position in rear . 
The piece seemed in the hands of the enemy -- indeed , they were almost touching it -- a gun of the Stuart horse artillery for the first time was to be captured ! 
As the drivers disappeared , his own horse was shot under him , staggered , sunk , and rolled upon his rider . 
Breathed dragged himself from beneath the bleeding animal , rose to his feet , and rushing to the lead horses of the gun , leaped upon one of them , and struck them violently with his sabre to force them on . 
As he did so , the horse upon which he was mounted fell , pierced by a bullet through the body . 
Breathed fell upon his feet , and , with the edge of his sabre , cut the two leaders out of the traces . 
He then leaped upon one of the middle horses -- the gun being drawn by six -- and started off . 
He had not gone three paces , when the animal which he now rode fell dead in turn . 
Breathed rolled upon the ground , but rising to his feet , severed the dead animal and his companion from the piece , as he had done the leaders . 
He then leaped upon one of the wheel-horses -- these alone being now left -- struck them furiously with his sabre -- started at a thundering gallop down the hill -- and pursued by a hail-storm of bullets , from which , as General Lee says in his report , `` he miraculously escaped unharmed , '' carried off the gun in safety , and rejoined the cavalry , greeted by a rolling thunder of cheers . 
Morethan one stirring incident marked those days of desperate fighting , when , barricading all the roads , and charging recklessly , Stuart opposed , at every step , Grant 's advance toward the Po . 
From the moment when Grant crossed the Rapidan , Stuart had met the horsemen of Sheridan everywhere in bitter conflict ; and the days and nights had been strewed all over with battles . 
No sooner , however , had he begun to move , than Stuart followed on his track . 
He had no difficulty in doing so . 
That cloud hung above the long column of Federal cavalry , accompanied it wherever it moved , and indicated clearly to Stuart the course which his adversary was pursuing . 
If he could only interpose , with however small a force , between Sheridan and Richmond , time would be given for preparation to resist the attack , and the capital might be saved . 
Stuart 's was , in all , about 3,000 ; Gordon , who was not in the battle at Yellow Tavern , included . 
Stuart set out at full gallop on his iron gray , from Spottsylvania Court-House , about three o'clock in the day , and reached Chilesburg , toward Hanover Junction , just as night fell . 
Here we found General Fitz Lee engaged in a hot skirmish with the enemy 's rear-guard ; and that night Stuart planned an attack upon their camp , but abandoned the idea . 
His spirits at this time were excellent , but it was easy to see that he realized the immense importance of checking the enemy . 
Stuart turned at those words ; his cheeks flushed ; his eyes flamed , and he said : -- `` No , sir ! 
* On the next morning , he moved in the direction of Hanover Junction ; riding boot to boot with his friend General Fitz Lee . 
I know not , but I know that no such presentiment came to Stuart ; no shadow of the coming event darkened the path of the great cavalier . 
On the contrary , his spirits were buoyant beyond example , almost ; and , riding on with General Fitz Lee , he sang in his gallant voice his favorite ditties `` Come out of the Wilderness ! '' 
In that ride through the May forest , to attack Sheridan , and arrest him or die , Stuart 's bearing and expression were superbly joyous and inspiring . 
His black plume floated in the spring breeze , like some knight-errant 's ; and he went to battle humming a song , resolved to conquer or fall . 
Riding beside him , I found my eyes incessantly attracted to his proud face ; and now I see the great cavalier as then , clearly with the eyes of memory . 
What a career had been his ! 
The ceaseless scouting and fighting in the Shenandoah Valley ; the charge and route of the redlegged `` Zouaves '' at Manassas ; the falling back to the Peninsula , and the fighting all through Charles City ; the famous ride around McClellan ; the advance and combats on the Rapidan and Rappahanock , after Cedar Mountain ; the night attack on Catlett 's , when he captured Pope 's coat and papers ; the march on Jackson 's flank , and the capture of Manassas ; the advance into Maryland ; the fights at Frederick , Crampton 's , and Boonsboro ' , with the hard rear-guard work , as Lee retired to Sharpsburg ; his splendid handling of artillery on the left wing of the army there ; the retreat , covered by his cavalry ; the second ride around McClellan , and safe escape from his clutches ; the bitter conflicts at Upperville and Barbee 's , as Lee fell back ; the hard fighting thereafter , on the banks of the Rappahannock ; the `` crowding 'em with artillery , '' on the night of Fredericksburg ; the winter march to Dumfries ; the desperate battle at Kelly 's Ford ; the falling back before Hooker ; the battle of Chancellorsville , when he succeeded Jackson ; the stubborn wrestle of Fleetwood ; the war of giants below Upperville ; the advance across Maryland into Pennsylvania , when the long march was strewed all over with battles , at Westminister , Hanover , Carlisle , Gettysburg , where he met and repulsed the best cavalry of the Federal army ; the retreat from Gettysburg , with the tough affair near Boonsboro ' ; guarding the rear of the army as it again crossed the Potomac ; then the campaign of October , ending with Kilpatrick 's route at Buckland ; the assault on Meade 's head of column , when he came over to Mine Run ; the bold attack on his rear there ; and the hard , incessant fighting since Grant had come over to the Wilderness ; -- I remembered all these splendid scenes and illustrious services as I rode on beside Stuart , through the fields and forests of Hanover , and thought , `` This is one of those great figures which live forever in history , and men 's memories ! '' 
Stuart is long dead , and the grass covers him ; but there is scarce a foot of the soil of Virginia that does not speak of him . 
He is gone , but his old mother is proud of him -- is she not ? 
Answer , mountains where he fought -- lowlands , where he fell -- river , murmuring a dirge , as you foam through the rocks yonder , past his grave ! 
* His words . 
Stuart rode and met Gordon , gave the brave North Carolinian , so soon to fall , his last orders ; and then hastened back to Fitz Lee , who had continued to press the enemy . 
At this moment Stuart returned , and pushed forward toward Taylorsville , from which point he intended to hasten on and get in their front . 
Stuart stretched himself at full length , surrounded by his staff , in a field of clover ; and placing his hat over his face to protect his eyes from the light , snatched a short sleep , of which he was very greatly in need . 
At daylight on the 11th , Stuart moved toward Ashland . 
Here he came up with the enemy ; attacked them furiously , and drove them before him , and out of the village , killing , wounding , and capturing a considerable number . 
Then he put his column again in motion , advanced rapidly by the Telegraph road toward Yellow Tavern , a point near Richmond , where he intended to intercept the enemy -- the moment of decisive struggle , to which all the fighting along the roads of Hanover had only been the prelude , was at hand . 
Stuart was riding at the head of his column , looking straight forward , and with no thought , apparently , save that of arriving in time . 
He was no longer gay . 
Was it the coming event ; was it the loss of sleep ; the great interest at stake ; the terrible struggle before him ? 
I know not ; but he looked anxious , feverish , almost melancholy . 
`` My men and horses are tired , jaded , and hungry , but all right , '' he had written to General Bragg , from Ashland . 
The Telegraph road runs north and south -- over this road Stuart marched . 
Here Wickham , commanding Stuart 's right , was placed , his line facing the Mountain road so as to strike the approaching enemy in flank . 
From Wickham 's left , or near it , Stuart 's left wing , under Lomax , extended along the Telegraph road to the Tavern -- the two lines thus forming an obtuse angle . 
The object of this disposition of Stuart 's force will be seen at a glance . 
Lomax , commanding the left , was across the enemy 's front ; Wickham , commanding the right , was on their flank ; and the artillery was so posted as to sweep at once the front of both Stuart 's wings . 
That will show Stuart 's excellent design . 
Stuart had reached Yellow Tavern , and made his dispositions before the arrival of Sheridan , who was , nevertheless , rapidly advancing by the Mountain road . 
Stretching in a thin line from the tavern into the woods on the right of the Mountain road , the men sat their horses , with drawn sabres gleaming in the sun ; and the red battle-flags waved proudly in the fresh May breeze , as though saluting Stuart , who rode in front of them . 
Then a courier came at a gallop , from the right , to Stuart . 
Stuart was sitting his horse near Yellow Tavern when that intelligence reached him . 
He rose in his saddle , took his field-glasses from their leathern case , and looked through them in the direction of the woods across the Mountain road . 
Stuart lowered his glasses , shut them up , replaced them in their case , and drew his sabre . 
Never had I seen him present an appearance more superb . 
His head was carried proudly erect , his black plume floated , his blue eyes flashed -- he was the beau idealof a soldier , and as one of his bravest officers * afterward said to me , looked as if he had resolved on `` victory or death . '' 
I had seem him often aroused and strung for action . 
On this morning he seemed on fire , and resembled a veritable king of battle . 
Suddenly , the skirmish line of the enemy appeared in front of the woods , and a quick fire was opened on Stuart 's sharp-shooters under Colonel Pate , in the angle of the two roads ; Stuart hastened to take the real initiative . 
He posted two guns on a rising ground in the angle , and opened a heavy fire ; and galled by this fire , the enemy suddenly made a determined charge upon the guns . 
Stuart rose in his stirrups and gazed coolly at the heavy line advancing upon him , and forcing Pate 's handful back . 
He and Stuart had bitterly quarrelled , and the general had court-martialed the colonel . 
exclaimed Stuart . 
Never was Stuart 's face kinder . 
Stuart witnessed all , and his eye grew fiery . 
* he exclaimed . 
he added to Lieutenant Garnett , aid-de-camp . 
Stuart 's melancholy had all vanished . 
He was in splendid spirits . 
He hastened back his artillery to the point from which it had been driven , and soon its defiant roar was heard rising above the woods . 
Stuart took it and read it with high good humor . 
Stuart was sitting his horse near the guns , with Breathed beside him . 
Suddenly , as the men fell back , Stuart appeared , with drawn sabre , among them , calling upon them to rally . 
His voice rose above the fire , and a wild cheer greeted him . 
Stuart led every charge . 
I shall never forget the appearance which he presented at that moment ; with one hand he controlled his restive horse , with the other he grasped his sabre ; in his cheeks burned the hot blood of the soldier . 
he exclaimed . 
His sword flashed lightning , and digging the spur into his horse , he darted ahead of the column , disappearing in the middle of a swarm of enemies . 
Breathed was seen in the midst of the Federal cavalry defending himself , with pistol and sabre , against the blows which were aimed at him on every side . 
He cut one officer out of the saddle ; killed a lieutenant with a pistol ball ; was shot slightly in the side , and a sabre stroke laid open his head . 
But five minutes afterward he was seen to clear a path with his sabre , and reappear , streaming with blood . 
Stuart was looking at them , and spurred out in front of the guns . 
His eyes flashed , and , taking off his brown felt hat , he waved it and cheered . 
Then he wheeled to take command of a column of Lomax 's men , coming to meet the charge . 
Before it could re-form the enemy had struck it , forced it back ; and then the whole Federal force of cavalry was hurled upon Stuart . 
His right , where Fitz Lee commanded in person , was giving back . 
The day was evidently lost ; and Stuart , with a sort of desperation , rushed into the midst of the enemy , calling upon his men to rally , and firing his pistol in the faces of the Federal cavalrymen . 
Suddenly , one of them darted past him toward the rear , and as he did so , placed his pistol nearly on Stuart 's body , and fired . 
As the man disappeared in the smoke , Stuart 's hand went quickly to his side , he reeled in the saddle , and would have fallen had not Captain Dorsay , of the First Virginia Cavalry , caught him in his arms . 
Stuart 's immense vitality sustained him for a moment . 
Pale , and tottering in the saddle , he still surveyed the field , and called on the men to rally . 
`` Go back , '' he exclaimed , `` and do your duty , as I have done mine ! 
* A moment afterward he called out again to the men passing him : -- `` Go back ! 
* The old lightning flashed from his eyes as he spoke . 
Then a mist passed over them ; his head sank upon his breast ; and , still supported in the saddle , he was led through the woods toward the Chickahominy . 
Suddenly , Fitzhugh Lee , who had been stubbornly fighting on the right , galloped up , and accosted Stuart . 
His face was flushed , his eyes moist . 
he exclaimed . 
`` Badly , '' Stuart replied , `` but look out , Fitz ! 
Stuart 's eye flashed for the last time . 
Stuart had been placed in an ambulance and borne across the stream , where Dr. Randolph and Dr. Fontaine made a brief examination of his wound . 
Twenty-four hours afterward Stuart was dead . 
The end of the great cavalier had been as serene as his life was stormy . 
His death was that of the Christian warrior , who bows to the will of God , and accepts whatever His loving hand decrees for him . 
I wasnot at Stuart 's bedside when he died . 
It was many days , however , before I knew that they were tolling for Stuart . 
Jackson dead at Chancellorsville -- Stuart at Yellow Tavern -- thenceforth I seemed to have lost my support , to grope and totter in darkness , without a guide ! 
Stuart ! 
In those three months and a half -- counting from the time I left Spottsylvania with Stuart -- great events had happened in Virginia . 
Hampton had succeeded Stuart in command of all the cavalry , and the country soon heard the ring of his heavy blows . 
Stuart 's staff were all scattered , and seeking new positions . 
I had parted with him in Spottsylvania , on the night when he `` deserted '' from the enemy , and rode into our lines ; and he was then the secret agent of General Stuart . 
Now , he reappeared in the city of Richmond , with an excellent understanding , it was evident , between himself and Mr. X -- ! 
General Stuart assured me one day , that he invariably refused all reward ; and his profound , almost romantic devotion to Mohun , had deeply impressed me . 
Love of country and watchful care of the young cavalier , whose past life was as mysterious as his own , seemed the controlling sentiments of Nighthawk ; and he always presented himself to me rather in the light of a political conspirator , than as a `` spy . '' 
His first words now indicated that he was a secret agent of the Government . 
He seemed to have been everywhere , and gained access to everybody ; and once more , as in June , 1863 , when he appeared at Stuart 's head-quarters , near Middleburg , he astonished me by the accuracy and extent of his information . 
Political and military secrets of the highest importance , and calling for urgent action on the part of the Government , were detailed by Nighthawk , in his calm and benignant voice ; he gave us an account of a long interview which he had had at City Point , with General Grant ; and wound up as usual by announcing an impending battle -- a movement of the enemy , which duly took place as he announced . 
On the evening before my departure , I went to visit the grave of Stuart at Hollywood , on the beautiful hill above the falls , west of the city . 
As I approached the lonely spot , where the great cavalier was lying beside his little Flora , of whom he had often spoken to me with tears , a thousand memories knocked at the door of my heart . 
With head bent down , and chin resting on my breast , I drew near the grassy mound over which waved the autumn foliage , tinted with yellow and crimson -- and in these few moments , all the splendid career of Stuart passed before me , as on that day when I rode with him toward the fatal field of Yellow Tavern . 
I remembered all his hard combats , his glorious encounters , his victories over such odds as vindicated his claim to a descent from the dashing Rupert , and ranked him with the most famous lead ers of cavalry in all history . 
Jackson and Stuart are dead , and have become figures of history . 
General Hampton , General Lee , and the various officers and men whom I had known as a staff-officer of General Stuart , seemed to welcome the sight of a face which , perhaps , reminded them of their dead leader ; and I had pressed all these warm hands , and received these friendly greetings not without emotion -- for I , too , was carried back to the past . 
The Stuart horse artillery fought like tigers . 
The men stuck to their guns amid a storm of bullets , and vindicated , as they had done before on many fields , the name of `` my pets , '' given them by Stuart ! 
I had known these brave gentlemen well , when with Stuart , and they were good enough , now , to give me the right hand of fellowship , -- to receive me for old times ' sake , with `` distinguished consideration . '' 
Anhour afterward I was at the camp of the Stuart horse artillery . 
Around me , in light of the camp-fire , were grouped the tigers who had fought with Pelham , in the old battles of Stuart . 
From the moment in 1862 , when at Barbee 's they raised the loud resounding Marseillaise , while fighting the enemy in front and rear , to this fall of 1864 , when they had strewed a hundred battle-fields with dead men and horses , these `` swarthy old hounds '' of the horse artillery had vindicated their claims to the admiration of Stuart ; -- in the thunder of their guns , the dead chieftain had seemed still to hurl his defiance at the invaders of Virginia . 
Doubtless they remembered me , and thought of Stuart , as others had done , at seeing me . 
They were old songs of Ashby and Stuart ; unpublished ditties of the struggle , which the winds have borne away into the night of the past , and which now live only in memory . 
Nighthawk , who had followed me to the field , and become a secret agent of General Stuart , warned me of all this -- and one day , gave me information more startling still . 
`` On that night when I attacked Darke in his house in Pennsylvania , Swartz stole a paper from madam -- the certificate of her marriage with Mr. Mortimer-Darke , or Darke-Mortimer . 
I laugh still , as I think of the brave cannoneers of the horse artillery near Staunton -- and of the fearless Breathed , their commander , jesting and playing with his young bull-dog , whom he had called `` Stuart '' for his courage . 
I was greeted by this brave soldier and accomplished gentleman as warmly as I could have desired -- for `` General Fitz , '' as we always called him at Stuart 's head-quarters , was the soul of good humor and good fellowship . 
You have seen him , have you not , reader -- whether you wore gray or blue -- fighting beside him , or meeting him in battle ? 
You have not forgotten this gay cavalier , the brother-in-arms of Stuart ; this born cavalryman , with his love of adventure , his rollicking mirth , his familiar greeting of high and low , his charming abandon and ever-ready laughter . 
I talked with General Fitz Lee for an hour nearly , recalling the old days with Stuart , who had loved and confided in him more than in any other living man . 
Stuart is dead , and can not give his testimony ; but General Fitz Lee is alive , and can give his . 
Here and there a voice still denies Stuart 's genius as a commander . 
Ask his friend who survives ; and if tears do not choke the voice , you will learn the real rank of Stuart ! 
`` My dear Surry , '' he said , smiling , with his delightfully foppish air , `` it always charms me to meet you , for you are always sparkling , brilliant , full of wit ; which reminds me of the good old days with Stuart ! 
he said to Stuart , once , after a disaster . 
My last view of Richmond was from Hollywood Hill , near the grave of Stuart . 
And taking off my hat as I passed the grave of Stuart , I rode on , thinking of the past and the present . 
All the old days came back again , the cannon sent their long dull thunder through the forests ; again the gray and blue lines closed in , and hurled together ; again Jackson in his old dingy coat , Stuart with his floating plume , Pelham , Farley , all whom I had known , loved , and still mourned , rose before me -- a line of august phantoms fading away into the night of the past . 
Once more I looked upon Pelham , holding in his arms the bleeding form of Jean -- passing `` Camp-no-camp , '' only a desolate and dreary field now , all the laughing faces and brave forms of Stuart and his men returned -- in the Wilderness I saw Jackson fight and fall ; saw him borne through the moonlight ; heard his sighs and his last greeting with Stuart . 
Nearer was Yellow Tavern , where Stuart had fallen . 
`` That sent me through Stuart 's head-quarters in April , 1863 ? '' 
