Youknow , my dear Fritz , that I am not unused to the handling of a glass ; and that I have amused myself for a considerable number of years in looking about the world , as carelessly and freely as I chose . 
It would be very idle to pretend , my dear Fritz , that in printing my letters , I had not some hope of doing the public a trifling service . 
You must not be surprised , indeed , my dear Fritz , if within the range of my glass , should come up some old country acquaintances , whom we remember years ago in pretty rustic deshabille , and with strong nasal twang , -- now riding in carriages , emblazoned with such heraldry as does honor to the ingenuity of Collis and Lawrence ! 
In short , my dear Fritz , this Lorgnetteof mine will range very much as my whim directs . 
I thought it would be a quiet place for my work , where I should be out of the reach and knowledge of prying eyes ; and where , my dear Fritz , I could quietly entertain you , on your visits to the city ; -- so I closed with her terms , and am now writing from a little white table which stands before the grate . 
Though the Lorgnetteis set at the head of my page , you need not suppose that I shall forbear taking an occasional squint , with my naked eye , either above or below ; and though I shall sign this Timon , you must not think , my dear Fritz , that I have entered any Trophonian Cave , or that I can not , when the humor takes me , play the Merry Andrew , with the gayest of the Town wits . 
Anotherweek has gone by , my dear Fritz , in which the town has been full of its Carnival festivities . 
This was a new idea to me , Fritz ; you know that in my day , I have worn hair enough upon my face to hide my blushes , even beside the Governor of Comorn , or the prettiest artist of the town . 
I wished , however , first to look about me , and see what manner of men were wearing these very essential appendages , and when my observation shall be complete , -- of which , my dear Fritz , you shall have a full report , -- I will tell you plainly what decision the circumstances force upon me . 
And when I come to detail their characteristics at length , they will , I am sure , my dear Fritz , amuse you wonderfully . 
Youwill be amused to learn , my dear Fritz , that a city paper has set you down as a respectable maiden aunt of a certain poor literary jobber , to whom has been ascribed the authorship of these papers . 
I shouldgive you a poor idea , Fritz , of the winter life in town , if I did not keep you advised from week to week of the celebrities of the time ; yet they come up so fast , that it will be very hard to tell how they gain such character , and harder still , to tell how they lose it . 
I do not mean to say , Fritz , that these are characters whose fame has reached you , for their celebrity , unfortunately , blossoms and fades within the limits of the city . 
I do n't mean , dear Fritz , to affect the cynic , in making invidious comparisons , and by throwing ridicule on the favorites of the balls ! 
Each phase of life has its brilliancies , and each pursuit its celebrities ; and there is no reason in the world why our heroes of the polka should not wear their honors of the pump , as serenely , and gaily , as the first whip at Astley 's his success upon the box -- as Celeste her verdicts of applause at the Lyceum , or as our newfledged writers their sprouting and hot-bed glories . 
Only fancy to yourself , Fritz , a tall girl with shoulders bare to the lower edge of decorum , -- your arm clasped round her waist well bound up , -- her hand lying hard upon your shoulder , and her head sometimes reposing on it , so that her head-dress tickles your chin as you whirl in the dance , and a round eye full of a luxurious languor looking up at you from the faint head ! 
I fancy , Fritz , that you smile ironically at these learned and accomplished graduates of foreign travel ; and your smiles are not ill-timed . 
You are enough of an American , my dear Fritz , though you have wintered in the snows of Petersbourg , and lighted your spring with the delicious glow of a Greek sun rising over the ægean , to wish for something more earnest , strong , and manly in American life , than will permit the every-day prostration before the social Juggernaut of Europe ! 
I amsorry , Fritz , that my letters to you , written down in the humor of the moment , and containing such observations upon town life and society , as I thought would be agreeable to you to read , should have provoked the condemnation of bearing too great a severity of remark , and of wearing an air of bitterness . 
You know me well enough , Fritz , to be aware that it is not in my nature to dislike for the sake of disliking , or to sneer , from a habit of sneering . 
Do not for a moment think , my dear Fritz , that my reception in the town has been such as to sour my temper , or to render my remarks the result of an embittered and unworthy envy . 
You will be on your guard , then , my dear Fritz , when you come to the city ; and do n't make your friends blush by running counter to the town standards ; get hold , if you can , of an odd number of the Revue de Noveau Monde , and post yourself a page or two in taste . 
Whip up your Greek , Fritz , and tell me if this line from Euripides comes not as pit-pat as in the Attic Stage-piece , or as any on the fly-leaves of St. Leger ? 
But I must defer , my dear Fritz , saying what might be said of town coaches and politics , in their connection with social position , to another letter ; and I shall entertain you , while your are smoking the lower end of your cigar , with a fragment of a curious diary , from a fashionable friend of Tophanes ' . 
Such , dear Fritz , is the rude but racy account which Tophanes ' friend has given of his prospects and tactics . 
University Terrace , 5 P. M. With this , my dear Fritz , I leave you to your quiet country avocations , until the mail of another week shall light up your solitude with a glowing No . 
TheOpera-going ladies are , of course , so familiar with Italian that I shall have no need to translate for them an Italian motto ; but for you , Fritz , over whom ten years have rolled -LRB- and do n't blush for your age -RRB- since you regaled yourself on stewed kidneys , and Orvietto wine , in the dirty trattoriathat stands under the lea of the Roman Pantheon , I will render the proverb into plain English : -- ` Who teaches himself has a fool for his master ! ' 
I wish to heaven , Fritz , that the state of our morals was such , that no lady of the town should manifest any greater anxiety to bely her offspring ! 
You shall have , Fritz , the result of my observations , though they are by no means definitive , and will serve only to show a few modifications of what the town , in its wisdom , is pleased to dub -- respectable ! 
They have a respectable card-basket filled with very respectable names ; and having passed many respectable evenings at respectable families , I can of course , commend them to you , Fritz , when you come up to town , as every way respectable . 
Take breath , my dear Fritz , and we will come back to respectable young women . 
We have seen , you know , Fritz , the best bred European ladies dining , and even chatting somewhat gaily with their bonnes ; but it would quite shock the highly respectable women of our Republican town , to be seen publicly on any terms of familiarity with a dependant ; it would not be respectable . 
Please to lodge that middle term , Fritz , in your cranium , as another axiom which will prove explanatory of a great deal of town talk , and action . 
I now and then meet , dear Fritz , with some old vestiges of the beau-craft , which existed twenty years ago . 
There are old belles , too , my dear Fritz , who are biding their time ; and when the humor is upon me , you shall have their portraits , even to the color of their eyes , and of their stockings . 
Still , Fritz , we can be young on paper ; -- and so , thank God , I will be young ! 
Pardonme , Fritz , if over your shoulder , and by a few taps upon the tympanum of your most friendly ear , I pass an explanatory word or two , for the digestion of our cormorant public . 
And now , Fritz , having laid the matter straight between our obliging booksellers and the public , let us come back to our moutons . 
Lions , my dear Fritz , are not confined to the Jardin des Plantes , to the Regent 's Park , to Welch 's Circus , or to Timbuctoo . 
The musical lion , for instance , he tells me , if intended for public exhibition , must have a rhythmical foreign name , and be announced in the journals as the distinguished performer , who has repeatedly delighted all the members of the first European Courts , -LRB- I pray your particular attention , Fritz , to that word Courts , which has an uncommonly happy odor for all the lion hunters of the town . -RRB- 
He must next have a private trial in a public room , possibly of the Astor , or Irving , -- having previously invited the critics , who are spare , hungry dogs , to dine with him . 
Fashionable lions are to be found in plenty : they are those you will read of , Fritz , in your fashionable weekly , as ` leaders of the ton , ' ` distinguished patrons of the Opera , ' eminent foreigners , or French or Italian noblemen . 
It is this , my dear Fritz , that I want most to stigmatize -- this coy-stepping , fearful , England-worshiping spirit of American criticism ! 
The growth of the lesser ones is something curious in its way , and worthy to be set before you , Fritz . 
He must bespeak early the friendly services of those sly old paragraphists who live in remote corners of the town , and who are employed for a ` reasonable ' compensation , as supernumeraries in the offices of the journals . 
He will expect this in most instances , by sending a copy of the new book to the old gentleman , ` with the kind regards of his unknown , and humble friend , the author . ' 
Corner conversations of very young ladies will centre very naturally on the new lion ; and though I can hardly hope to throw the grace of their lively bon motsinto my serious page , yet , Fritz , you shall be tempted with an echo . 
On a moderate computation , Fritz , I am assured that the number of literary lions reaches five or six a season ; after which period of zoologic eminence , the greater portion sink into comparative obscurity , and sustain a miserable and precarious existence between newspaper paragraphs and tailors ' bills . 
You see , my dear Fritz , how this labor of painting the Town-life is growing on my hands ; and there is reason to fear that this soft dalliance of the Spring breezes will catch me half through my labors , and lure me to a share in your country companionship . 
I havea long letter in store for you , my country Fritz , upon the authors and authorlings of our day ; but meantime , by way of prelude to that full orchestral overture , I want to tell you something of the booksellers ' opinions . 
As to the author 's additional labor , he seemed to regard it , as most publishers do , very much like so much vapor , or wind -LRB- I fling you here , Fritz , the handle for a witticism , at my cost -RRB- , which was only to be thought of , in connection with the capacity of the cylinder , or vessel , which the kindness of the publisher was to furnish for containing it . 
He compared the Lorgnette , in this view , with one of the flashy novels of some two hundred pages , at two and sixpence ; and with an enormous weekly , containing , as he said , fourfold the matter , for the small sum of six cents . 
Another bookseller , of large experience in his line , thought the paper altogether too quiet for the spirit of the day . 
` If , ' said he , ` these sketches had been written in the style of ` Napoleon and his Marshals , ' or Mr. Poe 's works , or even of the ` Monk 's Revenge , ' they would have been in great demand : The public taste wants , just now , high spicing -- a great deal of ginger and mustard ; and if the writer had ventured to be a little more severe , and made personal attacks , or even given personal descriptions like those in the elegant summer correspondence of the Express newspaper , with dashes thrown in for vowels , there would have been no possible doubt of his success . ' 
Of course , my dear Fritz , I should be very ungrateful not to be anxious to please the booksellers , who are so full of their friendly suggestions , and who are so clearly anxious to please me . 
Do not think , Fritz , that I am disposed to misjudge the bounty , or the literary acumen of most of our town-publishers . 
To this topic , my dear Fritz , we will recur at our leisure . 
I have not as yet , Fritz , given you a look at what passes for the nucleus of much talk , many amiable newspaper quarrels , and very erudite criticism , -- I mean the Opera . 
And I may tell you , Fritz , that to be placed within those doors , either as critic , belle , or spectator , is a circumstance which would greatly help you out in any intentions you might have upon New York society . 
Were I disposed , Fritz , to the Carlyle manner , I might exclaim here -- What heroism ! 
Fritz , my dear fellow , when you come up to town , take a box at the Opera ! 
You will remember , Fritz , our earnest admiration , years ago , of the recitativoof the street-singers in the long Via Toledo ; and our listening by a midnight moon , in the city of Bologna , to the musical patrols ; -- scarce less enchanting to the imagination of a foreigner , than the leaning towers , the sausages , or the Guido pictures of that old city of gloomy arcades . 
I have amused myself often , Fritz , in running my glass over the interested faces which grace this temple of our social worship . 
These , our Italian Divinities , my dear Fritz , have been the centres of more active conversation , and the subjects of livelier debate in salon , at ball , and upon the street , than all the political heroes of the hour -- not excepting the sick lion of the South , now mumbling like Dagon in his cave , over the bones of his victims . 
Carlyle says our people have not contrived yet any great , new , social idea ; -- let him sweat us out of the mazes of his contorted words , a greater one than this very Musico-socio-operatic Idea , belonging to our town and ton ; and if he can do it , I for one , Fritz , will link myself to the herd of his admirers , -- who , though capital fellows , with their inverted optics , to reduce every existing system to apparent confusion , are yet , like their great demi-god , the weakest of weaklings , to devise any tangible , or practical method of Reform . 
eaf279v1.n3 -LSB- 3 -RSB- A little latitude of translation , Fritz , is allowable in our day ; were it otherwise , I think I should not be very wide of the intent , that scholars would put upon the couplet , in rendering it by this doggerel : -- He did n't reckon honor so highly as his purse , So now there 's not a man , whose honor shines the worse ! 
Now as I wish to be à la mode , Fritz , and am at the same time too thoroughly a foe to all sorts of quackery , to deceive the public by expurgated notices , I shall give you upon the cover of the present paper , a taste of the opinions of Journals : -- thanking most cordially those who have done me the honor of commendation , and entertaining at the same time , a most respectful sympathy for those who have ` not seen the point . ' 
And she interspersed the questioning with pretty little opinions which , Fritz , you will find condensed in the last number of the Lorgnette , or sown broadcast through the winter 's file of the Home Journal . 
indeed , ' said I , -LRB- it is well , Fritz , to counterfeit a little surprise at any such announcement ; but not too much ; you should have ` half suspected it from her manner ' , -RRB- ` and is society so superior abroad ? ' 
Judge , Fritz , of my humiliation in talking with a lady of such extensive parts ! 
If you expect me , Fritz , to tell you definitively , from such observations as these , what it is to be ` in society , ' you are hugely mistaken . 
Passons , my dear Fritz ; we must not get heated in this warm spring-time . 
I am sure , Fritz , you will have been delighted with this fragmentary journal ; is n't it naive and earnest ? 
I shall therefore have at command the same means of getting out of scrapes that is now so generally adopted by the city journals ; -- that is to say , in case any article may offend a pugnacious party , I shall have only to state ` that the responsible editor was absent , -- that he deeply deplores the insertion of the offensive paragraph , -- that he has known the offended party from boyhood , & c. ' To be sure , Fritz , I have a dislike of imitating the contemporary journals in any matter ; and it is only in view of getting out of scrapes that might endanger my incognito , that I should ever presume to take advantage of a popular chicane , which , to tell the truth , is as unworthy the dignity of a journal , as it is bemeaning to the character of a man . 
Itis a capital amusement for me , my dear Fritz , to listen to the world of critical remark , which our unpretending correspondence calls forth . 
God forbid , Fritz , that I should seem to urge them to any literary task , or to become the innocent cause of deluging the town with their efforts . 
These prefatory sketches are not , my dear Fritz , foreign to my aim ; they give you , well as anything can , an idea of the currents , and opinions of our town life . 
And yet , Fritz , -- such is the moraleof our town -- you shall find that this very item eulogist , who will panegyrize the splendor of the ceremony , the magnificence of the dresses , the style of the equipages , to purchase a familiar nod , or possibly an invitation to a ` crush ' of the winter , will , in his private mood , vapor lustily against the town-worship of wealth , and the bestiality of that appreciation which measures everything by its capacity for display . 
God forbid , Fritz , that you in your luxurious country quarters , should see in all this , a covert sneer at wealth ; in our country it must long be , and properly is a great measurer of force ; and by force , I mean character , talent , activity , and mental leverage . 
Seriously , Fritz , -- what benevolence , what rational action , what generous self-denying endeavor , will help our fashionable lady toward that species of future happiness which , however the Doctors may disagree , is very sure not to be made up precisely , of Forti 's singing , or Saratoga Springs ? 
I leave it all , Fritz , the text , the woman , and the ` improvement , ' to the preacher ; -- not the elegant preacher of a fashionable assemblage , nor the respectable preacher of a Presbyterian hierarchy , nor the absolution of a political Bishop , nor the moral novels of a seceding clergyman , but with the best preacher of all -- the individual conscience . 
This is uncommonly sober talk , my dear Fritz , for an Opera-goer ; but , remember , that we are breathing now in the breast of Lent ; and the gray hairs , and the fleeting time warn me , that such talk may not ` fall to the ground , ' even in the careless pages of a gossiping essayist . 
You , my dear Fritz , will I am sure be greatly surprised to find me , who have been so long , and untiringly the devoted friend , and admirer of the gentler sex , suddenly become the object of their frowns and animadversions . 
When you recall , Fritz , my Quixotic career , scattered over as it has been , with innumerable hazards , and such hair-breadth escapes , as would have done honor to the hero of La Mancha , or Santillane , you will smile to think that any should be hardy enough to impugn the action of my maturer age , and to credit to unworthy motives , those whimsical observations of mine , which are half made up of irony , and half of covert praise . 
We , in our country , Fritz , have long given a supremacy to the Eve section of the human family , which has grown into a national characteristic . 
And this brings me , Fritz , to a most ungracious branch of my subject ; not only are our town ladies the arbiters of all social form , -LRB- as indeed they properly should be , -RRB- but they are also gifted by nature with a certain happy love of display ; nor has nature in this regard been improvidently left to neglect , but has shot up , under judicious culture , into a yearning after distinctions , and a ripeness of vanity , as much superior to that of men , as to that of beasts . 
I do not mean to hint , Fritz , that I am a believer in any Proudhonic system of social democracy , or that superior refinement will not always make itself distinct by elevation , as surely and as unconsciously as Saturn burns brighter than the smallest of the asteroids . 
And here , Fritz , I come upon another topic , which it will be ungrateful to handle . 
What do we derive from all this , Fritz ? 
From this it follows , my dear Fritz , that all you see in New York are not New Yorkers . 
All this , it must be understood , my dear Fritz , is predicated upon such stray specimens as may be seen here and there wandering down our streets , or adorning the corners , at our balls . 
Were it not so , Fritz , I would long ago have thrown down my pen in despair , and looked as idly as the idlest upon the shifting currents of our town-life . 
I havealready given you a glimpse of the Bostonian , but he is not the only one among the strangers in our town who is deserving of particular mention . 
I must not forget , Fritz , to give you a portrait or two of our stranger ladies . 
Yet withal , Fritz , these very good women of the country , who are the butts of city ridicule , will in nine cases out of ten , rear sons who will take the lead away , in business , in professional pursuits , or in the arts , from the most luxurious of the town-bred . 
Thisis a tender subject , my dear Fritz ; and it is capital advice that the old Don gives his Squire : little may be gained in broaching it , and much may be lost . 
Yet strange as it may seem , Fritz , these are the very ones who are forever talking of their pedigree , and raking up from their family tombs , a distinction which could never belong to their family character . 
You may think , Fritz , that such observations have no aptness in my studies of this Republican town ; but if so , you would be strangely mistaken . 
Observe , Fritz , that I am throwing out no sneers upon any particular calling or trade . 
And it is this very pretence , my dear Fritz , that I want most to rebuke ; it is the covering up of the individual , and his personal acts or acquisitions , with the patched and parti-colored coat of an adopted European artificiality ; it is the shame for what we are , and the pretension to what we are not . 
I do not mean to say , Fritz , that wealth supposes no ancestry at all , which to be sure , would leave a frightful hiatus for modesty to tumble in ; but it is such as is not suited to the boasts of the heir ; and might possibly be as irksome to his pride as that hinted at in the French couplet : What particular action , or claims upon distinction , are of the best complexion to make up a good , compact , ancestral reputation , I can hardly tell . 
You have heard , Fritz , Southey 's bad story of the New Gate Calendar -- how it was bought up by American Colonists , looking up their genealogies . 
I have often wondered , my dear Fritz , what a curious figure the ancestors of our ladies and gentlemen of ton would cut , if suffered to come up to the light , and mingle for a little time in the festivities of the town . 
Yet this revival , Fritz , of the true state and pomp of our ancestry would be a most republican display : -- great because of its diversity , and of the proof it would offer of that social elasticity , which belongs to our scheme , and which will ensure to industry and integrity , whatever may be its station , wealth and honor . 
And in this connection , my dear Fritz , I can not forbear turning my glass toward that painful tragedy whose blood and mystery have not yet passed from the minds of men . 
Nor will I forbear , Fritz , to enter my testimony with pride , to the dignity of that Court which has not been shaken by prominence of social position , and which has weighed talent and scientific attainment as nothing , when opposed to those great interests of humanity and common justice which our Republican rule professes to protect . 
Is it not sadning , my dear Fritz , to believe that the town-taste is so set on edge with the vinegar of such as push their writings to the furthest edge of delicacy , that no modest and subdued discourse upon the social habits of the day , can be received with any relish whatever ? 
Answer me , Fritz , -- is popularity worth enough that a man should fling behind him social proprieties , and fraternize with the lewd panders to our growing appetite for scandal and immodesty ? 
I know , Fritz , that I lose much by forbearance ; when the personalities of scurrilous paragraphists are read with unction , how can a simple talker about popular extravagances be listened to with any degree of attention ? 
Prudence , as well as propriety , forbids then , my dear Fritz , that I should enter upon any invidious , personal strictures ; those who love such topic are referred to the sources which are kindred with their tastes ; they will find none of it here ; my mask shall not be abused for any stealthy strokes ; and whoever worries his vanity with the thought of personal injury , shall , upon due authentication of his griefs , find a man to answer him . 
I havesaid , Fritz , that modesty would belong to my remarks on literary men , or matters ; but what reviewer , from Mr. Brownson to Dr. Griswold , was ever modest ? 
As illustrative of this , you will remember , I think , Fritz , a furor which some years ago attended the publication of a book called ` The Glory and the Shame of England , ' but which so completely exhausted itself by excess of effusion , that a biography of Sam . 
Would you believe it , my dear Fritz , that such laurels have been pinned to my ears , as the association of my papers with this Coryphæus of letters ! 
You will smile , Fritz , at the compliment , yet some wise ones have attributed our correspondence to this prince of paragraphists . 
You know , Fritz , that I make no scholarly pretensions , and that the trick of the pen is not old enough with me , to render my lapsi pennœeither unusual , or singular . 
Though not over familiar with his works , yet I am content to take the verdict of the town-public in reckoning him a writer of shrewdness , tact , and elegance -- the more especially , Fritz , since he is your reputed correspondent . 
It would appear that he is an adept with an opera-glass , and should know much of the goings on in our brilliant town-world ; at least so much of it as appears within the doors of the Opera-house . 
But he is , after all , I fancy , much too fond of his fiddle , and the composers , to have entered upon any such employment , as has been gratuitously assigned him . 
Mr. Harry Franco -LRB- Briggs -RRB- , a name not , perhaps , new to you , Fritz , has also been associated with our modest correspondence . 
He is said to possess a ready wit , and variety of attainment which would qualify him to do much better things than have appeared in the Lorgnette . 
A little reflection of his honor was at one time , indeed , cast upon me by the Mirror newspaper : but latterly the penetrating editor of that journal finds my letters losing their ` Tom Peppery ' character , and growing sadly stupid . 
I have been not a little amused and chagrined , my dear Fritz , on hearing these letters attributed to an eminent beau of the town -- a man well posted indeed , in all social chat , and lively enough as the times go ; but for the matter of this new charge , I must beg to enter a modest caveat in his behalf . 
I have too much respect for the public , and for you , Fritz , to palm on your ear any such crude batter of words . 
Even now , Fritz , but half has been said , which might be said upon the authors of the town : a host remains , even omitting the ontire company of our deserving and attractive authoresses . 
An apology , perhaps , is due for having alluded more particularly to such as have become associated by careless suspicion with our correspondence ; should the correspondence continue , Fritz , not a pen-man , or a claqueur , but shall be honored . 
My publisher informs me , as the sheets are passing through the press , that the twelve numbers now issued will make a fair-sized volume ; you may possibly , therefore , my dear Fritz , miss the ensuing week your accustomed visitant : and whether it will make its appearance the coming month , will depend very much on my own whim , and the humor of the town . 
But do not be misled , Fritz ; -- it has been thrown out by some that the Lorgnettewas nothing more than an eccentric charity ; and one very grave and important publisher assured me that it was wholly paid for by its author , and then placed , printed and bound , in the hands of the publisher . 
Fritz , -- the town-life is my Bacchan festival ; the town-topics are my Bacchan sport ; and this pen is my Bacchan thyrsus ! 
Well , Fritz , it is even true , that notwithstanding my rusticity , I find myself approaching , little by little , to a state of town domestication ; and at the earnest solicitation of my worthy bookseller , I am led to resume my weekly observations , and even to extend their influence , if influence they have , by association with a large publishing house , which will give to them a wide country circulation . 
The French understand the phisiologie du gout , as you know , and will throw in a basted partridge , blanketed with pork , between the soberer courses of a boiled meat and a filet ; so I , Fritz , will spit together on the same bundle of converging rays , a squeamish town poetaster stuffed with garlic , and a Broadway beauty gone wild in Schoharie or at Lebanon . 
I havelooked in vain , my dear Fritz , through the chronicles of the city , from that of the venerable Diedrich , to those of Mr. Dogget , Jr. , to find any historical account of the origin of the May festivities of this town . 
You have been rocked long enough , my dear Fritz , in this rickety cradle of a world , to know what a delightful provocative to the festivities of the season must be this joint lady-rule under a single roof ! 
Such , my dear Fritz , are a few hints thrown out , to serve you as coloring matter , with which you can work up at your leisure an imaginative painting of our town May-day . 
Since , however , the Society above referred to has failed thus far to throw light on this important subject , I must even venture myself , Fritz , to try and get at the causes of these strange movements of May . 
Many a man of fortune , as you know , Fritz , who can command respect in various ways , is at this very time occupying a suite of rooms upon a single floor in the Rue de Bac , who would disdain the dashing palaces of the Chaussée d'Antin , or the Place St. George . 
The sad conclusion which I am led to from this , my dear Fritz , is the fact , that in our town , even the comforts of a home are thoroughly conventional . 
It would be pleasant , Fritz , to take you to the auctions that belong to our May festival , and which may be met with at every half dozen steps , -- showing the last trace of the old May-pole , decorated with a little banner of red bunting . 
I have reported thus , Fritz , in very homely style the peculiar show which we make of our May festivities . 
From all this , my dear Fritz , you will fish out the moral , that change belongs eminently to our American life ; -- that the settled quietude of a ripe civilization has not yet been reached ; -- that we have not yet learned well enough how to live , to be sure when we are contented with the modes of living ; and that even the comforts of a home are measured by space , material , and talk . 
And now , Fritz , John Timon takes the liberty of asking the pert and homely question -- if the free and careless handling of our town-ladies , by every booby who can boast a boot , or a fringed cravat , is not in the minds of many sensible ones , weakening the delicacy and the beauty of that respect , which every gentleman desires to feel for the other sex ? 
Do not suppose , Fritz , that with the canker of years upon me , I am enjoying a fling at an accomplishment which can no longer be mine . 
I like , Fritz , in my quiet way , to moisten my pen in the dribblings from any butts of ridicule , even though they stand upon the floor of our Tabernacle . 
Our police arrangements , since the introduction of the Star and cigars , and since the election of our new Aldermanic Council , are said to be highly perfect ; and our journals are most consistent and order-loving journals , actuated naturally by the most conscientious intent : And yet , Fritz , the week past we have had a demonstration of order , philanthropy , Christian intent , police perfectibility and newspaper independence , which must carry the weight of a counter opinion as far as the cracked dome of that temple of St. Peter 's , which the Christian Union and Dr. Adams are trying hard to crack wider . 
Do n't understand me , Fritz , to endorse any of the crazy fulminations of our Garrison zealots , while I point out the barbarity and usurpations of our Bowery demagogues . 
You know , Fritz , that we have been gathering in our town , for a week past , a corps of workers , variously equipped with white cravats , broad brims , black coats , petticoats , and carefully-committed discourses , to help forward the heathen and black men a stage or two in Christian civilization ; and so vigorous has been the endeavor , that we have recoiled with the shock into the ditch of barbarity . 
Ourwinter belles , my dear Fritz , having now fairly clipped the shell of the ball-room , and having begun to fledge in a spring array , give me good occasion to take their figures on my canvas , before they shall have sailed away on the full wing of the summer passage . 
Their topics are discussed with prettily-fledged hints , gleaned from Papa 's dinner parties ; the current waves of talk are curiously avoided ; even the paragraphs of the Home Journal are kindly tossed over to contempt , and our Lorgnette , my country Fritz , is sneered at , as the crude melange of a literary adventurer . 
I would not mean to say , however , Fritz , that such ladies are common , or that literary attainments are generally high enough , with any class of our belles , to make their learning an insurmountable obstacle to an approach ; and if one can not fairly scale the rampart of their literary acquisitions , he can , generally , with high-heeled boots , see over to the flat surface that lies beyond . 
It is grateful to approach now , Fritz , the second class of our belles -- by inclusion . 
Such , Fritz , are some of our town belles ; but , thank God , all town-ladies are not belles , though all belles are not ladies . 
And now , Fritz , having nicked another from my Studies of the Town ; and wishing you all manner of goodness , n this bursting spring season , -- a world of blossoms to your parterre , and a deep green to your sprouting corn , -- a light handling to your rod , and a plethora to your creel , -- a rich dressing to your early salad , and a charity for us all , -- I remain , Timon . 
Pardonme , Fritz , one word of prolegomenon , as rebutter to the assurance of those who whisper in the ears of my publisher , the name of your correspondent . 
I hate humbug , Fritz ; and fourteen letters now under your hand , which have gone to combat it in every shape , and to defend what is earnest and manly , will confirm , if there be need , my assertion . 
It would be very immodest in me , Fritz , to take you into the adjoining room , and show you the fitting-on of satin slippers , drawn out of oil-silk bags , or worked reticules , -- the auxiliary lacings done at the hands of some stout friend , or the readjustment of Martel 's wreaths . 
The style of our salon conversation , as you would naturally suppose , my dear Fritz , is more vivacious than entertaining , and between the incessant scraping of fiddles , and the tootof clarionets , there is hardly room for any delicate balancing of those repartées or prettinesses of speech , which give a charm to the legitimate soirée . 
Note again , Fritz , that I am not arguing for any full and free intermingling of breeding and vulgarity ; this would be to argue against natural laws -- to create combinations without chemical affinities ; and at best , in the ungenial mixture , crude precipitates would be thrown down , that would not and could not re-combine . 
The conversation of the -- 's is , of course , what it should be , full , rich , academic , and -- 's - y. I had hoped , Fritz , and have made two or three well-intentioned efforts , to give you a sketch of the salon-talk ; but it is useless ; its gases are too volatile ; the heat of the pen-point rarefies and disperses them altogether . 
But , lest you in the country , Fritz , who are used to base your agricultural action upon a careful analysis of the guanos , and sulphates of fertilization , should object that this is not a very specific account of the ball-room conversation , I will even give you a prescription , after the way of our town doctors ; and I am sure that any accomplished druggist may easily prepare from it , a dose . 
I am disposed to believe , Fritz , that there are a vast many Ouï-Diresin our city of Washington , -- not only old men , but old women too , who are better found in the matter of legs , and eyes , than the vielliardof Pantagruel ; and who can ramble easily from the lobby to the gallery , and can see -- much more than is to be seen . 
I am just now , Fritz , in the receipt of a Washington letter , which , as it brings to light some things which are not in the papers , may interest you . 
Amongthe noticeable things of the epoch , Fritz , as worthy of my hap-hazard chronicle as the conquest of Cuba , which was no conquest , or the unrolling of a Boston princess , who proved only a dry bituminous man , is the climacteric of negation ; -- viz. , a spring , that has been no spring . 
And you , Fritz , will have grossly misread these pages , if you have not caught glimpses of an underlying reverence for what is reverence-worthy in the sex , which will have more than balanced any harshness of expression , or lightness of remark . 
But lest you be weary with my sermonizing , Fritz , of which you shall have no more , until your early apples are ripe , I shall sum up with a little line of admonition from St. Austin ; which will suit both the High Doctors and the Low , and the Westminster catechizers , as well as the creed-men : -- Ubi charitas , ibi humilitas ; ubi humilitas , ibi pax ! 
Say what we will , Fritz , of that tidy Eastern sea-port , Boston is altogether a nice place ; its weather is nice ; its laws nice ; its Juries nice ; its churches nice ; its gentlemen nice ; its literature is nice ; its taste is nice , and they have a nice Religion . 
Far be it from me , Fritz , a merely humble Republican , to assume any intimate knowledge of the habits , or private peculiarities of those whose birth , accomplishments , air , and dignity , place them beyond an ordinary man 's observation . 
But after all , Fritz , this neighbor town of ours , is a strong town . 
You and I , Fritz , have rambled enough about the world , to set our opinion free of any town-barriers ; and where worth is to be found , in God 's name , let us be bold enough to say it . 
And now , my dear Fritz , hoping that this city sultriness does not reach you , -- that your new milk is not soured with thunder , and that your oat-fields are fast feathering into blossom , I bid you , for a fortnight more , -- Adieu . 
Toomuch of anything is worth very little ; and least of all , Fritz , in this sultry weather , will you be able to bear a constant succession of city pictures . 
As for the bench , the bankers , and the bar , such of them as turn down the Wall street avenue , are reserved for future notice ; I wish now , Fritz , to give you only a playful sketch of our stock-broker , whose nature affords capital commentary on what has been noted about elasticity . 
Lawyers are not stock-brokers , nor physicians , unless retired from practice ; nor is the stock-broker a calico importer , or a grain speculator , notwithstanding he sometimes deals in ` shorts . ' 
But morally , and to outward appearance , he may be something more or less than a stock-broker . 
Sometimes he is prim , clean-shirted , and may even venture upon a broad brim , and all the outward sobriety of Quakerdom . 
He may be sly , with heavy whiskers , twinkling eye , flaring shirt-bosom , almost a swell in appearance , one whom you would take for a cavalier at the Minerva balls ; and yet , perhaps , he will hatch out such a rise in figures , upon some small stock , as will entitle him to immense respect at the restaurant where he dines . 
He may be of plethoric habit , sometimes indulging in a white cravat -- possibly a vestryman , or at any rate , very thoughtful at class-meetings , and with religious interest in some younger brother , will give a nudge of advice in favor of some shortsale , while he stands by , in the person of a friend , to buy up long . 
You have seen coursing , Fritz , if I mistake not , upon the downs of Hampshire ; and have been delighted with the way in which some veteran puss will double shortupon the hounds , just as they are upon her ; and will leave them to shoot their long carcasses crazily in advance , while she gathers breath and courage for a new run . 
God grant you , Fritz , nerve and firmness to withstand the Tempter , whether he be broker , or be Baal . 
It hurts my modesty grievously , Fritz , to drop an egoso near the name of the great philosopher ; but the truth is , that this system of periodic paragrahing does so dull one 's diffidence , and so deprave his native sense of decency , that unless I use great forbearance , I shall soon find myself expressing opinions , with all the assurance of Mr. Bennett , or of the Boston Post . 
Our towns-people are not a rural people , my dear Fritz , -- scamper as they will , to watering-places , of a summer . 
Thus it happens , Fritz , that no country place is secured , in the majority of instances , until the wife , or the position , demand it for talk or show . 
And then , unless our townsman be fortunate in his gardener , and architect , the country seat will offer a sad spectacle of God 's work , at the mercy of a taste refined in Pearl street , or cultivated by assiduous study of the South street wharves . 
Of all these classes , my dear Fritz , you shall have from time to time a report , and shall bear me company in type , now to Newport or the Mountain House , and again to Nahant or Crawford 's , -- or as you have already borne me company in person , at the Vier Jahreszeitzen of Wiesbaden , -- on Frascati 's beach , in Frascati 's bathing robes , or stretched through the livelong night upon the hard floor of that little highland inn , which lies midway between Lochs Garry and Oich . 
Now , my dear Fritz , do not knock the ashes from your cigar with a petulant flip of the finger , and say -- ` this is all sad stuff . ' 
Fritz , God forbid that you should think me so far gone with the frivolities of the town , or so much engrossed by those phases of social interchange which make up the chronicle of our summer history , that I should either forbear , or hesitate to drop both an encomium and a tear at our nation 's loss . 
You know me , Fritz , as an American ; you know that none of the lascivious luxury and attenuated civilization of Europe , have been able to withdraw my sympathies and soul from that country where I was born , and to which shall always be credited gratefully , whatever slight consideration may be won . 
I do not know , Fritz , if I convey to you by such language a fair idea of what I wish to express . 
I put it to you , Fritz , if the European has not more method in his madness ? 
Are not his recreations more intimately blended with his life , and with his daily habit ? 
Are they not more a part of him , and less hideously objective ? 
Enjoyment with him is not at the end of some rough journey , but lies , on either hand , along his road . 
It is not with him a matter of patent manufacture , whose excellence is to be established by puffing , but it is a thing of education , and of existence . 
Do not understand me , Fritz , to undervalue our national characteristics of enterprise , and commercial vigor , or to admire more the easy , and life-long indulgence , which belongs to a graceful , but a frivolous nation ; -- and yet a nation which can well instruct us in the matter of those amusements which adorn civilization . 
I began , Fritz , with saying something about the July aspect of our town ; it is not like the winter town . 
In short , my dear Fritz , it will not do to be amused without discretion . 
Am I not right , Fritz ? 
The subject grows , Fritz , though the weather is wilting . 
My letter is short , Fritz , but if I may draw an opinion from the trial of most of our book-writers and pamphleteers , its brevity will be its best ornament . 
J. T. eaf279v2.n5 -LSB- 5 -RSB- The comparison , Fritz , will lead you to recall an exquisite scrap of the old Anthology . 
Youmust remember , Fritz , how on a certain evening , many years since , when we two were seated together on the front bank of the Speaker 's gallery , in the British House of Commons , we listened admiringly to the terse and blazing castigation , which was inflicted by an eminent historian , and essayist , upon the first minister of England . 
Let us pass on , Fritz : strong words add heat to our summer : July sermons may be too long , though they are rarely too strong . 
-LSB- 7 -RSB- But to return , Fritz ; I am to show you something of our city cockneys ; leaving provincialisms for cooler periods . 
Our cockney has great admiration for watering-places generally , and collaterally of the country -- of which he talks very much , as Goldsmith 's Lien Chi Altanghi talks of the gayeties of London , -- namely , with a great deal of apparent familiarity , and a great deal more of real ignorance . 
In parenthesis , let me say , Fritz , that the officers of our army are with few exceptions , gentlemen , both unassuming , and well-informed ; and it behoves them much , to thrust out of their social alliance such recreants as will over-drink at a public table , or carry their impudence with a beastly swagger . 
A letter which has come to my hand , Fritz , from very much such a country liver , will perhaps interest you ; and as it makes new developments about the country life , and as it seems to have been written by a shrewd fellow , who has an eye to trumps , I shall give it the dignity of an independent chapter . 
And I , as you know , Fritz , find my affections going back too strongly to the old days , when the homestead was rich in blossoms , and the moonlight shadows played -- fairy-like -- upon the ancestral lawn , to forget the generous remembrances that cling there yet , or to throw the shadow of a single wanton sneer upon the simplicity of a country life . 
Trusting you will do the matter justice , If I remember rightly , there was an intimation dropped in my first number , Fritz , to the effect that tarts would be preferred to books . 
As for a sketch of those numerous ones , who are noticeable only by effrontery of manner , and capital study of dress , I am , Fritz , wholly unequal to it ; and no words however pointed , or however spiced with Salic ingredients , could reach them . 
Now , humble as my labors are , Fritz , I do still need some small measure of sense for their appreciation ; and a reproach which is hazarded on such creatures , as reckon the reproach of an honest man , an honor , is wildly lost . 
This makes a queer tail-piece to a letter from Saratoga ; but now that it is writ , digest it as you will , Fritz ; and I will say to your judgment , whatever it may be , -LRB- presuming on your charity -RRB- -- ainsi soit-il . 
Wandering about the country a little , of late , my dear Fritz , -- snuffing the cool firstlings of the autumn wind , I have come upon sundry odds and ends , which seem worth covering with such broadnibbed pen , as a country tavern can only supply . 
Do not , for a moment , think , Fritz , that I rank him a whit the lower for this circumstance ; or , that I would sneer at any calling in life . 
A stylish visitor from the city is a godsend to either party ; and it has been a source of gratulation to me , Fritz , that my plainness of parts , and unpretending mediocrity , have saved me from the sin of fanning any such unchristian feuds ; and of being offered up as a holocaust to the village pride . 
By your leave then , Fritz , I will slip my cable -- dropping a buoy to mark the spot -- and will drift out into deeper and bluer waters . 
I amnot going to make any madrigal of summer woods and Sunday quiet ; I leave that for the young poets ; the days of my madrigals and milkmaids are gone by , Fritz . 
But as I have already intimated to you , Fritz , I can see nothing in the sacerdotal covering , from the white of a Philpotts , to the black of a Princeton student , that should forbid analysis or inquiry . 
These periods , and this train of thought , have chased me , Fritz , into the small hours ` ayont the twal : ' a day-light revision might take off a little frill from the dressing ; but , upon my conscience , the color would not change . 
I have nothing to add , Fritz . 
Toyou , Fritz , who are of a quiet , contemplative habit , it must have sometime occurred , that we Americans , with all our ancestral phlegm , are yet an excitable people , working off our excesses in occasional mobs , grand funerals , and triumphant jubilees . 
I had forewarned you , Fritz , of the approach of our Jenny Lind mania ; but I am free to confess to you , that notwithstanding all the intimacy of my observation , I was not prepared for the rueful and extraordinary effects of the distemper ; and it has only been by dint of the most extreme caution , in avoiding contact with infected persons , that I have been able to preserve my usual state of health . 
I trust , Fritz , that no little of the same self-devotion has belonged to my decision . 
But a truce to this irony : you see where it runs , Fritz . 
Do not think , Fritz , that my spirit can not be stirred with the warblings of Jenny Lind ; it has been stirred thus years ago : but far more kindlier than her songs , rare as they are , is her benevolent heart ; and in view of that glorious charity of Stockholm , I could cheerfully , old as I am , fling up my hat in the air , and shout with the best of them -- long live Jenny Lind ! 
I take blame to myself , Fritz , for having thus far left you in comparative ignorance of a class , which goes so much to make up the expression of the town life , as that which is so cleverly defined by the American Dictionary . 
You overtake him in the street , and speak , -LRB- observe , Fritz , that I am quoting from my correspondent , -RRB- expecting him to turn his head ; but such an expectation is very vain ; there is a slight lifting of the chin , a languid semirevolution at the hips ; you see one corner of his eye , and hear H ' ah y , '' -- and -- -LRB- to drop now my correspondent , -RRB- it is the best he can do . 
But , Fritz , is it not a waste of my paper , and an added heaviness to my letters , to labor upon those portraits , which when most finished , and most true , make us most ashamed of our species ? 
-LSB- 12 -RSB- I had hoped , Fritz , to jot down for you a few of the oddities and strange things which belong to the smaller watering-places along the shore , and the skirts of the neighboring mountains ; but my present topics have crowded my paper , while the cool evenings of the first autumn have fairly pushed the summer festivities out of mind . 
Fritz , you will doubtless remember our entrance , some few years since , into the salons of a certain distinguished old gentleman , who received us , even amid the throng that crowded his receptin , with a suavity and grace , and a familiar adoption of our language , that surprised us ; and that put us at ease , even under the frescos of the old palace of the Medici . 
Freedom may , indeed , encourage the developement of manliness ; but if I be not greatly mistaken , Fritz , there is a growing notion with us , that Republican institutions are all that are needed to guaranty it . 
The fancy balls have , I fear , been without much efficacy the present season ; and from no little observation , -- for you know , Fritz , that I have played the debardeur , if not the man-of-war 's man , in my time , -- I am disposed to think that only the most moderate éclat attaches to the heroines either of the Newport or the Saratoga display . 
My heart is warm , Fritz ; and it is peculiarly alive to the curtailment of honors in those quarters where honors are the only basis of character . 
It might be pleasant , Fritz , to pursue to some length an inquiry about such literary elements as belong to the town socialities , and to trace , if possible , their reciprocal action . 
I am afraid , however , that it would take me upon delicate ground ; it is certain that a little affectation of literature is beginning to be employed as a burnisher for vulgarities ; and our most worshipful grocer or broker can in no better way take off the edge from his ignorance , than by a studious patronage of the crack-brained poets . 
And , Fritz , I should be very recreant to my intent of keeping you even with the rush and current of the town life , if I did not give you some further picture of the prevailing mania ; alas , the picture is only too ready ; your philosophic Timon has yielded to the infection ; and this , notwithstanding all ordinary means of prevention . 
You , Fritz , will understand this ; -- for you have listened to this songstress amid the blaze of kingly attendance , and under the heavily embossed roof of a Royal opera-house ; -- where the King and his suite were nothing , and the fairest , ` high-bosomed ' dames of the Unter den Linden were nothing , -- and where the long-moustached young officers of the Prussian army twisted their German faces into all shapes of delight . 
I love , I must say , Fritz , the very exuberance of admiration which waits upon such charity . 
Think of it for a moment , Fritz , that your ticket , and your seat , is to give a desk to some poor Swedish scholar ; and that the echoes of the Nightingale -LRB- sounds to be kissed -RRB- are to re-echo through their whole life-time , in the hearts and voices of ten thousand blue-eyed Scandinavian children ! 
With the most of them -LRB- it is hard to say it , Fritz , -RRB- this town life is but a round of delirious indulgences , in which the delights afforded even by this new meteor of song , are only -- an added excitement . 
You will perhaps set me down , Fritz , as one crazed by the reigning excitement , and as giving loose to a frenzied intoxication of spirit ; but I claim no absolution from that sympathy , which is started by the holy offices of charity , and adorned by the natural graces of simplicity and song . 
Every man will have his taste ; but for myself , Fritz , I had rather see the heat of the soul in deeds , than to take my knowledge of it from the lip . 
I wish , Fritz , from my heart , that for an hour I could get at one of your forest skirts , to gather a bunch of wild-flowers , -- with the golden rod in it , and a fragrant orchis , and a blue daisy , and pale ghost-flower , set off with the heavy fringe of a brake , and the feathery lightness of the maiden 's hair , -- to make up a bouquet for the songstress . 
Itis now ten months , my dear Fritz , since I first put on the dignity of print , and undertook to tell you something of our Life in Town . 
To have my open avowal on this point doubted by you , Fritz , would grieve me ; a doubt from some quarters might provoke me ; but there are still others , I am happy to say , where the expression of such doubt is neither grievous , provoking , nor important . 
I have been much amused , Fritz , by the attributed hits at particular individuals , and by the undoubted portraits which some wiseacres have detected in my pages . 
With this much of prefatory gossip , Fritz , let me give you one more launch upon the town , and my volume is ended . 
You have seen , my dear Fritz , our old friend Dumas -LRB- not the Guardsman -RRB- apply the stopper of a vial to some calcareous or silicious mass , -- and watch the degree of the effervescence , -- and taste , -- and try it with his blow-pipe , and finally , setting it down , and putting his spectacles back , you have heard him give , in a few well-chosen words , the full account of the substance under his hand . 
But it seems to me , Fritz , that every nation , -LRB- and you have had the same opinion from me , under the linden trees of the terrace at Frascati , -RRB- must , and ought to have its peculiar social ordinances , as much as those of its civil policy , or commerce ; and I see no better reason , per se , for adopting the visiting hour of the Parisian , or for dining in the night with the Londoner , than for copying the Milanese in their opera etiquette , or for showing hospitality with a pipe , and entertaining with sherbet and attar . 
And now , Fritz , -- `` Timon hath done his reign ! '' 
