she exclaimed , `` I have been looking for you , Tancred ! '' 
`` Never mind Brace , George , '' said the duchess ; `` tell me what is this about Tancred ? 
`` I have been walking with Tancred , '' she continued , `` and intimated , but with great caution , all our plans and hopes . 
Pray tell me ; for Tancred has told me nothing , and , when I pressed him , waived the subject , and said we would all of us consult together . '' 
To be brief , '' he added , speaking in a light tone , `` there are reasons which perhaps may make it expedient that Hungerford should not resign at the present moment ; and as Tancred has a fancy to travel a little , it may be as well that we should take it into consideration whether he might not profitably occupy the interval in this manner . '' 
`` But make yourself easy on these heads ; Tancred told me this morning that he had no wish to visit either Rome or Paris . '' 
The colonel , who was a leading member of the corporation of Montacute , had taken care to be chosen mayor this year ; he had been also chairman of the Committee of Management during the celebration of Tancred 's majority ; had had the entire ordering of the fireworks , and was generally supposed to have given the design , or at least the leading idea , for the transparency . 
And if it did , the duke must guarantee Roby against loss ; it was a necessity , absolute and of the first class , that Tancred should be attended by a medical man who knew his constitution . 
`` Rest assured , then , that I will never sanction the departure of Tancred on this crusade . '' 
Besides , I can not conceal from myself that Tancred in this affair is acting under the influence of very powerful motives ; his feelings are highly strung ; you have no idea -- you can have no idea from what we have seen of him hitherto , how excited he is . 
And so , in short , my dear Katherine , were we to be abrupt at this moment , peremptory , you understand , I -- I -- should not be surprised , were Tancred to go without our permission . '' 
The duke had a great mind to propose his plan of sending Tancred to Jerusalem , with Colonel Brace , Mr. Bernard , and Mr. Roby , to take care of him , but he hardly thought the occasion was ripe enough for that ; and so he suggested that the duchess should speak to Tancred herself . 
We will get him to speak to Tancred . 
It is , perhaps , asking a good deal of the bishop , considering his important and multifarious duties , to undertake this office , but we must not be delicate when everything is at stake ; and , considering he christened and confirmed Tancred , and our long friendship , it is quite out of the question that he can refuse . 
I shall advance affairs by writing to the bishop on the subject , and giving him an outline of the case , so that he may be prepared to see Tancred at once on our arrival . 
Not exactly , however , those calculated to meet the case of Tancred . 
The interview was long , for Tancred listened with apparent respect and deference to the individual under whose auspices he had entered the Church of Christ ; but the replies to his inquiries , though more adroit than the duke 's , were in reality not more satisfactory , and could not , in any way , meet the inexorable logic of Lord Montacute . 
`` It can not be denied , '' at length said Tancred , with great calmness , `` that society was once regulated by God , and that now it is regulated by man . 
`` But the Church no longer governs man , '' replied Tancred . 
inquired Tancred . 
The eminent prelate did not realize Tancred 's ideal of a bishop , while his lordship did not hesitate to declare that Lord Montacute was a visionary . 
`` The bishop says that Tancred is a visionary , '' said the duchess to her husband , with an air of great displeasure . 
Why , so are the Puseyites ; they are visionaries , and his lordship has been obliged to deal with them ; though , to be sure , if he spoke to Tancred in a similar fashion , I am not surprised that my son has returned unchanged ! 
`` I tell you what I propose , Kate : -- Tancred is gone to the House of Commons to hear the debate on Maynooth ; I will try and get our cousin to come home and dine with us , and then we can talk over the whole affair at once . 
Throughout dinner not a word about Tancred . 
The duke pushed away the table ; they drew their chairs round the hearth ; Lord Eskdale took half a glass of Madeira , then stretched his legs a little , then rose , stirred the fire , and then , standing with his back to it and his hands in his pockets , said , in a careless tone approaching to a drawl , `` And so , duchess , Tancred wants to go to Jerusalem ? '' 
She did not conceal from him the interview between Tancred and the bishop ; it was her last effort , and had failed ; and so , `` after all our plans , '' she ended , `` as far as I can form an opinion , he is absolutely more resolved than ever to go to Jerusalem . '' 
`` I know nothing about annuity offices , but I know that almost everybody dies who goes to those countries : look at young Fernborough , he was just Tancred 's age ; the fevers alone must kill him . '' 
`` No , '' said Lord Eskdale , looking up to the ceiling , `` I am thinking how you may prevent Tancred from going to Jerusalem , without , at the same time , opposing his wishes . '' 
`` Let Tancred go into society : the best way for him to forget Jerusalem is to let him see London . '' 
Affairs stood thus : it was agreed by all that Tancred should go to the Holy Land , but he was to go in his own yacht ; which yacht was to be of a first-rate burthen , and to be commanded by an officer in H.M.S. ; and he was to be accompanied by Colonel Brace , Mr. Bernard , and Mr. Roby ; and the servants were to be placed entirely under the control of some trusty foreigner accustomed to the East , and who was to be chosen by Lord Eskdale . 
In the mean time , Tancred had acceded to the wish of his parents , that until his departure he should mix much in society . 
The duchess calculated that , under any circumstances , three months must elapse before all the arrangements were concluded ; and she felt persuaded that , during that period , Tancred must become enamoured of his cousin Katherine , and that the only use of the yacht would be to take them all to Ireland . 
In the mean time Tancred was launched , almost unconsciously , into the great world . 
Notwithstanding all his ardour , all his inquiries , visits to Cowes and the Surrey Canal , advertisements and answers to advertisements , time flew on , and Tancred was still without a yacht . 
In this unsettled state , Tancred found himself one evening at Deloraine House . 
It was not a ball , it was only a dance ; brilliant and select ; but , all the same , it seemed to Tancred that the rooms could not be much more crowded . 
Tancred had scarcely entered the world , his appearance had made a sensation , everybody talked of him , many had not yet seen him . 
And he followed Tancred . 
`` Tell me , '' said Tancred , in reply , and rather earnestly , `` who is that ? '' 
One at least of them was of a rank equal to that of Tancred . 
In the cloak-room , Tancred was still at her side , and was presented to her mother , Lady Charmouth . 
`` I am sorry to separate , '' said Tancred . 
`` I am not going anywhere to-morrow , where I shall meet you , '' said Tancred , `` unless you chance to dine at the Archbishop of York 's . '' 
`` I have not the honour of knowing her , '' said Tancred . 
said Tancred . 
said Tancred , offering his arm . 
Although the character of Tancred was not completely formed ; for that result depends , in some degree , upon the effect of circumstances at a certain time of life , as well as on the impulse of a natural bent ; still the temper of his being was profound and stedfast . 
Tancred , though he was unaware of it , was gifted with this rare spell . 
Tancred had not mounted the staircase of Deloraine House with any anticipation of pleasure . 
Tancred took the card , looked at it , and the letters seemed to cluster together and form the countenance of Lady Constance . 
But all this time we are forgetting her déjeûner , and that Tancred is winding his way through the garden lanes of Fulham to reach Craven Cottage . 
This was the first déjeûner at which Tancred had been present . 
Why should Tancred go to Jerusalem ? 
At present Lady Constance Rawleigh expresses her pleasure at Tancred 's arrival , and his heart beats a little . 
With a character like Tancred , everything may become important . 
Lord Eskdale drew his conclusions like a clever man of the world , and in general he would have been right ; but a person like Tancred was in much greater danger of being captured than a common-place youth entering life with second-hand experience , and living among those who ruled his opinions by their sneers and sarcasms . 
A malicious tale by a spiteful woman , the chance ribaldry of a club-room window , have often been the impure agencies which have saved many a youth from committing a great folly ; but Tancred was beyond all these influences . 
These were all new to Tancred , and startling . 
Sometimes Tancred looked unusually serious ; but at last his rare and brilliant smile beamed upon one who really admired him , was captivated by his intellect , his freshness , his difference from all around , his pensive beauty and his grave innocence . 
Tancred seated himself by the mother , made an essay in that small talk in which he was by no means practised , but Lady Charmouth helped him on without seeming to do so . 
Tancred rose , and murmured good morning ; and yet , somehow or other , instead of quitting the apartment , he went and seated himself by Lady Constance . 
And Tancred , opening a volume which he had never seen , and then turning to its title-page , found it was `` The Revelations of Chaos , '' a startling work just published , and of which a rumour had reached him . 
said Tancred ; `` it must , indeed , be a very remarkable book ! '' 
`` To judge from the title , the subject is rather obscure , '' said Tancred . 
`` Nobody ever saw a star formed , '' said Tancred . 
`` I do not believe I ever was a fish , '' said Tancred . 
Tancred grew silent and very thoughtful ; Lady Brancepeth moved , and he rose at the same time . 
`` I was a fish , and I shall be a crow , '' said Tancred to himself , when the hall door closed on him . 
At this moment he met Lord Eskdale , who had observed Tancred , from the end of Grosvenor Square , on the steps of Lord Charmouth 's door . 
This circumstance ill prepared Lord Eskdale for Tancred 's salutation . 
`` But I want a great many things , '' continued Tancred . 
`` I have promised my father to take them , '' said Tancred , `` though I feel they will only embarrass me . 
It was the visit of Tancred to the City , on the Wednesday morning after he had met Lord Eskdale , that occasions me to touch on some of the characteristics of our capital . 
It was the first time that Tancred had ever been in the City proper , and it greatly interested him . 
His visit was prompted by receiving , early on Wednesday morning , the following letter : -- `` Dear Tancred -- I saw Sidonia yesterday , and spoke to him of what you want . 
Tancred looked out of the window of his brougham . 
Tancred let himself out of his brougham , and not without difficulty contrived , through the narrow and crowded passage formed by the two lines , to reach the chariot , which was coming the contrary way to him . 
`` I have a carriage at hand , '' said Tancred , who at this moment reached her , `` and it is quite at your service . '' 
Tancred opened the door of the chariot , the policemen pulled down the steps , the servants were told to do the best they could with the wrecked equipage ; in a second the lady and her companion were in Tancred 's brougham , who , desiring his servants to obey all their orders , disappeared , for the stoppage at this moment began to move , and there was no time for bandying compliments . 
`` That is the Bank , '' said a good-natured man , in a bustle , but taken by Tancred 's unusual appearance . 
`` I do not want exactly the Bank , '' replied Tancred , `` but a place somewhere near it . 
Tancred entered Sequin Court ; a chariot with a foreign coronet was at the foot of the great steps which he ascended . 
He was received by a fat hall porter , who would not have disgraced his father 's establishment , and who , rising with lazy insolence from his hooded chair , when he observed that Tancred did not advance , asked the new comer what he wanted . 
And the porter opened the door of a waiting room , which Tancred declined to enter . 
`` I will wait here , thank you , '' said Tancred , and he looked round at the old oak hall , on the walls of which were hung several portraits , and from which ascended one of those noble staircases never found in a modern London mansion . 
`` I will wait here , thank you , '' said Tancred , looking round ; and then , with some hesitation , he added , `` I have an appointment here at two o'clock . '' 
At this moment , and while Tancred remained in the hall , various persons entered , and , without noticing the porter , pursued their way across the apartment . 
inquired Tancred . 
The porter looked at the inquirer with a blended gaze of curiosity and contempt , and then negligently answered him without looking in Tancred 's face , and while he was brushing up the hearth , `` Some are going to the counting-house , and some are going to the Bank , I should think . '' 
thought Tancred . 
`` Stand aside , '' said the hall porter to Tancred ; and , summoning the servants without , he ushered his excellency with some reverence to his carriage . 
`` Now your letter will go in with the others , '' he said to Tancred , whom for a few moments he left alone , and then returned , taking no notice of our young friend , but , depositing his bulky form in his hooded chair , he resumed the city article of the `` Times . '' 
The porter rose from his hooded chair , and put down the newspaper , but Tancred had advanced when he heard his name , and bowed , and followed the young man in spectacles , who invited Tancred to accompany him . 
Tancred was ushered into a spacious and rather long apartment , panelled with old oak up to the white coved ceiling , which was richly ornamented . 
The young man in spectacles in the mean while retired ; Tancred had bowed and murmured his compliments ; and his host , drawing his chair a little from the table , continued : `` Lord Eskdale tells me that you have some thoughts of going to Jerusalem . '' 
`` It is a pity , '' said Tancred ; `` but to reach Jerusalem is with me an object of so much moment , that I shall be content to find myself there at any time , and under any circumstances . '' 
`` It is the land of inspiration , '' said Tancred , slightly blushing ; `` and when I am there , I would humbly pray that my course may be indicated to me . '' 
`` This is not the land of inspiration , '' replied Tancred , timidly . 
`` Which I hold of divine institution , and which should be under the immediate influence of the Holy Spirit , '' said Tancred , dropping his eyes and colouring still more as he found himself already trespassing on that delicate province of theology , which always fascinated him , but which it had been intimated to him by Lord Eskdale that he should avoid . 
`` I find its opinions conflicting , its decrees contradictory , its conduct inconsistent , '' replied Tancred . 
Tancred listened to Sidonia as he spoke with great interest , and with an earnest and now quite unembarrassed manner . 
`` Then , '' said Tancred , with animation , `` seeing how things are , that I am born in an age and in a country divided between infidelity on one side , and an anarchy of creeds on the other ; with none competent to guide me , yet feeling that I must believe , for I hold that duty can not exist without faith ; is it so wild as some would think it , I would say is it unreasonable , that I should wish to do that which , six centuries ago , was done by my ancestor whose name I bear , and that I should cross the seas , and -- '' He hesitated . 
`` And visit the Holy Sepulchre , '' said Tancred , solemnly ; `` for that I confess is my sovereign thought . '' 
`` It must be so , '' said Tancred ; `` for who can believe , that a country once sanctified by the divine presence , can ever be as other lands ? 
Sidonia listened to Tancred with deep attention . 
He perceived that , though , at this moment , Tancred was as ignorant of the world as a young monk , he possessed all the latent qualities which in future would qualify him to control society . 
When Tancred had finished speaking , there was a pause of a few seconds , during which Sidonia seemed lost in thought ; then , looking up , he said , `` It appears to me , Lord Montacute , that what you want is to penetrate the great Asian mystery . '' 
`` You have touched my inmost thought , '' said Tancred , eagerly . 
At this moment there entered the room , from the glass door , the same young man who had ushered Tancred into the apartment . 
And Tancred again seated himself . 
`` I am sorry to trouble you about such things , '' said Tancred , in a hesitating voice , `` but perhaps I may not have the great pleasure to see you again , and Lord Eskdale said that I was to speak to you about some letters of credit . '' 
said Tancred , rising ; `` and how am I to express to you all my gratitude ? '' 
And Sidonia continued the letter which he was writing when Tancred entered . 
When Tancred returned home , musing , from his visit to Sidonia , he found the following note : -- `` Lady Bertie and Bellair returns Lord Montacute his carriage with a thousand compliments and thanks . 
Tancred recognised the titles of Bertie and Bellair as those of two not inconsiderable earldoms , now centred in the same individual . 
Tancred was surprised that he never recollected to have met before one so distinguished and so beautiful . 
The haunting thought that occasionally , notwithstanding his strong will , would perplex the soul and agitate the heart of Tancred -- the haunting thought that , all this time , he was perhaps the dupe of boyish fantasies , was laid today . 
Well , it was at Lady Bardolf 's ball , close upon midnight , that Tancred , who had not long entered , and had not very far advanced in the crowded saloons , turning his head , recognised his heroine of the morning , his still more recent correspondent , Lady Bertie and Bellair . 
She was for a moment alone ; she looked round , and recognised Tancred ; she bowed to him with a beaming glance . 
`` That is worth everything else , '' said Tancred . 
`` I think that I am most to be pitied , '' said Tancred . 
said Tancred , kindling , `` you too have felt that want ? '' 
`` It is the right feeling , '' said Tancred . 
`` Our lot is cast in a material age , '' said Tancred . 
`` Because you have a soul , '' continued Tancred , with animation , `` still of a celestial hue . 
`` I go for other purposes ; I would say even higher ones , '' said Tancred . 
`` And yet it is very easy now to get to Jerusalem , '' said Tancred ; `` the great difficulty , as a very remarkable man said to me this morning , is to know what to do when you are there . '' 
`` He never goes anywhere ; at least I have heard so , '' said Tancred . 
`` I dare say he may be , '' said Tancred . 
said Tancred . 
Tancred almost expected to see the moustached companion of the morning , but it was not so . 
Lord Bertie and Bellair was a tall , thin , distinguished , withered-looking young man , who thanked Tancred for his courtesy of the morning with a sort of gracious negligence , and , after some easy talk , asked Tancred to dine with them on the morrow . 
Passing through a marble antechamber , Tancred was ushered into an apartment half saloon and half library ; the choicely-bound volumes , which were not too numerous , were ranged on shelves inlaid in the walls , so that they ornamented , without diminishing , the apartment . 
A curtain of violet velvet covering if necessary the large window , which looked upon a balcony full of flowers , and the umbrageous Park ; an Axminster carpet , manufactured to harmonise both in colour and design with the rest of the chamber ; a profusion of luxurious seats ; a large table of ivory marquetry , bearing a carved silver bell which once belonged to a pope ; a Naiad , whose golden urn served as an inkstand ; some daggers that acted as paper cutters , and some French books just arrived ; a group of beautiful vases recently released from an Egyptian tomb and ranged on a tripod of malachite ; the portrait of a statesman , and the bust of an emperor , and a sparkling fire -- were all circumstances which made the room both interesting and comfortable in which Sidonia welcomed Tancred , and introduced him to a guest who had preceded him , Lord Henry Sidney . 
It was a name that touched Tancred , as it has all the youth of England , significant of a career that would rescue public life from that strange union of lax principles and contracted sympathies which now form the special and degrading features of British politics . 
said Lord Henry to Tancred , in a tone and with a countenance which proved his sympathy . 
`` If a parliamentary career could save this country , '' said Tancred , `` I am sure you would be a public benefactor . 
O'Connell has taken a good share of its power ; Cobden has taken another ; and I am inclined to believe , '' said Tancred , `` though I care little about it , that , if our order had any spirit or prescience , they would put themselves at the head of the people , and take the rest . '' 
`` Coningsby dines here to-day , '' said Sidonia , who unobserved had watched Tancred as he spoke with a searching glance . 
`` I go to a land , '' said Tancred , `` that has never been blessed by that fatal drollery called a representative government , though Omniscience once deigned to trace out the polity which should rule it . '' 
Sidonia introduced Tancred and Lord Marney . 
Sidonia offered his hand to Lady Marney ; Edith was attended by Tancred . 
`` I would rather hear your description of it , '' said Tancred . 
`` Fancy bishops not having made up their minds , '' exclaimed Tancred : `` the only persons who ought never to doubt . '' 
`` Why I like this Maynooth project , '' said Tancred , `` though otherwise it little interests me , is , that all the shopkeepers are against it . '' 
said Tancred . 
`` I do n't see how there can be opinion without thought , '' said Tancred ; `` and I do n't believe the public ever think . 
`` I do n't understand what you mean by civilization , '' said Tancred . 
Her grace , a year ago , had she been aware of it , would have deemed Tancred 's engagement as fearful an affair . 
It might at the first glance seem difficult to reconcile the rival charms of the Basilisk and Lady Bertie and Bellair , and to understand how Tancred could be so interested in the preparations for a voyage which was to bear him from the individual in whose society he found a daily gratification . 
She was a capital sailor ; at least she always told Tancred so . 
Tancred called on her every day , because when he called the first time , he had announced his immediate departure , and so had been authorised to promise that he would pay his respects to her every day till he went . 
It was calculated that by these means , that is to say three or four visits , they might perhaps travel through Mr. Roberts 's views together before he left England , which would facilitate their correspondence , for Tancred had engaged to write to the only person in the world worthy of receiving his letters . 
While his captain was repeating his inquiries for instructions on the deck of the Basilisk at Greenwich , moored off the Trafalgar Hotel , Tancred fell into reveries of female pilgrims kneeling at the Holy Sepulchre by his side ; then started , gave a hurried reply , and drove back quickly to town , to pass the remainder of the morning in Brook Street . 
The two or three days had expanded into two or three weeks , and Tancred continued to call daily on Lady Bertie and Bellair -- to say farewell . 
The lady asked with a sigh why they had not met before ; Tancred found some solace in the thought that they had at least become acquainted . 
It was evident that she was not happy ; for , though her fair brow always lighted up when she met the glance of Tancred , it was impossible not to observe that she was sometimes strangely depressed , often anxious and excited , frequently absorbed in reverie . 
`` And how does Tancred get on ? '' 
Their intimacy was satisfactorily accounted for by the invaluable information which she imparted to Tancred ; what he was to see , do , eat , drink ; how he was to avoid being poisoned and assassinated , escape fatal fevers , regularly attend the service of the church of England in countries where there were no churches , and converse in languages of which he had no knowledge . 
The duchess was delighted that Tancred had a companion who interested him . 
Tancred was going to give them a fish dinner ! 
What a ceremony to be presided over by Tancred of Montacute ; who , if he deigned to dine at all , ought to have dined at no less a round table than that of King Arthur . 
Mrs. Coningsby declared to every one , that , if Lord Montacute would take her , she was quite ready to go to Jerusalem ; such a perfect vessel was the Basilisk , and such an admirable sailor was Mrs. Coningsby , which , considering that the river was like a mill-pond , according to Tancred 's captain , or like a mirror , according to Lady Bertie and Bellair , was not surprising . 
`` What could the bishop mean by saying that Tancred was a visionary ? 
`` I also wish it , since you do , '' said Tancred . 
`` He interests you , '' said Tancred , a little piqued . 
said Tancred ; and then he continued , `` I offered him every inducement to come , for I told him it was to meet you ; but perhaps if he had known that you had so many things to say to him , he might have relented . '' 
exclaimed Tancred , half to himself . 
`` Would we were there , you mean , '' said Lady Bertie , in a tone of exquisite melody , and looking at Tancred with her rich charged eyes . 
In his long reveries , where he had brooded over so many thoughts , some only of which he had as yet expressed to mortal ear , Tancred had calculated , as he believed , every combination of obstacle which his projects might have to encounter ; but one , it now seemed , he had entirely omitted -- the influence of woman . 
Tancred passed a night of great disquiet . 
Tancred could not bring himself to desert the only being perhaps in England , excepting himself , whose heart was at Jerusalem ; and that being a woman ! 
When Tancred first met her , she was dreaming of Palestine amid her frequent sadness ; he could not , utterly void of all self-conceit as he was , be insensible to the fact , that his sympathy , founded on such a divine congeniality , had often chased the cloud from her brow and lightened the burthen of her drooping spirit . 
She spoke of others with so much kindness , and never indulged in that spirit of detraction or that love of personal gossip , which Tancred had frankly told her he abhorred . 
The agitated Tancred rose from the bed where the hope of slumber was vain . 
The next morning , about two hours after noon , Tancred called on Lady Bertie . 
As he drove up to the door , there came forth from it the foreigner who was her companion in the city fray , when Tancred first saw her and went to her rescue . 
Tancred had asked himself this question before . 
Tancred had seen him before this , quitting the door of Lord Bertie and Bellair ; had stumbled over him before this , more than once , on the staircase ; once , to his surprise , had met him as he entered the personal saloon of Lady Bertie . 
`` Nothing more natural , '' replied Tancred ; and he turned the conversation . 
Lady Bertie was much depressed this morning , so much so , that it was impossible for Tancred not to notice her unequal demeanour . 
And Tancred took her hand , to prevent , if possible , what appeared to be inevitable hysterics . 
`` I can bear anything , '' said Tancred , in a trembling voice , `` but to see you unhappy . '' 
`` No , no , no , do n't use such words , '' said the distracted Tancred . 
she said , looking up , and her dark brown eyes were fixed with all their fascination on the tortured Tancred . 
exclaimed Tancred , with a look of horror . 
Tancred rose from his seat , and paced the chamber . 
said Tancred , advancing . 
`` I can not leave her , '' thought the harrowed Tancred . 
But , just as he was advancing , the door opened , and a servant brought in a note , and , without looking at Tancred , who had turned to the window , disappeared . 
Tancred rushed to her side ; she was quite insensible , and pale as alabaster . 
It was from no idle curiosity , but it was impossible for Tancred not to read it . 
echoed Tancred , as , entrusting Lady Bertie to her maid , he rapidly descended the staircase of her mansion . 
Alighting from the cab , Tancred hurried to Sequin Court , and sent in his card to Sidonia , who in a few moments received him . 
said Sidonia , looking with some surprise at the disturbed countenance of Tancred . 
`` It seems very ridiculous , very impertinent I fear you will think it , '' said Tancred , in a hesitating confused manner , `` but that person -- that person who has just left the room -- I have a particular reason -- I have the greatest desire -- to know who that person is . '' 
`` He is a great friend of Lady Bertie and Bellair , '' said Tancred , rather hesitatingly . 
`` She also , '' said Tancred , with a becalmed countenance but a palpitating heart , `` is , I believe , much interested in railroads ? '' 
`` I am trespassing on you , '' said Tancred , after a painful pause ; `` but I am about to set sail . '' 
Like them , the ancestor of the kneeling pilgrim had come to Jerusalem with his tall lance and his burnished armour ; but his descendant , though not less daring and not less full of faith , could profit by the splendid but fruitless achievements of the first Tancred de Montacute . 
The reader will remember that Sidonia had given Tancred a letter of credit on Besso . 
Not in that of Terra Santa , of which a Protestant traveller , passing for a pilgrim , is often the only annual guest ; as Tancred at present . 
In a white-washed cell , clean , and sufficiently airy and spacious , Tancred was lying on an iron bedstead , the only permanent furniture of the chamber , with the exception of a crucifix , but well suited to the fervent and procreative clime . 
`` I begin rather to like it , '' said Tancred . 
inquired Tancred . 
`` I shall not quit this place , '' said Tancred ; `` I wish to be quite undisturbed . '' 
`` Take care that they are comfortable , '' said Tancred . 
`` It seems to have done so , '' said Tancred , quietly . 
Shortly after this , Tancred , attended by Baroni , passed the gate of Sion . 
`` Leave me now , '' said Tancred . 
There are moments when we must be alone , and Tancred had fixed upon this hour for visiting Gethsemane , because he felt assured that no one would be stirring . 
Tancred came forth from the garden of Gethsemane , his face was flushed with the rapt stillness of pious ecstacy ; hours had vanished during his passionate reverie , and he stared upon the declining sun . 
The path winding round the southern side of the Mount of Olives at length brought Tancred in sight of a secluded village , situate among the hills on a sunny slope , and shut out from all objects excepting the wide landscape which immediately faced it ; the first glimpse of Arabia through the ravines of the Judæan hills ; the rapid Jordan quitting its green and happy valley for the bitter waters of Asphaltites , and , in the extreme distance , the blue mountains of Moab . 
Ere he turned his reluctant steps towards the city , he was attracted by a garden , which issued as it were from a gorge in the hills , so that its limit was not perceptible , and then spread over a considerable space , comparatively with the inclosures in its vicinity , until it reached the village . 
It was the first palm that Tancred had ever seen , and his heart throbbed as he beheld that fair and sacred tree . 
As he approached the garden , Tancred observed that its portal was open : he stopped before it , and gazed upon its walks of lemon trees with delight and curiosity . 
Tancred had inherited from his mother a passion for gardens ; and an eastern garden , a garden in the Holy Land , such as Gethsemane might have been in those days of political justice when Jerusalem belonged to the Jews , -- the occasion was irresistible ; he could not withstand the temptation of beholding more nearly a palm tree ; and he entered . 
Like a prince in a fairy tale , who has broken the mystic boundary of some enchanted pleasaunce , Tancred traversed the alleys which were formed by the lemon and pomegranate tree , and sometimes by the myrtle and the rose . 
The walk in which he now found himself ended in an open space covered with roses ; beyond them a gentle acclivity , clothed so thickly with a small bright blue flower that it seemed a bank of turquoise , and on its top was a kiosk of white marble , gilt and painted ; by its side , rising from a group of rich shrubs , was the palm , whose distant crest had charmed Tancred without the gate . 
In the centre of the kiosk was the fountain , whose alluring voice had tempted Tancred to proceed further than he had at first dared to project . 
Following the path round the area of roses , he was conducted to the height of the acclivity , and entered the kiosk ; some small beautiful mats were spread upon its floor , and , reposing upon one of them , Tancred watched the bright clear water as it danced and sparkled in its marble basin . 
In the present instance , we must remember , that Tancred had been exposed to the meridian fervour of a Syrian sun , that he had been the whole day under the influence of that excitement which necessarily ends in exhaustion ; and that , in addition to this , he had recently walked some distance ; it will not , therefore , be looked upon as an incident improbable or astonishing , that Lord Montacute , after pursuing for sometime that train of meditation which was his custom , should have fallen asleep . 
His hat had dropped from his head ; his rich curls fell on his outstretched arm that served as a pillow for a countenance which in the sweet dignity of its blended beauty and stillness might have become an archangel ; and , lying on one of the mats , in an attitude of unconscious gracefulness which a painter might have transferred to his portfolio , Tancred sank into a deep and dreamless repose . 
Such was the form that caught the eye of Tancred . 
Half risen , yet not willing to remain until he was on his legs to apologize for his presence , Tancred , still leaning on his arm and looking up at his unknown companion , said , `` Lady , I am an intruder . '' 
The lady , seating herself on the brink of the fountain , and motioning at the same time with her hand to Tancred not to rise , replied , `` We are so near the desert that you must not doubt our hospitality . '' 
`` This garden seems a Paradise , '' said Tancred . 
`` I venerate , though I do not adore , the mother of God , '' said Tancred , with emotion . 
said Tancred , looking up to her with an inquiring glance , and with a reddening cheek . 
`` You just now observed , '' said Tancred , after a momentary pause , `` that it sometimes almost seems to you , that you ought to acknowledge my Lord and Master . 
said Tancred , with animation . 
`` If I had no confidence in any Church , '' said Tancred , with agitation , `` I would fall down before God and beseech him to enlighten me ; and , in this land , '' he added , in a tone of excitement , `` I can not believe that the appeal to the Mercy-seat would be made in vain . '' 
Tancred gently bowed assent . 
`` The fate of the Ten Tribes is a deeply interesting question , '' said Tancred ; `` but involved in , I fear , inexplicable obscurity . 
Tancred looked at her with deep interest as her eye flashed fire , and her beautiful cheek was for a moment suffused with the crimson cloud of indignant passion ; and then he said , `` You speak of things that deeply interest me , or I should not be in this land . 
`` But the Armenians are found only in the East , '' said Tancred . 
said Tancred . 
Tancred pondered ; and after a slight pause , said , `` I think I know what ought to be most valued in Europe ; it is something very different from what , I fear , I must confess is most valued there . 
`` I do not see , '' said Tancred thoughtfully , after a short pause , `` that the penal dispersion of the Hebrew nation is at all essential to the great object of the Christian scheme . 
`` I can not permit myself to contemplate such contingencies , '' said Tancred . 
`` I am no persecutor , '' said Tancred , with emotion ; `` and , had I been so , my visit to Bethany would have cleansed my heart of such dark thoughts . '' 
Tancred looked up to reply , but the lady had disappeared . 
Before Tancred could recover from his surprise , the kiosk was invaded by a crowd of little grinning negro pages , dressed in white tunics , with red caps and slippers . 
Notwithstanding his present tone of mind , which was ill-adapted to any carnal gratification , Tancred had nevertheless been an unusual number of hours without food . 
Tancred placed the latter for a moment to his mouth , and then rising , and making signs to the pages that he would now return , they danced before him in the path till he had reached the other side of the area of roses , and then , with a hundred bows bending , they took their leave of him . 
The sun had just sunk as Tancred quitted the garden : a crimson glow , shifting , as he proceeded , into rich tints of purple and of gold , suffused the stern Judæan hills , and lent an almost supernatural lustre to the landscape ; lighting up the wild gorges , gilding the distant glens , and still kindling the superior elevations with its living blaze . 
The beauteous hour and the sacred scene were alike in unison with the heart of Tancred , softened and serious . 
Her lofty but gracious bearing , the vigour of her clear , frank mind , her earnestness , free from all ecstasy and flimsy enthusiasm , but founded in knowledge and deep thought , and ever sustained by exact expression and ready argument , her sweet witty voice , the great and all-engaging theme on which she was so content to discourse , and which seemed by right to belong to her -- all these were circumstances which wonderfully affected the imagination of Tancred . 
He was lost in the empyrean of high abstraction , his gaze apparently fixed on the purple mountains and the golden skies and the glittering orbs of coming night , which yet in truth he never saw , when a repeated shout at length roused him . 
It bade him stand aside on the narrow path that winds round the Mount of Olives from Jerusalem to Bethany , and let a coming horseman pass . 
He shot a keen glance at Tancred as he passed by , and then throwing his tube to his attendant , he bounded on . 
The curtain was again withdrawn , a light step was heard , the young man who had recently passed Tancred on the road to Jerusalem bounded into the room . 
His Egyptian friend , awfully punctual , was the first figure that welcomed him as he entered the divan of Besso , where the young Emir remained in the position which we have described , smoking interminable nargillies while he revolved his affairs , until the conversation respecting the arrival of Tancred roused him from his brooding meditation . 
The dawn was about to break in a cloudless sky , when Tancred , accompanied by Baroni and two servants , all well armed and well mounted , and by Hassan , a sheikh of the Jellaheen Bedoueens , tall and grave , with a long spear tufted with ostrich feathers in his hand , his musket slung at his back , and a scimitar at his side , quitted Jerusalem by the gate of Bethlehem . 
About half-way between Jerusalem and Bethlehem , Tancred and his companions halted at the tomb of Rachel : here awaited them a chosen band of twenty stout Jellaheens , the subjects of Sheikh Hassan , their escort through the wildernesses of Arabia Petræa . 
In general , these contracts with the Bedoueens for convoy through the desert are made by Franks through their respective consuls , but Tancred was not sorry to be saved from the necessity of such an application , as it would have excited the attention of Colonel Brace , who passed his life at the British consulate , and who probably would have thought it necessary to put on the uniform of the Bellamont yeomanry cavalry , and have attended the heir of Montacute to Mount Sinai . 
Tancred shuddered at the idea of the presence of such a being at such a place ; with his large ruddy face , his swaggering , sweltering figure , his flourishing whiskers and his fat hands . 
It was the fifth morn after the visit of Tancred to Bethany , of which he had said nothing to Baroni , the only person at his command who could afford or obtain any information as to the name and quality of her with whom he had there so singularly become acquainted . 
The long musings of his voyage had been succeeded on the part of Tancred , since his arrival in the Holy Land , by one unbroken and impassioned reverie , heightened , not disturbed , by frequent and solitary prayer , by habitual fasts , and by those exciting conferences with Alonzo Lara , in which he had struggled to penetrate the great Asian mystery , reserved however , if indeed ever expounded , for a longer initiation than had yet been proved by the son of the English noble . 
After a week of solitary preparation , during which he had interchanged no word , and maintained an abstinence which might have rivalled an old eremite of Engedi , Tancred had kneeled before that empty sepulchre of the divine Prince of the house of David , for which his ancestor , Tancred de Montacute , six hundred years before , had struggled with those followers of Mahound , who , to the consternation and perplexity of Christendom , continued to retain it . 
At this moment , Tancred and his escort are in sight of Bethlehem , with the population of a village but the walls of a town , situate on an eminence overlooking a valley , which seems fertile after passing the stony plain of Rephaim . 
The bright and glorious gardens of the tiaraed poet and the royal sage , that once echoed with his lyric voice , or with the startling truths of his pregnant aphorisms , end in this wild and solitary valley , in which , with folded arms and musing eye of long abstraction , Tancred halts in his ardent pilgrimage , nor can refrain from asking himself , `` Can it then be true that all is Vanity ? '' 
The soft beam of the declining sun fell upon a serene landscape ; gentle undulations covered with rich shrubs or highly cultivated ; cornfields and olive groves ; sometimes numerous flocks ; and then vineyards fortified with walls and with watch-towers , as in the time of David , whose city Tancred was approaching . 
About an hour after Hebron , in a fair pasture , and near an olive grove , Tancred pitched his tent , prepared on the morrow to quit the land of promise , and approach that `` great and terrible wilderness where there was no water . '' 
Tancred rose with the sun from his encampment at Hebron , to traverse probably the same route pursued by the spies when they entered the Land of Promise . 
For three nights had Tancred encamped in this wilderness , halting at some spot where they could find some desert shrubs that might serve as food for the camels and fuel for themselves . 
The Sheikh , who had a feud with a neighbouring tribe , and had been anxious and vigilant while they crossed the open country , riding on with an advanced guard before his charge , reconnoitring from sandhill to sandhill , often creeping up and lying on his breast , so as not to be visible to the enemy , congratulated Tancred that all imminent danger was past . 
The frequent fissures of this defile were filled with rich woods of oleander and shrubs of every shade of green , from which rose acacia , and other trees unknown to Tancred . 
Tancred and the foremost hurried up to him . 
He rode forward to meet them , accompanied by Tancred and Baroni . 
inquired Tancred . 
`` Demand to know distinctly what these men want , '' said Tancred to Baroni , who then conferred with them . 
`` Our position I fear is fatal in this defile , '' said Tancred , `` it is bitter to be the cause of exposing so many brave men to almost inevitable slaughter . '' 
Sheikh Hassan sate on his horse like a statue , with his spear in his hand and his eye on his enemy ; Baroni , advancing to the strange horsemen , who were in position about ten yards from Tancred and his guardian , was soon engaged in animated conversation . 
He assured them very heartily that Tancred was not the brother of the Queen of the English ; that he was only a young Sheikh , whose father was alive , and in possession of all the flocks and herds , camels and horses ; that he had quarrelled with his father ; that his father perhaps would not be sorry if he were got rid of , and would not give a hundred piastres to save his life . 
Then he offered , if they would let Tancred pass , himself to go with them as prisoner to their great Sheikh , and even proposed Hassan and half his men for additional hostages , whilst some just and equitable arrangement could be effected . 
`` There is then but one course to be taken , '' said Tancred ; `` we must charge through the defile . 
Freeman and Trueman , '' said Tancred , looking round to his English servants , `` we are in extreme peril ; I took you from your homes ; if we outlive this day and return to Montacute , you shall live on your own land . '' 
`` Are you all ready , '' said Tancred to Baroni . 
So saying , Tancred shot the Arab in the red kefia through the head , and with his remaining pistol disabled another of the enemy . 
There was a continuous volley , however , from every part of the defile , and the scene was so involved in smoke that it was impossible for Tancred to see a yard around him ; still he galloped on and felt conscious that he had companions , though the shouting was so great that it was impossible to communicate . 
The smoke suddenly drifting , Tancred caught a glimpse of his position ; he was at the mouth of the defile , followed by several of his men , whom he had not time to distinguish , and awaited by innumerable foes . 
said Barizy of the Tower , as the Consul Pasqualigo entered the divan of the merchant , about ten days after the departure of Tancred from Jerusalem for Mount Sinai . 
And then came the great prize , Tancred , mounted on a dromedary , his right arm bound up in a sling which Baroni had hastily made , and surrounded and followed by a large troop of horsemen , who treated him with the highest consideration , not only because he was a great prince whose ransom could bring many camels to their tribe , but because he had shown those feats of valour which the wild desert honours . 
Notwithstanding his wound , which , though slight , began to be painful , and the extreme vexation of the whole affair , Tancred could not be insensible to the strange beauty of the scene which welcomed him . 
They assisted Tancred to descend , they ushered him with courtesy to their chief , who made room for Tancred on his own carpet , and motioned that he should be seated by his side . 
`` Tell the Sheikh , '' said Tancred , `` that I have no appetite for feasting , and desire to be informed why he has made me a prisoner . '' 
So saying , the great Sheikh took his pipe from his mouth and gave it to Tancred -- the greatest of distinctions . 
While Baroni was speaking , a young man slowly and with dignity passed through the by-standers , advanced , and , looking very earnestly at Tancred , seated himself on the same carpet as the Grand Sheikh . 
He was very young ; and Tancred , while he was struck by his earnest gaze , was attracted by his physiognomy , which indeed , from its refined beauty and cast of impassioned intelligence , was highly interesting . 
The great Sheikh , who had asked many questions after the oriental fashion -- which was the most powerful nation , England or France ; what was the name of a third European nation of which he had heard , white men with flat noses in green coats ; whether the nation of white men with flat noses in green coats could have taken Acre as the English had -- the taking of Acre being the test of military prowess ; how many horses the queen of the English had , and how many slaves ; whether English pistols are good ; whether the English drink wine ; whether the English are Christian giaours or Pagan giaours -- and so on , now invited Tancred , Sheikh Hassan , and two or three others , to enter his pavilion and partake of the banquet . 
`` The Sheikh must excuse me , '' said Tancred to Baroni ; `` I am wearied and wounded . 
`` Not severely , '' said Tancred , less abruptly than he had yet spoken , for the manner and the appearance of the youth touched him ; `` but this is my first fight , and perhaps I make too much of it . 
Then they all rose , the young man advancing to Tancred , and saying , in a sweet coaxing voice , `` You are under my care . 
he inquired , in a tone of sympathy , and then , offering to support the arm of Tancred , he murmured , `` It kills me to think that you are wounded . '' 
Tancred was attracted to the young stranger : his prepossessing appearance , his soft manners , the contrast which they afforded to all around , and to the scenes and circumstances which Tancred had recently experienced , were winning . 
Tancred , therefore , gladly accompanied him to his pavillion , which was pitched outside the amphitheatre , and stood apart . 
They pressed their hands to their hearts as Tancred and his host passed them , but did not rise . 
Within the pavillion , Tancred found a luxurious medley of cushions and soft carpets , forming a delightful divan ; pipes and arms , and , to his great surprise , several numbers of a French newspaper published at Smyrna . 
exclaimed Tancred , throwing himself on the divan , `` after all I have gone through to-day , this is indeed a great and an unexpected relief . '' 
`` I have two poor Englishmen here , '' said Tancred , `` my servants ; they must be in sad straits ; unable to speak a word -- '' `` I will give orders that they shall attend you . 
At this moment there entered the tent several attendants with a variety of dishes , which Tancred would have declined , but the young Sheikh , selecting one of them , said , `` This , at least , I must urge you to taste , for it is a favourite refreshment with us after great fatigue , and has some properties of great virtue . '' 
So saying , he handed to Tancred a dish of bread , dates , and prepared cream , which Tancred , notwithstanding his previous want of relish , cheerfully admitted to be excellent . 
After this , as Tancred would partake of no other dish , pipes were brought to the two young men , who , reclining on the divan , smoked and conversed . 
`` Of all the strange things that have happened to me to-day , '' said Tancred , `` not the least surprising , and certainly the most agreeable , has been making your acquaintance . 
exclaimed Tancred . 
`` It is a great position , yours , '' said Tancred , in an animated tone , `` at the same time a Syrian and a Christian prince ! '' 
`` The English , '' said Tancred , `` why should the English take Syria ? '' 
`` I hope not , '' said Tancred . 
said Tancred , musingly . 
exclaimed Tancred ; `` I see the poison of modern liberalism has penetrated even the desert . 
At this moment there was some little disturbance without the tent , which it seems was occasioned by the arrival of Tancred 's servants , Freeman and Trueman . 
`` Well , '' said Tancred , `` and how have you been getting on ? '' 
`` Never mind my boots , '' said Tancred ; `` we have got other things to think of now . '' 
said Tancred . 
`` Well , well , '' said Tancred , `` I dare say they will spare our lives . 
exclaimed Tancred , and he began to muse . 
`` It appears to me that you are a great philosopher , Baroni , '' said Tancred . 
`` I see no room , in our situation , for the accidents on which you rely , '' said Tancred . 
`` It seems to me that we are in a cul-de-sac , '' said Tancred . 
said Tancred , in a lowered tone . 
`` He is a Christian , '' said Tancred , earnestly . 
`` You must really tell me your history some day , Baroni , '' said Tancred . 
Tancred had , from the first and in an instant , exercised over his susceptible temperament that magnetic influence to which he was so strangely subject . 
The appearance and the courage of Tancred , the thoughtful repose of his manner , his high bearing amid the distressful circumstances in which he was involved , and the large views which the few words that had escaped from him on the preceding evening would intimate that he took of public transactions , completely captivated Fakredeen , who seemed at length to have found the friend for whom he had often sighed , the stedfast and commanding spirit whose control , he felt conscious , was often required by his quick but whimsical temperament . 
The arming of the Maronites became quite a secondary object in comparison with obtaining the friendship of Tancred . 
and yet , but for this conspiracy , Tancred and himself might never have met . 
Fakredeen sent one of his attendants in the morning to offer Tancred horses , should his guest , as is the custom of Englishmen , care to explore the neighbouring ruins which were celebrated ; but Tancred 's wound kept him confined to his tent . 
It would have been difficult for Tancred to have found a more interesting companion ; impossible to have made an acquaintance more singularly unreserved . 
Tancred had no experience of such self-revelations : such a jumble of sublime aspirations and equivocal conduct ; such a total disregard of means , such complicated plots , such a fertility of perplexed and tenebrous intrigue ! 
`` It appears to me , '' said Tancred , when the young Emir had declared his star accursed , since , after the ceaseless exertions of years , he was still as distant as ever from the accomplishment of his purpose -- `` it appears to me that your system is essentially erroneous . 
`` And if you wish only to be Prince of the Lebanon , I dare say you may succeed , '' said Tancred , `` and perhaps with much less pains than you at present give yourself . 
`` See now , '' said Tancred , with unusual animation , `` I find no charm in conquering the world to establish a dynasty -- a dynasty like everything else wears out -- indeed it does not last as long as most things , it has a precipitate tendency to decay . 
`` I am an Arab only in religion , '' said Tancred , `` but the consciousness of creed sustains me . 
`` I have passive faith , '' said Tancred . 
`` There spoke the Prince of Israel , '' said Tancred , `` not the universal Redeemer . 
`` Far be it from me to impugn the divine commission of any of the seed of Abraham , '' replied Tancred . 
`` And your inference is just , '' said Tancred , in an agitated voice , and with a changing countenance . 
`` If I were an Arab in race as well as in religion , '' said Tancred , `` I would not pass my life in schemes to govern some mountain tribes . '' 
It was not so much a conviction as a suspicion that Tancred had conveyed to the young Emir , when the pilgrim had confessed that the depressing thought sometimes came over him , that he was deficient in that qualification of race which was necessary for the high communion to which he aspired . 
Alone , among strangers and foes , in pain and in peril , and without that energy which finds excitement in difficulty , and can mock at danger , which requires no counsellor but our own quick brain , and no champion but our own right arm , the high spirit of Tancred for the first time flagged . 
A disheartening , an awful question , which , if it could not be satisfactorily answered by Tancred of Montacute , it seemed to him that his future , wherever or however passed , must be one of intolerable bale . 
`` Then I have a right to be here , '' said Tancred of Montacute , as his eyes were fixed in abstraction on the stars of Arabia ; `` I am not a travelling dilettante , mourning over a ruin , or in ecstasies at a deciphered inscription . 
At this moment , the sound of horsemen recalled Tancred from his reverie , and , looking up , he observed a group of Arabs approaching him , three of whom were mounted . 
Amalek , pressing his hand to his heart , gave Tancred the salute of peace , and then , followed by Hassan , who had lost nothing of his calm self-respect , but who conducted himself as if he were still free , the great Sheikh seated himself on the carpet that was spread before the tent , and took the pipe , which was immediately offered him by Freeman and Trueman , following the instructions of an attendant of the Emir Fakredeen . 
After the usual compliments and some customary observations about horses and pistols , Fakredeen , who had seated himself close to Tancred , with a kind of shrinking cajolery , as if he were seeking the protection of some superior being , addressing Amalek in a tone of easy assurance , which remarkably contrasted with the sentimental deference he displayed towards his prisoner , said -- `` Sheikh of Sheikhs , there is but one God : now is it Allah or Jehovah ? '' 
inquired Tancred . 
asked Tancred , eagerly . 
Tancred covered his face with his hands . 
Tancred re-entered his tent , and , reclining , fell into a reverie of distracting thoughts . 
Tancred sighed . 
`` It is the doom of man , '' replied Tancred ; `` and in my position sadness should not seem strange . '' 
`` 'T is the fortune of life , '' said Tancred , more cheerfully ; `` and in truth I was perhaps thinking of other things . '' 
`` Were I alone , '' said Tancred , `` without a single guard , I must return . '' 
said Tancred . 
`` If Amalek believed in Baal , I must return , '' said Tancred ; `` even if it were to certain death . 
`` I should not talk of such things , '' said Tancred ; `` I must remain here , or I must return . '' 
Ten days had elapsed since the capture of Tancred ; Amalek and his Arabs were still encamped in the rocky city ; the beams of the early sun were just rising over the crest of the amphitheatre , when four horsemen , who were recognised as the children of Rechab , issued from the ravine . 
Nor should we forget that the principal cause of all these mischances might perhaps be recognised in the inefficiency of the third person whom the parents of Tancred had , with so much solicitude and at so great an expense , secured to him as a companion and counsellor in his travels . 
However this may be , one thing was certain , that Tancred had been wounded without a single sabre of the Bellamont yeomanry being brandished in his defence ; was now lying dangerously ill in an Arabian tent , without the slightest medical assistance ; and perhaps was destined to quit this world , not only without the consolation of a priest of his holy church , but surrounded by heretics and infidels . 
Upon the divan , his head supported by many cushions , clad in a Syrian robe of the young Emir , and partly covered with a Bedoueen cloak , lay Tancred , deadly pale , his eyes open and fixed , and apparently unconscious of their presence . 
The countenance of Tancred was much changed since Baroni last beheld him : it was greatly extenuated , but the eyes glittered with an unearthly fire . 
Baroni advanced to the divan behind the head of Tancred , so that he might not be observed , and then , letting himself fall noiselessly on the carpet , he touched with a light finger the pulse of Lord Montacute . 
he said , still seated on the ground , his arms folded , and watching Tancred earnestly with his bright black eyes ; `` this is a bad business . 
He rose softly ; he approached nearer to Tancred , and examined his countenance more closely ; there was a slight foam upon the lip , which he gently wiped away . 
Thus he remained for some time seated on the carpet by the side of the divan , revolving in his mind every possible expedient that might benefit Tancred , and finally being convinced that none was in his power . 
There was no change in the appearance of Tancred , but as they approached him he spoke . 
Baroni dropped into his former position , Fakredeen fell upon his knees , Eva alone was visible when the eyes of Tancred met hers . 
Whatever was the impression made upon Tancred by this unusual apparition , it appeared to be only transient . 
After a pause , he became somewhat violent , and seemed as if he would have waved his wounded arm , but Baroni , whose eye , though himself unobserved , never quitted his charge , laid his finger upon the arm , and Tancred did not struggle . 
While his friends departed to exert themselves , Fakredeen remained behind , and passed his time partly in watching Tancred , partly in weeping , and partly in calculating the amount of his debts . 
He conjured up Tancred restored to health , a devoted friendship between them , immense plans , not inferior achievements , and inexhaustible resources . 
It was not yet noon when Tancred quaffed the potion . 
As the sun reached its meridian height , Tancred sank into a profound slumber . 
The sun set ; the same beautiful rosy tint suffused the tombs and temples of the city as on the evening of their first forced arrival : still Tancred slept . 
The camels returned from the river , the lights began to sparkle in the circle of black tents , still Tancred slept . 
He slept during the day , and he slept during the twilight , and when the night came , still Tancred slept . 
Mute , but ever vigilant , Fakredeen and Baroni gazed on their friend and master ; still Tancred slept . 
Still Tancred slept ; in the same posture and with the same expression , unmoved and pale . 
She pressed her finger to her lips , for they had arrived at the tent of Tancred . 
They stood together by the couch of Tancred . 
Suddenly Tancred moved , heaved a deep sigh , and opened his dark eyes . 
A sound , as of thunder , roused Tancred from his trance . 
He was piqued also that he had not been informed of the previous acquaintance of Eva and Tancred . 
Again , his mind and heart were so absorbed at this moment by the image of Tancred , and he was so entirely under the influence of his own idealized conceptions of his new and latest friend , that , according to his custom , no other being could interest him . 
Although he was himself the sole cause of all the difficult and annoying circumstances in which he found himself involved , the moment that his passions and his interests alike required that Tancred should be free and uninjured , he acted , and indeed felt , as if Amalek alone were responsible for the capture and the detention of Lord Montacute . 
At this moment , Fakredeen would have sacrificed the whole family of Besso to secure the devotion of Tancred ; and the coarse and rude exclamation to which he had given vent , indicated the current of his feelings and the general tenour of his mind . 
Tancred rapidly recovered . 
On the third day , Tancred rose from his couch , and would even have quitted the tent , had not Baroni dissuaded him . 
According to Baroni , nothing was yet settled either as to the ransom or the release of Tancred . 
It seemed that the Great Sheikh had been impatient to return to his chief encampment , and nothing but the illness of Tancred would probably have induced him to remain in the stony Arabia as long as he had done . 
`` The Emir told me yesterday that he was certain to arrange everything , '' said Tancred , `` without in anyway compromising us . 
`` I am under the greatest obligations to the Emir Fakredeen , '' said Tancred , `` and , independently of such circumstances , I very much like him . '' 
`` He is ardent and ambitious , '' said Tancred , `` and he is young . 
`` But his main chance may be the salvation of his country , '' said Tancred . 
`` I do not call them slaves now , '' said Tancred ; `` why , they are armed and are warlike ! 
`` It is not more used up than when Mahomet arose , '' said Tancred . 
inquired Tancred , evidently interested . 
Tancred , shrouded in his Bedoueen cloak , and accompanied by Baroni , visited the circle of black tents , which they found almost empty , the whole band , with the exception of the scouts who are always on duty in an Arab encampment , being assembled in the ruins of the amphitheatre , in whose arena , opposite to the pavillion of the great Sheikh , a celebrated poet was reciting the visit of Antar to the temple of the fire-worshippers , and the adventures of that greatest of Arabian heroes among the effeminate and astonished courtiers of the generous and magnificent Nushirvan . 
As Tancred and his companion reached the amphitheatre , a ringing laugh resounded . 
Not a whisper could be heard ; and it was in the most muffled tone that Baroni intimated to Tancred that the great Sheikh was present , and that , as this was his first appearance since his illness , he must pay his respects to Amalek . 
So saying , and preceding Tancred , in order that he might announce his arrival , Baroni approached the pavillion . 
The great Sheikh welcomed Tancred with a benignant smile , motioned to him to sit upon his carpet ; rejoiced that he was recovered ; hoped that he should live a thousand years ; gave him his pipe , and then , turning again to the poet , was instantly lost in the interest of his narrative . 
Baroni standing as near Tancred as the carpet would permit him , occasionally leant over and gave his lord an intimation of what was occurring . 
Tancred , to whom Baroni had conveyed the meaning of the verses , was also pleased : having observed that on a previous occasion the Great Sheikh had rewarded the bard , Tancred ventured to take a chain , which he fortunately chanced to wear , from his neck , and sent it to the poet of Eva . 
Now the audience was breaking up and dispersing , and Tancred , rising , begged permission of his host to approach Eva , who was seated at the entrance of the pavillion , somewhat withdrawn from them . 
`` If I were a poet , '' said Tancred , bending before her , `` I would attempt to express my gratitude to the Lady of Bethany . 
`` I feel it , '' said Tancred ; `` this evening will complete the cure you so benignantly commenced . '' 
said Tancred , inquiringly , and with a countenance a little agitated . 
said Tancred , musingly , `` our previous conversation . 
`` Save it , '' said Tancred . 
`` As for their command over nature , '' said Tancred , `` let us see how it will operate in a second deluge . 
Three or four days had elapsed since the departure of Fakredeen , and during each of them Tancred saw Eva ; indeed , his hours were very much passed in the pavillion of the Great Sheikh , and , though he was never alone with the daughter of Besso , the language which they spoke , unknown to those about them , permitted them to confer without restraint on those subjects in which they were interested . 
Tancred opened his mind without reserve to Eva , for he liked to test the soundness of his conclusions by her clear intelligence . 
Baroni first brought the news to Tancred , and subsequently told him that the quantity of nargillies smoked by the young Emir indicated not only a prolonged , but a difficult controversy . 
Some time after this , Tancred , lounging in front of his tent , and watching the shadows as they stole over the mountain tombs , observed Fakredeen issue from the pavillion of Amalek . 
As he recognised Tancred , he saluted him in the Eastern fashion , hastily touching his heart , his lip , and his brow : when he had reached Tancred , Fakredeen threw himself in his arms , and , embracing him , whispered in an agitated voice on the breast of Lord Montacute , `` Friend of my heart , you are free ! '' 
A detachment of five-and-twenty Beni-Rechab were to accompany Fakredeen and Tancred , Hassan and his Jellaheens in a contrary direction of the desert , until they arrived at Gaza , where they were to await further orders from the young Emir . 
It required all the consciousness of great duties , all the inspiration of a great purpose , to sustain Tancred under this sudden separation from Eva . 
At dawn , a prisoner , at noon a free man , yet still , from his position , unable to move without succour , and without guides ; why he was captured , how he was enfranchised , alike mysteries ; Tancred yielded without a struggle to the management of that individual who was clearly master of the situation . 
To Tancred , with her inspired brow , her cheek slightly flushed , her undulating figure , her eye proud of its dominion over the beautiful animal which moved its head with haughty satisfaction at its destiny , Eva seemed the impersonation of some young classic hero going forth to conquer a world . 
and then , after a moment 's hesitation , and looking at Tancred with a faltering glance which yet made his heart tremble , she added , `` Farewell , Pilgrim of Sinai . '' 
Unsustained by his lively conversation , Tancred felt all the depression natural to his position ; and , restless and disquieted , wandered about the valley in the moonlight , recalling the vanished images of the past . 
`` Thus , '' continued Baroni to Tancred , `` we have all succeeded in life because we fell across a great philosopher , who studied our predisposition . 
`` There is something most interesting , '' said Tancred , `` in this idea of a single family issuing from obscurity , and disseminating their genius through the world -- charming mankind with so many spells . 
said Tancred , startled . 
asked Fakredeen of Tancred , as , while descending a range of the Lebanon , an extensive valley opened before them , covered with oak trees , which clothed also with their stout trunks , their wide-spreading branches , and their rich starry foliage , the opposite and undulating hills , one of which was crowned with a convent . 
At Gaza , which they had reached by easy journeys , for Fakredeen was very considerate of the health of Tancred , whose wound had scarcely healed , and over whom he watched with a delicate solicitude which would have almost become a woman , the companions met Scheriff Effendi . 
Their late companions remained at Gaza , awaiting Tancred 's yacht , which Baroni fetched from the neighbouring Jaffa . 
The air of the mountains invigorated Tancred . 
said Fakredeen to Tancred , `` which I hope you never will quit . '' 
`` It would be difficult , '' rejoined Tancred , animated . 
A horseman , who was ahead of the Emir and Tancred , now began beating with a stick on two small tabors , one on each side of his saddle , and thus announced to those who were already on the watch the approach of their lord . 
Here the travellers dismounted , and Fakredeen ushered Tancred through a variety of saloons of which the furniture , though simple , as becomes the East , was luxurious , and of its kind superb ; floors of mosaic marbles , bright carpets , arabesque ceilings , walls of carved cedar , and broad divans of the richest stuffs of Damascus . 
`` And this divan is for you , '' said Fakredeen , showing Tancred into a chamber , which opened upon a flower-garden , shaded by lemon trees . 
`` I am proud of my mirror , '' he added , with some exultation , as he called Tancred 's attention to a large French looking-glass , the only one in Lebanon . 
`` And this , '' added Fakredeen , leading Tancred through a suite of marble chambers , `` this is your bath ! '' 
As we must not compare Tancred and Fakredeen to Damon and Pythias , and as we can not easily find in Pall Mall or Park Lane a parallel more modish , we must be content to say that youth , sympathy , and occasion , combined to create between them that intimacy which each was prompt to recognise as one of the principal sources of his happiness , and which the young Emir , at any rate , was persuaded must be as lasting as it was fervent and profound . 
As for Tancred , his life was novel , interesting , and exciting . 
And was it wonderful , for Butros had already received privately two hundred muskets since the arrival of Tancred , and Raslan had been promised in confidence a slice of the impending English loan by Fakredeen ? 
The extraordinary attention , almost homage , which the Emir paid his guest , entirely authorized these convictions , although they could justify no suspicion on the part of Tancred . 
It is impossible to argue against the customs of a country with which you are not acquainted , but coming home one day from a hawking party , a large assembly of the most influential chieftains , Fakredeen , himself bounding on a Kochlani steed and arrayed in a dress that would have become Solyman the magnificent , Tancred about to dismount , the Lord of Canobia pushed forward , and , springing from his saddle , insisted on holding the stirrup of Lord Montacute . 
`` I can not permit this , '' said Tancred , reddening and keeping his seat . 
`` Very strange , '' thought Tancred , as he complied and dismounted . 
In this strange and splendid scene , Tancred , dressed in a velvet shooting-jacket built in St. James 's - street and a wide-awake which had been purchased at Bellamont market , and leaning on a rifle which was the masterpiece of Purday , was not perhaps the least interesting personage . 
After eyeing Tancred for a considerable time with imperturbable countenances , Francis El Kazin sent to Fakredeen to know whether the English prince would favour them by shooting and eagle . 
Sheikh Said Djinblat , who would have died rather than have noticed the rifle in the hands of Tancred , could not resist examining it when in the possession of a brother Sheikh . 
Exchanging between themselves glances of contempt at the lords of Lebanon , who were ignorant of what everybody knows , they exhibited the arms without the slightest interest or anxiety to make the Sheikhs comprehend them ; till Tancred , mortified at their brutality , himself interfered , and , having already no inconsiderable knowledge of the language of the country , though , from his reserve , Fakredeen little suspected the extent of his acquirements , explained felicitously to his companions the process of the arms ; and then taking his rifle , and stepping out upon the terrace , he levelled his piece at a heron which was soaring at a distance of upwards of one hundred yards , and brought the bird down amid the applause both of Maronite and Druse . 
There was to be a grand chase in the oak forest , through part of which Tancred had already travelled , and which spread over a portion of the plain and the low hilly country that encompassed it . 
Fakredeen had his carpet spread on the marble floor of his principal saloon , and the two Caimacams , Tancred and Bishop Nicodemus , Said Djinblat , the heads of the houses of Djezbek , Talhook and Abdel Malek , Hamood Abuneked , and five Maronite chieftains of equal consideration , the emirs of the house of Shehaab , the Habeish , and the Eldadah , were invited to sit with him . 
Tancred could not refrain from contrasting the silent , businesslike way in which the Shehaabs , the Talhooks , the Djinblats , and the Habeish , performed the great operation that was going on , with the conversation which is considered an indispensable accompaniment of a dinner in Franguestan ; for we must no longer presume to call Europe by its beautiful oriental name of Christendom . 
Every divan in Canobia was open , excepting the rooms of Tancred . 
Fakredeen shot a glance at Tancred , instantly recognised . 
`` Tell me , my Tancred , what do you think of it all ? '' 
`` It has been a great day , '' said Tancred -- `` not to be forgotten . '' 
`` To conquer the world depends on men not only being good soldiers , but being animated by some sovereign principle that nothing can resist , '' replied Tancred . 
`` I still cling to my first idea of making the movement from the desert : '' said Tancred , `` the Arabians are entirely unsophisticated ; they are now as they were in the time of Mahomet , of Moses , of Abraham : a sublime devotion is natural to them , and equality , properly developed , is in fact the patriarchal principle . '' 
`` That is a great qualification , '' said Tancred , musingly . 
`` And yet , '' said Tancred , `` though they have maintained themselves , they have done nothing ; now the Arabs have always succeeded . '' 
`` The instruments will be found , '' said Tancred , `` for it is decreed that the deed should be done . 
Fakredeen had entirely imbibed the views of Tancred ; he was sincere in his professions , fervent in his faith . 
But we should do him injustice , were we to convey the impression that his ardent co-operation with Tancred at this moment was impelled merely , or even principally , by these coarsely selfish considerations . 
That the proud soul of Tancred of Montacute , with its sublime aspirations , its inexorable purpose , its empyrean ambition , should find a votary in one apparently so whimsical , so worldly , and so worthless , may at the first glance seem improbable ; yet a nearer and finer examination may induce us to recognise its likelihood . 
The deep and disciplined intelligence of Tancred , trained in all the philosophy and cultured with all the knowledge of the West , acted with magnetic power upon a consciousness , the bright vivacity of which was only equalled by its virgin ignorance of all that books can teach , and of those great conclusions which the studious hour can alone elaborate . 
Fakredeen hung upon his accents like a bee , while Tancred poured forth , without an effort , the treasures of his stored memory and long musing mind . 
It was therefore with a feeling not less than enthusiastic that Fakredeen responded to the suggestive influence of Tancred . 
However imperfect may have been his general conception of the ideas of Tancred , he clearly comprehended that their fulfilment involved his two great objects -- change and action . 
The imperturbable repose , the grave and thoughtful daring , with which Tancred developed his revolutionary projects , completed the power with which he could now dispose of the fate of the young Emir . 
Now this was the reason that induced Tancred to inquire of Baroni respecting the Ansarey . 
The day before , which was the third day of the great hunting party at Canobia , Fakredeen and Tancred had found themselves alone with Hamood Abuneked , and the lord of Canobia had thought it a good occasion to sound this powerful Sheikh of the Druses . 
inquired Tancred . 
`` And you think without them , noble Sheikh , '' said Tancred , `` that Syria is not secure ? '' 
exclaimed Tancred and Fakredeen . 
`` I would seize any opportunity to pay my respects to you , '' replied Tancred ; `` but this occasion is most agreeable to me . '' 
Tancred then inquired after Eva , and Besso led him to his daughter . 
A young prince of the Lebanon , whatever his religion , was a distinguished and agreeable accession to their circle , but in Tancred they recognised a being at once civilized and fashionable , a Christian who could dance the Polka . 
He advances , and invites Tancred and the Emir to follow him , and , without any order or courtesy to the softer sex , who , on the contrary follow in the rear , the whole company step out of the Saracenic windows into the gardens . 
From these pavillions the most charming views might be obtained of the city and the surrounding country : Damascus itself a varied mass of dark green groves , white minarets , bright gardens , and hooded domes ; to the south and east , at the extremity of its rich plain , the glare of the desert ; to the west the ranges of the Lebanon ; while the city was backed on the north by other mountain regions which Tancred had not yet penetrated . 
`` We ought to have met at Jerusalem , '' said Tancred to Besso , on whose right hand he was seated , `` but I am happy to thank you for all your kindness , even at Damascus . '' 
asked Tancred . 
said Mr. Consul-General Laurella , pricking up his ears at some half phrase that he had caught , and addressing Tancred across the table . 
Tancred bowed . 
asked Besso , of Tancred . 
`` He must be added then to your friend M. de Sidonia 's list of living Hebrew statesmen , '' said Tancred . 
exclaimed Tancred . 
Tancred would have found great difficulty in sustaining his part in the conversation , had not the young ladies fortunately been requested to favour those present with a specimen of the art in which they excelled , which they did after much solicitation , vowing that they had no voice to-night , and that it was impossible at all times to sing except in a chamber . 
Tancred took advantage of this movement to approach Eva , who was conversing , as they took their evening walk , with the soft-eyed sister of Hillel and Madame Nassim Farhi -- a group of women , that the drawing-rooms of Europe and the hareems of Asia could perhaps not have rivalled . 
`` The Mademoiselles Laurella are very accomplished , '' said Tancred , `` but at Damascus I am not content to hear anything but sackbuts and psalteries . '' 
`` Naturally , '' said Tancred , `` music alone can do justice to such themes . 
said Eva , to Tancred , in a hesitating tone , and yet with a glance of blended curiosity and pride . 
`` We ought to have met long before , '' said Tancred . 
`` I shall not go back to England , '' said Tancred , colouring ; `` and if you are persecuted , I hope I shall be able to defend you here . '' 
The glowing sky , the soft , mellow atmosphere , the brilliant circumstances around , flowers and flashing gems , rich dresses and ravishing music , and every form of splendour and luxury , combined to create a scene , that to Tancred was startling , as well from its beauty as its novel character . 
Then Tancred said to the soft-eyed sister of Hillel -- `` All that we require here to complete the spell are your beautiful children . '' 
Tancred gazed upon it with serious yet fond abstraction . 
Tancred and Fakredeen remained behind . 
said Tancred . 
Do n't you think so , my Tancred ? '' 
said Tancred , with a dreamy look . 
Come , come , Tancred . '' 
But instead of following his friend , Tancred entered one of the marble pavillions that jutted out from each corner of the terraced roof , and commanded splendid views of the glittering and gardened city . 
The countenance of Tancred was more than serious , it was sad , as , leaning against one of the wreathed marble pillars , he sighed and murmured : `` If I were thou , most beautiful Damascus , Aleppo should not rob me of such a gem ! 
Tancred was glad to seize the occasion to visit Hameh and Aleppo on his journey . 
Tancred and Fakredeen rode horses of a high race . 
`` A strong position , '' said Tancred , as they entered the defile . 
my Tancred , what things we have seen together ! '' 
Tancred and Fakredeen did not speak , but exchanged glances which expressed their secret thoughts . 
`` I presume , '' said Tancred , `` that the Emir and myself have the honour of conversing with the Lord Keferinis . '' 
said Tancred . 
Tancred started , but repressed himself . 
asked Tancred . 
inquired Tancred . 
Tancred and Fakredeen were very desirous of learning the name of the Queen , but were too well-bred directly to make the inquiry of Keferinis . 
And accordingly at that time some attendants , not accompanying however the chief minister , waited on Tancred and Fakredeen , and announced that they were commanded to usher them to the royal presence . 
`` It is most undoubtedly requested , and in a vein of the most condescending friendship , by the perfectly irresistible Queen , that the princes should be seated , '' said Keferinis , and accordingly Tancred occupied his allotted seat on the right of the Queen , though at some distance , and the young Emir filled his on the left . 
Fakredeen was dressed in Syrian splendour , a blaze of shawls and jewelled arms ; but Tancred retained on this , as he had done on every other occasion , the European dress , though in the present instance it assumed a somewhat more brilliant shape than ordinary , in the dark green regimentals , the rich embroidery , and the flowing plume of the Bellamont Yeomanry Cavalry . 
`` You are a prince of the English , '' said the Queen to Tancred . 
said the Queen , turning to Tancred . 
`` We are an insular people , '' he answered , somewhat confusedly , but the perfectly informed Keferinis came to the succour both of Tancred and of his sovereign . 
Tancred bowed assent . 
the Queen inquired of Tancred . 
`` And far more beautiful than either , '' said Tancred . 
`` It is a question that might perplex the wise , '' said Tancred . 
`` I am not wise , '' said the Queen , looking earnestly at Tancred , `` yet I could solve it . '' 
Tancred and Fakredeen also exchanged glances , but the Emir waved his hand , signifying his wish that Tancred should reply , who , after a moment 's hesitation , with an air of great deference , thus ventured to express himself . 
The Queen of the Ansarey listened with deep and agitated attention to Tancred . 
`` The gods of poets , '' said Tancred . 
The opposite cliff , at the distance of several hundred yards , reached by a winding path , presented , at first , the appearance of the front of an ancient temple ; and Tancred , as he approached it , perceived that the hand of art had assisted the development of an intimation of nature : a pediment , a deep portico , supported by Ionic columns , and a flight of steps , were carved out of the cliff , and led into vast caverns , which art also had converted into lofty and magnificent chambers . 
Passing through the portico , Tancred found himself apparently in a vast apartment , where he beheld a strange spectacle . 
It was not until his eye was accustomed to the atmosphere , and his mind had in some degree recovered from the first strange surprise , that Tancred gradually recognised the fair and famous images over which his youth had so long and so early pondered . 
exclaimed Tancred . 
`` I am filled with a sweet amazement , '' murmured Tancred . 
said the queen , `` How is it that you , the child of a northern isle -- '' `` Should recognise the Olympian Jove , '' said Tancred . 
`` Lady , '' said Tancred , with much emotion , `` we must , with your permission , speak of these things . 
`` Come hither , '' said the queen , in a voice of great softness ; and she led Tancred away . 
asked the Queen , and she looked at the statue , and then she looked at Tancred . 
`` I recognise the god of poetry and light , '' said Tancred ; `` Phoebus Apollo . '' 
`` Is this indeed the figure , '' murmured Tancred , `` before which a hundred steers have bled ? 
said Tancred , `` or my brain will turn . 
asked Fakredeen of Tancred ; `` before the Prophet ? '' 
`` Of whom Jesus was one , '' said Tancred ; `` the descendant of King David as well as the son of God . 
-- you are a Gentile , Tancred ? '' 
said Tancred , with great animation . 
Neither Fakredeen nor Tancred were men who criticised a meal : bread , rice , and coffee , a bird or a fish , easily satisfied them . 
The Emir affected the Moslem when the minister offered him the wine of the mountains , which was harsh and rough after the delicious Vino d'Oro of Lebanon ; but Tancred contrived to drink the health of Queen Astarte without any wry expression of countenance . 
`` At any rate , you worship the god of wine , '' remarked Tancred , who never attempted to correct the self-complacent minister . 
Tancred could not be blind to the importance of such a personage as Astarte in the great drama of divine regeneration , which was constantly present to his consideration . 
From the first moment he beheld Astarte , she had exercised over him that magnetic influence of which he was peculiarly susceptible , and by which Tancred at once attracted and controlled him . 
Eva and Tancred had talked to him of gods : Astarte had shown them to him . 
It was true ; even Tancred had not challenged her assertion . 
All -- Eva , Tancred , his own consciousness , the surrounding spectacles of his life , assured him that man was unhappy ; degraded , or discontented ; at all events miserable . 
When Fakredeen bade Tancred as usual good night , his voice was different from its accustomed tones ; he had replied to Tancred with asperity several times during the evening ; and when he was separated from his companion , he felt relieved . 
Though grave , one indeed who never laughed and seldom smiled , Tancred was blessed with the rarest of all virtues , a singularly sweet temper . 
Tancred was quite unpractised , but Astarte seemed resolved that he should become experienced in the craft among her mountains , which did not please the Emir , as he caracoled in sumptuous dress on a splendid steed , with the superb falcon resting on his wrist . 
But while the Emir had no cause to be dissatisfied with the demeanour of Astarte to himself , he could not be unaware that her carriage to Tancred was different , and he doubted whether the difference was in his favour . 
He hung on the accents of Astarte , but he remarked that the queen hung upon the accents of Tancred , who , engrossed with great ideas , and full of a great purpose , was unconscious of what did not escape the lynx-like glance of his companion . 
On the fourth day of the visit , Fakredeen found himself alone with Astarte , at least , without the presence of Tancred , whom Keferinis had detained in his progress to the royal apartment . 
Tancred and Fakredeen had been absent from Gindarics for two or three days , making an excursion in the neighbouring districts , and visiting several of those chieftains whose future aid might be of so much importance to them . 
`` The war begins , '' said Fakredeen , looking round at Tancred with a glittering eye . 
`` We sometimes find that memory is as rare a quality as prediction , '' said Tancred . 
Tancred bowed . 
`` This is the land of beautiful eyes , '' said Tancred , and Astarte almost unconsciously glanced at the speaker . 
Astarte had signified to Tancred her wish that he should approach her , while Keferinis at some distance was engaged in earnest conversation with Fakredeen , with whom he had not had previously the opportunity of being alone . 
said Astarte to Tancred . 
`` It is a resistless and exhaustless theme , '' said Tancred ; `` for the greatness and happiness of everything , Gindarics included , are comprised in the principles of which they were the first propagators . '' 
said Tancred . 
`` Like the pigeon you sent to Damascus , '' said Tancred . 
`` You still dream of the Syrian goddess , '' said Tancred . 
`` Their style is different , '' said Tancred ; `` the Greek and the Hebrew are both among the highest types of the human form . '' 
`` I am not so discriminating a critic , '' said Tancred ; `` I admire the beautiful . '' 
Tancred started , and would have replied , but Cypros advanced at this moment with her charge , who withdrew her veil as she seated herself , as commanded , before the Queen . 
She withdrew her veil , and Fakredeen and Tancred beheld EVA ! 
She was beginning in some degree to collect her senses , and to survey her position with some comparative calmness , when she learnt from the visit of Cypros that Fakredeen and Tancred were , by a strange coincidence , under the same roof as herself . 
Recognised instantly by Tancred and the young Emir , and greeted with a tender respect , almost equal to the surprise and sorrow which they felt at beholding her , Astarte , hitherto so unexpectedly gracious to her captive , appeared suddenly agitated , excited , haughty , even hostile . 
The Queen had immediately summoned Fakredeen to her side , and there passed between them some hurried and perturbed explanations ; subsequently she addressed some inquiries to Tancred , to which he replied without reserve . 
The Queen is jealous of you : she is in love with Tancred ; a curse be on him and her both ! 
and somebody has told her that Tancred is in love with you . '' 
She knew -- that is , she had been told , that Tancred was affianced to the daughter of Besso of Damascus ; and so this sudden meeting brought about a crisis . 
Tancred has no finesse ; his replies neutralized , nay , destroyed , all my counter representations . 
They worship nothing but graven images , and the Queen has fallen in love with Tancred , because he resembles a marble statue older than the times of the pre-Adamite Sultauns . 
The sudden apparition of Eva at Gindarics , and the scene of painful mystery by which it was followed , had plunged Tancred into the greatest anxiety and affliction . 
Tancred , while he at once ascribed all this confused demeanour to the shock which he had himself shared at finding the daughter of Besso a captive , and a captive under circumstances of doubt and difficulty , could not reconcile such distraction , such an absence of all resources and presence of mind , with the exuberant means and the prompt expedients which in general were the characteristics of his companion , under circumstances the most difficult and unforeseen . 
All that Tancred could extract from him was an exclamation of despair , an imprecation on his own head , and an expression of fear and horror at Eva having fallen into the hands of Pagans and idolaters . 
It was in vain also that Tancred endeavoured to communicate with Keferinis . 
The minister was invisible -- not to be found , and the night closed in , when Tancred , after fruitless counsels with Baroni , and many united but vain efforts to open some communication with Eva , delivered himself not to repose , but to a distracted reverie over the present harassing and critical affairs . 
Usually at sunrise all were astir , and , shortly afterwards , Keferinis generally paid a visit to the guests of his sovereign ; but this day Keferinis omitted the ceremony , and Tancred , never more anxious for companions and counsellors , found himself entirely alone ; for Baroni was about making observations , and endeavouring to find some clue to the position of Eva . 
Tancred had resolved , the moment that it was practicable , to solicit an audience of Astarte on the subject of Eva , and to enter into all the representations respecting her which , in his opinion , were alone necessary to secure for her immediately the most considerate treatment , and ultimately a courteous release . 
Instantly , Tancred resolved to enter the palace , and if possible to find his way to the mysterious sanctuary . 
He imagined that the Queen was returning ; but on the contrary , pages and women and priests swept by without observing him , for he was hidden by one of the opened valves , but Astarte was not there ; and , though the venture was rash , Tancred did not hesitate , as the last individual in the procession moved on , to pass the gate . 
The portal shut instantly with a clang , and Tancred found himself alone and in comparative darkness . 
Tancred entered the temple , the last refuge of the Olympian mind . 
Tancred slowly traced his steps through the cavern sanctuary . 
As Tancred , recognising the Queen , withdrew a few paces , his shadow , clearly defined , rested on the glowing wall of the rock temple . 
`` I was about to retire , '' murmured Tancred . 
Then it was that Tancred , observing that Astarte cared not to advance , and deeming the occasion very favourable to his wishes , proceeded to explain to her the cause of his venturing to intrude on her this morning . 
`` You can understand then , '' concluded Tancred , `` what must have been my astonishment and grief when I found her yesterday a captive . 
Tancred looked at her . 
exclaimed Tancred , with a perplexed look . 
said Tancred , very earnestly . 
Then turning abruptly , she looked Tancred full in the face , with a glance of almost fierce scrutiny . 
His clear brow and unfaltering eye , with an expression of sympathy and even kindness on his countenance , met her searching look . 
`` It grieves me to see you in sorrow , '' said Tancred , approaching her , and speaking in a tone of kindness . 
`` You will send her back in safety and with honour to her family , '' said Tancred , soothingly . 
exclaimed Tancred , starting . 
said Tancred , and he seized her hand , but his thoughts were too wild for utterance , and he remained pallid and panting . 
said Tancred , with a groan , looking up to heaven , and covering his face with his hands : `` I loved her , as I loved the stars and sunshine . '' 
Then , after a pause , he turned to Astarte , and said , in a rapid voice -- `` This dreadful deed -- when , how , did it happen ? '' 
said Astarte , and she seized his arm distractedly . 
said Tancred . 
exclaimed Tancred , with a countenance relieved yet infinitely perplexed . 
said Tancred . 
said Tancred , thoughtfully , and speaking , as it were , to himself . 
Tancred looked round and caught the glance of the Queen of the Ansarey , mortified , yet full of affection . 
`` I have been the unconscious agent in petty machinations , '' said Tancred . 
At this moment Cypros , who was standing apart , waved her scarf , and exclaimed , `` Royal lady , I perceive in the distance the everfaithful messenger ; '' whereupon Astarte looked up , and , as yet invisible to the inexperienced glance of Tancred , recognised what was an infinitely small dusky speck , each moment becoming more apparent , until at length a bird was observed by all of them winging its way towards the Queen . 
`` Go , '' said Astarte to Tancred ; `` to remain here is now dangerous . 
`` I can not leave it in the hour of peril , '' said Tancred . 
Tancred had profited by his surprise by the children of Rechab in the passes of the stony Arabia , and had employed the same tactics against the Turkish force . 
Tancred , at the head of the cavalry , had pursued them into the plain , though he had halted , for an instant , before he quitted the mountains , to send a courier to Astarte from himself with the assurance of victory , and the horsetails of the Pacha for a trophy . 
It so happened , however , that , while Tancred , with very few attendants , was scouring the plain , and driving before him a panicstruck multitude , who , if they could only have paused and rallied , might in a moment have overwhelmed him , a strong body of Turkish cavalry , who had entered the mountains by a different pass from that in which the principal engagement had taken place , but who , learning the surprise and defeat of the main body , had thought it wise to retreat in order and watch events , debouched at this moment from the high country into the plain and in the rear of Tancred . 
Had they been immediately recognised by the fugitives , it would have been impossible for Tancred to escape ; but the only impression of the routed Turks was , that a reinforcement had joined their foe , and their disorder was even increased by the appearance in the distance of their own friends . 
This misapprehension must , however , in time , have been at least partially removed , but Baroni , whose quick glance had instantly detected the perilous incident , warned Tancred immediately . 
Tancred halted and surveyed the scene : he had with him not twenty men . 
`` Very well , '' said Tancred , `` we are well mounted -- we must try the mettle of our steeds . 
After three hours of the moon , Tancred and his companions rested at a well not far from a village where they obtained some supplies . 
On the third day , before sunset , the country having gradually become desolate and deserted , consisting of vast plains covered with herds , with occasionally some wandering Turkomans or Kurds , Tancred and his companions came within sight of a broad and palmy river -- a branch of the Euphrates . 
When Tancred had gained an undulating height , and was capable of taking a more extensive survey of the land , it presented , especially towards the south , the same features through an illimitable space . 
`` My heart responds to it , '' said Tancred . 
Although scarcely a man was visible when Tancred first caught a glimpse of this Arabian settlement , a band of horsemen suddenly sprang from behind a rising ground and came galloping up to them to reconnoitre and to inquire . 
`` I visit him then , at length , in his beautiful pastures , '' said Tancred ; `` but , alas ! 
This was Amalek himself , on one of this steeds of race , accompanied by several of his leading sheikhs , coming to welcome Tancred to his pavillion in the Syrian pastures . 
`` A thousand salaams , '' he exclaimed , when he had reached Tancred ; `` there is but one God . 
Thus conversing , and riding side by side , Amalek and Tancred entered the camp . 
The lamps soon gleamed , and the fires soon blazed ; sheep were killed , bread baked , coffee pounded , and the pipe of honour was placed in the hands of Tancred . 
At length , Amalek and Tancred being left alone , the Great Sheikh , who had hitherto evinced no curiosity as to the cause of the presence of his guest , said , `` There is a time for all things , for eating and for drinking , also for prayers . 
`` There is much to tell , and much to inquire , '' said Tancred ; `` but before I speak of myself , let me know whether you can get me tidings of Eva , the daughter of Besso . '' 
said Tancred , `` she was a prisoner , and is now a fugitive . '' 
Tancred then gave the Great Sheikh a rapid sketch of what had occurred to Eva , and expressed his fear that she might have been intercepted by the Turkish troops . 
`` It is a long tale , '' said Tancred , `` but I suppose it must be told ; but now that you have relieved my mind by sending to Aleppo , I can hardly forget that I have ridden for more than three days , and with little pause . 
Indeed , Great Sheikh , the longer I live and the more I think -- '' and here the chibouque dropped gently from Tancred 's mouth , and he himself sunk upon the carpet . 
In the mean time , Tancred dismounted and entered for the first time his house at Jerusalem , of which he had been the nominal tenant for half a year . 
Baroni was quite at home , as he knew the house in old days , and had also several times visited , on this latter occasion , the suite of Tancred . 
As for Doctor Roby , he was culling simples in the valley of the Jordan ; and thus it happened , that , when Tancred at length did evince some disposition to settle down quietly under his own roof , and avail himself of the services and society of his friends , not one of them was present to receive and greet him . 
Tancred roamed about the house , surveyed his court and garden , sighed , while Baroni rewarded and dismissed their escort . 
`` Shall I send for the Colonel , my lord , '' said Baroni , shaking Tancred 's Arabian cloak . 
`` Well , I think I should let him return naturally , '' said Tancred ; `` sending for him is a scene ; and I do not know why , Baroni , but I feel , I feel unstrung . 
said Tancred , stretching his arm , and half-speaking to himself , `` I wish the battle of Gindarics had never ceased , but that , like some hero of enchantment , I had gone on for ever fighting . '' 
said Tancred . 
said Baroni , kneeling down and opening Tancred 's rifle-case . 
Tancred passed the day alone in reading , or walking about his room with an agitated and moody step . 
Tancred passed a night of agitating dreams . 
Then again , the scene changed to Bellamont Castle , but it would seem that Fakredeen was its lord ; and when Tancred rushed forward to embrace his mother , she assumed the form of the Syrian goddess , and yet the face was the face of Eva . 
Tancred rose early ; no one was stirring in the house except the native servants , and Mr. Freeman , who was making a great disturbance about hot water . 
Tancred left a message with this gentleman for the Colonel and his companions , begging that they might all meet at breakfast , and adding that he was about to stroll for half an hour . 
It seemed a happy and a thriving city , -- that forlorn Jerusalem , as Tancred , from the heights of Olivet , gazed upon its noble buildings , and its cupolaed houses of free stone , and its battlemented walls and lofty gates . 
It seemed to Tancred that a spicy gale came up the ravines of the wilderness , from the farthest Arabia . 
The sun was mounting in the heavens , when Tancred turned his step , but , instead of approaching the city , he pursued a winding path in an opposite direction . 
She had left Tancred with her father , now convalescent . 
A sound disturbed her : she looked up and recognised Tancred . 
`` They should be Midsummer nights , '' said Tancred , `` as on my first visit here ; that hour thrice blessed ! '' 
`` I feel I do , '' murmured Tancred ; and he also seated himself on the margin of the fountain . 
`` It is certainly not joy , '' said Tancred . 
said Tancred , in a low , sweet voice , for she hesitated . 
`` My faith is firm , '' said Tancred ; `` but if anything could make it falter , it would be to find you wavering . '' 
`` There is no sadness where there is sympathy , '' said Tancred , in a low voice . 
`` Why thou to me art Arabia , '' said Tancred , advancing and kneeling at her side . 
`` I am a Christian in the land of Christ , '' said Tancred , `` and I kneel to a daughter of my Redeemer 's race . 
`` Say , rather , inspiration , '' said Tancred , `` for I will not quit this fountain by which we first met until I am told , as you now will tell me , '' he added , in a tone of gushing tenderness , `` that our united destinies shall advance the sovereign purpose of our lives . 
Tancred laid her reclining figure with gentleness on the mats of the kiosk ; he sprinkled her pale face with some drops from the fountain ; he chafed her delicate hand . 
Tancred recognised his name , frequently repeated . 
`` I am here , '' said Tancred , advancing from the kiosk , pale and agitated . 
