How Lee looked , and Stuart spoke -- how Jackson lived that wondrous life of his , and Ashby charged upon his milk-white steed -- of this the coming generations will talk , and I think they will take more interest in such things than in the most brilliant arguments about secession . 
I tore it open , and found that it contained my appointment as captain in the Provisional Army of Virginia , with orders to report to Colonel Jackson , commanding at Harper 's Ferry ! 
I knew that in the great war for State-rights , when South Carolina opposed Jackson in 1832 , no man had been more violent and resolute than Colonel Beverley , who had passionately espoused the views of Mr. Calhoun , and proved himself a fire-brand of agitation and revolution . 
`` Thanks for your kind offer , but I am looking for the head-quarters of Colonel Jackson , '' I replied . 
My companion smiled and said : `` Do you want to see him ? '' 
`` Yes ; I am assigned to duty with him as aide-de-camp , sir . '' 
`` And my name is Jackson , '' was the stranger 's smiling reply . 
And Colonel Jackson gave me his hand . 
* Coionel Surry stated to me in conversation that this little incident had never escaped his recollection , and always came back to his mind with a pecullar charm . 
On the day after my arrival , Colonel Jackson reviewed the troops . 
As he rode along the line , above which rose the glittering hedge of bayonets , I heard many a smothered laugh at his singular appearance . 
He did not impress me greatly : and I am obliged to disclaim the deep penetration of that mighty multitude who -- long afterward -- `` always knew what was in Jackson from the first . '' 
`` Jackson is right , '' he said , musing , with an absent air ; and as he spoke he took off his cap , made a salute , apparently to some imaginary personage , and then replaced his cap . 
I made my report to Colonel Jackson , and when he asked me how I liked Stuart , I declared myself delighted with him . 
Jackson smiled at my enthusiasm . 
`` Yes , '' he said , `` Stuart is an excellent companion . 
Johnston vigorously continued the organization which Jackson had commenced . 
Jackson had been sent with his brigade to support Stuart , in advance of Martinsburg , and one morning , at daylight , we received intelligence that Patterson was over , with a large army . 
When this dispatch reached Jackson his face actually glowed . 
Hitherto I had looked upon him as almost a non-combatant , but from that moment I knew that he loved fighting for its own sake . 
The gaudium certaminisflamed in his regard . 
A reply was sent to Stuart 's dispatch , but , remembering soon afterward an important point which he had omitted , Jackson sent me to find Stuart and give him the message . 
I set out at once , and passed Falling Waters before I could hear any thing of him . 
`` Thank you , Captain , '' he said , his eyes glowing with ardor ; `` I will do as Colonel Jackson wishes . 
† In ten minutes Stuart had hastened away with his prisoners , and I speedily rejoined Colonel Jackson . 
Jackson met the advancing column with the Fifth Virginia Infantry , and one gun of Captain Pendleton 's battery , and , deploying his three hundred and eighty men -- the exact number -- held his ground for some time with great stubbornness . 
The Federal artillery immediately opened in reply , and for the first time I witnessed in Jackson that perfect coolness for which he was afterward so celebrated . 
The figure was Jackson 's , and his errand was simple . 
General Patterson had captured some of his tents , made by the young ladies of Jefferson ; and when he stumbled over the sleepers , Jackson was looking for Colonel Allen , of the Second Virginia , to order out his regiment , attack Patterson , and recapture the tents . 
What induced him to abandon this scheme I do not know ; but it was a characteristic idea -- to attack two divisions with a single regiment ! 
* Falling back still farther to the little village of Darkesville , Jackson drew up his brigade , and determined to retreat no farther . 
`` Here I am ready for Patterson , whenever he comes , '' he said . 
`` General Johnston and Colonel Jackson . '' 
So we returned to Big Spring , and thence I rode back with Jackson . 
I rode with Colonel Jackson to head-quarters , and waited , conversing with the staff as usual , while the council of war took place . 
Jackson was quietly examining a map ; Stuart was drumming upon the table , and reflecting . 
Half an hour afterward Jackson came out and mounted his horse , holding in his hand a large envelope , which evidently covered an `` official document . '' 
It seemed to embarrass him , and he said : `` Captain , will you carry this ? '' 
It was Jackson 's appointment as Brigadier-General . 
He was riding on absently , in deep thought . 
Jackson 's brigade went by the first train ; we disembarked in the evening at Manassas , and the column was marched to a wood of pines in rear of Mitchell 's Ford . 
I had scarcely reached camp , and communicated the result of my mission , when the roar of artillery was heard from the direction of Stonebridge ; and Jackson ordered his brigade to be gotten under arms . 
Orders soon came for him to move and re-enforce Longstreet , at Blackburn 's Ford , below . 
Before the troops had reached that point , new orders arrived , directing him to go to the assistance of General Cocke , near Stonebridge . 
`` This must be only a demonstration , '' muttered Jackson , and , turning round , he directed me to ride toward Sudley Ford , and ascertain if any movement was taking place in that direction . 
As I joined him , a storm of bullets came hissing from a dark line rapidly advancing , and a portion of the cavalry came back at a gallop . 
Mordaunt 's face flushed hot , and , drawing his sabre , he thundered : `` I will kill the first man who attempts to pass me ! 
His voice had its effect ; line was formed facing the enemy , and the men slowly fell back fighting . 
Jackson listened with an unmoved countenance , but a glitter of the eye , which indicated much in him . 
came in Jackson 's curt tones , and the men , who had been lying down , rose to their feet and formed line of battle . 
`` Ride to General Bee , Captain , and inform him I am coming to re-enforce him , '' said Jackson . 
Then there was nothing further to resist their advance , and Bee , with a look of despair , galloped in the direction of Jackson . 
I was with him , and heard the brave Carolinian groan out , as they came face to face : `` General , they are beating us back ! '' 
Jackson looked for an instant toward the enemy , his lips moved , and he said , coolly : `` Sir , we will give them the bayonet . '' 
Bee seemed to gather new resolution from these words , and , galloping toward his straggling lines , shouted : `` Look ! 
Yonder stands Jackson , like a stone wall . 
Jackson had , meanwhile , turned to me , and said , with his habitual coolness : `` Captain , go to the colonels of all my regiments , and tell them that my instructions are , as soon as the enemy gets close enough , say within fifty yards , to charge with the bayonet . '' 
The men were ordered to lie down , two pieces of artillery were thrown forward and opened fire , and under their protection Bee formed his shattered line in a ravine on Jackson 's right . 
I was looking across the hills to the left , where Mordaunt 's cavalry was seen falling back to take position on the flank , when Jackson called me and said : `` General Johnston must know exactly the condition of things here . 
They arrived at the moment when the enemy had gained possession of the Henry House hill , and were pressing forward to attack Jackson , whose two pieces of artillery were steadily firing in front of his line . 
Other regiments and additional artillery had hurried forward , and , thanks to the bold stand made by Jackson , time had been given for something like an adequate force to arrive . 
They continued to pour a heavy fire of all arms upon the Southern line , and the only response was from two or three batteries , under Colonel Pendleton , in Jackson 's immediate front . 
Jackson was riding up and down behind them , watching the fire . 
`` I expect these boys will all be killed , '' he muttered ; `` but the occasion demands the sacrifice . '' 
As he spoke , a fragment of shell struck him in the hand , and I saw the blood flow . 
`` It is nothing , '' he said , wrapping his handkerchief around it ; and , seeing that the attention of the men had been called to it , he rode up and down the line , repeating quietly , `` Steady , boys , steady ! 
Such things peculiarly displeased Jackson . 
He gave the officer a quick glance from beneath his old faded cap -- such a glance as I for one should not have liked to encounter -- and said , in his curtest and gruffest tones : `` If you think so , sir , you had better say nothing about it ! '' 
Jackson 's face glowed , and he uttered an exclamation which proved that all the soldier was aroused in him . 
It was at this moment that I discerned for the first time in Jackson the supreme attributes of the man of military genius . 
In three minutes now the shock must come , I saw plainly ; but Jackson appeared as indifferent as though perfectly certain of the result . 
Rushing forward with triumphant cheers , the Federal line was within about seventy-five yards , when I heard Jackson command , `` Charge with the bayonet ! '' 
The fire which greeted them was frightful , but the charge was not checked ; and in five minutes Jackson had pierced the Federal centre , and his troops were fighting on the ground near the Henry House . 
The long crash of musketry from Jackson 's line filled the air ; and suddenly my brother 's company was seen retreating in disorder . 
Then a quicker and heavier fire came from the flanks ; it advanced ; wild cheers rose from the men of Jackson near , and I knew that our re-enforcements had arrived , and that the enemy were giving way . 
Johnston and Beauregard remained at Centreville , facing the Federal army , now commanded by General McClellan ; and Jackson had been appointed Major-General , and , proceeding to Winchester , had made an expedition against the enemy on the Upper Potomac , which had resulted in their retreat from that region . 
I had received a letter from him , enclosing an official document , and this had proved to be my appointment as Major , which , I had no doubt , his friendship had secured for me . 
WhenI entered his tent , Jackson was reading his Bible , which rested on his knees . 
At sight of me , he closed the volume , and , rising , cordially pressed my hand , offering , after his habitual fashion , to take my hat . 
`` I am pleased to see you again , Captain , or Major , as I must now call you , '' he said , smiling ; `` your escape has been truly providential . '' 
Will announced that he was unhurt ; and I had written from Eagle 's - Nest . 
Jackson shook his head , and said : `` This is a most unhappy conflict ; and the enemy seem bent upon our complete destruction . 
Jackson smiled . 
Well , the men insist upon giving me the nickname of Stonewall ; and they call the old brigade the ` Stonewall Brigade . ' '' 
* So it was the `` Stonewall , '' not the `` First , '' Brigade , I visited next day , to greet my many old friends there . 
When I reflected that Jackson 's only dependence was the small and ragged force silvering in these dilapidated tents , whose torn canvas fluttered drearily in the wind , my heart sank . 
When I arrived I found him calmly engaged in issuing orders for the disposition of his forces . 
A force of infantry was accordingly sent forward to their assistance , and Jackson then drew up his entire command in line of battle , evidently determined to give battle , whatever force was brought against him . 
I was riding with him about nightfall , when the firing in front had ceased , and he said , with that quick glitter of the eye which always showed that he was aroused : `` I do not intend to leave Winchester without a fight . 
He soon afterward rode back to head-quarters , drank a glass of milk , and said to me : `` I am going into Winchester , Major . 
Jackson stopped before a neat house , on one of the side streets , and , fixing his bridle to the fence , entered the house , where he was received and greeted with great cordiality by a clerical-looking gentleman and his family . 
Our host was in fact the Rev. Mr. G -- -- , of the Presbyterian Church , and those who knew the preference which Jackson always exhibited for the society of clergyman will not be surprised at hearing that Mr. G -- -- was his chosen friend . 
An hour then passed in friendly conversation , and Jackson then said : `` With your permission , Mr. G -- -- , I will now read a chapter in the Bible , and offer a prayer . '' 
The books were brought ; Jackson read a chapter with great solemnity , and then all knelt , and he offered up a fervent prayer . 
When he rose his features were slightly flushed , and I observed an animation in his eyes which was unusual . 
He stood for a moment looking in silence at the family , who were great favorites with him , and then , with a martial smile upon his features , suddenly said : `` Would you like me to tell you a secret , my friends ? '' 
`` My force is small , '' he continued with animation , `` but it will be doubled by the suddenness of the attack . 
he added , with something almost like joy in his face , `` I shall attack suddenly with my whole force -- I shall drive them back -- and our dear old Winchester will not be at their mercy ! '' 
After a few more words , uttered in the same animated tone -- I had never before seen him so elated -- the General bade them good-night , and we left the house . 
I saluted , and Jackson added in the same tone : `` Then ride on to Colonel Ashby -- you will find him on the Martinsburg road -- and direct him to hold himself in readiness to withdraw his command through Winchester . 
Jackson advanced into the apartment , looking so cast down that his expression threw a gloom over every face . 
His heavy boots seemed to drag over the floor ; his sabre clanked drearily . 
`` I have come to tell you good-by , '' he said , with drooping head . 
`` Yes , yes , my dear friends , '' was his reply . 
He nodded , and I saw his eye glitter . 
`` I am ordered to fall back , '' he continued , with great dejection ; `` and perhaps it is best . 
Jackson 's head sank upon his breast . 
Then it suddenly rose , his cheeks flushed hotly , his eye flashed , and , clutching the hilt of his sabre , he drew it a foot from the scabbard , and , rising to his full height , exclaimed : `` I will never leave Winchester without a fight -- never , never ! '' 
His tall figure towered above the group , his eyes darted lightning , his huge nostrils expanded like those of a war-horse `` snuffing the battle from afar . '' 
* At daylight , the enemy were in front of the town , and I expected every moment to see Jackson put his army in motion , in obedience to his orders from Richmond , and retire before them . 
He seemed , however , to have no intention of doing any such thing . 
Instead of falling back , he advanced in full view of the enemy , and manned his breastworks on the Martinsburg and Berryville roads . 
Jackson had evacuated Winchester , and was completely out of the clutch of his adversaries , at the moment when they were preparing to charge him in his earthworks north of the place . 
Infalling back , Jackson left absolutely nothing behind for his adversary . 
Jackson remained last , and his critical eyes peered in every direction , to discover whether any thing had been forgotten . 
he said to his chief quartermaster , Major Harman . 
Jackson then added : `` Take your time . 
`` Very good , '' said Jackson , when the report was brought to him ; and he sat down under a tree , and , folding his hands across his breast , fell quietly asleep . 
He had been up all night , and never was able to go without sleep . 
I hadseen Jackson advance and fight : I was now to see him retreat . 
Jackson 's method of retiring was cool , deliberate , and extorted my admiration . 
More than ever , I saw in him those resources which make the great soldier . 
Thus , incessantly fighting with his rear-guard , Jackson continued his retreat up the Valley ; and ere long the enemy seemed to grow weary of the pursuit -- their assaults gradually less determined -- finally they stopped . 
Jackson read the dispatch which he brought with great attention ; reflected as much , probably , as half a minute , and then directed orders to be issued to have the troops ready to march at daylight . 
Jackson rode along the column , looking keenly from under his faded cap ; and then , placing himself at the head of the troops , took the direction of Winchester . 
Without relaxation -- stopping for nothing -- and at last , accompanied by only a portion of his force , the rest having broken down from the enormous rapidity of the march , he reached , at three or four o'clock on a raw March evening , the little village of Kernstown , within two or three miles of Winchester . 
I did not know Jackson . 
`` Major , '' he said , with great coolness , `` the troops seem somewhat tired . '' 
As he spoke , Ashby appeared , approaching at full speed , and soon checked his horse and saluted . 
Jackson 's eye glittered under his cap , and he moved his head up and down in a way common with him . 
Jackson nodded gravely again , looked thoughtfully toward Winchester , and said : `` Continue to press them on the turnpike , Colonel , and send me prompt intelligence of any movement . 
Jackson was rapidly making his dispositions , when a courier from Ashby announced that the enemy were moving to flank his left . 
Jackson hastened to form his line on an elevated piece of ground , and , calling my attention to a heavy stone wall which extended in front of his left , said : `` Tell Colonel Fulkerson to secure that wall . '' 
I went to carry the intelligence to Jackson , and found him leading a charge of his centre , composed of the Stonewall brigade -- a mere handful to be called by the name -- and other troops . 
It was now obvious that the Federal force in his front was considerable ; and , in fact , it was afterward ascertained to number eleven thousand men , of whom about eight thousand were probably engaged . 
Jackson 's force `` up '' was three thousand and eighty-seven , of which number two thousand seven hundred and forty-two were engaged . 
Jackson 's eyes darted lightning as he galloped to the spot , and , seizing a drummer boy , he growled : `` Beat the rally ! '' 
Jackson was thus fairly beaten -- but here is a strange fact : I was retreating like the rest , when a cavalry-man , crossing the field at full gallop , recognized me , and asked for General Jackson . 
In five minutes I had found Jackson , and given him the note . 
He was sitting his horse in the midst of the retreating troops , without exhibiting emotion of any sort ; and read the note from Ashby without moving a muscle in his face . 
`` I thought so , '' was all he said in his curtest tones , as he crumpled up and dropped the paper . 
And he turned his horse 's head and rode on with the retiring forces . 
was Jackson 's brief question . 
* And he rode on . 
They seemed to fear the presence of reserves -- and upon this Jackson , no doubt , counted . 
He certainly betrayed no sort of intention to hurry away from the dangerous proximity , and the men were soon ordered to halt , build fires , and cook rations . 
Jackson sat down by a fire , so near the enemy that we could hear the men talking around their fires . 
Here he dictated his orders : these directed the troops to move at daylight . 
`` But such was the discipline of Jackson 's forces , '' says General Shields in his report , `` that at no time during the fight or retreat did they give way to panic . '' 
* See Jackson 's report . 
† His words . 
I wasriding by General Jackson , when he suddenly reined in his horse , and for a moment seemed lost in reflection . 
`` I do not like to leave my wounded , '' he said , `` and my dead unburied . '' 
He looked toward Winchester , and added , turning all at once to me : `` I wish you would attend to this , Major . '' 
And , tearing a sheet from his note-book , he wrote in pencil : `` General : -- The bearer , Major Surry , of my staff , is sent to superintend the burial of my dead in the action yesterday , and look after the wounded . 
He held out his hand , gave mine a friendly grasp , and , adding , `` I shall expect you back soon , '' rode on toward Strasburg . 
Their object was to seek for friends or relatives among the corpses -- for Jackson 's forces were almost wholly from the Valley ; and these mourners now passed from group to group of bodies , trying to recognize some husband , father , or brother among the dead . 
The army continued its retreat until it reached Rude 's Hill , a lofty elevation near Mount Jackson , and here it went into camp and rested . 
General MeClellan , with an army of more than one hundred thousand men , was to advance from the Peninsula , between the James and York ; General McDowell was to march from Fredericksburg , with forty thousand men , and unite with McClellan 's right on the Chickahominy ; and in the Valley , not less than three heavy columns were to assail Jackson . 
Uniting near Harrisonburg or Staunton , these three columns were to drive Jackson before them , pursue him to the low country , and , joining General McDowell 's right , as he had joined McClellan , encircle the Confederate capital with a cordon of bayonets . 
This plan became developed , as I have said , about the middle of April , when Jackson received intelligence that Generals Milroy , Fremont , and Banks were all in motion . 
`` They seem determined to drive me from the Valley , Major , '' said Jackson , when this intelligence came ; `` but , with God 's blessing , I hope to hold my ground , if not drive them back . '' 
I had begun to believe inJackson , like his men . 
In spite of the undoubted defeat which he sustained at Kernstown , the troops had conceived the very highest admiration for him . 
Whenever he appeared on his old sorrel , in his dingy uniform , they cheered him wildly ; and an officer told me that , on the day after the battle , the men `` went crazy about him '' * From Kernstown dated that ardent personal attachment of the troops to their leader -- a fact which I never could explain . 
His column reached the little village of Edinburg ; and Jackson broke up his camp at Rude 's Hill , and crossed into Elk Run Valley . 
Here he could face all his enemies , and retreat , if necessary , upon Richmond . 
But that I knew he intended to do only in the last resort . 
I Hadgone to carry a message to Colonel Ashby , and spent the night with him on the outpost , when on my return I found the infantry in motion , and soon discovered that Jackson , now re-enforced by General Ewell 's division from Johnston 's army , was going , with a portion of his army , to attack General Milroy , who had already crossed the Shenandoah Mountain , west of Staunton , to form a junction with General Banks at Harrisonburg . 
Here General Milroy 's advance force was met and driven back , and on the next morning Jackson rapidly advanced into the narrow defile on the western side of which was the Valley of McDowell , occupied in force by his adversary . 
The quick eye of Jackson saw speedily that this was the key of the whole position , and he lost no time in hurrying forward his regiments , as they came up , to secure possession of it . 
A heavy column was first hurled against Jackson 's left , but , after a fierce conflict , was repulsed . 
Jackson rapidly pursued him , and reached Franklin . 
Jackson had accomplished his design of preventing the junction between Generals Milroy and Banks ; and to attack his adversary , thus strongly posted amid the mountain fastnesses , was no part of his plan . 
Returning over the same road , and repassing the Bull Pasture Mountain , Jackson obliqued to the left , and advanced upon Harrisonburg . 
As he approached that place , intelligence reached him that General Banks had fallen back to Strasburg . 
I WAS riding beside Jackson when he received the intelligence of General Banks 's retreat . 
It was a dispatch from General Banks to the authorities at Washington , dated from Harrisonburg a few days before , announcing that `` the rebel Jackson had left the Valley , and was in full retreat on Richmond . '' 
* I had scarcely finished reading the paragraph , when Jackson said to his adjutant-general , the brave Major Pendleton : `` Major , write an order directing General Ewell to join me , without loss of time , at Newmarket , with his entire command . 
The order was immediately written and dispatched , and Jackson continued his way , reaching Harrisonburg , and thence pressing forward to Newmarket . 
General Ewell promptly appeared at the rendezvous with his strong division , and Jackson met him with great cordiality . 
He was a man past middle age , with black hair , beard , and mustache , with a thin , erect figure , sparkling black eyes , and a manner abrupt and decisive . 
It was obvious that Jackson would not communicate his intentions even to his division commanders . 
Jackson had under him nearly twenty thousand excellent troops , including some additional cavalry ; and the reader need not be told that such a man , with such a weapon in his grasp , was not apt to let it remain idle . 
Orders were issued that every species of baggage should be left behind , even the knapsacks -- and the most ignorant man in the forces then knew that Jackson was `` stripping for a fight . '' 
Jackson was going to attack his adversary in flank and rear . 
Take the map of Virginia , my dear reader , and you will understand Jackson 's design more clearly , at a single glance , than from the most labored explanation . 
If Jackson could amuse his adversary by cavalry demonstrations on the main Valley road , while he rapidly advanced down the Luray Valley and gained Front Royal , he might hope to pass that point -- interpose himself between Strasburg and Winchester -- and force General Banks to surrender , or fight his way through to the Potomac . 
Jackson was now swiftly advancing to the accomplishment of this bold and vigorous conception . 
Before daylight , Jackson was in the saddle , and his advance force hurried forward to attack the Federal garrison in the town . 
Jackson was now directly on his adversary 's flank , and a few hours would enable him to reach the Federal rear and cut off their retreat . 
To concentrate for battle , and rest his entire force , Jackson ordered a halt ; and again , at nightfall , the troops lay down in the roads and fell asleep , clutching their muskets . 
From time to time Jackson checked his horse and listened . 
Jackson wheeled his horse , and dug the spur into his side . 
he exclaimed , with unwonted excitement , `` no time is to be lost ! '' 
As he spoke , the shrill neigh of a horse was heard from a clump of woods on the left , and at the next moment a scouting party of Federal cavalry , moving on the flank of their column , appeared in the road . 
We had got over , and were in a field ; GEN. JACKSON 'S ESCAPE.GEN . 
JACKSON 'S ESCAPE . 
Jackson seemed to have forgotten the whole affair in a moment after the cessation of the firing . 
`` General , '' he said , with great animation , `` the enemy are retreating rapidly toward Winchester . 
I have rarely seen Jackson more animated . 
Jackson took personal command of the latter , and at daylight reached the hill which we had reconnoitred from during the night . 
Jackson had struck the columns in transitu . 
Worse still , this delay enabled the Federal commander to organize a rear-guard ; and , when Jackson 's infantry pressed on , it was saluted with a heavy fire of artillery . 
`` But for this shameful conduct , '' exclaimed Jackson , `` General Banks would have reached Winchester without a wagon train , if not without an army . '' 
Driving before him the Federal rear-guard , Jackson now continued to press forward with his infantry -- the column moved all night , fighting at every step -- and at daylight on the next morning the roofs of Winchester were seen shining in the sunlight . 
General Banks occupied the town , and , finding that he was determined to make a stand on the high ground in the suburbs , Jackson made instant dispositions for an assault . 
Ewell was directed to attack on the right , from the Front Royal road , and , taking command in person of his left wing , Jackson threw forward a heavy line , supported by a determined fire of artillery , and charged the Federal forces occupying the high ground west of the town . 
Never before or afterward did I see Jackson so much carried away as upon this occasion . 
As men , women , and children flocked around him , grasping his hand , touching his clothes , and saluting him with cheers and exclamations , his face flushed , his eyes sparkled , and , waving his old cap in the air , he uttered a cheer -- the first and last I ever heard from his lips . 
Then he pushed ahead of the crowd ; followed at full gallop he retreating enemy ; and was soon so close that , fearing they would turn and fire on him , I said : `` Do n't you think you are exposing yourself too much , General ? '' 
he exclaimed , `` they ca n't hurt me ! 
General Banks was thus driven completely from the Valley , and p519-202 such was the haste of his departure that he left behind him immense stores , which fell into Jackson 's hands . 
He knew that Jackson was coming back , he said ; he had heard a horn blowing beyond Fort Royal , then at Middletown , then near Winchester ; and this horn said plainly , louder and louder as it came , `` Who 's been here since I 's been gone ? '' 
That horn was Jackson 's , and he it was who was demanding in his terrible voice who had intruded on his property . 
So , exit Mynheer in the direction of Martinsburg -- from which place he returned after the withdrawal of the rebels , to find only empty boxes in his store-rooms , and to exclaim in despair , with hands uplifted , `` Who 's been here since I 's been gone ? '' 
The Federal troops , who saw all , shared this feeling , that the region around Winchester belonged to Jackson , and that he was coming back to take possession of `` his property . '' 
More than once I heard that groups of lounging soldiers had suddenly started and risen to their feet when some practical-joke-loving individual exclaimed , `` Jackson is coming ! '' 
-- and one had fallen backward from a lofty stool at this announcement , convinced that the fearful clutch of the blood-thirsty Stonewall was on his shoulder . 
* This expression was afterward used in Jackson 's report . 
* His words . 
I had been sent to the front with an order from Jackson , and was returning to Winchester , when , just as I debouched into the main highway between that place and Martinsburg , I described a singular cortege . 
I was about to ride on , when all at once I recognized in the commander of the cavalry escort my old acquaintance , Captain Bogy , with whom I had dined , in company with Johnston , Jackson , and Stuart , just before the battle of Manassas . 
I knew that the jovial Captain had joined Jackson with his company when Ewell re-enforced us just before McDowell , but , in the rush of official engagements , had not been able to visit him . 
had indicated Jackson 's entire programme . 
He was always in favor of following up his successes , and pressing a defeated enemy remorselessly : his object now was to paralyze , if possible , the entire Federal force in the region . 
Jackson 's column was immediately pushed forward in that direction to finish the work . 
We afterward heard that his approach was telegraphed to Washington , and caused such apprehensions there that the Governors of the Northern States were called upon for troops to defend the Capital . 
General Charles Winder pressed on toward Charlestown with the Stonewall Brigade , opened upon the forces with his cavalry before they suspected his presence , and , driving them before him , reached the vicinity of Harper 's Ferry , where , on the next day , Jackson joined him with the main body . 
A rumor seemed to come , blown on the wind , that a storm was brewing in the rear , and Jackson entered the cars at Charlestown to return to Winchester . 
He had scarcely done so , when a courier rode up at full speed . 
said Jackson , curtly . 
The courier fumbled for his dispatch . 
said Jackson . 
Jackson read it with perfect calmness , crumpled up and dropped it , and then rapidly wrote an order directing his entire command to return from Harper 's Ferry to Winchester . 
Having done so , he bent forward , leaned his head upon the back of the seat in front of him , and fell asleep . 
† The cars moved on , and in half an hour he awoke . 
Jackson 's situation was one of very extreme peril . 
Two heavy Federal columns were closing in upon his rear , toward Strasburg -- that under General Shields from the east , and that under General Fremont from the west . 
The former is known to have amounted to twenty thousand men , from President Lincoln 's order to General McDowell to `` move twenty thousand men '' on the line of the Manassas Gap Railroad , `` to capture or destroy Jackson . '' 
Thus , without counting the forces at Harper 's Ferry , Williamsport , and elsewhere on the Potomac , which would immediately follow upon his rear , Jackson had in his front about forty thousand troops , through which it appeared he would certainly be compelled to cut his way . 
His own force was fifteen thousand effective men . 
* If he was cut off at Strasburg , this force would speedily be enclosed by a cordon of three armies , under Fremont , Shields , and Banks , amounting to about seventy thousand men . 
Jackson rode at the head of his column , and I could not discern any unusual emotion in his countenance . 
His astonishing nerve enabled him to look calmly in the face of peril which would certainly have excited most generals , however courageous . 
Jackson pushed on and entered Strasburg , when a staff-officer from Ashby galloped up . 
said Jackson curtly . 
I returned to Jackson , who was trying to eat a cracker as hard as iron , as he sat his horse . 
No signs of the missing brigade were seen , and I reported the fact to Jackson . 
And he rode forward to where Ewell was fighting . 
At sight of Jackson , a loud cheer rose from the men , and the line , instead of merely standing and receiving the enemy 's attack , rushed forward . 
Forgetting everything else , Jackson galloped on with the line , encouraging the men , and , before the impetuous rush of the Southerners , General Fremont 's line fell back . 
Jackson halted , and wiped his forehead . 
As he did so , a courier hastened up with a dispatch from General Winder . 
They had made an enormous march , but were at last up ; and in an hour , as he had notified Ewell , Jackson put his entire column in motion , just as dispatches from the right and the left announced that the forces under Shields and Fremont were pouring forward , and would soon be upon him . 
Jackson had extricated himself from the trap . 
* His words . 
‡ His words . 
* Jackson 's statement at the time . 
General Fremont was pressing Jackson 's rear on the main Valley road ; General Shields was hurrying by a parallel route up the Luray Valley , to cut him off at Newmarket . 
Jackson had taught his adversaries topography . 
They were playing against him the same game which had been so fatal to General Banks . 
Might not Jackson become the victim of a flank movement by that route , in his turn ? 
At Woodstock , Edinburg , Mount Jackson -- on every hill and in every valley of this beautiful region -- he fought , with shell , canister , the carbine , and the sabre . 
A certain amount of fighting every day seemed now to have become necessary to the man ; and such untiring energy and activity had he displayed , that Jackson , who had long since become as warmly attached to him as ever , placed the whole rear of the army under him . 
Having carried him the message conveying Jackson 's wishes as to the time and manner of destroying it , I was a witness of the scene which followed . 
Theriver was passed , Newmarket reached , and Jackson 's column swept on the Harrisonburg . 
His cavalry had destroyed the bridge over the South Fork of the Shenandoah , leading into the Luray Valley ; his flank was thus safe still -- and soon Harrisonburg was reached . 
Thence , without pausing , he pushed on toward Port Republic , where , with his back to Brown 's Gap , he could stand at bay , and bid defiance both to Fremont and to Shields . 
All now depended upon the rapidity of Jackson 's movements and the resources of his strategy . 
General Fremontcontinued to press forward from Harrisonburg upon Jackson 's rear , while General Shields hastened up to intercept him between Port Republic and the Blue Ridge . 
Jackson read it , and then , handing it to me , said : `` Major , ascertain what force of infantry General Ashby requires , and see that he gets it . '' 
* I saluted and informed General Ashby of Jackson 's response to his note . 
He was riding a bay horse -- the same ridden by Jackson at the first battle of Manassas * -- and as he reined in the excited animal with one hand , and pointed with the sword in his other to the enemy , his dark face was full of the fire of battle , his eyes blazed , and in his voice , as clear and sonorous as the ring of a clarion , spoke , as it were , the very genius of battle . 
The column under General Fremont was now pressing hotly upon Jackson 's rear , between Harrisonburg and Port Republic ; and that under General Shields was hastening rapidly to place itself between him and Brown 's Gap -- the avenue of exit from the Valley . 
Jackson must retreat , if he retreated at all , by that Gap , as the panic-stricken citizens had destroyed the bridges above Harrisonburg ; and , if General Fremont could only delay his adversary sufficiently long to enable General Shields to come up , the fate of the Confederate commander seemed decided . 
From this moment commenced that admirable game of strategy by which Jackson aimed to crush his adversaries in detail . 
He had destroyed the bridge over the Shenandoah at Conrad 's Store , thereby preventing a junction between the two Federal columns ; and , establishing his head-quarters in the town of Port Republic , prepared , with his main body , to attack General Shields , while Ewell remained in front of General Fremont , and held him in check . 
Shields once defeated , Jackson intended to recross to the west bank of the Shenandoah , re-enforce Ewell , and , falling upon General Fremont , decide every thing by a pitched battle . 
`` An official report , '' wrote Jackson , `` is not an appropriate place for more than a passing notice of the distinguished dead ; but the close relation which General Ashby bore to my command , for most of the previous twelve months , will justify me in saying that , as a partisan officer , I never knew his superior . 
Such was the epitaph of Ashby , traced by the hand of Jackson . 
Jackson 's head-quarters had been established , as I have said , at Port Republic -- with his own division just opposite the town , on the western bank of the Shenandoah , and Ewell at Cross Keys , a few miles distant toward Harrisonburg -- when , early on the morning of the 8th of June , a company of cavalry , which had been sent down the Luray Valley , came galloping panic-stricken into the town , announcing the rapid approach of Shields . 
The enemy 's advance force of cavalry and artillery thundered into the town ; a gun was unlimbered and placed in battery near the bridge over the Shenandoah , so as completely to command it -- and Jackson was cut off from his army ! 
He had hastily mounted , as the few scattering shots indicated the rapid advance of the enemy ; and , as he saw the Federal artillery unlimber at the bridge , his face flushed . 
Jackson rode straight toward the piece of artillery , whose grim muzzle was pointed so as to rake the bridge in front of it , with every cannoneer at his place . 
When he was within twenty yards of the gun , he coolly rose in his stirrups , and called out , in the calmest possible manner : `` Who ordered this gun to be placed here ? '' 
I did not hear the reply of the officer in command of the piece , but he evidently mistook Jackson for some general or colonel of the Federal forces , and approached him with a deferential salute . 
Another and another followed , so close that we felt the wind which they made ; but suddenly we reached ground which afforded cover -- and Jackson was safe . 
* He still continued his way at full speed , and , reaching the camps of his division , which had been suddenly aroused by the firing , caught his cap from his head , and , waving it , exclaimed : `` Beat the long roll ! '' 
The drums rolled ; the troops fell into line ; and , rushing his artillery into position , Jackson opened a rapid fire upon the enemy in the town . 
Taliaferro 's brigade now hastened forward ; one of his regiments charged across , capturing the gun which had fired upon us ; and the enemy 's cavalry , with the infantry supports in their rear , hastily retreated from the town , and were pursued down the river . 
Such was the narrow escape made by Jackson . 
`` Hold your position as long as possible , '' was Jackson 's reply , `` only retiring when you can not maintain your ground . 
Jackson had already put his forces in motion . 
And Jackson rapidly got into the saddle . 
`` Winder is engaged , '' he said , as we rode along , `` but I am afraid the enemy 's force is too great for him . '' 
came curtly from Jackson , as he hurried to the spot . 
Jackson 's order was promptly responded to . 
Two Virginia regiments were advanced at a double-quick : Jackson placed himself at their head and galloped forward : then came the long roar of musketry , as they suddenly fell with fury on the flank of the triumphant enemy . 
I was by General Jackson 's side at this moment , and never shall forget the stern , immovable resolution of his iron face . 
`` Those batteries must be silenced , '' he said , briefly , to Ewell , who was by his side . 
`` General , '' said Jackson , in the briefest of tones , `` can you take that battery ? '' 
* A chivalric flash darted from Taylor 's eyes , and , wheeling his horse , he galloped to his command , which had just formed line of battle on the right , near the ground where Jackson stood . 
Taylor 's sword flashed out , he rose in his stirrups , and , pointing with the weapon toward the Federal artillery , he called out , in his ringing voice : `` Louisianians ! 
Jackson 's face filled with blood . 
He evidently feared that the men had recoiled in face of the certain death which awaited a charge upon this volcano . 
The enemy had been compelled to re-enforce their left by withdrawing troops from their centre and right , which had pressed so hard on Jackson ; and this , in turn , enabled Jackson to move his forces from the left to the right . 
Attacked in front by Jackson 's infantry , and subjected to a heavy fire from his batteries on the left , the Federal lines began obviously to waver . 
Jackson had ordered the force in his front near Cross Keys to fall back and burn the bridge -- this had been done -- and now General Fremont was subjected to the mortification of seeing his brother general crushed before his eyes , without the power of coming to his assistance . 
I have always considered this the most `` dramatic '' scene , as the French say , of the war : General Shields flying in disorder , hotly pursued ; General Fremont gnashing his teeth upon the opposite bank of the river ; and Jackson looking calmly on , with the grim smile of the victor . 
On the next day , General Fremont retreated down the Valley , and Jackson remained undisputed master of the country . 
* His words . 
* His words . 
Now , worthy reader , however noble and dignified the Muse of History may appear in her stately robes , I have always had a preference for the gay little Muse of Comedy , with her caprices , witcheries , and `` wanton wiles . '' 
She is not half so solemn and imposing as her grave sister , but she is more interesting . 
If anybody laughs or cries , she finds it out , and tells you all about it -- nay , she cries herself with the disconsolate ones , and laughs with the mirthful . 
There is not a smile or a tear that she will not share -- she is the Muse , not of History , but simply of Comedy , you see . 
She had been tugging at my skirts all this time , while I have been relating the events of the Valley campaign , and whispering in my ear , `` I am growing tired of all these great generals and bloody battles . 
On the 26th , Jackson was at Ashland , within sixteen miles of Richmond , rapidly advancing to throw his veteran corps against the right flank of General McClellan . 
Jackson received at Ashland a note from General Stuart , addressed , `` General T. J. Jackson , somewhere , '' and his corps continued its advance -- now preceded by the cavalry -- reaching the vicinity of Old Cold Harbor House on the afternoon of the 27th , just as A. P. Hill recoiled from McClellan 's almost impregnable position . 
Jackson was riding about on an old gaunt bay , peering out from beneath his cap , drawn down upon his forehead , and sucking a lemon . 
Calling a staff officer to him , he said : `` Major , ride to General Lee , present my compliments , and say that I have closed in on the front and rear of the enemy , and am pressing forward . '' 
Jackson held out his hand , and the young artillerist took it with a low bow , blushing as he did so , like a girl . 
† The battle had now begun to rage with fury , and , as Jackson rode to and fro , in the great field by the Old Cold Harbor House , courier after courier came and went , bringing him intelligence . 
Jackson rose in his stirrups and said : `` Give my compliments to General Hood , and tell him to hold his position . 
Mr. Douglas , '' he added , to one of his staff , `` go back and get fifteen or eighteen guns , attack that battery , and see that the enemy 's guns are either silenced or destroyed . '' 
I regarded it as my duty to attempt to rally the men , knowing , as I did , that , if the line was broken at that point , Jackson 's whole position would be seriously endangered ; and I accordingly endeavored to induce the stragglers and scattered detachments to rally again around their colors , and charge the artillery , which was flaming in front . 
* In consequence of the intelligence I brought , Jackson immediately moved a brigade to re-enforce the line where it threatened to give way ; and the battle raged more and more furiously . 
asked Jackson , briefly . 
Jackson 's eyes flashed . 
he said ; `` we will have good news in a few minutes now ! '' 
Jackson was talking with Stuart , his eyes glaring now , and sucking his lemon , when a staff-officer galloped up and said : `` General Ewell directs me to say , sir , that the enemy do not give way in his front . '' 
Jackson rose in his stirrups until his form was as stiff and erect as an arrow . 
His eyes blazed -- his teeth were ground together . 
Stretching out his hand containing the lemon , he said : `` Tell General Ewell , if they stand at sunset , to press them with the bayonet ! '' 
said Jackson ; and , turning to one of his couriers , he said : `` Yougo ! '' 
Major Pendleton , his adjutant-general , that young officer of a courage so splendid , volunteered to carry the message ; and soon the roar of guns redoubled in front ; then tumultuous cheers were heard , as the Southern line charged . 
Just as the sun sank , Jackson 's whole line -- Hood 's Texans before the rest -- swept forward in one wild bayonet charge ; and , from the fury of the shouts , and the long crash of the musketry , it was plain that the decisive assault was being made . 
Jackson was riding in and out between the guns , still pouring a steady fire -- and the glare of the burning woods lit up his flashing eyes as he conversed with Stuart . 
Jackson 's corps held the front in the pursuit , and had a hard fight at the bridge in White Oak Swamp . 
`` Now is the time , '' exclaimed Jackson , `` for an advance into Pennsylvania ! 
Jackson 's supreme military instinct told him that General McClellan was paralyzed -- but the authorities at Richmond doubted . 
The Federal authorities agreed with Jackson . 
They knew that the Army of Northern Virginia ought toadvance , and they acted upon the sound military maxim , always to give an enemy credit for intending to do what he ought to do . 
It is impossible that it was General Lee , for one day after Malvern Hill , Jackson said to an officer : `` I hear that some persons say General Lee is slow.He is notslow . 
Jackson ` scorps had decided the fate of the day at Cold Harbor , as his brigade had turned the tide at Manassas . 
When he arrived , A. P. Hill was retiring , torn and bleeding -- Longstreet unable to advance . 
Jackson advanced without pausing , and , on the 9th of August , attacked and defeated General Pope at Cedar Mountain . 
In the midst of the wild plunder of the inhabitants which he permitted , he suddenly met Jackson face to face , on the slopes of Culpepper . 
But Jackson placed himself at the head of the men -- a great shout , `` Stonewall Jackson ! 
Stonewall Jackson ! '' 
Jackson had fought at Cedar Run thirty-two thousand Federal troops , with less than half that number . 
General Pope concentrated his whole army now in our immediate front , and Jackson fell back . 
He was met near Orange by the main body of the army under General Lee . 
I was the bearer of a message from General Jackson to General Stuart , then concentrating his cavalry on the right flank of the army ; and I expected to find the commander of the cavalry somewhere in the vicinity of Verdiersville . 
How are you , Surry , and how did you leave old Stonewall ? '' 
* * Stuart 's familiar name for Jackson . 
He will think that your adventurous life has demoralized me . '' 
Straight down the old turnpike toward Chancellorsville swept the column , following the fresh footprints of the enemy 's horsemen ; and soon I found myself once more in that strange country of the Wilderness , where was situated the house at which I had spent the night on my journey from Richmond to report to Jackson , in April , 1861 . 
She is not more than sixteen , but she 's a perfect tartar , and , as the only way of standing any chance with her , I believe I 'll desert , put on a gray jacket , and enlist in old Stonewall Jackson 's band . 
Pope seems blind , and I predict Jackson will be after him soon with a sharp stick . 
You ca n't think how p519-285 crazy my little friend , Miss Henrietta , is about Jackson and Stuart . 
I hastened to rejoin General Jackson , who was pressing closely upon the Federal rear , and came up with him near Hazel River . 
Jackson hastened forward to the Rappahannock ; and all along that river , across which the enemy had retreated , commenced a hot artillery engagement -- the Federal forces obstinately disputing the passage of the stream . 
Jackson was in front , and , rapidly advancing to Warrenton Springs , threw two brigades across , under General Early . 
I was talking with General Jackson when a courier rode up with a message from Early , that he could not hold his position . 
asked Jackson , briefly . 
I will murder him when he returns . '' 
`` He received your message , and I came over to bring the answer . 
My horse carried me back without accident , and I found Jackson superintending in person the preparations for building a bridge . 
Heavy details were already at work ; the timbers were stretched across ; and , just as the enemy advanced to throw themselves upon Early , his column defiled across , the rear-guard hotly engaged with the Federal advance . 
* Jackson had a long conversation with Early , and both then rode to General Lee 's head-quarters , where they were soon closeted with him . 
When Jackson came out , he said to me : `` Major , I wish you to ride to General Stuart -- you know where to find him -- give my compliments to him , and say that I have had a consultation with General Lee , and it is of the utmost importance that a reconnoissance should be made in the direction of Warrenton . 
I rode by Jackson 's head-quarters , obtained his permission , and set out with Stuart on his raid . 
A few hours afterward Jackson ordered three days ' rations to be issued , and his men to be gotten under arms . 
Jackson left the vicinity of Warrenton Springs , ascended the left bank of the Rappahannock , passed Amissville , and , crossing at the narrow , rock-bound , and forgotten ford at Hinson 's Mill , dragged his artillery up the opposite acclivity , and pushed on to the little village of Orleans . 
Stuart 's cavalry , except one regiment in front , moved on the right of this column , between it and the enemy , keeping off their scouting parties ; and , leaving the high road to Barbee 's , Jackson struck into the fields , pressing forward through farm gates , and along obscure country roads , toward Salem . 
If it could only reach and pass through that frowning defile before the enemy were aware of the intention , the great dépótof stores , at Manassas , would be at Jackson 's mercy . 
At sunset Jackson sat his horse , looking at the column as it defiled before him . 
He had issued orders that the men were not to cheer , for fear of attracting the enemy 's attention , and the troops , as they passed before him , only took off their ragged old hats and waved them round their heads . 
This silent greeting seemed to touch Jackson greatly . 
The setting sun shone on his face , and the countenance at that moment was resplendent . 
Jackson 's face glowed ; he raised his cap in response , and the cheers redoubled . 
With sparkling eyes , and rising in his stirrups as he spoke , Jackson said : `` Who could help being proud of such men as these ? '' 
And , touching his horse with the spur , he galloped on to the front , still pursued by the tumultuous cheering . 
So perfect had been the cordon of cavalry pickets and scouting parties between the Southern column and the enemy , that the march was still entirely undiscovered ; and reaching Thoroughfare Gap , a few miles west of Manassas , Jackson found it entirely undefended . 
Passing through the frowning ramparts of the gorge , he descended upon the great Federal dépôt at Manassas . 
He was now completely in General Pope 's rear , and directly upon his communications with Washington . 
Jackson made his dispositions rapidly , and with consummate skill . 
When notified by Jackson that Manassas was destroyed , he slowly fell back , burning the bridge in his rear ; and the various columns converged toward the little village of Groveton , near the old battle-field of July 21 , 1861 , where , with his back to Sudley Ford , Jackson awaited the enemy . 
When Jackson turned his back upon Manassas , nothing was left but a mass of smoking ruins , from which a few straggling cavalrymen disappeared , slowly retiring before the advance of Pope . 
At one blow Jackson had wounded him mortally . 
If the Confederate commander could only hold his ground now until Lee arrived , a determined attack upon the starved men and animals of his adversary must end in his complete defeat . 
Jackson made desperate efforts to hold his ground . 
His force was under twenty thousand men , and General Pope had his whole `` Army of Virginia '' in close vicinity , pouring forward to crush the andacious destroyer of his stores . 
Jackson did not wait to be assailed . 
He attacked -- and a bloody engagement continued until after night . 
Jackson would be attacked on the next morning by the whole Federal army . 
He seemed to have made up his mind to stand at bay , and fight whatever force assailed him -- leaving the rest to Providence . 
When Jackson received this intelligence he drew a long breath , his brow cleared , and he rose erect in his saddle , as if a heavy weight was raised from his shoulders . 
It was not long , however , before the Federal artillery was withdrawn at a gallop ; Longstreet 's men rushed through ; and , as the sun rose , the long glittering lines of bayonets were seen steadily advancing to take position on Jackson 's right . 
Jackson 's line -- the left wing -- was in front of Sudley Ford ; Longstreet 's -- the right wing -- running across the Warrenton turnpike . 
It was the Federal forces which now attacked from the direction of Manassas , and Jackson who stood with his back to Sudley Ford . 
Such were the magnificent results accomplished by the great flank movement of Jackson . 
Now he saw the face of `` Jackson 's men '' -- and his star went down in blood . 
Onthe day succeeding this desperate conflict , Jackson , whose column was pressing toward Centreville , directed me to find Stuart , and accompany him in a movement which he was making to the rear of the enemy . 
`` I am crowding 'em with artillery ; * and , if Stonewall does n't hurry up , there will be nothing for him to do . '' 
`` He is coming right on , General . '' 
Jackson 's column was already pressing forward , and when I joined him he was sitting upon the ground , with his back against a tree , his chin upon his breast , his hands crossed over his bosom , fast asleep . 
The enemy 's sharpshooters were firing rapidly near by , but he slept tranquilly . 
* An hour or two afterward he had pressed on and attacked the enemy near Germantown , on the Oxhill road . 
Jackson was calmly watching the contest , when a courier from one of his Generals came up and brought a message to the effect that the rain had made the powder wet , and his command could not continue the engagement . 
`` Tell him to hold his ground , '' was Jackson 's reply . 
Atnightfall Jackson had driven the enemy before him , with heavy loss , including two of their best officers -- Generals Kearney and Stevens ; and at dawn on the next morning the troops advanced upon Fairfax Court-House . 
Here is an outline : From Frederick City , Jackson was sent to make a detour , by way of Williamsport and Martinsburg , to the rear of Harper 's Ferry , where there were about eleven thousand Federal troops and a large amount of artillery . 
While General Lee was opposing the advance of McClellan at South Mountain , Jackson was closely investing Harper 's Ferry . 
When he had ringed it round with artillery and opened upon it from every side , the Federal commander lost heart , and surrendered his eleven thousand men and seventy-three guns . 
Jackson 's heavy arm had fallen . 
The place was in his hands , and , leaving a portion of his force to hold it , he returned by a forced march to Sharpsburg , where General Lee had concentrated his whole available force to fight McClellan . 
Jackson , on our left , sustained the brunt of the attack . 
At the moment when Jackson 's column approached Williamsport , on his march to Harper 's Ferry , I was sent back to General Lee , then beyond the South Mountain , with a message . 
`` Jackson ought to be beyond Williamsport by this time -- Longstreet near Hagerstown , and Walker in position on Loudoun Heights . 
with the air of a man who wishes to talk , and said philosophically : `` There are very few ` fatal advantages ' in war , Major -- and I assure you that , with adversaries like Lee and Jackson , nothing in the future ever seems certain to me . 
Jackson is detached , and I shall probably attack General Lee before he comes up . '' 
`` That was a movement worthy of Lee 's brain and Jackson 's arm . 
Now let us talk of Jackson . 
We thought nothing of him at West Point , and here he is taking the wind out of all our sails . 
Were you with him in his Valley campaign ? '' 
I could only ascertain that his forces were pressing forward toward Boonsboro ' and Crampton 's Gap , and that he intended , if possible , to bring General Lee to an engagement before he was re-enforced by Jackson . 
When you see Jackson , present my respects to him , and tell him that I hope to meet him at Philippi . '' 
On the left , Jackson had held his ground with that stubborn and unconquerable resolution which accomplishes every thing . 
Stuart had driven back with his artillery under Pelham the advance to turn Jackson 's flank ; the sun had set , the conflict was over , and all was well . 
Passing along the lines of weary but laughing troops , cooking rations at their camp-fires , I found General Jackson busily masticating a cracker by his fire , and reported the cause of my absence . 
`` Your escape was truly providential , Major , '' he said . 
The Federal commander had massed his forces under Hooker against the left , where Jackson was posted , and the failure of the attack in that portion of the field decided the fate of the day . 
The fighting was desperate , and our loss terrible -- as was that of the enemy , I afterward discovered , especially in officers ; but at nightfall Jackson occupied the ground which he originally held . 
An hour after my arrival , Jackson sent me with a message to Stuart , all his other staff-officers being absent on duty . 
I found the commander of the cavalry lying under a tree , on his red blanket , by the camp-fire , laughing and talking with his staff . 
His enormous physical organization never seemed to break down ; at all hours , in all weather , under every fatigue , Stuart was the same superb war-machine , which nothing could affect . 
Two Major-Generals had thus chanted the boy 's praises , and those Major-Generals were called Jackson and Stuart ! 
At the end of October , Jackson followed Longstreet , and approached the little village of Millwood . 
Stuart had already crossed the Blue Ridge , to guard the gaps , as the army moved -- and I accompanied him , by Jackson 's permission , to capture , if possible , a better horse than that of my Dutch prisoner . 
† `` I believe I will go and see old Stonewall , '' he said . 
McClellan had advanced , but Jackson had halted . 
While the Federal commander was streaming toward the Rappahannock , Jackson remained idle near Millwood . 
Who could tell at what moment the formidable Stonewall Jackson would put his column in motion , hasten through Ashby 's Gap , and strike the Federal rear , while Lee attacked in front ? 
This land and this people Jackson loved more than all the rest ; and there was not a face that did not glow with pleasure , or an eye that did not look brighter at his coming . 
His corps was full of young men from this very region -- the Second Regiment , indeed , was almost made up of brave youths born here -- and their mothers , sisters , and cousins constantly visited the camps . 
Jackson caught the flashing glance of the admiring eyes , colored slightly , saluted , and rode on , followed by those sparkling eyes . 
At least she had seen him ! 
Jackson was on the march . 
The long-continued cheering was succeeded by the glitter of bayonets , the tramp of Jackson 's veterans . 
He had marched from Millwood up the Valley , passed the p519-371 Massinutton and Blue Ridge at Newmarket and Thornton 's Gaps , descended from the mountains , and , traversing Orange , followed the plank road through the Wilderness to the woods of the Massaponnax . 
Taking his position on the right of Longstreet 's corps , Jackson prepared for another conflict ; and it soon took place . 
His presence meant combat and victory . 
On his right , extending to Hamilton 's Crossing , is the corps of Jackson , bristling with artillery , posted upon every hillock , especially above the crossing , where the battalions of Walker wait , ready to sweep the plain , when General Franklin rushes forward to turn Lee 's right and drive him back . 
In the woods beyond , Stuart 's cavalry will be drawn up , ready to take part in the battle , if the Southern flank is turned ; and in the great field on Jackson 's right , Stuart will mass his artillery , and -- debarred from charging with his horsemen by the yawning ditches -- show , by the stubborn , daring , and invincible handling of his pieces , that , if he were not the most famous of all cavalry commanders , he would be one of the greatest of artillerists . 
Beforedawn on the morning of the great conflict , Jackson was in the saddle , and , joining General Lee , rode to the right to reconnoitre . 
As the dense fog lifted , and the sun shone through it , the dark Federal lines rushed forward across the plain , and charged Jackson 's front with desperation . 
The column which assailed the right wing , under Jackson , numbered fifty-five thousand men , under Generals Franklin Hooker , and others -- see their reports . 
At Sharpsburg , McClellan decided to overwhelm Lee 's left , and was met by Jackson . 
At Fredericksburg , General Burnside decided to flank and drive back Lee 's right , and found Jackson in his way . 
Jackson met it with his first line . 
This was broken through , and he met it with his second , which completely repulsed the assault . 
Jackson 's whole force in the fight was less than fifteen thousand . 
Jackson had just brought up his second line to repulse the enemy , who had broken through his first , as I have said , when I was sent to General Lee with a message . 
As I turned away after delivering my message , loud cheers came from the right , and , looking across the plain , I saw the Federal line rapidly falling back , hotly pursued by Jackson 's troops , firing volleys as they rushed forward . 
When I reached the crest above Hamilton 's Crossing again , I found Jackson directing the fire of his artillery on the slope of the crest . 
I had never seen him more thoroughly aroused . 
His cheeks were flushed , and his eyes glowed . 
The murderous fire of shot and shell which swept the crest from the crowding batteries of the enemy in front seemed to produce no effect upon him , although men and horses were falling every minute . 
Jackson did not move a muscle . 
`` Major , '' he said , in his brief accents , `` present my compliments to General Stuart , and tell him I am going to advance and attack with the bayonet precisely at sunset . 
† As I rode back , expecting at every instant to be hurled from the saddle by the round-shot which swept the plain , I saw the sun poised like a ball of fire upon the woods , and then to the right and left , from Jackson and Stuart , came the redoubled thunders of the charge . 
As night fell , the enemy retreated from Jackson 's front , and Stuart pushed forward , `` crowding 'em with artillery , '' as he had promised . 
In front of Marye 's Hill , the Federal assault had been re pulsed , as upon the right -- and though for some reason which I never could clearly understand , Jackson did not make his intended charge with the bayonet and drive the enemy into the river , the victory was none the less perfect . 
Why was a force so considerable unable to drive Jackson from his position ? 
Jackson was up during the whole night ; and about midnight an orderly woke me , to say that the General wished to see me . 
Jackson rose quickly , and his face exhibited strong feeling . 
`` Tell General Gregg I will be with him immediately , '' he said ; and , summoning his servant , he ordered his horse to be saddled at once . 
As soon as the animal was ready he mounted , and , making a sign to me to follow him , rode rapidly , guided by the young officer , to General Gregg 's head-quarters . 
I only saw , as the tent-flap fell , a pale face , some bleeding bandages , and a weak hand held out , as Jackson , with flushed face , hastened to the sufferer 's side . 
But , when Jackson at length came out , there were traces of tears in his eyes , and for some time he rode on in silence . 
As he went on through the darkness , I saw him more than once raise his right arm aloft , with that singular gesture habitual to him , and look upward , with lips moving . 
He was praying for the friend about to die . 
At last he seemed to banish these gloomy feelings , and by an effort of the will return to the hard routine of business . 
`` Major , '' he said , `` I wish you to ride to General Stuart 's head-quarters , and request him to send Major Pelham to me . 
And he mounted his horse and rode with me back to Jackson 's head-quarters . 
We reached Jackson 's head-quarters , and Pelham was received with that cordial pressure of the hand which the General bestowed upon those who were favorites with him . 
I knew the opinion which he had formed of Pelham , from their first meeting on the day of Cold Harbor , and now saw that Jackson had a higher regard for him than ever . 
His object in sending for the young artillerist was a proof of this . 
He wished him to direct and superintend , in person , the fortification of his line for the next day 's battle ; * and , as soon as he had possessed himself of the General 's views , Pelham energetically applied himself to the work . 
Heavy details were placed at his orders ; he superintended and directed the work throughout the night , without further orders ; and at dawn the task was finished . 
When Jackson inspected , in the morning , the defences which had thus arisen like magic , he said to General Stuart , who accompanied him : `` Have you another Pelham , General ? 
Jackson 's sojourn there will form a pleasant chapter in that life of him which , sooner or later , will be written by a competent person . 
He occupied first a small outbuilding -- a sort of office -- hung round with pictures of race-horses , game-cocks , and terriers tearing rats . 
One day when Stuart came to see the General , he said : `` I intend to have a drawing made of this room -- game-cocks , terriers , and all -- and label it , `` View of the head-quarters of the famous Stonewall Jackson , showing the tastes and propensities of the individual ! '' 
At these jests of the great cavalier , Jackson always laughed heartily . 
He had conceived a very great regard and affection for Stuart -- as a cavalry officer , he ranked him above all others in that arm of the service . 
One day a little girl admired it , and , drawing her to him , Jackson tore off the rich braid , placed it like a coronet upon her curls , and enjoyed the delight which his gift occasioned the child . 
About this time General Jackson was made Lieutenant-General ; his staff went up one grade ; and it seemed good to the War Department to send Major Surry the appointment of Lieutenant-Colonel and A. A. G. -- than which rank he never got any further during the war . 
On the Federal side , scarcely a single commander who had met Jackson remained . 
Lee and Jackson still stood immovable on the banks of the Rappahannock . 
All that was left was Jackson 's corps , and about ten thousand troops from Longstreet 's . 
But the names of these two men were Lee and Jackson . 
* His words . 
† His words . 
I had the honor of being stared at by the prisoners when the name of Jackson was thus uttered , as Mosby had been . 
`` And Jackson agrees with you . '' 
Sedgwick had also crossed at Fredericksburg , to hold Lee in check there ; and Jackson had drawn up his corps to meet him . 
On Thursday evening , however , it became apparent that General Sedgwick 's movement was merely a demonstration to cover Hooker 's main advance above , and Jackson was ordered to leave one division at Fredericksburg , and with the rest move rapidly toward Chancellorsville . 
Jackson moved at midnight , on Thursday , toward Chancellorsville , and at daylight reached the Tabernacle Church , within a few miles of the place , where he was joined by a division and two brigades under Anderson , which had fallen back before the enemy from the Rappahannock . 
As soon as he received this re-enforcement , and all was ready , Jackson formed line of battle across the plank-road leading through the Wilderness , and steadily advanced to assail the enemy . 
Hooker was a veritable tiger in his lair -- Lee would attack at his peril -- and Jackson soon found that he could not drive his adversary from this formidable stronghold . 
His advance came speedily in contact with the enemy 's works , and a hurricane of shell tore through the ranks , inflicting considerable loss . 
To advance and charge the works was absolutely impossible -- the thickets were impenetrable -- and , after carrying on a desultory warfare for some hours , Jackson gave up the attempt to assail Hooker from that quarter , and waited for the arrival of General Lee . 
The commanding general arrived at nightfall , having left only a small force to hold the heights of Fredericksburg ; and Jackson and himself were speedily in consultation . 
It was under these circumstances that Jackson suggested an attempt to turn , by a swift and secret march , the right flank of the enemy west of Chancellorsville , while another column attacked in front . 
Colonel Pendleton , the chief of staff , informed me that this suggestion was Jackson 's -- and it was adopted by General Lee . 
Jackson , weary with his hard day 's fighting , and his long and anxious consultation with General Lee , stretched himself flat upon his breast , by a camp-fire , beneath a tree , and seemed about to fall asleep . 
During this time , I thought that General Jackson was asleep , and , in moving the logs on the fire to make the blaze brighter , did so carefully , in order not to awake him . 
As I was thus engaged , I heard him say in a tone of unusual softness : `` I am not asleep , Colonel -- you do not disturb me . '' 
He sighed , and gazed thoughtfully into the fire . 
he said , in a low voice . 
Yes , ` Fool Tom Jackson , ' '' he added , in a soft , musing tone , `` and all because I made prayer and religious exercises my main occupation . 
exclaimed Jackson . 
`` Well , I keep you awake , Colonel , '' said Jackson , after a long pause ; `` and I expect we shall need all our energies for the scenes of to-morrow . 
As I took in at a glance the dusty cavalry boots , the dingy coat , the old battered sabre which lay by his side , and the faded cap which had halffallen back from his broad brow , edged with its short dark hair , it was only as a weary , hard-worked soldier that Jackson appeared to me . 
The General then gave me a message to Stuart , who was making a reconnoissance over the route which Jackson would advance by , on the next morning ; and , having received the litter -- some bearers were procured -- and , amid bursting shell , which filled the moonlit sky above with their dazzling corruscations , we slowly bore the wounded General on , through the tangled thicket , toward the rear . 
As we approached Melzi Chancellor 's , a staff-officer of General Hill recognized Jackson , and announced that Hill had been wounded by the artillery fire which had swept down the turnpike . 
Jackson rose on his bleeding right arm , and exclaimed : `` Where is Stuart ! '' 
Stuart , clad in his `` fighting jacket , '' with the dark plume floating from his looped-up hat , reining in his foaming horse , while the moonlight poured on his martial features ; and before him , on the litter , the bleeding form of Jackson , the face pale , the eyes half-closed , the bosom rising and falling as the life of the great soldier ebbed away . 
`` Yes , '' came in a murmur from the pale lips of Jackson , as he faintly tried to hold out his hand . 
Then his cheeks suddenly filled with blood , his eyes flashed , and , half rising from the litter , he exclaimed : `` Oh ! 
murmured Jackson , falling back ; `` follow your own judgment -- I have implicit confidence in you ! '' 
`` You will not need them , '' murmured Jackson ; `` to-night or early to-morrow you will be in possession of Chancellorsville ! 
`` The watchword in the charge shall be , ` Remember Jackson ! ' '' 
At ten o'clock next morning he had stormed the intrenchments around Chancellorsville ; swept the enemy , with the bayonet , back toward the Rappahannock ; and as the troops , mad with victory , rushed through the blazing forest , a thousand voices were heard shouting : `` Remember Jackson ! '' 
The great form of Jackson has disappeared from the stage . 
The form of Jackson had vanished from the scene : that king of battle had dropped his sword , and descended into the tomb : from that moment the star of hope , like the light of victory , seemed to sink beneath ebon clouds . 
A body laid in state in the Capitol at Richmond , the coffin wrapped in the pure white folds of the newly-adopted Confederate flag ; a great procession , moving to the strains of the Dead March , behind the hearse , and the war-horse of the dead soldier ; then the thunder of the guns at Lexington ; the coffin borne upon a caisson of his own old battery , to the quiet grave -- that was the last of Jackson . 
Dead , he was immortal ! 
Did I really hear the voice of Jackson , and the laughter of Stuart , in those glorious charges , on those bloody fields ? 
Jackson , that greater than the leader of the Ironsides -- Stuart , more fiery than Rupert of the Bloody Sword -- Ashby , the pearl of chivalry and honor -- Lee , the old Roman , fighting , with a nerve so splendid , to the bitter end -- these were surely the heroes of some dream , the forms of an excited imagination ! 
Hear that burst of thunder , like the opening roar of battle -- Jackson is advancing ! 
