`` Hold , Renault ! '' 
`` Renault , the Quadroon ! 
`` Vive , Renault ! '' 
Thy hand , Renault ! 
Let us be friends , brave Renault . '' 
no Renault ; no quadroon ! 
`` No , Renault ! 
`` Nay , good Renault , I need not thy arm . 
`` Thou hast , in defending me , placed thy life in peril , brave Renault , '' said the president ; `` leave me , lest your blood be on my head ! '' 
`` Be it so , Renault , '' answered the president , with emotion ; `` the time has at length come for gray hairs to learn wisdom from youth , and councillors to be led by the son of a bondwoman . 
Nay , Renault , I would not offend thee by my words ! 
With a groan of suffering , and uttering , with an execration , the name of `` Renault , '' the creole fell back fainting among his friends , while the stranger retired as suddenly as he had appeared . 
I am her brother ; she is dearer to me than liberty or life ; and he who dares insult her with lawless passion hath not an hour 's lease of life if Renault the Quadroon cross his path ! '' 
When he had ceased , he asked earnestly , `` What meanest thou by a Quadroone , brave Renault ? 
There was a brief silence on the part of both , and then the cavalier , taking his arm , said , `` Let her sleep , Renault ! 
`` Renault , forgive me , for my youth and for her peerless beauty ! 
I will not offend again , '' said the young man , observing his sensibility , and with difficulty appreciating his quick emotions ; but he had to learn , what Renault too painfully knew , that his admiration could be none other than guilty , and to herself infamy ; that in the cradle the mark of degradation is placed upon the brow of the Quadroone , and that , in the richness of her womanhood , no man can look upon her with honourable love . 
Reclining at length thereon , and supporting his face in his hand , he looked up into the ingenuous countenance of the quadroon as he leaned against the casement , and said , `` Proceed , noble Renault ! 
said the other , with a comprehensive glance ; `` proceed , good Renault ! 
`` I will not be angry , Renault ; for doubtless thou hast excuse , in thy condition , for this hasty jealousy . '' 
`` Renault ! '' 
Renault acknowledged it with a grateful look , and then continued : `` The number of quadroones in this city and province is large for the population : they are beautiful , attractive , and fascinating -- '' `` That I will asseverate , on my honour , '' said the Spaniard , with youthful enthusiasm , as he recalled the beauty of Azèlie . 
`` They are also rich , with few exceptions , '' continued Renault , without noticing his words , save by a frown . 
Renault clinched his hand , and laughed with ironical bitterness as he said this ; then , leaving the casement , he made two or three rapid strides before it ere he resumed his attitude . 
`` You speak not of the male quadroons -- of the brother -- of yourself , Renault , '' said the Spaniard , after waiting until he had recovered his composure . 
is this thing so , Renault ? '' 
`` Explain , Renault ! '' 
At length , after taking a few rapid turns through the apartment , Renault said , with composure , `` Now , signor , thou knowest if I have cause to guard my sister as if she were the jewel of my own honour ! 
`` Renault , upon my honour , you have my warmest sympathy , '' said the youth , in a tone that won confidence , and bore witness to the truth of the words he uttered . 
`` Bless you for it , Renault . 
`` And this , noble Renault , created a diversion in thy favour ? '' 
`` I can not thank thee in words that will express my feelings , dear Renault , '' said the youth , rising and embracing him with grateful enthusiasm . 
`` It may be so , '' said Renault , musingly . 
`` Nay , Renault , let me not detain thee . 
`` So , Renault , it is well ! 
Brave Renault , I honour and esteem you . 
`` Nay , Renault , I would share with thee in thy brotherly task of protecting her . '' 
`` We will speak of this more anon , Renault . 
`` He is a leader of a party of some fifty young creoles , '' said Renault , turning back at his remarks ; `` most of them are of good families , who voluntarily took up arms three years ago in defence of the city , when Spain made her first demand of surrender . '' 
`` You speak ambiguously , Renault . '' 
`` Methinks there is something like conspiracy hidden beneath your words , Renault . 
Thy absence this night , Renault , on my life , hath something to do with recovering the city . '' 
`` Stay , good Renault . 
Renault accepted it with thanks , pressed his hat low over his brows , and strode , with the firm and manly step of a freeman rather than a slave , from the apartment . 
`` Renault -- '' `` Renault ! 
It is ever Renault ! 
Thy brother Renault hath become too independent ; he spurns my authority , and would control thee as if thou owed obedience nowhere else ! 
Renault shall send him away ere the day end . 
`` Dearest Renault , I should die to labour under your suspicions . 
`` You have seen her , then , Renault ! '' 
The maturer mind of Renault was deeply impressed by her narration . 
`` Come in , Renault , '' said the richly-toned voice of his mother . 
`` What have you come for , Renault ? '' 
For a few moments Renault stood lost in thought . 
She gave him her soft , elegant hand , the fingers of which glittered with diamonds , and said with a smile , which came like a flash of sunlight on her face -- for lightning is scarce quicker than the changes of passion in the quadroone -- `` You have done well , Renault . 
Attend to thy own affairs , Renault , abroad , and leave Azèlie to me . 
`` It was , Renault . 
`` Of whom speakest thou , Renault ? '' 
Methought I slept within a bower in the garden , when I was awakened by a voice , which said , ``` Renault , dost thou love thy sister ? ' 
Renault ! 
The Quadroone uttered a wild shriek , and , burying her face in the pillow , her whole frame became convulsed -- with what feeling , whether of terror , of rage , or of despair , or all three united , Renault could not tell . 
`` Nay , Renault , thou art not to blame ; Heaven hath done this thing . 
`` No , Renault , I would be alone , '' she said , firmly . 
and Renault hath been its instrument ! 
She continued to reflect , now calmly , now with excitement , upon the events related , and at length began to weigh in her mind , as the impressions were gradually weakened by the scale of probability , the circumstances of Renault 's relation . 
As she remembered he said it was a dream , her fears strangely lessened ; and the supernatural influence that at first so vividly affected her sensibility , lost its power , till finally she was ready to attribute the whole to one of those unaccountable contingencies of place , time , and events , which occasionally occur , as if to bewilder the human mind ; or , thought she , Renault , by some intelligible means unknown to her , might have acquired a knowledge of some mysterious connexion between her and a sorceress -LRB- which it was now plain there had been -RRB- , and made use of it to accomplish his own ends by the influence it would probably have over her . 
Renault had not been absent half an hour , before nearly every trace of the emotions he had awakened had subsided , though they were not wholly eradicated . 
There yet remained sufficient traces of superstitious fear to ensure , at least for the present , the fulfilment of her promise to him , that Azèlie should be subject to his control . 
WhenRenault left the presence of his mother , he traversed , with a hasty step , the corridor to the broad portal which led from the street to the inner court . 
As he approached the passage , his horse , which stood in a recess beside the closed gates ready saddled , neighed a recognition of his approach , and pawed the paved floor with impatient hoofs . 
`` It will ` fore you get to ` um barrier , young Mas Renault . 
But I have had all made strong again , as you bade me , Mas ' Renault , '' concluded Paul , as he unlocked the tall folding gates of oak . 
`` All is still in the street , Mas ' Renault , '' he said , closing the window , and opening one half of the gate ; for this , like all other entrances in the houses of the creoles , was a porte cochère , constructed to admit volantes , the only carriage then in use , to pass from the street into the quadrangle , around which were situated the apartments of the mansion . 
`` Thou seest our new rulers keep a quiet town , nevertheless , '' said Renault , as he tightened the rein , and settled himself firmly in his saddle ; `` I shall return in a few hours . 
Drawing his sword and laying it across his saddle-bow , Renault then struck his spurs into the horse 's sides , and bounded through the dark arch into the moonlit street just as the clock in the Cathedral tower tolled one . 
repeated the soldier , still more sternly ; and , although Renault saw that the muzzles of a dozen muskets were ready to cover his body , he rode on in the direction the figure had taken . 
eagerly demanded Renault of the sergeant of the guard , who came forth with a paper in his hand . 
`` Draw no bolt , soldier , I do not go forth , '' said Renault , seeing him preparing to let him out . 
returned Renault , and flew forward in the direction indicated . 
In the hovel , by the side of which Renault had hastily secured his horse , and which , if he gave it a thought , he supposed to be uninhabited , so rudely was it constructed of the fragments of the edifice over which he had climbed , were seated , when he dismounted in pursuit of the gray figure , no less personages than Gobin the First and his new friend and ally Boviedo , the disgraced and unhorsed trumpeter of the captain-general 's guard . 
Hast thou ne'er heard of my cousin Renault the Quadroon ? 
Here 's to cousin Renault the Quadroon . '' 
`` It is the horse I promised thee , gossip , '' cried Gobin , with ready quickness , instantly recognising Renault 's steed . 
At this instant , the cunning and ever-watchful Gobin chanced to see the plume of Renault waving above the ruined wall ; and , prompted by the subtlety and mischief inherent in his nature , instantly vanished behind a projection of the ruin , and left his fat companion to the tender mercies of the animal 's master . 
The broad back of the unfortunate trumpeter was turned towards the direction from which Renault was approaching , and he was , moreover , too busily engaged in the achievement of getting into the saddle to give heed to anything but his own footing , the while most tenderly soothing the horse , with many a Spanish diminutive of kindness , to induce him to remain quiet . 
demanded Renault , with a slight smile , his hostile manner at once changing on seeing the fat , oily body of Boviedo . 
`` Nay , cousin Renault , he is the greatest rogue in all Spain , and hath been sent to the provinces lest he should corrupt the kingdom with his iniquities and diabolities , '' cried Gobin , suddenly making his appearance on hearing this appeal . 
demanded Renault , when Gobin had finished his testimony to the astounded Boviedo 's honesty . 
`` See thou follow me , '' cried Renault to Gobin , as he mounted his horse . 
`` The bottle is wellnigh emptied , worthy Gobin , '' insinuated Boviedo , taking the capacious jug from the ground , where the fool had dropped it on seeing Renault , and holding it up between his face and the moon . 
Here , taking a long look after his late companion , who was gliding swiftly along the wall of the street in the direction taken by Renault , he closed the door behind him and disappeared within the ruinous tenement . 
Renault hastily gave the countersign , galloped with unchecked speed across the avenue that connected the barrier with the Place d' Armes , and entered the dark lane into which he had been about to turn when first challenged from the barrier . 
As Renault approached the gloomy building , with its dark , iron-guarded windows , through which the moon shone into tenantless apartments , save that the lizard and the owl abode there , he slackened his rein ; but , without stopping , his horse trotted through beneath the echoing arch , and issued into an area open to the sky , the four sides of which were bounded by the inner walls of the edifice . 
Renault rode across the court to this door , and , without dismounting , took his bugle from his belt , and wound a low , peculiar note upon it . 
`` I am tardy , Jean , '' said Renault , riding past him into a long , paved passage or corridor . 
A handsome young man , dressed precisely like the quadroon , save the addition of a scarlet sash worn across his breast , came forth , and warmly welcomed Renault , who dismounted beside him , giving his horse in charge of one of the young men . 
`` You are well arrived , Renault , '' said the youth . 
Renault entered the hall as he spoke , and four hundred swords clashed together in the air to welcome him , but not a voice was heard ; it was one martial ringing of steel alone , such as would make a soldier 's blood leap . 
Renault waved his sword in acknowledgment , and then , while every eye was fixed in silent expectation upon the two , walked apart with the young man he had called Charleval to a recess , where stood an elderly soldier leaning upon his sword , beneath whose military hat were visible the noble features of the president of the council . 
`` Osma 's night-landing hath defeated our plans utterly , '' answered Renault , with mortification ; `` there is no alternative but retreat . '' 
`` My brother Jules hath more than this to answer for , '' answered Renault . 
In the first demand made by Spain three years before for the submission of Orleans , Renault had made himself conspicuous by cutting down the Spanish flag after the Count of Osma had hoisted it upon the flagstaff . 
Among the warmest movers for , and subsequent supporters of , the electoral government , was the young quadroon Renault , who also was the most direct and formidable opponent of the young Caronde . 
He hated Renault also , naturally enough , because he was his brother , and had Moorish blood in his veins ; but he hated him most for his virtue , and the superior rank he held in men 's minds . 
He garnered up vengeance in his soul , and fed upon it ; and , knowing Renault 's heart 's dearest idol , he resolved -LRB- not that the lawless passion which the beauty of Azèlie kindled in his thoughts was not incentive enough -RRB- to couple his vengeance with his lust , and with the same blow gratify the two deepest feelings of his bosom . 
Renault knew the heart of his brother well , and hated him , as the good man hates sin , with a virtuous and indignant hatred , and free from any mixture of vengeance . 
Lest he should visit upon the city , in alliance with the Ladrones , some retributive mischief , the councillors had appointed a municipal guard , consisting of one hundred quadroons under Renault , and one hundred and fifty young creoles under Sieur Charleval , the son of a noble exiled friend of the Marquis of Caronde , and of whom the marquis became guardian on the death of his father . 
Between himself and Renault there existed a firm friendship , which had been formed on the eventful day Osma had been so disgracefully driven back to his ship . 
It was the silence of the council that imboldened him , aided by a few of his former adherents among the lower class of citizens , who furnished him and his friends with weapons to attack Renault , unsuspicious of danger , in the public thoroughfare , and subsequently to assail his dwelling , for the prupose of seizing Azèlie and bearing her away to his stronghold . 
This latter step was only required to rouse the lion in the breast of Renault , and arm him with the deadliest hostility towards the author of it . 
This hostile and untimely slaughter in the Place d'Armes , by inducing the captain-general , Osma , to land his troops and take possession of the city by night , also defeated a plan for his disputing his anticipated occupation of the town by daylight , which had been formed by the patriotic Renault and Charleval , with the consent and aid of the president and council . 
The plan had been conceived by Renault when the council was first called together by the missive of the captain-general ; and he secretly sent a messenger , none other than Gobin himself , with a sprig of myrtle to every young man who had composed his former command under the marquis , as well as to those who constituted the municipal guard , and who were denominated courreurs du bois , from the resemblance of their costume to that of the Mexican hunters . 
Hither Renault himself instantly repaired , after conveying the wounded Don Henrique to his dwelling , and found four hundred of the bravest spirits in the province , with Charleval at their head , ready to receive him . 
`` If we are defeated , Renault ? '' 
I will marshal the men , and be ready to gallop to the Place d'Armes at a word , '' cried Renault to Charleval . 
After Alfrède had related what he had discovered on his arrival in the Place d'Armes , and stated the number of troops to be at least one thousand men , and then , in fewer words , mentioned the part he had acted in getting possession of the two flags , he himself , with the president Sieur d'Alembert , Renault , and one or two of the subordinate officers , retired apart to consult upon the step to be taken for the expulsion of the Spaniards before they should extend their power from the city over the whole province . 
Renault passed the intervening hours until twelve o'clock in preparations for the contemplated movement , and then hastened , as has been seen , to see and bid a good-night to Azèlie , in whose charge he had left the wounded youth . 
The doors opening into the court were swung back , and , with Renault , the president , and Charleval at its head , the spirited cavalcade wound around the fountain , their line moving half in the light and half in the shade cast from the spreading palm-tree . 
Renault then gave the command to ride forward . 
It was their determination , therefore , to ride against the barrier , carry it at the sword 's point , and gallop through to the interior ; a course Renault determined upon only as an alternative to one less likely to arouse the city , which , for the sake of those in it , he desired should rest in quiet so long as the Spaniards would suffer its repose . 
At the same instant he beheld before him Renault , galloping across the avenue leading from the gate , and heard the quick challenge and reply as he disappeared in the lane . 
Cousin Renault should ha ' lent it me till I get by these enemies . 
Gobin , who had not got eighty yards from the post , instantly fell with a loud shriek , rolled over on the ground several times , and then , to the surprise of all , jumped up , and fled along the path taken by Renault with renewed speed , while , at the same instant , the soldier received the sword of his enraged officer deep into his shoulder , and sank , with a heavy groan , to the ground . 
He was at length about to rise up and go towards the old government-house , when he saw the troop approaching , with Renault at their head . 
asked Renault , feelingly , dismounting from his horse beside him . 
`` Slain , cousin Renault ! 
Here Gobin tenderly raised his left hand , and showed Renault the mutilated member . 
Gobin informed him in a few pathetic words , and Renault bade him mount behind him and he would avenge him . 
`` Then rest content , fair cousin , '' said Renault , with playfulness ; `` thou wilt ne'er be the worse for the loss of thy finger joint ; the story of it will be worth to thee a silver penny each one of the seven times an hour thou wilt tell it , if thou canst find listeners so often . 
When thou hearest an ass bray , cousin Renault , know I am among asses , and that the gate is open for thee . '' 
He had not been absent above twenty minutes , when Renault , who , with Alfrède and his whole troop , had been impatiently listening , heard the loud braying of an ass just as he had turned himself in his saddle to give the order to dash forward and surprise the post . 
The whole line was instantly in rapid motion , and , issuing from the shaded lane into the broad avenue , wheeled round the corner and pressed towards the barrier , which Renault and Alfrède both at the same instant saw was open . 
added Renault . 
shouted Renault , as he dashed through . 
`` From the first ; and , returning after he had entered , he sent word by one of our number to our chief , Renault , that peril menaced him . '' 
So I promised the good president when he sent my comrade Martin away for Renault ! '' 
`` Thou wilt do me a kindness , cousin Renault , an ' thou dost ; it is over-full with good wine , and I would let out some to make room for more ; I have many a round goblet to put aneath my belt the night . '' 
Renault glanced in the direction of the column against which Estelle leaned , and then , after a hasty inquiry if any one had passed in or out , and all had remained quiet in the banquet-room , moved across the space towards her . 
The thought nerved her with resolution ; and when Renault , coming up , addressed her in an under but earnest tone , `` Monsieur , would you speak with me ? '' 
`` Yonder is not the way to the banquet-room , monsieur , '' cried Renault , seeing her advance with a quick step towards one of the windows . 
Renault immediately walked down through the hall , speaking a word or two to one here and there , each person addressed at once separating himself from the crowd , and moving towards one of the windows , through which he disappeared . 
Renault -LRB- who had arrived in town from the lake fortress , whither he had ridden at the head of the chief part of his troop in the early morning , but a few moments before the message from Sieur d'Alembert came to him informing him of his suspicions -RRB- , having seen the men he had chosen leave the hall , followed them shortly afterward himself . 
Renault , with a sign for his men to fall in and move with silence after him , followed close to her , his hand upon his sword , not from fear of treachery on the part of his guide , but with the ready grasp of a man who is prepared to use his weapon in open and hostile encounter with a foe . 
`` Comrades , let us take the stranger 's oath , '' said Renault , drawing his sword , and crossing that of Estelle . 
repeated Renault . 
`` Yes , comrades , '' said Renault , over whose mind a sudden suspicion of foul play crossed on finding himself and his men led into this dark chamber as if to an ambush ; `` yes , my brave comrades , be every man 's weapon in his hand , for we know not what nor whom we have to deal with . 
Our president hath done the Spanish noble wrong , '' said Renault , looking in upon the gorgeous festive scene with admiration . 
asked Renault , burning with ardour , his soul filled with horror and indignant surprise at what he saw . 
Methinks it loves most where men hate most , '' answered Renault , surprised at the ardour of his companion . 
`` Your words , signor , are worthy a cavalier , and , heard by a maiden , might win you laurels , '' said Renault . 
said Renault , taking a step backward , and speaking in a gloomy and sad tone of voice . 
`` Now , by my mine honour , I like not that count 's manner well , '' whispered Renault . 
said Renault , involuntarily . 
`` I am ready , '' said Renault , laying his hand upon the door . 
Before Renault could throw open the door , the hand of an Ethiopian slave was upon the throat of each guest , save that of the president , and a gleaming dagger was suspended in the air above their breasts . 
cried Renault , behind the Spaniard 's chair , in a voice not less stern than his own . 
the grateful but astonished councillors looking upon their deliverer as if he had dropped from the skies ; the haughty and indignant bearing of Renault ; the cringing and terrified slaves ; her wonder-stricken and confused father , as he gazed about him , and shrunk beneath the stern glance of the youth ! 
All this she witnessed with mixed feelings of gratitude , joy , and shame ; and deep indeed was the crimson that dyed her cheek when she heard her father thus addressed : `` Sir Spaniard , '' said Renault , sternly , after gazing upon him as if he would convey through his eyes the bitterness of his resentment against the author of the deed he had been the instrument of averting ; `` Sir Spaniard , under Heaven thou art indebted to other causes than thine own mercy for not shedding the blood of seven innocent men with the dagger of the assassin ! 
`` I am the defender of the innocent against a tyrant , '' answered Renault . 
Dismissed from the grasp of their captors , the cringing slaves crowded together at the extremity of the chamber , as if yet expecting death ; while Sulem , who , from the first , had thrown himself upon his face at his master 's feet , rose up at Renault 's bidding , and presented his colossal proportions to the wondering gaze of his band . 
`` Martin , '' said Renault , `` take this Goliath 's cimeter from him . 
Without a word , Sulem surrendered his weapon ; and the impression made on Renault 's mind by his submissive manner was , that there needed but a word from himself to cause him to plunge it into the breast he should have protected with it . 
`` Thou seest , Count of Osma , that thy trustiest arm fails thee now , '' said Renault . 
pursue him not , '' cried Renault to his men . 
Thus speaking , Renault crossed the chamber , drew aside the arras , and exposed a low door , which , by touching a spring , he opened . 
Say to Charleval , '' then added Renault , in a lower tone , `` I will be with him at evening to-morrow , when I shall not return to the city till we ride into it as conquerors and avengers . 
`` Now , Signor Count Osma , '' said Renault , after they had departed , `` inasmuch as I have stepped between thee and thy bloody vengeance , and the victims of thy vindictiveness are beyond thy reach , I will leave thee to the residue of thy feast ; and , by ' r lady ! 
cried Renault , between irony and stern indignation . 
Renault watched these tokens of a tempest within him with a smile upon his lip , which was only wanting to inspire the count with fury . 
Like an enraged tiger ; disdaining his sword , he sprung upon Renault , and fixed his hands upon his throat and breast with the grasp of demoniac vengeance . 
Several of the courreurs du boissprung forward to Renault 's relief , but he restrained them with a look . 
at length cried Renault , who grew flushed in the face with the pressure upon his throat , `` or I shall do thee mortal injury . '' 
gasped Renault . 
But , ere he heard , Renault had released his hold upon the count 's throat , drawn a dagger from his belt , and , holding it above his breast , threatened him with instant death . 
Renault felt it . 
She slightly blushed as she spoke ; and , turning from the handsome eyes of Renault , which were fixed admiringly upon her beauty , she cast herself affectionately upon the breast of her parent , who sternly continued to survey her and the disguise she partly retained in silence , and by his looks seemed to understand its object . 
Renault 's eyes followed her until she disappeared , and he then felt that she had carried away his heart . 
Thus thought Renault as he turned from the door through which she had retired from his ardent gaze . 
Renault cast aside his gloomy reflections , and looked into the speaker 's face with surprise at the words he spoke ; but a glance at his ironical lip , and hard , quiet eye , told him how dangerous was the man with whom he had to do . 
Renault was not taken unawares ; the noise of the moving bolts and the elated voice of the Spaniard prepared him for a hostile surprise . 
While the last word of command was yet on the count 's lip , Renault wound a startling peal on his bugle , and , in answer , had the satisfaction to behold through the door green plumes waving beyond and above the helmets of the men-atarms , and near the door to hear another bugle reply . 
`` Thou hast done well , Sir Spaniard , '' said Renault , haughtily , `` and hast avoided a second scene such as I believe thou wert a party to three years ago ! '' 
The count replied with a look of deadly hostility , and , as Renault led his band from the chamber , he scornfully asked . 
`` My name is Renault the Quadroon . '' 
he exclaimed , with unfeigned surprise , and then added , with a peculiar smile , that had , he knew not why , a most extraordinary effect upon Renault , `` I have lately heard of thee . 
Renault had , with his men , passed through Osma 's minions , and joined the rest of the band without , before the last words of the Spaniard , which rung forebodingly , flashed in their full meaning upon his ear . 
In a compact body the band of courreurs du boismarched down through the hall , which had been nearly deserted by the alarmed citizens on the approach of the men-at-arms , and , gaining the square , mounted their horses and galloped to their rendezvous ; while Renault , on the wings of apprehension and mistrust , rode to his own abode , which he had not entered since his departure a little after midnight of the night before . 
He had formed a plan to avenge himself upon Renault , against whom he concentrated all his displeasure towards his daughter , and his vengeance at being thwarted in the assassination of the judges . 
Traversing half the length of the paved passage along which Estelle had guided Renault and his band , he opened a door at the left , and entered a small but elegant cabinet , with which communicated a sleeping and ante room . 
`` Didst thou not tell me , slave , that this lovely quadroone , Azèlie , had a brother Renault , a youth in great favour with the town 's - people , and of late leader of a party hostile to Spain ? '' 
He was now foiled indeed ; but , inwardly determining that his vengeance should yet have its victims , he banished for the present these reflections , and passed the time until Sulem 's return in the contemplation of the enchanting quadroone , resolving to combine his revenge towards Renault with his passion for her . 
Sulem had heard from the porter of Renault 's pride ; and the count 's knowledge of character plainly told him that the high-spirited youth would scarce resign his sister to an open enemy , though of so high a rank as himself ; and that , in pursuing his passion , he was best bringing about his vengeance . 
Not only dishonour and contempt did he hope to heap upon Renault through his sister , but he was sure never to rest until he had also added his blood . 
`` I heard you had some matter to settle with the quadroon Renault . '' 
`` When thou wert coming from gossiping with Renault 's garrulous porter , '' he answered , significantly . 
At length he exclaimed , `` A guerdon of thanks to this Renault . 
Afterthe departure of Renault from the couch of his sleeping guest , Don Henrique -LRB- for back to this period does the story now return -RRB- , the senses of the wounded cavalier , it has been seen , were lulled to sleep by the soft and distant music of the mandoline and co-mingling voice of Azèlie . 
Thus mused Don Henrique as he sat by the fountain , and his thoughts continued to flow in this current , aided by his recollection of all that Renault had related to him , until , imperceptibly , evening stole over the spot , and he was aroused from his meditations by the first notes of the nightingale singing to an early star . 
Renault suggested it by a word he let fall ! 
I then know thy story from Renault . '' 
Renault was absent , and my mother remained with me , threatening , entreating , and commanding me to submit to the fate she had destined for me . '' 
Knowing the human heart well , she had little doubt of the most triumphant issue of her hopes ; and she now began to look complacently to the consummation of her revenge upon the young Marquis of Caronde , to the punishment of Renault 's pride , and Azèlie 's most singular rebellion . 
During Gobin 's brief absence , Azèlie gave Don Henrique some insight into his singular character , and assured him of his devotedness both to herself and Renault , so far as a creature like him was capable of having fixed attachments . 
Prithee is it not time thy brother Renault were returned ? '' 
Soon he heard the noise of commotion , the tramp of many feet , and plainly distinguished the stern voice of Renault . 
He , however , learned enough to be aware that the councillors had indeed been in danger , and that they had been rescued by some other hand than his own ; and this he knew must have been that of Renault . 
`` Renault hath done this , '' he exclaimed , `` and Osma is his prisoner ! 
He then reascended to the half-open door , and , perforating the intervening arras with the point of his dagger , witnessed the whole subsequent scene , prepared to appear in it if his presence should prove necessary , and , by his influence over Renault , prevent evil consequences from breaking out of this angry state of things . 
The subsequent events all passed under Don Henrique 's observation ; and , while he commended the extraordinary forbearance of Renault , he felt the strongest indignation against the thwarted noble . 
Ah , love hath had a hand in it , '' he added , as he saw Estelle appear , half disguised , and throw herself between her father and Renault . 
`` Perhaps it is this Renault , her brother ? '' 
Don Henrique was seated at the feet of Azèlie , with his sword across his knees , and his disguise still on , recounting the part Renault had taken in the events of the night , yet with his eye fixed watchfully and expectingly on the door communicating from the boudoir with the apartments of the mother . 
`` Renault did . 
`` It is Renault hath done it , signor . '' 
`` Nay , dost thou not expect Renault soon ? '' 
`` And thou needest not fear Renault ; the knowledge of my happiness would be joy to him . 
But Renault -- '' `` Shall follow us . 
See that she have no communication with her brother Renault , and send me word on the instant of his return ! 
`` Gentlemen , '' said Renault , who was received by them with the warmest expressions of joy and gratitude , `` this night 's treachery should teach us caution . 
Leaving the house of the Sieur d'Alembert , Renault then rode rapidly towards the rendezvous , in the hopes of finding there the most of his band of reserve of forty men ; though with some doubts of it , as he had dismissed them to their private quarters on leaving the palace . 
In a few moments afterward every street seemed to give out a horseman , who rode in the direction of the rendezvous ; and in ten minutes Renault galloped forth at the head of thirty young men . 
cried Renault , as they came thundering up to the guardhouse . 
Renault was not yet a quarter of a mile beyond the gates when he heard the sounds of pursuit , and his suspicions left him no room to doubt the cause . 
`` Nay , brave Renault , this may not be ; keep thy horse , and I will remain here . 
`` Now , my brave courreurs , '' said Renault , having given orders to his troop to ride at a less rapid rate , `` on our prudence and courage depend the lives of those venerable men . 
`` Coolly and silently , my comrades , now , '' said Renault ; `` their force can scarcely be twice our own , and , for brave and determined hearts like ours , this is but even battle . 
The pursuing squadron , the same which Rascas ordered out , but which he had commanded to ride on without him , after overtaking and detaching from it the guard to arrest Don Henrique , on discovering Renault 's troop posted in their path , suddenly drew up , and their leader , riding forward a few paces , sounded a parley . 
`` Save my party , no other horse have passed this way within the hour , '' said Renault . 
Chagrined and angry with himself for having suffered the Spaniard to take him thus at vantage , and fearing for the safety of the councillors , Renault instantly rallied his troop , in his turn pursuing the Spanish cavalry , and attacked them while in full career with the most desperate valour . 
All at once Renault , who had fallen to the rear for the purpose of assembling his party to take advantage of a winding in the road to cross the forest and gain the van , heard a shout from the Spanish leader that betrayed the discovery of the pursued . 
Therefore Renault , after giving the command , turned off to the right , followed by his whole troop save three or four that had fallen in the flying contest . 
The appearance of Renault surprised the Spaniards , and , slackening their pace , they came to a halt . 
But Renault , with whose party the fugitives had united , profiting by his former experience , and seeing his only safety was in fighting , anticipated him by leading his own men to the onset ere the Spaniards could get in motion . 
The president fought by the side of Renault ; and the councillors were seen everywhere the fight was thickest , dealing deadly blows . 
Thrice the president had been seized and borne from his saddle , and as many times had Renault , assisted by two or three of his party whom he summoned to his aid , rescued him from their hands . 
`` This determination to take me alive , Renault , '' said the president , `` shows me that , if taken , I am reserved for a worse fate than can await me here . 
said Renault . 
Renault wound a recall upon his bugle , and the remnant of his band gathered round him . 
this Renault once more ! '' 
`` If you have not trouble ere many days from that quarter , I know not the mettle of this Renault . '' 
Osma then rose up , and , after declaring that the Sieur d'Alembert and Renault the Quadroon were also included in their conviction , condemned them to be hanged , and pronounced the confiscation of their estates . 
`` Renault hath been engaged in a sacred duty since the morning . 
Men are flying to arms everywhere , and Renault and thyself may lead full two thousand men against the city . '' 
In a few moments they reached the island , and the messenger was escorted into the fortress ; which , as he passed along , he saw was filled with the adherents of Renault . 
Near his pillow stood Renault , full of grief ; for he loved him as a father , and affection had bound him to his bedside since he first placed him there on reaching the fortress after his escape with him . 
Renault pressed his hand , but could not speak . 
Now promise me , Renault , my son , you will live peaceably under the Spanish rule , nor seek to avenge my death ! '' 
Renault dropped the hand he had so long held , rose from the bedside , and hastily paced the room a few moments without replying , his bosom torn by conflicting emotions . 
`` He will go with the sun , '' answered Renault . 
cried Renault , with mingled grief and indignation . 
`` Art thou in earnest , Renault ? '' 
`` Be it so , Renault , '' answered Charleval , grasping his hand ; `` but we will talk of this anon . 
The interview between De Thoyras and Renault , which grief did not permit him to grant for full two hours after the death of the councillor , was brief , and terminated with Renault 's rejection of his offer of assistance . 
`` Despatch a boat for him , '' said Renault ; `` I fear worse tidings still . 
In a little while Gobin , for the messenger was indeed he , was brought into the presence of Renault . 
`` Gobin , I pray thee deliver speedily and briefly the message thou art charged with , '' said Renault , impatiently . 
The note will scarce give thee more sorry news , gossip Renault . '' 
Renault read it , and with a loud cry of misery and despair , fell forward , and would have quite fallen to the floor but for the sustaining arm of Charleval . 
In less than half an hour , a flotilla of horse-barges left the island , and steered for the main land ; while Renault , full of impatience , his brain burning with the fever of his mind , and incapable of enduring the slow progress of the barges , leaped from a rock into the lake , and swam on horseback before them to the land . 
This reflection extinguished all the emotions of human tenderness and sympathy that had been kindled in his bosom towards her , and inspired him with the determination to make her the victim , as well of his hatred to Don Henrique and Renault as of his passion . 
`` He hath escaped , and this rebel Renault as yet . 
With her heart dwelling upon Renault , whose unintentional praises from her father 's lips filled her with pride and pleasure , and whose image she had fondly cherished with all the devotion of first love , she sought her chamber , from which her startling dream had driven her to seek her father . 
To learn the fate of Renault , for which she trembled on hearing the condemnation and execution of the councillors -LRB- `` by the cabildo , '' as it was told her -RRB- , was also a motive , and a very strong one , that had induced her to leave her room and go to his cabinet . 
At the same instant Renault flew past him , and Azèlie , with a cry of joy , was clasped to his heart . 
he shouted , drawing his sword and rushing on Renault , who still held his sister clasped in his arms . 
`` I did hear so , my lord , '' said Renault , with a sarcastic smile . 
Heaven hath given my sister a virtuous and noble nature ; and , as long as she has a brother to protect her honour , she shall be no man 's leman , '' answered Renault , with indignant animation . 
`` Oh , Renault , protect me , or I am lost , '' cried Azelie , clinging to him , at these words of the count , with wild alarm . 
`` Thou shalt come to no harm , '' firmly said Estelle , who , during the whole scene , had stood beside her with one hand clasping hers , ready to interpose her person bteween her father 's sword and the life of Renault , who , with pain and bitterness , she now , for the first time , learned was descended of a race slavish and degraded . 
Renault heard her , and fixed upon her a look of gratitude . 
he continued , with that tone of malicious meaning that already had aroused the suspicions of Renault . 
demanded Renault , with a quick rush of hot blood to the brain . 
said Renault , after a moment 's suffocating pause , under this bold and confident assertion of his foe . 
`` Well , '' cried Estelle , who listened with feverish eagerness , while Renault stood surveying the governor with a contemptuous look , that told his fearless soul laughed at his power , and scorned his base resort to establish it over Azèlie . 
`` Thou hast well interpreted it , Sir Count , '' answered Renault , while both Estelle and Azèlie turned pale with apprehension ; `` but thou hast not yet exhibited proofs of thy title to the slaves thou wouldst claim . 
`` Thou hast well informed thyself on this matter , signor , '' said Renault , his scornful smile scarcely concealing the filial affection in his eyes . 
`` There is a rich treasure pending on it , '' answered Osma , glancing at Azèlie with a look that caused Renault to grasp more nervously the hilt of his sword ; `` now know that that bill of manumission exists , and was in thy mother 's possession until this evening . 
said Renault , soothingly . 
He released her from his embrace with a kiss , and stooped to pick up the parchment , of which Renault had not made a motion to possess himself . 
Estelle thought her father was changed in his purpose , and , approaching Renault , said quickly , `` I pray thee , signor , depart now with thy gentle sister . 
`` Sweet lady , '' said Renault , `` I feel my sister will ever find in thee both a protector and a friend . 
`` Then God , not thyself , tyrant , shall be our master , '' answered Renault , feeling now assured that the fate of his sister was sealed , and that there was no escape for her but through his own daring . 
shouted Osma , in a fierce tone , attacking him with his sword with a degree of fury that exposed Renault to imminent death , trammelled as he was by the embracing arms of his sister . 
He nevertheless parried several blows with extraordinary skill and self-possession , and kept him at bay till Estelle , springing forward , caught her father 's sword-arm , and clung to it , so that he was unable to use it , and in the act exposed his bosom to the point of Renault 's blade . 
Slave , '' added the count , sternly , addressing Renault , `` deliver up thy weapon and submit . 
Renault cleared this room at a bound , and placed his hand upon the spring of the private postern . 
`` Rid the world of a monster , '' answered Renault , menacing his surviving pursuer with his reeking sword . 
Renault also heard it , and , bending his face over the colourless cheek of his sister , he whispered a few words in her ear , to which she replied by a look of heavenly resignation , though with a slight shudder in her whole frame . 
Pointing to Renault , he cried , `` Ye could come at the shrieks of a wench , but are deaf to the voice of your chief . 
`` Lay not thy hand upon her , Renault ; she is under Heaven 's protection , and will come to no harm . '' 
Renault , who had also indulged hopes of his sister 's escape through her , now gazed upon this extraordinary woman with indignation , and cried out fiercely , `` Who art thou , that triflest with the liberty of a maiden ? 
`` I then challenge thee , in the name of Renault and Azèlie , who are called quadroons , and declared by thee to be thy slaves , to prove thy claim in open tribunal , or ever after hold thy peace ! 
he asked , approaching Renault , who was restrained from farther resistance by a look from the sorceress . 
said the count , as Renault , with his arms haughtily folded and an erect port , passed him between two men-at-arms , who guarded him with naked halberds in their hands . 
Hie thee after my guard , follow them p160-402 to the habitation of the quadroone-mother , and bring me true report of the safeguard thither of this Renault and his sister , and the disposition of the men-at-arms about the house . 
Thewritten message that Renault had received in the fortress from the hand of Gobin , and which had produced such an effect upon him , was couched in these figurative words , and without date or signature . 
`` Hold , Renault ! '' 
said Renault , pausing on the threshold . 
After listening an instant at a door , she boldly threw it open , and Renault , to his surprise , found that he was in a street within the walls . 
asked Renault , abruptly . 
there is the nightingale singing , '' cried Renault , bounding forward . 
Until then , Renault must not be suffered to go free or communicate with his band . 
`` To thine errand quickly , '' she commanded ; and , watching him till he disappeared , returned to the outside of the palace by the way she had entered , and going into the shadow of the tower , where Renault , towards whom her intentions now wore a mysterious complexion , waited with the utmost impatience for her reappearance . 
The Moor was standing on the last step of the stone staircase as the sorceress , with Renault by her side , mounted the flight of steps . 
In a moment afterward , Renault , whose feet were winged by the loud voice of the infuriated count as he seized upon Estelle to separate her from his victim , was in the presence of the Spaniard at the very crisis of the most imminent peril . 
Renault felt happy even as a prisoner when he reflected that Azèlie was safe , and that , ere she could fall a victim to the deferred passion of a lawless tyrant , she might yet be offered up a sacrifice on the shrine of virgin purity . 
From the gate of Renault 's dwelling , whither she had accompanied the palanquin , the sorceress took her way in the direction of the bounds of the city ; and entering the mansion from which she had issued with Renault , in a few seconds was outside of the walls , walking with rapid strides towards a group of horsemen , who seemed to have rode near the town for the purpose of reconnoitring . 
It was Charleval , the companion in arms of Renault , who , during the hour 's mysterious absence of his friend and chief , had become so impatient as to meditate setting fire to the gates and entering the city , believing he must have been betrayed by the mysterious being who had commanded him to follow her . 
The others of the group were De Thoyras , who had arrived after Renault 's departure with forty chasseurs , Gobin , and the trumpeter Boviedo , the two latter mounted upon the same steed ; Gobin having generously restored to his paunchy friend the animal of which he had despoiled him , on finding him , upon his return from the fortress , sitting on the ground where he had cast himself , sadly bewailing his loss . 
`` If thou art the chief in the absence of Renault , '' she continued , addressing the impatient Charleval , `` it is with thee my business lies . 
Renault was admitted by me through a secret passage and conducted to the palace . 
Know that , defeated in possessing Azèlie , he hath claimed both herself and Renault to be slaves , and by a certain parchment hath sworn to make good his claim . 
The thousand savage warriors Renault informs me you have sent for will be here by the fifth night . 
`` The friend of Renault and Azèlie . 
`` 'T is enough ; Renault hath spoken to me of thee , and himself trusted thee . 
Osma slept on his guilty pillow ; Estelle was in her chamber , but seated by the lattice in her nightrobe , thinking of Renault , and devising some plan for his escape . 
In twenty minutes afterward Don Henrique had Azèlie folded in his arms , whom at length he released only to receive the fraternal embrace of Renault . 
Estelle sat by her lattice until long after twelve , communing with herself upon the fate of Renault and of his sister ; but the former was uppermost in her thoughts ; and each moment love for the handsome and spirited youth grew stronger in her heart from that it fed upon . 
Then speaking to a soldier , she demanded to be directed to the residence of Renault the Quadroon . 
The danger of Renault and his sister had inspired her to take a step at which she now trembled with maidenly shame and hesitation . 
She was about to lift it , when the voice of Renault within arrested her hand as suddenly as if it had been paralyzed . 
`` Can that fatal parchment by no means be taken from him , Renault ? '' 
`` I wish it could be done , '' said Renault ; `` I have little faith in her ; for I have thought that my arrest is owing to her . 
`` Renault , '' answered Don Henrique , seriously , `` from some words that fell from the sorceress , who seems to know all things hidden from common eyes , I do not believe thee to be a quadroon . '' 
Don Henrique and Renault both sprang to their feet on seeing an intruder enveloped to the brow in a Spanish roquelaure , with a broad sombreroflapping over his eyes . 
`` Nay , Don Henrique , '' she said , turning with instinctive delicacy to the young Spaniard , instead of addressing herself to Renault , `` be not alarmed ! 
She removed the hat and dropped the mantle from her shoulders as she spoke , but not before Renault had recognised the disguise , and the voice that no disguise could hide from his true ear . 
Renault stood by silent and sorrowful . 
With a smile she then advanced towards him ; and with a graceful dignity of manner , and an open frankness , yet modesty of speech that was extraordinary , said , `` Noble Renault , I have unawares overheard your words in which you confessed your love for the daughter of your foe . 
`` Dearest and most noble lady , '' said Renault , kneeling at her feet , `` thou hast made me the happiest of beings . 
`` I need not ask from thee wherefore thou hast lingered here , under plea of being wounded , Sir Cavalier , '' she retorted , glancing her eyes from himself to Azèlie , who betrayed so much ingenuous confusion at her significant words , that Estelle , after admiring her a moment , suddenly changed the current of ideas by saying abruptly , yet playfully , to Renault , `` Think not , signor , I came hither to declare my love to thee ! 
`` We are prisoners and unarmed , dearest lady , '' said Renault ; `` flight were impossible . '' 
`` Fair Estelle , '' said Don Henrique , after seeing from Renault 's face that his opinion was the same with his own , `` this plan may be feasible , yet it is attended with great danger . 
It is this that would lead me to aid the escape of both , that whatever evil this dreadful woman hath ready to pour upon his head may be averted -- '' `` And fall upon the heads of Renault and Azeliè , '' said Don Henrique , with bitter reproof . 
Thou hast confessed thy interest in Renault . 
The parchment of manumission which he now holds must be obtained , and placed in Renault 's possession . '' 
Such a decision will be unjust and without law , and Renault and Azèlie will have the sympathy of the people on their side . 
A decision supported by the parchment would meet , notwithstanding the popularity of Renault , with their passive acquiescence . '' 
`` It shall be done , '' said Estelle , firmly , after a moment 's reflection , during which she underwent a keen and trying conflict between her filial duty and her love for Renault . 
She left them after saying this , and in half an hour afterward the fatal parchment was in the possession of Renault . 
Some one hath purloined from my escritoir the parchment of manumission on which I would base my claim upon this Renault and his sister . 
It is not enough for him that he hath left me here with two miserable slaves , and , at the head of my band , gone playing the traitor by siding with this Ethiopian Renault ! 
If thisbe love , then Jules Caronde loved the haughty sister of the quadroon Renault , '' he said , with a laugh of derision . 
`` Renault is my prisoner , in keeping for the trial ! '' 
In desiring the possession of Azèlie , thou hast only Renault 's pride and arrogance to humble ! 
`` Then , if this degradation be effected , '' pursued the count , `` and Renault thereby humbled , it will matter little to thee who is the instrument of it . 
If they disappoint us , we must be sacrificed along with Renault to-morrow , or rescue him . '' 
Charleval , now the chef courreurin Renault 's place , leaving De Thoyras in command , sprang into a barge , accompanied by the three remaining frèresthat had followed De Thoyras to Renault 's standard , and whom he had made his lieutenants , and crossed the lake to the main to meet his allies . 
Renault had cast off the filial reverence which had hitherto so distinguished him ; and , though a prisoner in his own house , and daily in her presence , treated her with cold and stern indifference ; within the hour she had encountered his silent , reproving , yet contemptuous glance as he passed in and out of her apartment . 
The calm and settled vindictiveness of his looks betrayed his consciousness that he held his own judgment in his own hands , while the scorn with which he surveyed the imposing display he had made for the trial told that he felt it was to be but a masquerade of justice , and that he looked upon the whole as an amusing pageant , to which he had consented to gratify his vanity and manifest his power , while it should make more signal and public the degradation and infamy both of Renault and Azèlie . 
At the same instant , from one of the long Venetian windows that opened upon the corridor , guarded by a file of Spanish soldiers , appeared Renault , with Azèlie supported upon his arm . 
Renault smiled haughtily while the count was speaking , who , on his part , with malicious pleasure , secretly marked his confident demeanour , supposing it to be grounded on his knowledge of the loss of the parchment to which he alluded , only the lower to sink his hopes when he should find the equivalent resource he had at command . 
`` He may not , Sieur Reggio , '' said Renault , taking a folded parchment from his breast , and holding it unrolled before the tribunal . 
Renault 's heart leaped to his throat , and Azèlie could scarcely repress a shriek at this command . 
`` Thou dost acknowledge , then , thy son Renault and thy daughter Azèlie to be the slaves of the Lord of Osma ? '' 
To these words Renault and Azèlie listened , now with hope when he mentioned acquittal , then with poignant despair when he alluded to a new ground on which to base his claim to hold them in bondage . 
Jules rose , and , supporting himself with his remaining hand on the arm of the chair , said in a low tone , that was expressive of the bitter vindictiveness which had brought him to the hall of judgment , `` Signors , as the only son and heir to the title and French estates of the late Marquis of Caronde , and in absence of any evidence to prove the manumission of the prisoners Renault and Azèlie , I hereby claim them as my slaves by virtue of my father 's purchase of the mother , and according to the letter and spirit of our laws . 
With these words he placed the paper in the hands of the count , and turning , with a hideous smile of anticipated vengeance , his vindictive glance towards Renault , sat down again , wearied with the effort he had made . 
Renault listened to the statement of his deadly foe with growing horror , and heard the decision of the Alfarez realas if a thunderbolt had burst upon his head . 
`` Renault , hold thy hand . 
cried the sorceress , laying her hand upon Renault . 
In his confession , be declared , by his hopes of Divine mercy , that the young man called Renault the Quadroon was his legitimate son by the marchioness his wife , and the young man , known as Jules Caronde , was his son by the quadroone Ninine . '' 
`` Dost thou swear , in the presence of Heaven , that Renault the Quadroon is the son of the Marchioness Caronde ? '' 
she commandingly added , pointing to Renault . 
Jules ground his teeth , and the count , with a laugh , turned on his heel , while the sorceress , with her withered finger still stretched towards Renault , kept her full eye upon the writhing features of the chasseur chief . 
Renault had heard the testimony of the vicar-general , listened to the reading of the confession and to the subsequent opinion of the judges , with silent amazement and incredulity , which each moment gave way to the full head of proof that met his doubts : doubts not because the evidence was weak , but that the truth was too great for his belief . 
I am still thy brother -- still Renault to thee . '' 
`` I am thy slave , Renault ! '' 
At this moment an individual , who had some time stood within hearing , wrapped in a cloak and wearing his hat low over his brows , stepped up , and , pressing Renault 's hand , said , in a low tone of voice , `` I congratulate thee , my noble marquis ! 
Thy place here is now better supplied by me , '' he added , receiving the hand of Azèlie from that of Renault . 
`` It is the opinion of this tribunal , '' now said Reggio , rising with dignity , `` that Renault , lately called the Quadroon , is the rightful heir of the late Marquis of Caronde , and can , therefore , be no slave ; but , on the other hand , is a free citizen and a noble-born gentleman . '' 
At these words Estelle instinctively gave utterance to a cry of joy , and in the presence of the whole assembly rushed forward , half way met by Renault , and was clasped to his true and manly heart . 
`` If my Lord of Osma , '' continued the judge , after a moment 's pause , `` presses the claim , Jules , lately known as the Marquis Caronde , may be clearly proven to be his slave , inasmuch as he now stands in the position the most noble Renault , marquis of Caronde , so lately occupied . 
He forbore the blow , and with the assistance of Renault and the alguazil mayor , finally succeeded in tearing him from his mother . 
It was followed by the tearful eyes both of Azèlie and Renault ; for to the one she was still a mother , and to the other she had ever been as one . 
His troubled eye rested often on Estelle , pale and almost lifeless in the arms of Renault . 
Thus speaking , Montejo drew back a step for the royal herald to advance , when , recognising beneath his disguise Don Henrique standing beside Azèlie , who , with Renault and the sorceress , were deeply intent upon the development of events , he , with a cry of surprise and grateful joy , cast himself into his embrace . 
Renault and the sorceress , understood what was passing in his heart . 
Renault also , after the mourning for her father was over , became united to Estelle . 
Gobin was taken to France under the especial protection of Renault , and being by him presented at court , without the aid of his friend Boviedo , was long known at Versailles as the rarest jester and wittiest fool of his time . 
