Pendennis had had a piece of University education too , and might have pursued that career with great honour , but that in his second year at Cambridge his father died insolvent , and poor Pen was obliged to betake himself to the pestle and apron . 
He had for some time a hard struggle with poverty ; and it was all he could do to keep the shop and its gilt ornaments in decent repair , and his bed-ridden mother in comfort : but Lady Ribstone happening to be passing to the Rooms with an intoxicated Irish chairman who bumped her ladyship up against Pen 's very door-post , and drove his chair-pole through the handsomest pink-bottle in the surgeon 's window , alighted screaming from her vehicle , and was accommodated with a chair in Mr. Pendennis 's shop , where she was brought round with cinnamon and sal-volatile . 
His meals were served at the same minute every day , and woe to those who came late , as little Pen , a disorderly little rascal , sometimes did . 
However frisky they were before , mother and child were hushed and quiet when Mr. Pendennis walked into the drawing-room , his newspaper under his arm ... And here , while little Pen , buried in a great chair , read all the books of which he could lay hold , the Squire perused his own articles in the `` Gardener 's Gazette , '' or took a solemn hand at picquet with Mrs. Pendennis , or an occasional friend from the village . 
And though the Doctor , when he did not know his Horace , or could not construe his Greek play , said that that boy Pendennis was a disgrace to the school , a candidate for ruin in this world , and perdition in the next ; a profligate who would most likely bring his venerable father to ruin and his mother to a dishonoured grave , and the like -- yet as the Doctor made use of these compliments to most of the boys in the place , -LRB- which has not turned out an unusual number of felons and pickpockets , -RRB- little Pen , at first uneasy and terrified by these charges , became gradually accustomed to hear them ; and he has not , in fact , either murdered his parents , or committed any act worthy of transportation or hanging up to the present day . 
Many of the seniors were in love , and showed each other in confidence poems addressed to , or letters and locks of hair received from , young ladies -- but Pen , a modest and timid youth , rather envied these than imitated them as yet . 
He had not got beyond the theory as yet -- the practice of life was all to come . 
Before he was twelve years old and while his mother fancied him an angel of candour , little Pen had heard talk enough to make him quite awfully wise upon certain points -- and so , Madam , has your pretty little rosy-cheeked son , who is coming home from school for the ensuing Christmas holidays . 
Well -- Pen had just made his public appearance in a coat with a tail , or cauda-virilis , and was looking most anxiously in his little study-glass to see if his whiskers were growing , like those of more fortunate youths his companions ; and , instead of the treble voice with which he used to speak and sing , -LRB- for his singing voice was a very sweet one , and he used when little to be made to perform `` Home , sweet Home , '' `` My pretty Page , '' and a French song or two which his mother had taught him , and other ballads for the delectation of the senior boys , -RRB- had suddenly plunged into a deep bass diversified by a squeak , which when he was called upon to construe in school set the master and scholars laughing -- he was about sixteen years old in a word , when he was suddenly called away from his academic studies . 
It was at the close of the forenoon school , and Pen had been unnoticed all the previous part of the morning till now , when the Doctor put him on to construe in a Greek play . 
Pen had made a sad blunder or two -- when the awful Chief broke out upon him . 
He remembered having stood under that very pillar where Pen the younger now stood , and having been assaulted by the Doctor 's predecessor years and years ago . 
Pen looked up and saw who was his deliverer ; the Major beckoned to him gravely with one of his white gloves , and tumbling down his books , Pen went across . 
Young Pen saw by his uncle 's face that something had happened at home . 
Pen went off quickly to his boarding-house to do as his uncle bade him ; and the Doctor , now left alone in the school-room , came out to shake hands with his old schoolfellow . 
As Flora put her nose up to his waistcoat , and Ponto , yelling with pleasure , hurtled at his chain , Pen patronised the dogs , and said , `` Poo Ponto , poo Flora , '' in his most condescending manner . 
The Doctor wrote his opinion that it was most important for Arthur 's success in after-life that he should know a Greek play thoroughly , but Pen adroitly managed to hint to his mother what a dangerous place Greyfriars was , and what sad wild fellows some of the chaps there were , and the timid soul , taking alarm at once , acceded to his desire to stay at home . 
Then Pen 's uncle offered to use his influence with His Royal Highness the Commander-in-Chief , who was pleased to be very kind to him , and proposed to get Pen a commission in the Foot Guards . 
Pen 's heart leaped at this : he had been to hear the band at St. James 's play on a Sunday , when he went out to his uncle . 
What would not Pen have given to wear such epaulettes and enter such a service ? 
Now Pen would have as soon cut off his nose and ears as deliberately , and of aforethought malice , made his mother unhappy ; and , as he was of such a generous disposition that he would give away anything to any one , he instantly made a present of his visionary red coat and epaulettes and his ardour for military glory to his mother . 
Pen had a very good mare , and rode her with uncommon pluck and grace . 
He took his fences with great coolness , and yet with judgment , and without bravado . 
He wrote to the chaps at school about his top-boots , and his feats across country . 
He began to think seriously of a scarlet coat : and his mother must own that she thought it would become him remarkably well ; though , of course , she passed hours of anguish during his absence , and daily expected to see him brought home on a shutter . 
With these amusements , in rather too great plenty , it must not be assumed that Pen neglected his studies altogether . 
He had a natural taste for reading every possible kind of book which did not fall into his school-course . 
It was only when they forced his head into the waters of knowledge that he refused to drink . 
He devoured all the books at home from Inchbald 's Theatre to White 's Farriery ; he ransacked the neighbouring book-cases . 
He and the Vicar were very good friends , and from his Reverence , Pen learned that honest taste for port wine when distinguished him through life . 
And as for that dear good woman , Mrs. Portman , who was not in the least jealous , though her Doctor avowed himself in love with Mrs. Pendennis , whom he pronounced to be by far the finest lady in the county -- all her grief was , as she looked up fondly at Pen perched on the book-ladder , that her daughter , Minny , was too old for him -- as indeed she was -- Miss Mira Portman being at that period only two years younger than Pen 's mother , and weighing as much as Pen and Mrs. Pendennis together . 
In order to keep Mr. Pen from indulging in that idleness of which his friend the Doctor of the Cistercians had prophesied such awful consequences , Mr. Smirke , Dr. Portman 's curate , was engaged at a liberal salary , to walk or ride over from Clavering and pass several hours daily with the young gentleman . 
He was a decent scholar and mathematician , and taught Pen as much as the lad was ever disposed to learn , which was not much . 
For Pen had soon taken the measure of his tutor , who , when he came riding into the court-yard at Fairoaks on his pony , turned out his toes so absurdly , and left such a gap between his knees and the saddle , that it was impossible for any lad endowed with a sense of humour to respect such an equestrian . 
He nearly killed Smirke with terror by putting him on his mare , and taking him a ride over a common , where the county fox-hounds -LRB- then hunted by that staunch old sportsman , Mr. Hardhead , of Dumplingbeare -RRB- happened to meet . 
Mr. Smirke , on Pen 's mare , Rebecca , -LRB- she was named after Pen 's favourite heroine , the daughter of Isaac of York , -RRB- astounded the hounds as much as he disgusted the huntsman , laming one of the former by persisting in riding amongst the pack , and receiving a speech from the latter , more remarkable for energy of language , than any oration he had ever heard since he left the bargeroen on the banks of Isis . 
Pen never liked to halt , but made his tutor construe when he was at fault , and thus galloped through the Iliad and the Odyssey , the tragic play-writers , and the charming wicked Aristophanes -LRB- whom he vowed to be the greatest poet of all -RRB- . 
Besides the ancient poets , you may be sure Pen read the English with great gusto . 
But Pen was a sworn fire-worshipper and a Corsair ; he had them by heart , and used to take little Laura into the window and say , `` Zuleika , I am not thy brother , '' in tones so tragic that they caused the solemn little maid to open her great eyes still wider . 
She sat , until the proper hour for retirement , sewing at Mrs. Pendennis 's knee , and listening to Pen reading out to her of nights without comprehending one word of what he read . 
He read Shakspeare to his mother , -LRB- which she said she liked , but did n't , -RRB- and Byron , and Pope , and his favourite Lalla Rookh , which pleased her indifferently . 
But as for Bishop Heber , and Mrs. Hemans above all , this lady used to melt right away , and be absorbed into her pocket-handkerchief , when Pen read those authors to her in his kind boyish voice . 
It was at this period of his existence , that Pen broke out in the Poets Corner of the County Chronicle , with some verses with which he was perfectly well satisfied . 
His are the verses signed `` NEP. , '' addressed `` To a Tear ; '' `` On the Anniversary of the Battle of Waterloo ; '' `` To Madame Caradori singing at the Assize Meetings ; '' `` On Saint Bartholomew 's Day , '' -LRB- a tremendous denunciation of Popery , and a solemn warning to the people of England to rally against emancipating the Roman Catholics , -RRB- & c. , & c. -- all which masterpieces , Mrs. Pendennis no doubt keeps to this day , along with his first socks , the first cutting of his hair , his bottle , and other interesting relics of his infancy . 
On that day Pen made his first speech at the Blue Hotel : and also , it appears , for the first time in his life -- took a little more wine than was good for him . 
what a scene it was at Fairoaks , when he rode back at ever so much o'clock at night . 
What moving about of lanterns in the court-yard and stables , though the moon was shining out ; what a gathering of servants , as Pen came home , clattering over the bridge and up the stable-yard , with half-a-score of the Clavering voters yelling after him the Blue song of the election . 
He wanted them all to come in and have some wine -- some very good Madeira -- some capital Madeira -- John , go and get some Madeira , -- and there is no knowing what the farmers would have done , had not Madam Pendennis made her appearance in a white wrapper , with a candle -- and scared those zealous Blues so by the sight of her pale handsome face , that they touched their hats and rode off . 
Besides these amusements and occupations in which Mr. Pen indulged , there was one which forms the main business and pleasure of youth , if the poets tell us aright , whom Pen was always studying ; and this young fellow 's heart was so ardent , and his imagination so eager , that it is not to be expected he should long escape the passion to which we allude , and which , ladies , you have rightly guessed to be that of Love . 
Pen sighed for it first in secret , and , like the love-sick swain in Ovid , opened his breast and said , `` Aura , veni . '' 
Pen began to feel the necessity of a first love -- of a consuming passion -- of an object on which he could concentrate all those vague floating fancies under which he sweetly suffered -- of a young lady to whom he could really make verses , and whom he could set up and adore , in place of those unsubstantial Ianthes and Zuleikas to whom he addressed the outpourings of his gushing muse . 
He read his favourite poems over and over again , he called upon Alma Venus the delight of gods and men , he translated Anacreon 's odes , and picked out passages suitable to his complaint from Waller , Dryden , Prior , and the like . 
That honest lady , sitting down below stairs teaching little Laura to play the piano , or devising flannel petticoats for the poor round about her , or otherwise busied with the calm routine of her modest and spotless Christian life , was little aware what storms were brewing in two bosoms up stairs in the study -- in Pen 's , as he sate in his shooting jacket , with his elbows on the green study-table , and his hands clutching his curly brown hair , Homer under his nose , -- and in worthy Mr. Smirke 's , with whom he was reading . 
`` Andromache 's like my mother , '' Pen used to avouch ; `` but I say , Smirke , by Jove I 'd cut off my nose to see Helen ; '' and he would spout certain favourite lines which the reader will find in their proper place in the third book . 
He drew portraits of her -- they are extant still -- with straight noses and enormous eyes , and `` Arthur Pendennis delineavit et pinxit '' gallantly written underneath . 
And in consequence he was uncommonly kind to Pen . 
He always seemed to be on the point of unbosoming himself to Pen : nay , he confessed to the latter that he had a -- an attachment , an ardently cherished attachment , about which Pendennis longed to hear , and said , `` Tell us , old chap , is she handsome ? 
But Doctor Portman 's curate , heaving a gentle sigh , cast up his eyes to the ceiling , and begged Pen faintly to change the conversation . 
He invited Pen to dine at his lodgings over Madame Fribsby 's , the milliner 's , in Clavering , and once when it was raining , and Mrs. Pendennis , who had driven in her pony-chaise into Clavering with respect to some arrangements , about leaving off mourning probably , was prevailed upon to enter the curate 's apartments , he sent out for pound-cakes instantly . 
It might be a little tedious to him to hear the stories about Pen 's generosity , about his bravery in fighting the big naughty boy , about his fun and jokes , about his prodigious skill in Latin , music , riding , & c. -- but what price would he not pay to be in her company ? 
There was a very blank anchorite repast when Pen dined from home : and he himself headed the remonstrance from the kitchen regarding the deteriorated quality of the Fairoaks beer . 
She was becoming miserly for Pen . 
Pen thought a Pendennis much too grand a personage to stoop so low . 
The Miss Boardbacks , Admiral Boardback 's daughters , -LRB- of St. Vincent 's , or Fourth of June House , as it was called , -RRB- disgusted Pen with the London airs which they brought into the country , from Gloucester Place , where they passed the season , and looked down upon Pen as a chit . 
Do as he might , and ride where he would , the fairy princess that he was to rescue and win , had not yet appeared to honest Pen . 
Upon these points he did not discourse to his mother . 
He had a world of his own . 
Leave him occasionally alone , my good madam , if you have a poet for a child . 
Besides , she had made up her mind that he was to marry little Laura , who would be eighteen when Pen was six-and-twenty : and had finished his college career , and had made his grand tour , and was settled either in London , astonishing all the metropolis by his learning and eloquence at the bar , or better still in a sweet country parsonage surrounded with hollyhocks and roses , close to a delightful romantic ivy-covered church , from the pulpit of which Pen would utter the most beautiful sermons ever preached . 
While these natural sentiments were waging war and trouble in honest Pen 's bosom , it chanced one day that he rode into Chatteries , for the purpose of carrying to the County Chronicle a tremendous and thrilling poem for the next week 's paper ; and putting up his horse according to custom , at the stables of the George Hotel there , he fell in with an old acquaintance . 
A grand black tandem , with scarlet wheels , came rattling into the inn yard , as Pen stood there in converse with the hostler about Rebecca ; and the voice of the driver called out , `` Hallo , Pendennis , is that you ? '' 
Pen had some difficulty in recognising under the broad-brimmed hat and the vast great coats and neckcloths , with which the new comer was habited , the person and figure of his quondam schoolfellow , Mr. Foker . 
A youth who had been deservedly whipped a few months previously , and who spent his pocket-money on tarts and hardbake , now appeared before Pen in one of those costumes to which the public consent , that I take to be quite as influential in this respect as `` Johnson 's Dictionary , '' has awarded the title of `` Swell . '' 
He had a bull-dog between his legs , and in his scarlet shawl neckcloth , was a pin representing another bull-dog in gold : he wore a fur waistcoat laced over with gold chains ; a green cut-away coat with basket-buttons , and a white upper-coat ornamented with cheese-plate buttons , on each of which was engraved some stirring incident of the road or the chase ; all which ornaments set off this young fellow 's figure to such advantage , that you would hesitate to say which character in life he most resembled , and whether he was a boxer en goguette , or a coachman in his gala suit . 
Mr. Foker said , descending from his landau and giving Pendennis a finger `` Yes , this year or more , '' Pen said . 
`` Not at all , '' said Pen , with an air of the utmost consequence . 
`` By gad , sir , I sometimes dream , now , that the Doctor 's walking into me , '' Foker continued , -LRB- and Pen smiled as he thought that he himself had likewise fearful dreams of this nature . -RRB- 
`` asked Pen , and in a tone of such wonder , that Foker burst out laughing , and said , `` He was blowed if he did n't think Pen was such a flat as not to know what coaching meant . '' 
and Mr. Foker began to perform some steps of that popular dance in the inn yard , looking round for the sympathy of his groom , and the stable men Pen thought he would like to go to the play too : and could ride home afterwards , as there was a moonlight . 
So he accepted Foker 's invitation to dinner , and the young men entered the inn together , where Mr. Foker stopped at the bar , and called upon Miss Rincer , the landlady 's fair daughter , who presided there , to give him a glass of `` his mixture . '' 
Pen and his family had been known at the George ever since they came into the country ; and Mr. Pendennis 's carriages and horses always put up there when he paid a visit to the county town . 
`` Have a drop , '' said he to Pen , `` it 's recommended to me by the faculty as a what-do-you-call - 'em -- a stomatic , old boy . 
Poor Pen took a glass , and everybody laughed at the face which he made as he put it down -- Gin , bitters , and some other cordial , was the compound with which Mr. Foker was so delighted as to call it by the name of Foker 's own . 
As Pen choked , sputtered , and made faces , the other took occasion to remark to Mr. Rincer that the young fellow was green , very green , but that he would soon form him ; and then they proceeded to order dinner -- which Mr. Foker determined should consist of turtle and venison ; cautioning the landlady to be very particular about icing the wine . 
Then Messrs. Foker and Pen strolled down the High Street together -- the former having a cigar in his mouth , which he had drawn out of a case almost as big as a portmanteau . 
He went in to replenish it at Mr. Lewis 's , and talked to that gentleman for a while , sitting down on the counter : he then looked in at the fruiterer 's , to see the pretty girl there , to whom he paid compliments similar to those before addressed to the bar at the George : then they passed the County Chronicle office , for which Pen had his packet ready , in the shape of `` Lines to Thyrza , '' but poor Pen did not like to put the letter into the editor 's box while walking in company with such a fine gentleman as Mr. Foker . 
It was in vain that Pen recalled to his own mind what a stupid ass Foker used to be at school -- how he could scarcely read , how he was not cleanly in his person , and notorious for his blunders and dullness . 
Mr. Foker was no more like a gentleman now than in his school days : and yet Pen felt a secret pride in strutting down High Street with a young fellow who owned tandems , talked to officers , and ordered turtle and champagne for dinner . 
He listened , and with respect too , to Mr. Foker 's accounts of what the men did at the University of which Mr. F. was an ornament , and encountered a long series of stories about boat-racing , bumping , College grass-plats , and milk-punch -- and began to wish to go up himself to College to a place where there were such manly pleasures and enjoyments . 
Farmer Gurnett , who lives close by Fairoaks , riding by at this minute and touching his hat to Pen , the latter stopped him , and sent a message to his mother to say that he had met with an old schoolfellow , and should dine in Chatteries . 
The two young gentlemen continued their walk , and were passing round the Cathedral Yard , where they could hear the music of the afternoon service -LRB- a music which always exceedingly impressed and affected Pen -RRB- , but whither Mr. Foker came for the purpose of inspecting the nursery maids who frequent the Elms Walk there , and who are uncommonly pretty at Chatteries , and here they strolled until with a final burst of music the small congregation was played out Old Doctor Portman was one of the few who came from the venerable gate . 
Spying Pen , he came and shook him by the hand , and eyed with wonder Pen 's friend , from whose mouth and cigar clouds of fragrance issued , which curled round the Doctor 's honest face and shovel hat . 
`` An old schoolfellow of mine , Mr. Foker , '' said Pen . 
He did not mind a pipe in his study , but the cigar was an abomination to the worthy gentleman . 
`` I -- I 'm engaged to my friend here , '' Pen answered . 
Pen looked at these individuals with the greatest interest . 
He had never seen an actor before ; and he saw Dr. Portman 's red face looking over the Doctor 's shoulder , as he retreated from the Cathedral Yard , evidently quite dissatisfied with the acquaintances into whose hands Pen had fallen . 
Perhaps it would have been much better for him had he taken the parson 's advice and company home . 
But which of us knows his fate ? 
Pen could not but respect his connoisseur ship as he pronounced the champagne to be con demned gooseberry , and winked at the port with one eye . 
`` A bottle of sherry , a bottle of sham , a bottle of port and a shass caffy , it ai n't so bad , hay , Pen ? '' 
Pen sprang up with very bright eyes , and a flushed face ; and they moved off towards the theatre , where they paid their money to the wheezy old lady slumbering in the money-taker 's box . 
Pen 's eyes opened wide and bright , as Mrs. Haller entered with a downcast look , then rallying at the sound of the applause , swept the house with a grateful glance , and , folding her hands across her breast , sank down in a magnificent curtsey . 
More applause , more umbrellas ; Pen this time , flaming with wine and enthusiasm , clapped hands and sang `` bravo '' louder than all . 
Those who have only seen Miss Fotheringay in later days , since her marriage and introduction into London life , have little idea how beautiful a creature she was at the time when our friend Pen first set eyes on her : and I warn my reader , as beforehand , that the pencil which illustrates this work -LRB- and can draw an ugly face tolerably well , but is sadly put out when it tries to delineate a beauty -RRB- can give no sort of notion of her . 
She was dressed in long flowing robes of black , which she managed and swept to and fro with wonderful grace , and out of the folds of which you only saw her sandals occasionally ; they were of rather a large size ; but Pen thought them as ravishing as the slippers of Cinderella . 
Thus she stood for a minute -- complete and beautiful -- as Pen stared at her . 
`` I say , Pen , is n't she a stunner ? '' 
Pen said . 
As for Pen , he was gone too far for that . 
He followed the woman about and about -- when she was off the stage , it and the house were blank ; the lights and the red officers reeled wildly before his sight . 
He watched her at the side-scene -- where she stood waiting to come on the stage , and where her father took off her shawl : when the reconciliation arrived , and she flung herself down on Mr. Bingley 's shoulders , whilst the children clung to their knees , and the Countess -LRB- Mrs. Bingley -RRB- and Baron Steinforth -LRB- performed with great liveliness and spirit by Garbetts , -RRB- -- while the rest of the characters formed a group round them , Pen 's hot eyes only saw Fotheringay , Fotheringay . 
The curtain fell upon him like a pall . 
He did not hear a word of what Bingley said , who came forward to announce the play for the next evening , and who took the tumultuous applause , as usual , for himself . 
Pen was not even distinctly aware that the house was calling for Miss Fotheringay , nor did the manager seem to comprehend that anybody else but himself had caused the success of the play . 
Her eyes met Pen 's . 
Mr. Foker asked of his companion Pen did not know exactly what Foker said , and answered vaguely . 
Pen did not care for it , or indeed think about the dance , except to remember that that woman was acting with her in the scene where she first came in . 
It was a mist before his eyes . 
At the end of the dance he looked at his watch and said it was time for him to go . 
Pen looked at the bill with one lingering fond hope that Miss Fotheringay 's name might be hidden , somewhere , in the list of the actors of the after-piece , but there was no such name . 
Pen had not been in the habit of passing wakeful nights , so he at once fell off into a sound sleep . 
Well , whatever might afterwards happen to him , poor little Pen was not come to this state yet ; he tumbled into a sound sleep -- did not wake until an early hour in the morning , when the rooks began to caw from the little wood beyond his bed-room windows ; and -- at that very instant and as his eyes started open , the beloved image was in his mind . 
`` My dear boy , '' he heard her say , `` you were in a sound sleep and I would not disturb you : but I have been close by your pillow all this while : and I do n't intend that you shall leave me . 
Was Pen frightened at the summons ? 
Not he . 
He did not know what was coming : it was all wild pleasure and delight as yet . 
And as , when three years previously , and on entering the fifth form at the Cistercians , his father had made him a present of a gold watch which the boy took from under his pillow and examined on the instant of waking : for ever rubbing and polishing it up in private and retiring into corners to listen to its ticking : so the young man exulted over his new delight ; felt in his waistcoat pocket to see that it was safe ; wound it up at nights , and at the very first moment of waking hugged it and looked at it . 
-- By the way , that first watch of Pen 's was a showy ill-manufactured piece : it never went well from the beginning , and was always getting out of order . 
Pen felt himself to be ever so many years older since yesterday . 
He was as much in love as the best hero in the best romance he ever read . 
He told John to bring his shaving water with the utmost confidence . 
He dressed himself in some of his finest clothes that morning : and came splendidly down to breakfast , patronising his mother and little Laura , who had been strumming her music lesson for hours before ; and who after he had read the prayers -LRB- of which he did not heed one single syllable -RRB- wondered at his grand appearance , and asked him to tell her what the play was about ? 
Pen laughed and declined to tell Laura what the play was about . 
Then she asked him why he had got on his fine pin and beautiful new waistcoat ? 
Pen blushed and told his mother that the old schoolfellow with whom he had dined at Chatteries was reading with a tutor at Baymouth , a very learned man ; and as he was himself to go to College , and as there were several young men pursuing their studies at Baymouth -- he was anxious to ride over -- and -- and just see what the course of their reading was . 
Helen Pendennis looked hard at her son , troubled more than ever with the vague doubt and terror which had been haunting her ever since the last night , when Farmer Gurnett brought back the news that Pen would not return home to dinner Arthur 's eyes defied her . 
Pen conducted himself during breakfast in a very haughty and supercilious manner ; and , taking leave of the elder and younger lady , was presently heard riding out of the stable-court . 
Smirke , thinking of his own affairs , and softly riding with his toes out , to give Pen his three hours ' reading at Fairoaks , met his pupil , who shot by him like the wind . 
Pen laughed as they met , pointed towards the Baymouth road , and was gone half-a-mile in that direction before poor Smirke had picked himself up . 
Pen had resolved in his mind that he mustsee Foker that morning ; he must hear about her ; know about her ; be with somebody who knew her ; and honest Smirke , for his part , sitting up among the stinging-nettles , as his pony cropped quietly in the hedge , thought dismally to himself , ought he to go to Fairoaks now that his pupil was evidently gone away for the day . 
Thus love makes fools of all of us , big and little ; and the curate had tumbled over head and heels in pursuit of it , and Pen had started in the first heat of the mad race . 
N6309011 WITHOUT slackening her pace , Rebecca the mare galloped on to Baymouth , where Pen put her up at the inn stables , and ran straightway to Mr. Foker 's lodgings , which he knew from the direction given to him by that gentleman on the previous day . 
On reaching these apartments , which were over a chemist 's shop whose stock of cigars and soda-water went off rapidly by the kind patronage of his young inmates , Pen only found Mr. Spavin , Foker 's friend , and part owner of the tandem which the latter had driven into Chatteries , who was smoking , and teaching a little dog , a friend of his , tricks with a bit of biscuit . 
Pen 's healthy red face fresh from the gallop , compared oddly with the waxy debauched little features of Foker 's chum ; the latter remarked it . 
Of what college was Pen ? 
Mr. Spavin was enabled to know Pendennis 's name , on the card which the latter took out and laid down -LRB- perhaps Pen in these days was rather proud of having a card -RRB- -- and so the young men took leave . 
Then Pen went down the rock , and walked about on the sand , biting his nails by the shore of the much-sounding sea . 
It stretched before him bright and immeasurable . 
The blue waters came rolling into the bay , foaming and roaring hoarsely : Pen looked them in the face with blank eyes , hardly regarding them . 
Pen flung stones into the sea , but it still kept coming on . 
`` Suppose I go on -- on the Chatteries road , just to see if I can meet him , '' Pen thought . 
Pen passed the turning , and rode on to the turnpike without seeing any sign of the black tandem and red wheels . 
So Pen rode to the George , and the hostler told him that Mr. Foker was there sure enough , and that `` he 'd been a makin a tremendous row the night afore , a drinkin and a singin , and wanting to fight Tom the post-boy : which I 'm thinking he 'd have had the worst of it , '' the man added , with a grin . 
`` Show Mr. Pendennis up to ` un , '' and Pen followed the man at last to the apartment , where , in the midst of an immense bed , Mr. Harry Foker lay reposing . 
said Pen . 
-- Did you ever hear him sing ` The Little Pig under the Bed , ' Pen ? '' 
`` The man we met yesterday , '' said Pen , all in a tremor , `` the father of -- '' `` Of the Fotheringay , -- the very man . 
Ai n't she a Venus , Pen ? '' 
I say , Pen , this is n't quite like seven o'clock school , -- is it , old boy ? '' 
Then he added -- `` Go in and talk to the General whilst I dress . 
Pen went off in great perturbation , to meet Mr. Costigan , and Mr. Foker commenced his toilet . 
As soon as he saw Pen he descended from the window-seat and saluted the new comer , first in a military manner , by conveying a couple of his fingers -LRB- covered with a broken black glove -RRB- to his hat , and then removing that ornament altogether . 
`` I hope , Miss F -- , Miss Costigan is well , sir , '' Pen said , flushing up . 
I think , sir -- I think she 's the finest actress in the world , '' he gasped out . 
`` There can not be a more honourable duty , surely , '' Pen said . 
he added , after a pause , and with a pathetic whisper , `` that that Bingley who has made his fortune by me child , gives her but two guineas a week : out of which she finds herself in dresses , and which , added to me own small means , makes our all ? '' 
Before he and Pen had had a half hour 's conversation , the Captain managed to extract a couple of sovereigns from the young gentleman for tickets for his daughter 's benefit , which was to take place speedily ; and was not a bonâ fidetransaction such as that of the last year , when poor Miss Fotheringay had lost fifteen shillings by her venture ; but was an arrangement with the manager , by which the lady was to have the sale of a certain number of tickets , keeping for herself a large portion of the sum for which they were sold . 
Pen had but two pounds in his purse , and he handed them over to the Captain for the tickets ; he would have been afraid to offer more lest he should offend the latter 's delicacy . 
And he straightway poured out to Pen a series of stories regarding the claret drunk , the bets made , the races ridden by the garrison there , with which he kept the young gentleman amused until the arrival of their host and his breakfast . 
Pen and the shabby Captain still walked the street together ; the Captain , in his sly way , making inquiries about Mr. Foker 's fortune and station in life . 
Pen told him how Foker 's father was a celebrated brewer , and his mother was Lady Agnes Milton , Lord Rosherville 's daughter . 
Pen walked on , listening to his companion 's prate , wondering , amused , and puzzled . 
So much pleased was he with the young gentleman , so artless , honest , and cheerful did Pen seem to be , that the Captain finally made him an invitation , which he very seldom accorded to young men , and asked Pen if he would do him the fevor to enter his humble abode , which was near at hand , where the Captain would have the honour of inthrojuicing his young friend to his daughter , Miss Fotheringay ? 
Pen was so delightfully shocked at this invitation , and was so stricken down by the happiness thus suddenly offered to him , that he thought he should have dropped from the Captain 's arm at first , and trembled lest the other should discover his emotion . 
She was the kernel of the world for Pen . 
A couple of the latter were sitting on the door-step , down which you went into the passage of the house ; and they jumped up with great alacrity to meet their lodger , and plunged wildly , and rather to Pen 's surprise , at the swallow-tails of the Captain 's dress-coat ; for the truth is , that the good natured gentleman , when he was in cash , generally brought home an apple , or a piece of gingerbread for these children . 
`` Whereby the widdy never pressed me for rint when not convanient , '' as he remarked afterwards to Pen , winking knowingly , and laying a finger on his nose . 
Pen tumbled down the step , and as he followed his companion up the creaking old stair , his knees trembled under him . 
He could hardly see when he entered , following the Captain , and stood in the room -- in her room . 
Mr. Pen again assented , and the conversation rolled on in this manner . 
`` I 've secured ` um for your benefit , dear , '' said the Captain , tapping his waistcoat pocket , wherein lay Pen 's sovereigns , and winking at Pen , with one eye , at which the boy blushed . 
`` My name is Pendennis , '' said Pen , blushing . 
His heart thumped so as he made this audacious declaration , that he almost choked in uttering it . 
`` Pendennis '' -- she answered slowly , and looking him full in the eyes , with a glance , so straight , so clear , so bright , so killing , with a voice so sweet , so round , so low , that the word and the glance shot Pen through and through , and perfectly transfixed him with pleasure . 
`` I never knew the name was so pretty before , '' Pen said . 
Pen had promised to be at home to dinner at six o'clock , but the rascal thought he could accommodate pleasure and duty in this point , and was only too eager to accept this invitation . 
The `` poy '' arrived from the baker 's in the hands of one of the little choir-boy 's brothers at the proper hour : and at four o'clock , Pen found himself at dinner -- actually at dinner with the greatest tragic actress in the world , and her father -- with the handsomest woman in all creation -- with his first and only love , whom he had adored ever since when ? 
It was prodigiously strong ; Pen had never in his life drunk so much spirits and water . 
Was it the punch , or the punch-maker who intoxicated him ? 
During dinner , when the Captain , whom his daughter treated most respectfully , ceased prattling about himself and his adventures , Pen tried to engage the Fotheringay in conversation about poetry and about her profession . 
Pen explained it was not of her he spoke , but of Ophelia of the play . 
Pen next tried her on Kotzebue `` Kotzebue ? 
Pen laughed at her adorable simplicity . 
He told her of the melancholy fate of the author of the play , and how Sand had killed him . 
It was for the first time in her life that Miss Costigan had ever heard of Mr. Kotzebue 's existence , but she looked as if she was very much interested , and her sympathy sufficed for honest Pen . 
And in the midst of this simple conversation , the hour and a quarter which poor Pen could afford to allow himself , passed away only too quickly ; and he had taken leave , he was gone , and away on his rapid road homewards on the back of Rebecca . 
N6309013 `` How beautiful she is , '' thought Pen , cantering homewards . 
Now the reader , who has had the benefit of overhearing the entire conversation which Pen had with Miss Fotheringay , can judge for himself about the powers of her mind , and may perhaps be disposed to think that she has not said anything astonishingly humorous or intellectual in the course of the above interview . 
She has married , and taken her position in the world as the most spotless and irreproachable lady since , and I have had the pleasure of making her acquaintance : and must certainly own , against my friend Pen 's opinion , that his adored Emily is not a clever woman . 
But what did our Pen know of these things ? 
As he rode down the avenue towards home -- Pen shrieked with laughter as he saw the Reverend Mr Smirke once more coming demurely away from Fairoaks on his pony . 
Pen was full of kindness and triumph . 
he cried out laughing . 
`` She 's a stunner , ma'am , '' Pen said , laughing , and using the words of his revered friend , Mr. Foker . 
So he gave them a queer account of Mr. Foker , and how he used to be called Vats and Grains , and by other contumelious names at school : and how he was now exceedingly rich , and a Fellow Commoner at St. Boniface . 
But gay and communicative as he was , Mr. Pen did not say one syllable about his ride to Chatteries that day , or about the new friends whom he had made there . 
When the two ladies retired , Pen , with flashing eyes , filled up two great bumpers of Madeira , and looking Smirke full in the face said , `` Here 's to her ! '' 
Pen had even less sleep that night than on the night before . 
That charming fever -- that delicious longing -- and fire , and uncertainty ; he hugged them to him -- he would not have lost them for all the world CICERO and Euripides did not occupy Mr. Pen much for some time after this , and honest Mr. Smirke had a very easy time with his pupil . 
Rebecca was the animal who suffered most in the present state of Pen 's mind , for , besides those days when he could publicly announce his intention of going to Chatteries to take a fencing-lesson , and went thither with the knowledge of his mother , whenever he saw three hours clear before him , the young rascal made a rush for the city , and found his way to Prior 's Lane . 
Smirke was about to tell the truth , that he had never seen Mr. Pen at all , when the latter 's boot-heel came grinding down on Mr. Smirke 's toe under the table , and warned the curate not to betray him . 
When informed , under the most solemn vows of secrecy , of Pen 's condition of mind , the curate said , with no small tremor , `` that he hoped it was no unworthy object -- no unlawful attachment , which Pen had formed '' -- for if so , the poor fellow felt it would be his duty to break his vow and inform Pen 's mother , and then there would be a quarrel , he felt , with sickening apprehension , and he would never again have a chance of seeing what he most liked in the world . 
Pen bounced out at the curate 's question `` She is as pure as she is beautiful ; I would give my heart to no other woman . 
He writes something like you , dear Pen , but your 's is much the best . 
Pen said yes , he had ; that night he went to see the `` Stranger . '' 
Pen introduced `` Shakspeare you know , '' because the deceased Pendennis , as became a man of his character , professed an uncommon respect for the bard of Avon , in whose works he safely said there was more poetry than in all `` Johnson 's Poets '' put together . 
And though Mr. Pendennis did not much read the works in question , yet he enjoined Pen to peruse them , and often said what pleasure he should have , when the boy was of a proper age , in taking him and mother to see some good plays of the immortal poet . 
Was Pen happy ? 
We are not going to say a great deal about Pen 's courtship of Miss Fotheringay , for the reader has already had a specimen of her conversation , much of which need surely not be reported . 
Pen sate with her hour after hour , and poured forth all his honest boyish soul to her . 
Everything he knew , or hoped , or felt , or had read , or fancied , he told to her . 
He never tired of talking and longing . 
One after another , as his thoughts rose in his hot eager brain , he clothed them in words , and told them to her . 
Her part of the tête à têtewas not to talk , but to appear as if she understood what Pen talked -LRB- a difficult matter , for the young fellow blurted out no small quantity of nonsense -RRB- , and to look exceedingly handsome and sympathising . 
The fact is , whilst he was making one of his tirades -- and delighted , perhaps , and wondering at his own eloquence , the lad would go on for twenty minutes at a time -- the lovely Emily , who could not comprehend a tenth part of his talk , had leisure to think about her own affairs , and would arrange in her own mind how they should dress the cold mutton , or how she would turn the black satin , or make herself out of her scarf a bonnet like Miss Thackthwaite 's new one , and so forth . 
Pen spouted Byron and Moore ; passion and poetry : her business was to throw up her eyes , or fixing them for a moment on his face , to cry , `` Oh , 't is beautiful ! 
In fact Pen 's passion was not long a secret from the lovely Emily or her father . 
Pen would have been very much pleased if he had heard that phrase -- he was galloping home wild with pleasure , and shouting out her name as he rode . 
So Pen used to come day after day , rushing in and galloping away , and growing more wild about the girl with every visit . 
Sometimes the Captain was present at their meetings ; but having a perfect confidence in his daughter , he was more often inclined to leave the young couple to themselves , and cocked his hat over his eye , and strutted off on some errand when Pen entered . 
There Pen sate and talked -- and talked to Emily , looking beautiful as she sate at her work -- looking beautiful and calm , and the sunshine came streaming in at the great windows , and lighted up her superb face and form . 
In the midst of the conversation , the great bell would begin to boom , and he would pause smiling , and be silent until the sound of the vast music died away -- or the rooks in the cathedral elms would make a great noise towards sunset -- or the sound of the organ and the choristers would come over the quiet air , and gently hush Pen 's talking . 
She was only stupid ; and Pen was madly in love with her . 
The post-horses from the Clavering Arms arrived in due time , and carried the party to the theatre at Chatteries , where Pen was gratified in perceiving that a tolerably large audience was assembled . 
They saluted Pen in a cordial manner , and examined his party , of which they approved , for little Laura was a pretty little red-cheeked girl with a quantity of shining brown ringlets , and Mrs. Pendennis dressed in black velvet with the diamond cross which she sported on great occasions , looked uncommonly handsome and majestic . 
Pen blushed a great deal . 
`` His name is Captain Costigan , ma'am , '' he said -- a `` Peninsular officer . '' 
Pen did not say any more . 
She made the most charming corpse ever seen ; and while Hamlet and Laertes were battling in her grave , she was looking out from the back scenes with some curiosity towards Pen 's box , and the family party assembled in it . 
Little Laura was bewildered by the piece , and the Ghost , and the play within the play , -LRB- during which , as Hamlet lay at Ophelia 's knee , Pen felt that he would have liked to strangle Mr. Hornbull -RRB- , but cried out great praises of that beautiful young creature . 
Pen was charmed with the effect which she produced on his mother -- and the clergyman , for his part , was exceedingly enthusiastic . 
There was a roar of bravos rang through the house ; Pen bellowing with the loudest , `` Fotheringay ! 
and Messrs. Spavin and Foker giving the view halloo from their box Even Mrs. Pendennis began to wave about her pocket-handkerchief , and little Laura danced , laughed , clapped , and looked up at Pen with wonder . 
Hornbull led the bénéficiaireforward , amidst bursts of enthusiasm -- and she looked so handsome and radiant , with her hair still over her shoulders , that Pen hardly could contain himself for rapture : and he leaned over his mother 's chair , and shouted , and hurrayed , and waved his hat . 
It was all he could do to keep his secret from Helen , and not say , `` Look ! 
But he disguised these feelings under an enormous bellowing and hurraying . 
Twinkling in her breast poor old Pen saw a locket which he had bought of Mr. Nathan in High Street , with the last shilling he was worth , and a sovereign borrowed from Smirke . 
If Pen had been alone with his mother in the carriage as they went home , he would have told her all that night ; but he sate on the box in the moonshine smoking a cigar by the side of Smirke , who warmed himself with a comforter . 
Trembling with passionate emotion , his heart beating and throbbing fiercely , tears rushing forth in spite of him , his voice almost choking with feeling , poor Pen had said those words which he could withhold no more , and flung himself and his whole store of love , and admiration , and ardour , at the feet of this mature beauty . 
`` ` Deed then , I think you do , '' said Miss Costigan , perhaps with a sort of pity for Pen . 
Of course here Mr. Pen went off into a rhapsody through which , as we have perfect command over our own feelings , we have no reason to follow the lad . 
At the end of his speech Pen again kissed the imperial hand with rapture -- and I believe it was at this very moment , and while Mrs. Dean and Doctor Portman were engaged in conversation , that young Master Ridley Roset , her son , pulled his mother by the back of her capacious dress and said -- `` I say , ma ! 
There was poor Pen performing a salute upon the rosy fingers of his charmer , who received the embrace with perfect calmness and good humour . 
Mrs. Dean 's countenance defied expression , and as for Dr. Portman , when he beheld the scene , and saw his prime favourite and dear pupil Pen , he stood mute with rage and wonder . 
`` Sure there 's somebody in the Dean 's garden , '' she cried out ; and withdrew with perfect calmness , whilst Pen darted away with his face glowing like coals . 
The garden party had re-entered the house when he ventured to look out again . 
The sickle moon was blazing bright in the heavens then , the stars were glittering , the bell of the cathedral tolling nine , the Dean 's guests -LRB- all save one , who had called for his horse Dumpling , and ridden off early -RRB- were partaking of tea and buttered cakes in Mrs. Dean 's drawing-room -- when Pen took leave of Miss Costigan . 
Pen arrived at home in due time afterwards , and was going to slip off to bed , for the poor lad was greatly worn and agitated , and his high-strung nerves had been at almost a maddening pitch -- when a summons came to him by John the old footman , whose countenance bore a very ominous look , that his mother must see him below . 
Pen saw at once that there was a crisis , and that there had been a discovery . 
`` Now for it , '' he thought . 
said Pen . 
I saw you kissing the hand of that infernal painted '' -- `` Stop , '' Pen said , clapping his fist on the table , till the lamp flickered up and shook , `` I am a very young man , but you will please to remember that I am a gentleman -- I will hear no abuse of that lady . '' 
-- `` In anybody 's presence , '' shouted out Pen . 
`` No , no , Pen , dearest Pen , '' cried out Helen in an excess of joy . 
`` I told , I told you , Doctor , he was not -- not what you thought : '' and the tender creature coming trembling forward flung herself on Pen 's shoulder . 
Pen felt himself a man , and a match for all the Doctors in Doctordom . 
He was glad this explanation had come . 
`` You saw how beautiful she was , '' he said to his mother , with a soothing , protecting air , like Hamlet with Gertrude in the play . 
`` Drunken old reprobate , '' growled the Doctor , but Pen did not hear or heed . 
Pen put on his most princely air . 
`` What else , Dr. Portman , '' he said , `` do you suppose would be my desire ? '' 
Utterly foiled in his attack , and knocked down by this sudden lunge of Pen 's , the Doctor could only gasp out , `` Mrs. Pendennis , ma'am , send for the Major . '' 
Pen , when a boy , had incurred sad disgrace , by carrying off from the Major 's dressing-table a little morocco box , which it must be confessed contained the Major 's back teeth , which he naturally would leave out of his jaws in a jolting mail-coach , and without which he would not choose to appear . 
Pen was not there , however ; only Helen , and little Laura sewing at her knees ; and to whom he never presented more than a fore-finger , as he did on this occasion after saluting his sister-in-law . 
Meanwhile Laura disappeared and wandered about the premises seeking for Pen : whom she presently found in the orchard , pacing up and down a walk there in earnest conversation with Mr. Smirke . 
`` Come in , Pen , '' she said , `` there 's somebody come ; uncle Arthur 's come . '' 
said Pen , and she felt him grasp her little hand . 
He looked round at Smirke with uncommon fierceness , as much as to say , I am ready for him or any man . 
`` Lead on , Laura , '' Pen said , with a half fierce , half comic air -- `` Lead on , and say I wait upon my uncle . '' 
But he was laughing in order to hide a great anxiety : and was screwing his courage inwardly to face the ordeal which he knew was now before him . 
Pen had taken Smirke into his confidence in the last two days , and after the outbreak attendant on the discovery of Doctor Portman , and during every one of those forty-eight hours which he had passed in Mr. Smirke 's society , had done nothing but talk to his tutor about Miss Fotheringay -- Miss Emily Fotheringay -- Emily , & c. , to all which talk Smirke listened without difficulty , for he was in love himself , most anxious in all things to propitiate Pen , and indeed very much himself enraptured by the personal charms of this goddess , whose like , never having been before at a theatrical representation , he had not beheld until now . 
Pen 's fire and volubility , his hot eloquence and rich poetical tropes and figures , his manly heart , kind , ardent , and hopeful , refusing to see any defects in the person he loved , any difficulties in their position that he might not overcome , had half convinced Mr. Smirke that the arrangement proposed by Mr. Pen was a very feasible and prudent one , and that it would be a great comfort to have Emily settled at Fairoaks , Captain Costigan in the yellow room , established for life there , and Pen married at eighteen . 
And it is a fact that in these two days , the boy had almost talked over his mother , too ; had parried all her objections one after another with that indignant good sense which is often the perfection of absurdity ; and had brought her almost to acquiesce in the belief that if the marriage was doomed in heaven , why doomed it was -- that if the young woman was a good person , it was all that she for her part had to ask ; and rather to dread the arrival of the guardian uncle who she foresaw would regard Mr. Pen 's marriage in a manner very different to that simple , romantic , honest , and utterly absurd way , in which the widow was already disposed to look at questions of this sort . 
For as in the old allegory of the gold and silver shield , about which the two knights quarrelled , each is right according to the point from which he looks : so about marriage ; the question whether it is foolish or good , wise or otherwise , depends upon the point of view from which you regard it . 
It pleased her -LRB- with that dismal pleasure which the idea of sacrificing themselves gives to certain women -RRB- , to think of the day when she would give up all to Pen , and he should bring his wife home , and she would surrender the keys and the best bed-room , and go and sit at the side of the table , and see him happy . 
All these doubts the widow laid before Pen during the two days which had of necessity to elapse ere the uncle came down ; but he met them with that happy frankness and ease which a young gentleman exhibits at his time of life , and routed his mother 's objections with infinite satisfaction to himself . 
Mr. Pen , however , was resolved that death must be his doom in case of disappointment , and rather than this -- rather than baulk him in fact -- this lady would have submitted to any sacrifice or personal pain , and would have gone down on her knees and have kissed the feet of a Hottentot daughter-in-law . 
It was on that night , long after midnight , that wakeful Helen , passing stealthily by her son 's door , saw a light streaming through the chink of the door into the dark passage , and heard Pen tossing and tumbling , and mumbling verses in his bed . 
She turned the lock very softly now , and went in so gently , that Pen for a moment did not see her . 
His face was turned from her . 
His papers on his desk were scattered about , and more were lying on the bed round him . 
He was biting a pencil and thinking of rhymes and all sorts of follies and passions . 
He was Hamlet jumping into Ophelia 's grave : he was the Stranger taking Mrs. Haller to his arms , beautiful Mrs. Haller , with the raven ringlets falling over her shoulders . 
Pen looked at her wildly for an instant -- `` I could n't sleep , '' he said -- `` I -- I was -- I was writing . '' 
When then , the Major being dressed and presentable , presented himself to Mrs. Pendennis , he found in the course of ten minutes colloquy that the poor widow was not merely distressed at the idea of the marriage contemplated by Pen , but actually more distressed at thinking that the boy himself was unhappy about it , and that his uncle and he should have any violent altercation on the subject . 
`` Doctor Portman spoke to him rather roughly -- and I must own unjustly , the other night -- for my dearest boy 's honour is as high as any mother can desire -- but Pen 's answer quite frightened me , it was so indignant . 
Recollect he is a man now ; and be very -- very cautious , '' said the widow , laying a fair long hand on the Major 's sleeve . 
And now let Mr. Pen come in , who has been waiting all this while . 
Having strung up his nerves , and prepared himself , without at the door , for the meeting , he came to it , determined to face the awful uncle . 
He had settled in his mind that the encounter was to be a fierce one , and was resolved on bearing it through with all the courage and dignity of the famous family which he represented . 
And he flung open the door and entered with the most severe and warlike expression , armed cap-à-piéas it were , with lance couched and plumes displayed , and glancing at his adversary , as if to say , `` Come on , I 'm ready . '' 
The old man of the world , as he surveyed the boy 's demeanour , could hardly help a grin at his admirable pompous simplicity . 
Major Pendennis too had examined his ground ; and finding that the widow was already half won over to the enemy , and having a shrewd notion that threats and tragic exhortations would have no effect upon the boy , who was inclined to be perfectly stubborn and awfully serious , the Major laid aside the authoritative manner at once , and with the most good-humoured natural smile in the world , held out his hands to Pen , shook the lad 's passive fingers gaily , and said , `` Well , Pen , my boy , tell us all about it . '' 
On the contrary , it quite took aback and disappointed poor Pen , whose nerves were strung up for a tragedy , and who felt that his grand entréewas altogether baulked and ludicrous . 
He blushed and winced with mortified vanity and bewilderment . 
He felt immensely inclined to begin to cry -- `` I -- I -- I did n't know that you were come till just now , '' he said : `` is -- is -- town very full I suppose ? '' 
If Pen could hardly gulp his tears down , it was all the Major could do to keep from laughter . 
And so , having nothing to say , she went up and kissed Mr. Pen : as he thought of her tenderness and soft obedience to his wishes , it is very possible too the boy was melted . 
`` Come , come , '' said he , still grinning at the couple , `` let us have as little sentiment as possible , and Pen , my good fellow , tell us the whole story . '' 
Pen got back at once to his tragic and heroical air . 
But it is , after all then , your fortune which Pen is offering to the young lady ; and of which he wishes to take possession at eighteen . '' 
`` I know my mother will give me anything , '' Pen said , looking rather disturbed . 
Pen held down his head , and began dimly to perceive that the action on which he had prided himself as a most romantic , generous instance of disinterested affection , was perhaps a very selfish and headstrong piece of folly . 
`` I did it in a moment of passion , '' said Pen , floundering ; `` I was not aware what I was going to say or to do '' -LRB- and in this he spoke with perfect sincerity -RRB- . 
And I -- I do n't want to burthen my mother , '' he continued . 
`` I 'll die , I say , rather than forfeit my pledge to her , '' said Pen , doubling his fists and turning red . 
You owe something to your mother , something to your family -- something to me as your father 's representative '' `` Oh , of course , '' Pen said , feeling rather relieved . 
Pen never told his mother a falsehood , '' Helen said . 
Pen hung down his head again , and his eyes filled with tears of shame . 
Had not this whole intrigue been a falsehood to that tender and confiding creature who was ready to give up all for his sake ? 
He gave his uncle his hand . 
`` No , sir -- on my word of honour , as a gentleman , '' he said , `` I will never marry without my mother 's consent ! '' 
Like a wary and patient man of the world , Major Pendennis did not press poor Pen any farther for the moment , but hoped the best from time , and that the young fellow 's eyes would be opened before long to see the absurdity of which he was guilty . 
And having found out how keen the boy 's point of honour was , he worked kindly upon that kindly feeling with great skill , discoursing him over their wine after dinner , and pointing out to Pen the necessity of a perfect uprightness and openness in all his dealings , and entreating that his communications with his interesting young friend -LRB- as the Major politely called Miss Fotheringay -RRB- should be carried on with the knowledge , if not approbation , of Mrs. Pendennis . 
`` After all , Pen , '' the Major said , with a convenient frankness that did not displease the boy , whilst it advanced the interests of the negotiator , `` you must bear in mind that you are throwing yourself away . 
Pen blushed and said , `` Why , yes , he had written . '' 
I suppose you 've tried verses , eh Pen ? '' 
Pen blushed again , and said , `` Why , yes , he had written verses . '' 
Pen blushed again . 
`` You have got the letters there , I see , '' said the old campaigner , nodding at Pen and pointing to his own chest , -LRB- which was manfully wadded with cotton by Mr. Stultz . -RRB- 
`` Why , '' said Pen , twiddling the stalks of the strawberries , `` I -- I , '' but this sentence never finished ; for Pen 's face was so comical and embarrassed , as the Major watched it , that the elder could contain his gravity no longer , and burst into a fit of laughter , in which chorus Pen himself was obliged to join after minute : when he broke out fairly into a guffaw . 
said the Major , putting his arm gaily on Pen 's shoulder , and giving a playful push at the boy 's breast-pocket . 
He then made Pen sing , and was delighted and astonished at the beauty of the boy 's voice : he made his nephew fetch his maps and drawings , and praised them as really remarkable works of talent in a young fellow : he complimented him on his French pronunciation : he flattered the simple boy as adroitly as ever lover flattered a mistress : and when bed time came , mother and son went to their several rooms perfectly enchanted with the kind Major . 
When they had reached those apartments , I suppose Helen took to her knees as usual : and Pen read over his letters before going to bed : just as if he did n't know every word of them by heart already . 
These three letters Mr. Pen used to read at intervals , during the day and night , and embrace with that delight and fervour which such beautiful compositions surely warranted . 
A thousand times at least he had kissed fondly the musky satin paper , mande sacred to him by the hand of Emily Fotheringay . 
This was all he had in return for his passion and flames , his vows and protests , his rhymes and similes , his wakeful nights and endless thoughts , his fondness , fears and folly . 
The young wiseacre had pledged away his all for this : signed his name to endless promissory notes , conferring his heart upon the bearer : bound himself for life , and got back twopence as an equivalent . 
Howbeit , Mr. Pen was content with what tokens of regard he had got , and mumbled over his three letters in a rapture of high spirits , and went to sleep delighted with his kind old uncle from London , who must evidently yield to his wishes in time ; and , in a word , a preposterous state of contentment with himself and all the world . 
Helen did not , or only smiled at the awful pathos with which the Major spoke of the Court Guide in general : but young Pen looked with great respect at the great names upon the superscriptions of his uncle 's letters , and listened to the Major 's stories about the fashionable world with constant interest and sympathy . 
The elder Pendennis 's rich memory was stored with thousands of these delightful tales , and he poured them into Pen 's willing ear with unfailing eloquence . 
He mourned that Lord Eyrie was not in the country , that he might take Pen and present him to his lordship . 
They are not so interesting in print as when delivered orally ; but the Major 's anecdotes of the great George , of the Royal Dukes , of the statesmen , beauties , and fashionable ladies of the day , filled young Pen 's soul with longing and wonder ; and he found the conversations with his guardian , which sadly bored and perplexed poor Mrs. Pendennis , for his own part never tedious . 
It ca n't be said that Mr. Pen 's new guide , philosopher and friend , discoursed him on the most elevated subjects , or treated the subjects which he chose in the most elevated manner . 
But his morality , such as it was , was consistent . 
`` It do n't matter so much in town , Pen , '' he said , `` for there the women go and the men are not missed . 
But if Major Pendennis changed the subject once he recurred to it a score of times in the day : and the moral of his discourse always was , that Pen was throwing himself away . 
Now it does not require much coaxing or wheedling to make a simple boy believe that he is a very fine fellow Pen took his uncle 's counsels to heart . 
He was glad enough , we have said , to listen to his elder 's talk . 
So Pen confessed that he had but those three of which we have made mention -- and that they were but trivial invitations or answers . 
`` She is older than you , my poor boy ; '' and then he apologised with the utmost frankness and humility , and flung himself upon Pen 's good feelings , begging the lad to excuse a fond old uncle , who had only his family 's honour in view -- for Arthur was ready to flame up in indignation whenever Miss Costigan 's honesty was doubted , and swore that he would never have her name mentioned lightly , and never , never would part from her . 
Miss Emily was alarmed when she heard of the arrival of Pen 's guardian , and rightly conceived that the Major came down with hostile intentions to herself . 
In her presence , in that of Miss Rouncy , the Columbine and Milly 's confidential friend of the Company , in the presence of the Captain himself , Pen swore he never could think of any other woman but his beloved Miss Fotheringay ; and the Captain , looking up at his foils , which were hung as a trophy on the wall of the room where Pen and he used to fence , grimly said , he would not advoise any man to meddle rashly with the affections of hisdarling child ; and would never believe his gallant young Arthur , whom he treated as his son , whom he called his son , would ever be guilty of conduct so revolting to every idaya of honour and humanity . 
He went up and embraced Pen after speaking . 
He cried , and wiped his eye with one large dirty hand as he clasped Pen with the other . 
Pen never rode over to Chatteris upon a certain errand , but the Major found out on what errand the boy had been . 
Faithful to his plan , Major Pendennis gave his nephew no let or hindrance ; but somehow the constant feeling that the senior 's eye was upon him , an uneasy shame attendant upon that inevitable confession which the evening 's conversation would be sure to elicit in the most natural simple manner , made Pen go less frequently to sigh away his soul at the feet of his charmer than he had been wont to do previous to his uncle 's arrival . 
There was no use trying to deceive him ; there was no pretext of dining with Smirke , or reading Greek plays with Foker ; Pen felt , when he returned from one of his flying visits , that everybody knew whence he came , and appeared quite guilty before his mother and guardian , over their books or their game at picquet . 
And Mr. Morgan came back by the Rival , too ; so that Pen had the pleasure of that domestic 's company both ways . 
In fact , Pen 's suspicions were not unfounded , and his guardian had sent forth to gather all possible information regarding the lad and his interesting young friend . 
Morgan heard at the George of Pen 's acquaintance with Mr. Foker , and he went over to Baymouth to enter into relations with that gentleman 's man ; but the young student was gone to a Coast Regatta , and his servant , of course , travelled in charge of the dressing-case . 
Even about Pen himself , Mrs. Creed 's reports were desperately favourable . 
It was all true : whatever encouragements might have been given him before he avowed his passion , the prudence of Miss Emily was prodigious after Pen had declared himself : and the poor fellow chafed against her hopeless reserve , which maintained his ardour as it excited his anger . 
`` Nothing can be more desirable for Pen than a virtuous attachment for a young lady of his own rank and with a corresponding fortune -- this present infatuation , of course , I must deplore as sincerely as you do . 
So upon a day when it was arranged that Pen was to dine at home , and pass the evening with his mother , the two elderly gentlemen drove over to Chatteris in the Doctor 's chaise , and there , like a couple of jolly bachelors , dined at the George Inn , before proceeding to the play . 
Both the elderly gentlemen looked at her with extraordinary interest , thinking how very much young Pen was charmed with her `` Gad , '' said the Major , between his teeth , as he surveyed her when she was called forward as usual , and swept her curtsies to the scanty audience , `` the young rascal has not made a bad choice . '' 
He went to the play one night -- for you see I 'm down here readin ' for my little-go during the Long , only I come over from Baymouth pretty often in my drag -- well , sir , we went to the play , and Pen was struck all of a heap with Miss Fotheringay -- Costigan her real name is -- an uncommon fine gal she is too ; and the next morning I introduced him to the General , as we call her father -- a regular old scamp -- and sucha boy for the whisky-and-water ! 
we call him Mondays , Wednesdays , and Fridays , and Pen Tuesdays , Thursdays , and Saturdays . 
Pen 's attentions to her are talked about in the whole Company , and I hear all about them from a young lady who used to be very intimate with her , and with whose family I sometimes take tea in a friendly way . 
Miss Rouncy says , Sir Derby Oaks has been hanging about Miss Fotheringay ever since his regiment has been down here ; but Pen has come in and cut him out lately , which has made the Baronet so mad , that he has been very near on the point of proposing too . 
Wish he would ; and you 'd see which of the two Miss Fotheringay would jump at . '' 
`` She can write , '' said the Major , remembering Pen 's breast-pocket . 
`` If Pen had n't two thousand a-year when he came of age -- '' `` If Pen had n't what ? 
The Major had sunk every shilling he could scrape together on annuity , and of course was going to leave Pen nothing ; but he did not tell Foker this . 
And as the Major went up to his room , and Mr. Foker smoked his cigar against the door pillars of the George , Pen , very likely ten miles off , was lying in bed kissing the letter from his Emily . 
As they sate in confidential conversation in the Dean 's oak breakfast parlour they could look across the lawn and see Captain Costigan 's window , at which poor Pen had been only too visible some three weeks since . 
After him Sir Derby entered , and presently emerged from the same apartment , where he also cased himself in his little shell-jacket , which fitted tightly upon the young officer 's big person ; and which he , and Miss Fotheringay , and poor Pen too , perhaps , admired prodigiously . 
`` So , '' thought he , `` a rival is in the field ; '' and he offered up vows that Sir Derby might be , not only a rival , but a winner too , in this love-match in which he and Pen were engaged . 
It was he who had set Pen upon the idea of sitting in Parliament for the neighbouring borough -- and the poor lad had evidently been bragging on the subject to Costigan and the lady of his affections . 
Then he took down his venerable and murderous duelling-pistols , with flint locks , that had done the business of many a pretty fellow in Dublin : and having examined these , and seen that they were in a satisfactory condition , he brought from the drawer all Pen 's letters and poems which he kept there , and which he always read before he permitted his Emily to enjoy their perusal . 
When , over their dinner , Costigan tried to convince himself and the company , that the Major 's statement regarding Pen 's finances was unworthy of credit , and a mere ruseupon the old hypocrite 's part so as to induce them , on their side , to break off the match , Miss Milly would not , for a moment , admit the possibility of deceit on the side of the adversary : and pointed out clearly that it was her father who had deceived himself , and not poor little Pen , who had tried to take them in . 
The Captain , who , as long as he had a notion that he was wronged , was eager to face and demolish both Pen and his uncle , perhaps shrank from the idea of meeting the former , and asked `` what the juice they were to say to the lad if he remained steady to his engagement , and they broke from theirs ? '' 
And going to a drawer , Miss Fotheringay took out from it a number of the County Chronicle and Chatteris Champion , in which Pen had written a copy of flaming verses celebrating her appearance in the character of Imogen , and putting by the leaf upon which the poem appeared , -LRB- for , like ladies of her profession , she kept the favourable printed notices of her performances -RRB- , she wrapped up Pen 's letters , poems , passions , and fancies , and tied them with a piece of string neatly , as she would a parcel of sugar . 
She tied them up like so much grocery , and sate down and made tea afterwards with a perfectly placid and contented heart : while Pen was yearning after her ten miles off : and hugging her image to his soul . 
Pen did not care somehow to go into the town whilst his uncle was there . 
He did not like to have to fancy that his guardian might be spying at him from that abominable Dean 's grass-plat , whilst he was making love in Miss Costigan 's drawing-room ; and the pleasures of a walk -LRB- a delight which he was very rarely permitted to enjoy -RRB- would have been spoiled if he had met the man of the polished boots on that occasion . 
His modest love could not show in public by any outward signs , except the eyes -LRB- with which the poor fellow ogled and gazed violently to be sure -RRB- , but it was dumb in the presence of third parties ; and so much the better , for of all the talk which takes place in this world , that of love-makers is surely , to the uninitiated , the most silly . 
That is why we decline to publish any of the letters and verses which Mr. Pen wrote at this period of his life , out of mere regard for the young fellow 's character . 
Meanwhile we will respect Mr. Pen 's first outpourings , and keep them tied up in the newspapers with Miss Fotheringay 's string , and sealed with Captain Costigan 's great silver seal . 
Miss Fotheringay laughed with all her heart : a wink of Foker 's would set her off laughing , when the bitterest joke Bows ever made could not get a smile from her , or the finest of poor Pen 's speeches would only puzzle her . 
At the end of the harlequinade he sank down on one knee and kissed her hand . 
`` You 're the drollest little man , '' she said , and gave him a great good-humoured slap . 
Pen used to tremble as he kissed her hand . 
Pen would have died of a slap . 
He touched delicately upon the delicate marriage question , though he could n't help showing that he held Pen rather cheap . 
In fact , he had a perhaps just contempt for Mr. Pen 's high flown sentimertality ; his own weakness , as he thought , not lying that way . 
`` I knew it would n't do , Miss Foth , '' said he , nodding his little head . 
`` Poor little beggar , '' said Bows , with his hands in his pockets , and stealing up a queer look at Miss Fotheringay . 
Perhaps he thought and wondered at the way in which women play with men , and coax them and win them and drop them . 
He gave Pen an emphatic God-bless-you when the lad went to bed ; and as they were about to part for the night , he seemed as if he was going to say something to Mrs. Pendennis , but he bethought him that if he spoke he might spoil her night 's rest , and allowed her to sleep in peace . 
When John , the old servant entered , and discharged the bag of its letters and papers , the Major looked hard at Pen as the lad got his -- Arthur blushed , and put his letter down . 
He told little Laura to go away , which the child did , having a thorough dislike to him ; and as the door closed on her , he took Mrs. Pendennis 's hand , and giving her a look full of meaning , pointed to the letter under the newspaper which Pen was pretending to read . 
he said . 
And she followed him , wondering , into the hall . 
Pen had jumped at his letter the instant they were gone . 
He was reading it with a stupified face . 
Pen read Costigan 's letter and its enclosure mechanically , hardly knowing what was before his eyes . 
Pen said . 
said Pen very fiercely . 
-- Pen broke out with a wild execration . 
`` It 's not that , '' said Pen , burning with shame and rage . 
appealed his mother . 
He actually had brought away Pen 's letters in his portmanteau from Chatteris : having complimented Mr. Costigan , when he returned them by giving him the little promissory note which had disquieted himself and Mr. Garbetts ; and for which the Major settled with Mr. Tatham . 
Pen rushed wildly off to Chatteris that day , but in vain attempted to see Miss Fotheringay , for whom he left a letter , enclosed to her father . 
He cut Pen in the street . 
Foker felt poor Pen trembling on his arm . 
Pen came home and went to bed at eight o'clock , and had a fever . 
As for Pen , he thought he should die . 
We are not going to describe his feelings , or give a dreary journal of his despair and passion . 
Have not other gentlemen been balked in love besides Mr. Pen ? 
Poor Pen had the boxes almost all to himself , and sate there lonely , with blood-shot eyes , leaning over the ledge , and gazing haggardly towards the scene , when Cora came in . 
The eyes , which had overthrown Pen 's soul , rolled and gleamed as lustrous as ever ; but it was not to him that they were directed that night . 
He did not know to whom , or remark a couple of gentlemen , in the box next to him , upon whom Miss Fotheringay 's glances were perpetually shining . 
Nor had Pen noticed the extraordinary change which had taken place on the stage a short time after the entry of these two gentlemen into the theatre . 
There were so few people in the house , that the first act of the play languished entirely , and there had been some question of returning the money , as upon that other unfortunate night when poor Pen had been driven away . 
Pen read the announcement of Miss Fotheringay 's engagement in the Chatteris paper , where he had so often praised her charms . 
Poor Pen and Sir Derby Oaks were very constant at the play : Sir Derby in the stage-box , throwing bouquets and getting glances . 
-- Pen in the almost deserted boxes , haggard , wretched and lonely . 
He came out of his place one night , and went into the house to the box where Pen was ; and he held out his hand to him , and asked him to come and walk . 
They walked down the street together ; and went and sate upon Chatteris bridge in the moonlight , and talked about Her . 
`` We may sit on the same bridge , '' said he : `` we have been in the same boat for a long time . 
said Pen , interested out of himself , and wondering at the crabbed homely little old man . 
The little flaming spark dropped into the water below , and disappeared ; and Pen , as he rode home that night , actually thought about somebody but himself UNTIL the enemy had retired altogether from before the place , Major Pendennis was resolved to keep his garrison in Fairoaks . 
He did not appear to watch Pen 's behaviour or to put any restraint on his nephew 's actions , but he managed nevertheless to keep the lad constantly under his eye or those of his agents , and young Arthur 's comings and goings were quite well known to his vigilant guardian . 
Let that worthy friend recal his own sensations under the circumstances , and apply then as illustrative of Mr. Pen 's anguish . 
perhaps is bigger than ever : very likely some new affection has closed round his heart and ribs and made them comfortable , and young Pen is a man who will console himself like the rest of us . 
We say this lest the ladies should be disposed to deplore him prematurely , or be seriously uneasy with regard to his complaint . 
His mother was , but what will not a maternal fondness fear or invent ? 
Indeed she did not like the subject or to talk of it : her heart had had its own little private misadventure and she had borne up against it and cured it : and perhaps she had not much patience with other folks ' passions , except , of course , Arthur 's , whose sufferings she made her own , feeling indeed very likely in many of the boy 's illnesses and pains a great deal more than Pen himself endured . 
And she watched him through this present grief with a jealous silent sympathy ; although , as we have said , he did not talk to her of his unfortunate condition . 
Pen sometimes took the box at backgammon of a night , or would listen to his mother 's simple music of summer evenings -- but he was very restless and wretched in spite of all : and has been known to be up before the early daylight even : and down at a carp-pond in Clavering Park , a dreary pool with innumerable whispering rushes and green alders , where a milkmaid drowned herself in the Baronet 's grandfather 's time , and her ghost was said to walk still . 
But Pen did not drown himself , as perhaps his mother fancied might be his intention . 
He liked to go and fish there , and think and think at leisure , as the float quivered in the little eddies of the pond , and the fish flapped about him . 
If he got a bite he was excited enough : and in this way occasionally brought home , carps , tenches , and eels , which the Major cooked in the Continental fashion . 
By this pond , and under a tree , which was his favourite resort , Pen composed a number of poems suitable to his circumstances -- over which verses he blushed in after days , wondering how he could ever have invented such rubbish . 
And as for the tree , why it is in a hollow of this very tree , where he used to put his tin-box of ground-bait , and other fishing commodities , that he afterwards -- but we are advancing matters . 
Suffice it to say , he wrote poems and relieved himself very much . 
So were Pen 's . 
But his name , wealth , and honourable lineage were speedily known about Clavering , where you may be sure that poor Pen 's little transaction with the Chatteris actress was also pretty freely discussed . 
How well in after life Pen remembered those effigies , and how often in youth he scanned them as the Doctor was grumbling the sermon from the pulpit , and Smirke 's mild head and forehead curl peered over the great prayer-book in the desk ! 
It may be imagined how great a sensation was created in this amiable little community when the news reached it of Mr. Pen 's love-passages at Chatteris . 
It was carried from house to house , and formed the subject of talk at high-church , low-church , and no-church tables ; it was canvassed by the Misses Finucane and their teachers , and very likely debated by the young ladies in the dormitories for what we know ; Wapshot 's big boys had their version of the story and eyed Pen curiously as he sate in his pew at church , or raised the finger of scorn at him as he passed through Chatteris . 
They always hated him and called him Lord Pendennis , because he did not wear corduroys as they did , and rode a horse , and gave himself the airs of a buck . 
And if the truth must be told it was Mrs. Portman herself who was the chief narrator of the story of Pen 's loves . 
Whatever tales this candid woman heard , she was sure to impart them to her neighbours ; and after she had been put into possession of Pen 's secret by the little scandal at Chatteris , poor Doctor Portman knew that it would next day be about the parish of which he was the Rector . 
No more it would , very likely , nor should we have been occupied in narrating Pen 's history . 
It was true that he gave himself airs to the Clavering folks . 
Naturally haughty and frank , their cackle and small talk and small dignities bored him , and he showed a contempt which he could not conceal . 
The Doctor and the Curate were the only people Pen cared for in the place -- even Mrs. Portman shared in the general distrust of him , and of his mother , the widow , who kept herself aloof from the village society , and was sneered at accordingly , because she tried , forsooth , to keep her head up with the great County families . 
The Clavering curs were yelping all round the house of Fairoaks , and delighted to pull Pen down . 
Doctor Portman and Smirke were both cautious of informing the widow of the constant outbreak of calumny which was pursuing poor Pen , though Glanders , who was a friend of the house , kept him au courant . 
On one occasion Pen , riding through the Lower Town , fancied he heard the Factory boys jeer him ; and finally going through the Doctor 's gate into the churchyard , where some of Wapshot 's boys were lounging , the biggest of them , a young gentleman about twenty years of age , son of a neighbouring small Squire , who lived in the doubtful capacity of parlour-boarder with Mr. Wapshot , flung himself into a theatrical attitude near a newly-made grave , and began repeating Hamlet 's verses over Ophelia , with a hideous leer at Pen . 
Pen looking death and defiance at the lads who retreated towards their side of the churchyard , walked back again through the Doctor 's wicket , and was interrogated by that gentleman . 
Pen did not say anything about the churchyard scuffle at home ; but went over to Baymouth , and took counsel with his friend Harry Foker , Esq. , who drove over his drag presently to the Clavering Arms , whence he sent Stoopid with a note to Thomas Hobnell , Esq. , at the Rev. J. Wapshot 's , and a civil message to ask when he should wait upon that gentleman . 
It was no other than Mr. Wapshot himself , who came with an air of great indignation , and holding Pen 's missive in his hand , asked Mr. Foker `` how dared he bring such an unchristian message as a challenge to a boy of his school ? '' 
In fact Pen had written a note to his adversary of the day before , telling him that if after the chastisement which his insolence richly deserved , he felt inclined to ask the reparation which was usually given amongst gentlemen , Mr. Arthur Pendennis 's friend , Mr. Henry Foker , was empowered to make any arrangements for the satisfaction of Mr. Hobnell . 
`` Uncommon kind of you , sir , I 'm sure , '' said Pen 's emissary . 
`` I told my principal that I did n't think the other man would fight , '' he continued with a great air of dignity . 
And with this , the young fellow bowed the elder gentleman out of the room , and sate down and wrote a note off to Pen , in which he informed the latter , that Mr. Hobnell was not disposed to fight , and proposed to put up with the caning which Pen had administered to him . 
PEN 'S conduct in this business of course was soon made public , and angered his friend Doctor Portman not a little : while it only amused Major Pendennis . 
As for the good Mrs. Pendennis , she was almost distracted when she heard of the squabble , and of Pen 's unchristian behaviour . 
Pen when remonstrated with by this fond parent , and angrily rebuked by the Doctor for his violence and ferocious intentions , took the matter au grand serieux , with the happy conceit and gravity of youth : said that he himself was very sorry for the affair , that the insult had come upon him without the slightest provocation on his part ; that he would permit no man to insult him upon this head without vindicating his own honour , and appealing with great dignity to his uncle , asked whether he could have acted otherwise as a gentleman , than as he did in resenting the outrage offered to him , and in offering satisfaction to the person chastised ? 
Pen kissed her , and said with great pomposity , `` Women , dear mother , do n't understand these matters -- I put myself into Foker 's hands -- I had no other course to pursue . '' 
Mrs. Pendennis declared that that Foker was a wicked horrid little wretch , and was sure that he would lead her dear boy into mischief , if Pen went to the same College with him . 
Foker had promised to introduce him to the right set ; and Major Pendennis laid great store upon Pen 's introduction into College life and society by this admirable young gentleman . 
`` Mr. Foker knows the very best young men now at the University , '' the Major said , `` and Pen will form acquaintainces there who will be of the greatest advantage through life to him . 
The young Marquis of Plinlimmon is there , eldest son of the Duke of Saint David 's -- Lord Magnus Charters is there , Lord Runnymede 's son ; and a first cousin of Mr. Foker , -LRB- Lady Runnymede , my dear , was Lady Agatha Milton , you of course remember , -RRB- Lady Agnes will certainly invite him to Logwood ; and far from being alarmed at his intimacy with her son , who is a singular and humorous , but most prudent and amiable young man , to whom , I am sure , we are under every obligation for his admirable conduct in the affair of the Fotheringay marriage , I look upon it as one of the very luckiest things which could have happened to Pen , that he should have formed an intimacy with this most amusing young gentleman . '' 
Doctor Portman was decidedly of opinion that Pen should go to College . 
He hoped the lad would read , and have a moderate indulgence of the best society too . 
He was of opinion that Pen would distinguish himself : Smirke spoke very highly of his proficiency : the Doctor himself had heard him construe , and thought he acquitted himself remarkably well . 
That he should go out of Chatteris was a great point at any rate ; and Pen , who was distracted from his private grief by the various rows and troubles which had risen round about him , gloomily said he would obey . 
Nobody seemed to be particularly affected by her presence , or her announced departure , except those persons whom we have named ; nor could the polite county folks , who had houses in London , and very likely admired the Fotheringay prodigiously in the capital , when they had been taught to do so by the Fashion which set in in her favour , find anything remarkable in the actress performing on the little Chatteris boards . 
Pen used to go drearily in and out from the play at Chatteris during this season , and pretty much according to his fancy . 
His proceedings tortured his mother not a little , and her anxiety would have led her often to interfere , had not the Major constantly checked , and at the same time encouraged her ; for the wily man of the world fancied he saw that a favourable turn had occurred in Pen 's malady . 
It was the violent efflux of versification , among other symptoms , which gave Pen 's guardian and physician satisfaction . 
He might be heard spouting verses in the shrubbery walks , or muttering them between his teeth as he sat with the home party of evenings . 
One day prowling about the house in Pen 's absence , the Major found a great book full of verses in the lad 's study . 
He ca n't be very bad , wisely thought the Pall-Mall Philosopher : and he made Pen 's mother remark , -LRB- not , perhaps , without a secret feeling of disappointment , for she loved romance like other soft women -RRB- , that the young gentleman during the last fortnight came home quite hungry to dinner at night , and also showed a very decent appetite at the breakfast table in the morning . 
Having no other soul to confide in -- for he could not speak to his mother of his loves and disappointments -- his uncle treated them in a scornful and worldly tone , which , though carefully guarded and polite , yet jarred greatly on the feelings of Mr. Pen -- and Foker was much too coarse to appreciate those refined sentimental secrets -- the lad 's friendship for the Curate redoubled , or rather , he was never tired of having Smirke for a listener on that one subject . 
Pen employed Mr. Smirke , as Corydon does the elm-tree , to cut out his mistress 's name upon . 
When men have left off playing the tune , they do not care much for the pipe : but Pen thought he had a great friendship for Smirke , because he could sigh out his loves and griefs into his tutor 's ears ; and Smirke had his own reasons for always being ready at the lad 's call . 
Pen 's affection gushed out in a multitude of sonnets to the friend of his heart , as he styled the Curate , which the other received with great sympathy . 
On the other hand , Pen expressed a boundless gratitude to think that Heaven should have sent him such a friend at such a moment . 
He presented his tutor with his best-bound books , and his gold guard-chain , and wanted him to take his double-barrelled gun . 
He went into Chatteris and got a gold pencil-case on credit -LRB- for he had no money , and indeed was still in debt to Smirke for some of the Fotheringay presents -RRB- , which he presented to Smirke , with an inscription indicative of his unalterable and eternal regard for the Curate ; who of course was pleased with every mark of the boy 's attachment . 
While Mrs. Pendennis is disquieting herself about losing her son , and that anxious hold she has had of him , as long as he has remained in the mother 's nest , whence he is about to take flight into the great world beyond -- while the Major 's great soul chafes and frets , inwardly vexed as he thinks what great parties are going on in London , and that he might be sunning himself in the glances of Dukes and Duchesses , but for those cursed affairs which keep him in a wretched little country hole -- while Pen is tossing between his passion and a more agreeable sensation , unacknowledged yet , but swaying him considerably , namely , his longing to see the world -- Mr. Smirke has a private care watching at his bed side , and sitting behind him on his pony ; and is no more satisfied than the rest of us . 
Madame Fribsby had , of course , taken the strongest interest in the progress of Mr. Pen 's love affair with Miss Fotheringay . 
She had been over to Chatteris , and having seen that actress perform , had pronounced that she was old and overrated : and had talked over Master Pen 's passion in her shop many and many a time to the half-dozen old maids , and old women in male clothes , who are to be found in little country towns , and who formed the genteel population of Clavering . 
Captain Glanders , H.P. , had pronounced that Pen was going to be a devil of a fellow , and had begun early : Mrs. Glanders had told him to check his horrid observations , and to respect his own wife , if he pleased . 
Mrs. Wapshot called her daughters away from that side of the street , one day when Pen , on Rebecca , was stopping at the saddler 's , to get a new lash to his whip -- one and all of these people had made visits of curiosity to Fairoaks , and had tried to condole with the widow , or bring the subject of the Fotheringay affair on the tapis , and had been severally checked by the haughty reserve of Mrs. Pendennis , supported by the frigid politeness of the Major her brother . 
It was said that Pen had hanged himself for despair in the orchard , and that his uncle had cut him down ; that , on the contrary , it was Miss Costigan who was jilted , and not young Arthur ; and that the affair had only been hushed up by the payment of a large sum of money , the exact amount of which there were several people in Clavering could testify -- the sum of course varying according to the calculation of the individual narrator of the story . 
Pen shook his mane and raged like a furious lion when these scandals , affecting Miss Costigan 's honour and his own , came to his ears . 
Why was not Pybus a man -LRB- she had whiskers enough , -RRB- that he might call her out and shoot her ? 
Seeing Simcoe pass by , Pen glared at him so from his saddle on Rebecca , and clutched his whip in a manner so menacing , that that clergyman went home and wrote a sermon , or thought over a sermon -LRB- for he delivered oral testimony at great length -RRB- , in which he spoke of Jezebel , theatrical entertainments , -LRB- a double cut this -- for Doctor Portman , the Rector of the old church , was known to frequent such , -RRB- and of youth going to perdition , in a manner which made it clear to every capacity that Pen was the individual meant , and on the road alluded to . 
After the affair with Hobnell , Pen was pronounced to be a murderer as well as a profligate , and his name became a name of terror and a by-word in Clavering . 
But this was not all ; he was not the only one of the family about whom the village began to chatter , and his unlucky mother was the next to become a victim to their gossip . 
And the fact is that Madame Fribsby had been able to hold out no longer ; and one day , after she and her lodger had been talking of Pen 's approaching departure , and the Curate had gone off to give one of his last lessons to that gentleman , Madame Fribsby had communicated to Mrs. Pybus , who happened to step in with Mrs. Speers , her strong suspicion , her certainty almost , that there was an attachment between a certain clerical gentleman and a certain lady , whose naughty son was growing quite unmanageable , and that a certain marriage would take place pretty soon . 
`` When Pen goes to College , cadit quæstio , '' replied the Rector , `` Smirke 's visits at Fairoaks will cease of themselves , and there will be no need to bother the widow . 
No accident befel him that day , and he arrived with his tie in the very best order at Mrs. Pendennis 's house N6309037 THE Curate had gone on his daily errand to Fairoaks , and was up-stairs in Pen 's study pretending to read with his pupil , in the early part of that very afternoon when Mrs. Portman , after transacting business with Mrs. Pybus , had found the weather so exceedingly fine that she pursued her walk as far as Fairoaks , in order to pay a visit to her dear friend there . 
But Helen did not think so : and now that Arthur was going away , and she bethought her how very polite Mr. Smirke had been ; how he had gone on messages for her ; how he had brought books and copied music ; how he had taught Laura so many things , and given her so many kind presents , her heart smote her on account of her ingratitude towards the Curate ; -- so much so , that when he came down from study with Pen , and was hankering about the hall previous to his departure , she went out and shook hands with him with rather a blushing face , and begged him to come into her drawing-room , where she said they now never saw him . 
When Pendennis asked Smirke to drink wine , he addressed him as if he was a Sovereign speaking to a petty retainer , in a manner so condescending , that even Pen laughed at it , although quite ready , for his part , to be as conceited as most young men are . 
One bottle speedily yielded up the ghost , another shed more than half its blood , before the two topers had been much more than half an hour together -- Pen , with a hollow laugh and voice , had drunk off one bumper to the falsehood of women , and had said sardonically , that wine at any rate was a mistress who never deceived , and was sure to give a man a welcome . 
Pen trolled over some verses he had been making that morning , in which he informed himself that the woman who had slighted his passion could not be worthy to win it : that he was awaking from love 's mad fever , and , of course , under these circumstances , proceeded to leave her , and to quit a heartless deceiver : that a name which had one day been famous in the land , might again be heard in it : and , that though he never should be the happy and careless boy he was but a few months since , or his heart be what it had been ere passion had filled it and grief had well-nigh killed it ; that though to him personally death was as welcome as life , and that he would not hesitate to part with the latter , but for the love of one kind being whose happiness depended on his own , -- yet he hoped to show he was a man worthy of his race , and that one day the false one should be brought to know how great was the treasure and noble the heart which she had flung away . 
Pen , we say , who was a very excitable person , rolled out these verses in his rich sweet voice , which trembled with emotion whilst our young poet spoke . 
He grasped Pen 's hand over the dessert dishes and wine glasses . 
He said the verses were beautiful : that Pen was a poet , a great poet , and likely by Heaven 's permission to run a great career in the world . 
`` Go on and prosper , dear Arthur , '' he cried ; `` the wounds under which at present you suffer are only temporary , and the very grief you endure will cleanse and strengthen your heart . 
Pen swore he would : with another shake of the hand across the glasses and apricots . 
`` I shall never forget how kind you have been to me , Smirke , '' he said . 
said Smirke , looking through his spectacles ; and his heart began to beat so that he thought Pen must almost hear it throbbing . 
`` My best friend , my friend for ever , '' Pen said . 
`` God bless you , old boy , '' and he drank up the last glass of the second bottle of the famous wine which his father had laid in , which his uncle had bought , which Lord Levant had imported , and which now , like a slave indifferent , was ministering pleasure to its present owner , and giving its young master delectation . 
`` We 'll have another bottle , old boy , '' Pen said , `` by Jove we will . 
And Mr. Pen began to sing the drinking song out of Der Freischütz . 
The dining-room windows were open , and his mother was softly pacing on the lawn outside , while little Laura was looking at the sunset . 
`` No , '' said Pen , `` women give headaches , but this do n't . 
said Smirke -- and his beautiful cambric shirt front and glistening studs heaved with the emotion which agitated his gentle and suffering bosom . 
Pen cried , growing very hilarious ; `` fill , my boy , and drink the toast , you ca n't refuse a toast , no gentleman refuses a toast . 
Smirke convulsively gulped down his glass of wine , and Pen waved his over his head , cheering so as to make his mother and Laura wonder on the lawn , and his uncle , who was dozing over the paper in the drawing-room , start , and say to himself , `` that boy 's drinking too much . 
`` Beg your pardon -- sorry I offended you -- but she hasgot a large waist , you know -- devilish large waist , '' Pen continued -- the third bottle evidently beginning to act upon the young gentleman . 
`` It 's somebody rather older than I am , Pen , '' the Curate cried , looking up at his friend , and then guiltily casting his eyes down into his plate . 
Pen burst out laughing . 
`` O Pen , '' he cried , `` how can you suppose that any of those -- of those more than ordinary beings you have named could have an influence upon this heart , when I have been daily in the habit of contemplating perfection ! 
`` Yes , old boy , you 've been very good to me , '' Pen said , whose liking , however , for his tutor was not by any means of the filial kind . 
cried out Pen , in a puzzle . 
`` Did youfind that any objection , '' cried Smirke piteously , and alluding , of course , to the elderly subject of Pen 's own passion . 
Pen followed him out uncovered . 
He fumbled at the girths of the saddle , which Pen fastened for him , and put on the bridle and led the pony into the yard . 
Pen held out his hand and Smirke wrung it silently . 
Smirke nodded his head silently , and rode out of the lodge gate : and Pen looked after him for a couple of minutes , until he disappeared down the road , and the clatter of the pony 's hoofs died away . 
When Laura was gone to bed , Pen , who was big with his secret , burst out with it , and described the dismal but ludicrous scene which had occurred . 
Pen and his mother had a long talk that night , full of love , confidence , and laughter , and the boy somehow slept more soundly and woke up more easily than he had done for many months before . 
They were gone and Pen had never seen them ! 
He only knew of their departure by its announcement in the county paper the next day : and straight galloped over to Chatteris to hear the truth of this news . 
He rushed up into the room and viewed it over . 
He sate ever so long in the old window-seat looking into the Dean 's Garden : whence he and Emily had so often looked out together . 
Laura had netted a purse into which his mother had put some sovereigns , and Pen had found it on his dressing-table that very morning . 
He gave one to the little servant who had been used to wait upon the Costigans , and another to the children , because they said they were very fond of her . 
It was but a few months back , yet what years ago it seemed since he had first entered that room ! 
He felt that it was all done . 
The widow and Laura nervously set about the preparation for Pen 's kit , and filled trunks with his books and linen . 
It was not until long , long after he was gone , that Pen remembered how constant and tender the affection of these women had been , and how selfish his own conduct was . 
A night soon comes , when the mail , with echoing horn and blazing lamps , stops at the lodge-gate of Fairoaks , and Pen 's trunks and his Uncle 's are placed on the roof of the carriage , into which the pair presently afterwards enter . 
Laura asks leave to come and sleep in Helen 's room : and when she has cried herself to sleep there , the mother goes softly into Pen 's vacant chamber , and kneels down by the bed on which the moon is shining , and there prays for her boy , as mothers only know how to plead . 
Pen sate on the roof , examining coach , passengers , and country , with great delight and curiosity . 
Pen had passed a few days with his uncle at the Major 's lodgings , in Bury Street , before they set out for Oxbridge . 
Pen longed for the three years to be over , and surveyed the stucco-halls , and vast libraries , and drawing-rooms , as already his own property . 
Foker slunk away uneasily at his presence , but Pen went up blushing , and shook the dignitary by the hand . 
He laughed as he thought that well-remembered Latin Grammar had boxed his ears many a time . 
He was generous , good-natured , and , in a word , perfectly conceited and satisfied with himself . 
The Major was quite pleased when Pen was with his young acquaintance ; listened to Mr. Foker 's artless stories with the greatest interest ; gave the two boys a fine dinner at a Covent Garden Coffee-house , whence they proceeded to the play ; but was above all happy when Mr. and Lady Agnes Foker , who happened to be in London , requested the pleasure of Major Pendennis and Mr. Arthur Pendennis 's company at dinner in Grosvenor Street . 
`` Having obtained the entréeinto Lady Agnes Foker 's house , '' he said to Pen with an affectionate solemnity which befitted the importance of the occasion , `` it behoves you , my dear boy , to keep it . 
Lady Agnes who , wrapped up in Harry , was the fondest of mothers , and one of the most good-natured though not the wisest of women , received her son 's friend with great cordiality : and astonished Pen by accounts of the severe course of studies which her darling boy was pursuing , and which she feared might injure his dear health . 
Pen wrote a droll account of his doings in London , and the play , and the visit to the old Friars , and the brewery , and the party at Mr. Foker 's , to his dearest mother , who was saying her prayers at home in the lonely house at Fairoaks , her heart full of love and tenderness unutterable for the boy : and she and Laura read that letter and those which followed , many , many times , and brooded over them as women do . 
It was the first step in life that Pen was making -- Ah ! 
So the coach drove up to that ancient and comfortable inn the Trencher , which stands in Main Street , Oxbridge , and Pen with delight and eagerness remarked , for the first time , gownsmen going about , chapel bells clinking -LRB- bells in Oxbridge are ringing from morning-tide till even-song , -RRB- -- towers and pinnacles rising calm and stately over the gables and antique house-roofs of the homely busy city . 
Previous communications had taken place between Dr. Portman on Pen 's part , and Mr. Buck , Tutor of Boniface , on whose side Pen was entered ; and as soon as Major Pendennis had arranged his personal appearance , so that it should make a satisfactory impression upon Pen 's tutor , the pair walked down Main Street , and passed the great gate and belfry-tower of Saint George 's College , and so came , as they were directed , to Saint Boniface : where again Pen 's heart began to beat as they entered at the wicket of the venerable ivy-mantled gate of the College . 
The porter pointed out a queer old tower at the corner of the quadrangle , by which Mr. Buck 's rooms were approached , and the two gentlemen walked across the square , the main features of which were at once and for ever stamped in Pen 's mind -- the pretty fountain playing in the centre of the fair grass plats ; the tall chapel windows and buttresses rising to the right ; the hall with its tapering lantern and oriel window ; the lodge , from the doors of which the Master issued awfully in rustling silks ; the lines of the surrounding rooms pleasantly broken by carved chimnies , grey turrets , and quaint gables -- all these Mr. Pen 's eyes drank in with an eagerness which belongs to first impressions ; and Major Pendennis surveyed with that calmness which belongs to a gentleman who does not care for the picturesque , and whose eyes have been somewhat dimmed by the constant glare of the pavement of Pall Mall . 
Into this certainly not the least snugly sheltered arbour amongst the groves of Academe , Pen now found his way , leaning on his uncle 's arm , and they speedily reached Mr. Buck 's rooms , and were conducted into the apartment of that courteous gentleman . 
He had received previous information from Dr. Portman regarding Pen , with respect to whose family , fortune , and personal merits the honest Doctor had spoken with no small enthusiasm . 
When the two gentlemen had taken leave of the tutor in his study , and had returned to Mr. Buck 's ante-room , or lecture-room , a very handsome apartment , turkey-carpeted , and hung with excellent prints and richly framed pictures , they found the tutor 's servant already in waiting there , accompanied by a man with a bag full of caps and a number of gowns , from which Pen might select a cap and gown for himself , and the servant , no doubt , would get a commission proportionable to the service done by him . 
Mr. Pen was all in a tremor of pleasure as the bustling tailor tried on a gown and pronounced that it was an excellent fit ; and then he put the pretty college cap on , in rather a dandified manner and somewhat on one side , as he had seen Fiddicombe , the youngest master at Grey Friars , wear it . 
And he inspected the entire costume with a great deal of satisfaction in one of the great gilt mirrors which ornamented Mr. Buck 's lecture-room : for some of these college divines are no more above looking-glasses than a lady is , and look to the set of their gowns and caps quite as anxiously as folks do of the lovelier sex . 
N6309041 Then Davis , the skip or attendant , led the way , keys in hand , across the quadrangle , the Major and Pen following him , the latter blushing , and pleased with his new academical habiliments , across the quadrangle to the rooms which were destined for the freshman ; and which were vacated by the retreat of the gentleman-pensioner , Mr. Spicer . 
Mr. Spicer 's furniture was there , and to be sold at a valuation , and Major Pendennis agreed on his nephew 's behalf to take the available part of it , laughingly however declining -LRB- as , indeed , Pen did for his own part -RRB- , six sporting prints , and four groups of opera-dancers with gauze draperies , which formed the late occupant 's pictorial collection . 
Then they went to hall , where Pen sate down and ate his commons with his brother freshmen , and the Major took his place at the high-table along with the college dignitaries and other fathers or guardians of youth , who had come up with their sons to Oxbridge ; and after hall they went to Mr. Buck 's to take wine ; and after wine to chapel , where the Major sate with great gravity in the upper place , having a fine view of the Master in his carved throne or stall under the organ-loft , where that gentleman , the learned Doctor Donne , sate magnificent , with his great prayer-book before him , an image of statuesque piety and rigid devotion . 
All the young freshmen behaved with gravity and decorum , but Pen was shocked to see that atrocious little Foker , who came in very late , and half-a-dozen of his comrades in the gentlemen-pensioners ' seats , giggling and talking as if they had been in so many stalls at the Opera . 
Pen could hardly sleep at night in his bed-room at the Trencher : so anxious was he to begin his college-life , and to get into his own apartments . 
Pen presently laughed out -- `` well , I 'll write and try and console the poor old boy . 
The Major , had he been awake , might have heard a score of such ejaculations uttered by Pen as he lay awake and restless through the first night of his residence at Oxbridge . 
It would , perhaps , have been better for a youth , the battle of whose life was going to begin on the morrow , to have passed the eve in a different sort of vigil : but the world had got hold of Pen in the shape of his selfish old Mentor : and those who have any interest in his character , must have perceived ere now , that this lad was very weak as well as very impetuous , very vain as well as very frank , and if of a generous disposition , not a little selfish in the midst of his profuseness , and also rather fickle , as all eager pursuers of self-gratification are . 
There was an immense gulf between Pen the victim of love , and Pen the innocent boy of eighteen , sighing after it : and so Arthur Pendennis had all the experience and superiority , besides that command which afterwards conceit and imperiousness of disposition gave him over the young men with whom he now began to live . 
Pen was touched as he read the superscriptions in the dear well-known hand , and he arranged in their proper places all the books , his old friends , and all the linen and table-cloths which helen had selected from the family stock , and all the jam-pots which little Laura had bound in straw , and the hundred simple gifts of home . 
Pen had another Alma Mater now . 
OUR friend Pen was not sorry when his Mentor took leave of the young gentleman on the second day after the arrival of the pair in Oxbridge , and we may be sure that the Major on his part was very glad to have discharged his duty , and to have the duty over . 
Foker and Pen saw him off in the coach , and the former young gentleman gave particular orders to the coachman to take care of that gentleman inside . 
A quarter of the space which custom has awarded to works styled the Serial Nature , has been assigned to the account of one passage in Pen 's career , and it is manifest that the whole of his adventures can not be treated at a similar length , unless some descendent of the chronicler of Pen 's history should take up the pen at his decease , and continue the narrative for the successors of the present generation of readers . 
During the first term of Mr. Pen 's academical life , he attended classical and mathematical lectures with tolerable assiduity ; but discovering before very long time that he had little taste or genius for the pursuing of the exact sciences , and being perhaps rather annoyed that one or two very vulgar young men , who did not even use straps to their trousers so as to cover the abominably thick and coarse shoes and stockings which they wore , beat him completely in the lecture-room , he gave up his attendance at that course , and announced to his fond parent that he proposed to devote himself exclusively to the cultivation of Greek and Roman Literature . 
And Pen 's health , which was always delicate , was to be regarded , as she justly said , beyond all considerations or vain honours . 
Pen , although not aware of any lurking disease which was likely to endanger his life , yet kindly promised his mamma not to sit up reading too late of nights , and stuck to his word in this respect with a great deal more tenacity of resolution than he exhibited upon some other occasions , when perhaps he was a little remiss . 
Presently he began too to find that he learned little good in the classical lecture . 
His fellow-students there were too dull , as in mathematics they were too learned for him . 
Mr. Buck , the tutor , was no better a scholar than many a fifth-form boy at Grey Friars ; might have some stupid humdrum notions about the metre and grammatical construction of a passage of Æschylus or Aristophanes , but had no more notion of the poetry than Mrs. Binge , his bed-maker ; and Pen grew weary of hearing the dull students and tutor blunder through a few lines of a play , which he could read in a tenth part of the time which they gave to it . 
After all , private reading , as he began to perceive , was the only study which was really profitable to a man ; and he announced to his mamma that he should read by himself a great deal more , and in public a great deal less . 
That excellent woman knew no more about Homer than she did about Algebra , but she was quite contented with Pen 's arrangements regarding his course of studies , and felt perfectly confident that her dear boy would get the place which he merited . 
Pen did not come home until after Christmas , a little to the fond mother 's disappointment , and Laura 's , who was longing for him to make a fine snow fortification , such as he had made three winters before . 
But he was invited to Logwood , Lady Agnes Foker 's , where there were private theatricals , and a gay Christmas party of very fine folks , some of them whom Major Pendennis would on no account have his nephew neglect . 
However , he staid at home for the last three weeks of the vacation , and Laura had the opportunity of remarking what a quantity of fine new clothes he brought with him , and his mother admired his improved appearance and manly and decided tone . 
He did not come home at Easter ; but when he arrived for the long vacation , he brought more smart clothes ; appearing in the morning in wonderful shooting-jackets , with remarkable buttons ; and in the evening in gorgeous velvet waistcoats , with richly-embroidered cravats , and curious linen . 
And as she pried about his room , she saw , oh , such a beautiful dressing-case , with silver mountings , and a quantity of lovely rings and jewellery . 
And he had a new French watch and gold chain , in place of the big old chronometer , with its bunch of jingling seals , which had hung from the fob of John Pendennis , and by the second-hand of which the defunct doctor had felt many a patient 's pulse in his time . 
It was but a few months back Pen had longed for this watch , which he thought the most splendid and august time-piece in the world ; and just before he went to college , Helen had taken it out of her trinket-box -LRB- where it had remained unwound since the death of her husband -RRB- and given it to Pen with a solemn and appropriate little speech respecting his father 's virtues and the proper use of time . 
This portly and valuable chronometer Pen now pronounced to be out of date , and , indeed , made some comparisons between it and a warming-pan , which Laura thought disrespectful , and he left the watch in a drawer , in the company of soiled primrose gloves , cravats which had gone out of favour , and of that other school watch which has once before been mentioned in this history . 
Our old friend , Rebecca , Pen pronounced to be no longer up to his weight , and swapped her away for another and more powerful horse , for which he had to pay rather a heavy figure . 
Also Pen brought a large box of cigars branded Colorados , Afrancesados , Telescopios , Fudson Oxford Street , or by some such strange titles , and began to consume these not only about the stables and green-houses , where they were very good for Helen 's plants , but in his own study , of which practice his mother did not at first approve . 
As he was smoking to such good purpose , his mother could not of course refuse permission : in fact , the good soul coming into the room one day in the midst of Pen 's labours -LRB- he was consulting a novel which had recently appeared , for the cultivation of the light literature of his own country as well as of foreign nations became every student -RRB- -- Helen , we say , coming into the room and finding Pen on the sofa at this work , rather than disturb him went for a light-box and his cigar-case to his bed-room which was adjacent , and actually put the cigar into his mouth and lighted the match at which he kindled it . 
Pen laughed , and kissed his mother 's hand as it hung fondly over the back of the sofa . 
`` Dear old mother , '' he said , `` if I were to tell you to burn the house down , I think you would do it . '' 
And it is very likely that Mr. Pen was right , and that the foolish woman would have done almost as much for him as he said . 
But Pen showed her that it was not he who made the books . 
though it was absolutely necessary that he should keep up his French by an acquaintance with the most celebrated writers of the day , and that it was as clearly his duty to read the eminent Paul de Kock , as to study Swift or Molière . 
In the course of this long vacation Mr. Pen drank up the bin of claret which his father had laid in , and of which we have heard the son remark that there was not a headache in a hogshead ; and this wine being exhausted , he wrote for a further supply to `` his wine merchants , '' Messrs. Binney and Latham of Mark Lane , London : from whom , indeed , old Doctor Portman had recommended Pen to get a supply of port and sherry on going to college . 
But Pen laughed at her old-fashioned views , said that the bill was moderate , that everybody drank claret and champagne now , and , finally , the widow paid , feeling dimly that the expenses of her household were increasing considerably , and that her narrow income would scarce suffice to meet them . 
Pen merely came home for a few weeks at the vacation . 
Laura and she might pinch when he was gone . 
In the brief time he was with them ought they not to make him happy ? 
Years before , the thrifty and affectionate John Pendennis , whose darling project it had ever been to give his son a university education , and those advantages of which his own father 's extravagance had deprived him , had begun laying by a store of money which he called Arthur 's Education Fund Year after year in his book his executors found entries of sums vested as A.E.F. , and during the period subsequent to her husband 's decease , and before Pen 's entry at college , the widow had added sundry sums to this fund , so that when Arthur went up to Oxbridge it reached no inconsiderable amount . 
Thus young Pen , the only son of an estated country gentleman , with a good allowance , and a gentlemanlike bearing and person , looked to be a lad of much more consequence than he was really ; and was held by the Oxbridge authorities , tradesmen , and undergraduates , as quite a young buck and member of the aristocracy . 
Boat-racing had not risen in Pen 's time to the fureurwhich , as we are given to understand , it has since attained in the university ; and riding and tandem-driving were the fashions of the ingenuous youth . 
Pen rode well to hounds , appeared in pink , as became a young buck , and not particularly extravagant in equestrian or any other amusement , yet managed to run up a fine bill at Nile 's , the livery stable-keeper , and in a number of other quarters . 
It was marvellous what tall copies , and gilding , and marbling , and blind-tooling , the book-sellers and binders put upon Pen 's book-shelves . 
He had a very fair taste in matters of art , and a keen relish for prints of a high school -- none of your French Opera Dancers , or tawdry Racing Prints , such as had delighted the simple eyes of Mr. Spicer , his predecessor -- but your Stranges , and Rembrandt-etchings , and Wilkies before the letter , with which his apartments were furnished presently in the most perfect good taste , as was allowed in the university , where this young fellow got no small reputation . 
We have mentioned that he exhibited a certain partiality for rings , jewellery , and fine raiment of all sorts ; and it must be owned that Mr. Pen , during his time at the university , was rather a dressy man , and loved to array himself in splendour . 
He and his polite friends would dress themselves out with as much care in order to go and dine at each other 's rooms , as other folks would who were going to enslave a mistress . 
They said he used to wear rings over his kid gloves , which he always denies ; but what follies will not youth perpetrate with its own admirable gravity and simplicity ? 
That he took perfumed baths is a truth ; and he used to say that he took them after meeting certain men of a very low set in hall . 
In pen 's second year , when Miss Fotheringay made her chief hit in London , and scores of prints were published of her , Pen had one of these hung in his bed-room , and confided to the men of his set how awfully , how wildly , how madly , how passionately , he had loved that woman . 
He showed them in confidence the verses that he had written to her , and his brow would darken , his eyes roll , his chest heave with emotion as he recalled that fatal period of his life , and described the woes and agonies which he had suffered . 
Perhaps there is something noble in it at all times -- among very young men it is considered heroic -- Pen was pronounced a tremendous fellow . 
They said he had almost committed suicide : that he had fought a duel with a baronet about her . 
Freshmen pointed him out to each other . 
As at the promenade time at two o'clock he swaggered out of college , surrounded by his cronies , he was famous to behold . 
He was elaborately attired . 
He would ogle the ladies who came to lionise the University , and passed before him on the arms of happy gownsmen , and give his opinion upon their personal charms , or their toilettes , with the gravity of a critic whose experience entitled him to speak with authority . 
Now if any person with an arithmetical turn of mind will take the trouble to calculate what a sum of money it would cost a young man to indulge freely in all the above propensities which we have said Mr. Pen possessed , it will be seen that a young fellow , with such liberal tastes and amusements , must needs in the course of two or three years spend or owe a very handsome sum of money . 
We have said our friend Pen had not a calculating turn . 
No one propensity of his was outrageously extravagant ; and it is certain that Paddington 's tailor 's account ; Guttlebury 's cook 's bill for dinners ; Dillon Tandy 's bill with Finn , the print-seller , for Raphael-Morghens , and Landseer proofs , and Wormall 's dealings with Parkton , the great bookseller , for Aldine editions , black-letter folios , and richly illuminated Missals of the XVI Century ; and Snaffle 's or Foker 's score with Nile the horse-dealer , were , each and all of them , incomparably greater than any little bills which Mr. Pen might run up with the above-mentioned tradesmen . 
But Pendennis of Boniface had the advantage over all these young gentlemen , his friends and associates , of a universality of taste : and whereas young Lord Paddington did not care two-pence for the most beautiful print , or to look into any gilt frame that had not a mirror within it ; and Guttlebury did not mind in the least how he was dressed , and had an aversion for horse exercise , nay a terror of it ; and Snaffle never read any printed works but the `` Racing Calendar '' or `` Bell 's Life , '' or cared for any manuscript except his greasy little scrawl of a betting-book : -- our Catholic-minded young friend occupied himself in every one of the branches of science or pleasure above-mentioned , and distinguished himself tolerably in each . 
Hence young Pen got a prodigious reputation in the university , and was hailed as a sort of Crichton ; and as for the English verse prize , in competition for which we have seen him busily engaged at Fairoaks , Jones of Jesus carried it that year certainly , but the undergraduates thought Pen 's a much finer poem , and he had his verses printed at his own expense , and distributed in gilt morocco covers amongst his acquaintance . 
I found a copy of it lately in a dusty corner of Mr. Pen 's bookcases , and have it before me this minute , bound up in a collection of old Oxbridge tracts , university statutes , prize-poems by successful and unsuccessful candidates , declamations recited in the college chapel , speeches delivered at the Union Debating Society , and inscribed by Arthur with his name and college , Pendennis -- Boniface ; or presented to him by his affectionate friend Thompson or Jackson , the author . 
Amidst these friends then , and a host more , Pen passed more than two brilliant and happy years of his life . 
He had his fill of pleasure and popularity . 
No dinner or supper-party was complete without him ; and Pen 's jovial wit , and Pen 's songs , and dashing courage , and frank and manly bearing , charmed all the undergraduates , and even disarmed the tutors who cried out at his idleness , and murmured about his extravagant way of life . 
Though he became the favourite and leader of young men who were much his superiors in wealth and station , he was much too generous to endeavour to propitiate them by any meanness or cringing on his own part , and would not neglect the humblest man of his acquaintance in order to curry favour with the richest young grandee in the university His name is still remembered at the Union Debating Club , as one of the brilliant orators of his day By the way , from having been an ardent Tory in his freshman 's year , his principles took a sudden turn afterwards , and he became a liberal of the most violent order . 
Among the young ones Pen became famous and popular : not that he did much , but there was a general determination that he could do a great deal if he chose . 
He was backed for the Greek Ode won by Smith of Trinity ; everybody was sure he would have the Latin hexameter prize which Brown of St. John 's however , carried off , and in this way one university honour after another was lost by him , until , after two or three failures , Mr. Pen ceased to compete . 
But he got a declamation prize in his own college , and brought home to his mother and Laura at Fairoaks , a set of prize-books begilt with the college arms , and so big , well-bound , and magnificent , that these ladies thought there had been no such prize ever given in a college before as this of Pen 's , and that he had won the very largest honour which Oxbridge was capable of awarding . 
As vacation after vacation and term after term passed away without the desired news that Pen had sate for any scholarship or won any honour , Doctor Portman grew mightily gloomy in his behaviour towards Arthur , and adopted a sulky grandeur of deportment towards him , which the lad returned by a similar haughtiness . 
`` I can not stand the Doctor 's patronising air , '' Pen said . 
The tacit feud between Pen and the Doctor made the widow nervous , so that she too avoided Portman , and was afraid to go to the Rectory when Arthur was at home . 
There was an awful sensation in the village-society , Portman prophecied Pen 's ruin after that , and groaned in spirit over the rebellious young prodigal . 
He was no longer the artless Pen of old days , so brave , so artless , so impetuous , and tender . 
Honest Harry Foker , who had been the means of introducing Arthur Pendennis to that set of young men at the university , from whose society and connections Arthur 's uncle expected that the lad would get so much benefit ; who had called for Arthur 's first song at his first supper-party ; and who had presented him at the Barmecide Club , where none but the very best men of Oxbridge were admitted , -LRB- it consisted in Pen 's time of six noblemen , eight gentlemen pensioners , and twelve of the most select commoners of the university , -RRB- soon found himself left far behind by the young freshman in the fashionable world of Oxbridge , and being a generous and worthy fellow , without a spark of envy in his composition , was exceedingly pleased at the success of his young protégé , and admired Pen quite as much as any of the other youth did . 
It was he who followed Pen now , and quoted his sayings ; learned his songs , and retailed them at minor supper-parties , and was never weary of hearing them from the gifted young poet 's own mouth -- for a good deal of the time which Mr. Pen might have employed much more advantageously in the pursuit of the regular scholastic studies , was given up to the composition of secular ballads , which he sang about at parties according to university wont . 
It had been as well for Arthur if the honest Foker had remained for some time at college , for , with all his vivacity , he was a prudent young man , and often curbed Pen 's propensity to extravagance : but Foker 's collegiate career did not last very long after Arthur 's entrance at Boniface . 
He never could be got to frequent the chapel of the college with that regularity of piety which Alma Mater demands from her children ; tandems , which are abominations in the eyes of the heads and tutors , were Foker 's greatest delight , and so reckless was his driving and frequent the accidents and upsets out of his drag , that Pen called taking a drive with him taking the `` Diversions of Purley ; '' finally , having a dinner-party at his rooms to entertain some friends from London , nothing would satisfy Mr. Foker but painting Mr. Buck 's door vermilion , in which freak he was caught by the proctors ; and although young Black Strap , the celebrated negro-fighter , who was one of Mr. Foker 's distinguished guests , and was holding the can of paint while the young artist operated on the door , knocked down two of the proctor 's attendants and performed prodigies of valour , yet these feats rather injured than served Foker , whom the proctor knew very well and who was taken with the brush in his hand , and who was summarily convened and sent down from the university . 
`` It do n't matter , '' said Foker , talking over the matter with Pen , -- `` a little sooner or a little later , what is the odds ? 
But it 's not me I 'm anxious about , Pen . 
I saw you sit down to écartélast week at Trumpington 's , and taking your turn with the bones after Ringwood 's supper They 'll beat you at it , Pen , my boy , even if they play on the square , which I do n't say they do n't , nor which I do n't say they do , mind . 
But Pen , laughingly , said , `` that though it was n't convenient to him to pay the two ponies at that moment , he by no means wished to be let off any just debts he owed ; '' and he and Foker parted , not without many dark forebodings on the latter 's part with regard to his friend , who Harry thought was travelling speedily on the road to ruin . 
`` One must do at Rome as Rome does , '' Pen said , in a dandified manner , jingling some sovereigns in his waistcoat-pocket . 
-- And he walked off , after having taken leave of poor Foker , who went away without any beat of drum , or offer to drive the coach out of Oxbridge , to superintend a little dinner which he was going to give at his own rooms in Boniface , about which dinners , the cook of the college , who had a great respect for Mr. Pendennis , always took especial pains for his young favourite . 
In Pen 's second year Major Pendennis paid a brief visit to his nephew , and was introduced to several of Pen 's university friends -- the gentle and polite Lord Plinlimmon , the gallant and open-hearted Magnus Charters , the sly and witty Harland ; the intrepid Ringwood , who was called Rupert in the Union Debating Club , from his opinions and the bravery of his blunders ; Broadbent , styled Barebones Broadbent from the republican nature of his opinions -LRB- he was of a dissenting family from Bristol and a perfect Boanerges of debate -RRB- ; Mr. Bloundell-Bloundell finally , who had at once taken his place among the select of the university . 
As he and Pen sate at breakfast on the morning after the party in the rooms of the latter , the Major gave his opinions regarding the young men , with whom he was in the greatest good humour . 
They stared on the next occasion of meeting , when Bloundell spoke in contemptuous terms of old Pen , said everybody knew old Pen , regular old trencherman at Gaunt House , notorious old bore , regular old fogy . 
So the Major said , `` Pen , my boy , your dinner went off à merveille ; you did the honours very nicely -- you carved well -- I am glad you learned to carve -- it is done on the side-board now in most good houses , but is still an important point , and may aid you in middle-life -- young Lord Plinlimmon is a very amiable young man , quite the image of his dear mother , -LRB- whom I knew as Lady Aquila Brownbill ;-RRB- and Lord Magnus 's republicanism will wear off -- it sits prettily enough on a young patrician in early life , though nothing is so loathsome among persons of our rank -- Mr. Broadbent seems to have much eloquence and considerable reading : your friend Foker is always delightful : but your acquaintance , Mr. Bloundell , struck me as in all respects a most ineligible young man . 
cried Pen , laughing ; `` why , sir , he 's the most popular man of the university . 
Poor Pen ! 
But little Pen , in his character of admirable Crichton , thought it necessary to be a great judge and practitioner of dinners ; we have just said how the college cook respected him , and shall soon have to deplore that that worthy man so blindly trusted our Pen . 
Nor did his guardian 's advice take any effect , or induce Mr. Pen to avoid the society of the disreputable Mr. Bloundell . 
What young men like in their companions is , what had got Pen a great part of his own repute and popularity , a real or supposed knowledge of life . 
The young magnates of the neighbouring great College of St. George 's , who regarded Pen , and in whose society he lived , were not taken in by Bloundell 's flashy graces , and rakish airs of fashion . 
Foker , during his brief stay at the university with Macheath , with characteristic caution declined to say anything in the Captain 's disfavour , but hinted to Pen that he had better have him for a partner at whist than play against him , and better back him at écartéthan bet on the other side . 
`` You see , he plays better than you do , Pen , '' was the astute young gentleman 's remark : `` he plays uncommon well , the Captain does ; -- and Pen , I would n't take the odds too freely from him , if I was you . 
I do n't think he 's too flush of money , the Captain ai n't . '' 
Pen 's appetite for pleasure was insatiable , and he rushed at it wherever it presented itself with an eagerness which bespoke his fiery constitution and youthful health . 
One night after a supper-party in college , at which Pen and Macheath had been present , and at which a little quiet vingt-et-unhad been played , -LRB- an amusement much pleasanter to men in their second and third year than the boisterous custom of singing songs , which bring the proctors about the rooms , and which have grown quite stale by this time , every man having expended his budget , -RRB- -- as the men had taken their caps and were going away , after no great losses or winnings on any side , Mr. Bloundell playfully took up a green wine-glass from the supper-table , which had been destined to contain iced cup , but into which he inserted something still more pernicious , namely a pair of dice , which the gentleman took out of his waistcoat pocket , and put into the glass . 
The other men looked on , Pen , of course , among the number , who had never used the dice as yet , except to play a humdrum game of back-gammon at home . 
Mr. Bloundell , who had a good voice , began to troll out the chorus from Robert the Devil , an Opera then in great vogue , in which chorus many of the men joined , especially Pen , who was in very high spirits , having won a good number of shillings and half-crowns at the vingt-et-un -- and presentyly , instead of going home , most of the party were seated round the table playing at dice , the green glass going round from hand to hand until Pen finally shivered it , after throwing six mains . 
From that night Pen plunged into the delights of the game of hazard , as eagerly as it was his custom to pursue any new pleasure . 
Bloundell would come into Pen 's rooms after breakfast , and it was astonishing how quick the time passed as the bones were rattling . 
Bloundell , Ringwood , and Pen were once very nearly caught by Mr. Buck , who , passing in the Quadrangle , thought he heard the words `` Two to one on the caster , '' through Pen 's open window ; but when the tutor got into Arthur 's rooms he found the lads with three Homers before them , and Pen said , he was trying to coach the two other men , and asked Mr. Buck with great gravity what was the present condition of the River Scamander , and whether it was navigable or no ? 
Captain Macheath had other accomplishments which he exercised for Pen 's benefit . 
He had been out of her eyes which used to flash there , or Pen 's no longer were dazzled by it . 
The rich voice spoke as of old , yet it did not make Pen 's bosom thrill as formerly . 
He thought he could recognise the brogue underneath : the accents seemed to him coarse and false . 
It annoyed him to hear the same emphasis on the same words only uttered a little louder : worse than this , it annoyed him to think that he should ever have mistaken that loud imitation for genius , or melted at those mechanical sobs and sighs . 
He felt that it was in another life almost , that it was another man who had so madly loved her . 
Ah , poor Pen ! 
They went and had an uproarious supper that night , and Mr. Pen had a fine headache the next morning , with which he went back to Oxbridge , having spent all his ready money . 
As all this narrative is taken from Pen 's own confessions , so that the reader may be assured of the truth of every word of it , and as Pen himself never had any accurate notion of the manner in which he spent his money , and plunged himself in much deeper pecuniary difficulties , during his luckless residence at Oxbridge University , it is , of course , impossible for me to give any accurate account of his involvements , beyond that general notion of his way of life , which has been sketched a few pages back . 
He does not speak too hardly of the roguery of the university tradesmen , or of those in London whom he honoured with his patronage at the outset of his career . 
Even Finch , the money-lender , to whom Bloundell introduced him , and with whom he had various transactions , in which the young rascal 's signature appeared upon stamped paper , treated him , according to Pen 's own account , with forbearance , and never mulcted him of more than a hundred per cent . 
The old college-cook , his fervent admirer , made him a private bill , offered to send him in dinners up to the very last , and never would have pressed his account to his dying day . 
And it is reported of him that little Mary Frodsham , the daughter of a certain poor gilder and frame-maker , whom Mr. Pen had thought fit to employ , and who had made a number of beautiful frames for his fine prints , coming to Pendennis with a piteous tale that her father was ill with ague , and that there was an execution in their house , Pen in an anguish of remorse rushed away , pawned his grand watch and every single article of jewellery except two old gold sleeve-buttons , which had belonged to his father , and rushed with the proceeds to Frodsham 's shop , where , with tears in his eyes , and the deepest repentance and humility , he asked the poor tradesman 's pardon . 
This , young gentlemen , is not told as an instance of Pen 's virtue , but rather of his weakness . 
He still owed for the baubles which he sold in order to pay Frodsham 's bill , and his mother had cruelly to pinch herself in order to discharge the jeweller 's account , so that she was in the end the sufferer by the lad 's impertinent fancies and follies . 
We are not presenting Pen to you as a hero or a model , only as a lad , who , in the midst of a thousand vanities and weaknesses , has as yet some generous impulses , and is not altogether dishonest . 
We have said it was to the scandal of Mr. Buck the tutor that Pen 's extravagances became known : from the manner in which he entered college , the associates he kept , and the introductions of Doctor Portman and the Major , Buck for a long time thought that his pupil was a man of large property , and wondered rather that he only wore a plain gown . 
He asked Pen to wine the instant he came back , let him off from chapels and lectures more than ever , and felt perfectly sure that he was a young gentleman of large estate . 
Thus , he was thunderstruck when he heard the truth , and received a dismal confession from Pen . 
His university debts were large , and the tutor had nothing to do , and of course Pen did not acquaint him , with his London debts . 
What man ever does tell all when pressed by his friends about his liabilities ? 
The tutor learned enough to know that Pen was poor , that he had spent a handsome , almost a magnificent allowance , and had raised around him such a fine crop of debts , as it would be very hard work for any man to mow down ; for there is no plant that grows so rapidly when once it has taken root . 
Perhaps it was because she was so tender and good that Pen was terrified lest his mother should know of his sins . 
`` I ca n't bear to break it to her , '' he said to the tutor in an agony of grief , `` O ! 
sir , I 've been a villain to her '' -- and he repented , and he wished he had the time to come over again , and he asked himself , `` Why , why did his uncle insist upon the necessity of living with great people , and in how much did all his grand acquaintance profit him ? '' 
They were not shy , but Pen thought they were , and slunk from them during his last terms at college . 
He was as gloomy as a death 's - head at parties , which he avoided of his own part , or to which his young friends soon ceased to invite him . 
Many a young man of his year whose hob-nailed shoes Pen had derided , and whose face or coat he had caricatured -- many a man whom he had treated with scorn in the lecture-room or crushed with his eloquence in the debating-club -- many of his own set who had not half his brains , but a little regularity and constancy of occupation , took high places in the honours or passed with decent credit . 
And where in the list was Pen the superb , Pen the with and dandy , Pen the poet and orator ? 
Ah , where was Pen the widow 's darling and sole pride ? 
During the latter part of Pen 's residence at the University of Oxbridge , his uncle 's partiality had greatly increased for the lad . 
It pleased the old London bachelor to see Pen walking with the young patricians of his university , and he -LRB- who was never known to entertain his friends , and whose stinginess had passed into a sort of byword among some wags at the Club , who envied his many engagements , and did not choose to consider his poverty -RRB- was charmed to give his nephew and the young lords snug little dinners at his lodgings , and to regale them with good claret , and his very best bons motsand stories : some of which would be injured by the repetition , for the Major 's manner of telling them was incomparably neat and careful ; and others , whereof the repetition would do good to nobody . 
He went to hear Pen at a grand debate at the Union , crowed and cheered , and rapped his stick in chorus with the cheers of the men , and was astounded at the boy 's eloquence and fire . 
He had an almost paternal fondness for Pen . 
And all this pride and affection of uncle and mother had been trampled down by Pen 's wicked extravagance and idleness ! 
I do n't envy Pen 's feelings -LRB- as the phrase is -RRB- , as he thought of what he had done . 
He had slept , and the tortoise had won the race . 
He had marred at its outset what might have been a brilliant career . 
He had dipped ungenerously into a generous mother 's purse ; basely and recklessly spilt her little cruse . 
And if Pen felt the wrong which he had done to others , are we to suppose that a young gentleman of his vanity did not feel still more keenly the shame he had brought upon himself ? 
As Pen went up a hill , a drizzling January rain beating in his face , and his ragged gown flying behind him -- for he had not divested himself of his academical garments since the morning -- a postchaise came rattling up the road , on the box of which a servant was seated , whilst within , or rather half out of the carriage window , sate a young gentleman smoking a cigar , and loudly encouraging the postboy . 
He caught a sight of the figure , madly gesticulating as he worked up the hill , and of poor Pen 's pale and ghastly face as the chaise whirled by him . 
roared Mr. Spavin to the postboy , and the horses stopped in their mad career , and the carriage pulled up some fifty yards before Pen . 
He presently heard his own name shouted , and beheld the upper half of the body of Mr. Spavin thrust out of the side-window of the vehicle , and beckoning Pen vehemently towards it . 
Pen stopped , hesitated -- nodded his head fiercely , and pointed onwards , as if desirous that the postillion should proceed . 
He did not speak : but his countenance must have looked very desperate , for young Spavin , having stared at him with an expression of blank alarm , jumped out of the carriage presently , ran towards Pen holding out his hand , and grasping Pen 's , said , `` I say -- hullo , old boy , where are you going , and what 's the row now ? '' 
`` I 'm going where I deserve to go , '' said Pen , with an imprecation . 
I say , Pen , do n't take on because you are plucked . 
Pen looked at his early acquaintance , -- who had been plucked , who had been rusticated , who had only , after repeated failures , learned to read and write correctly , and who , in spite of all these drawbacks , had attained the honour of a degree . 
Pen said . 
Pen winced . 
-- and in this way Pen found himself in Mr. Spavin 's postchaise , and rode with that gentleman as far as the Ram Inn at Mudford , fifteen miles from Oxbridge ; where the Fenbury mail changed horses , and where Pen got a place on to London . 
The next day there was an immense excitement in Boniface College , Oxbridge , where , for some time , a rumour prevailed , to the terror of Pen 's tutor and tradesmen , that Pendennis , maddened at losing his degree , had made away with himself -- a battered cap , in which his name was almost discernible , together with a seal bearing his crest of an eagle looking at a now extinct sun , had been found three miles on the Fenbury road , near a mill-stream ; and , for four-and-twenty hours , it was supposed that poor Pen had flung himself into the stream , until letters arrived from him , bearing the London post-mark . 
The mail reached London at the dreary hour of five ; and he hastened to the inn at Covent Garden , at which he was accustomed to put up , where the ever-wakeful porter admitted him , and showed him to a bed . 
Pen looked hard at the man , and wondered whether Boots knew he was plucked ? 
`` They do n't know what has happened , '' groaned Pen ; `` what will they say when they know all ? '' 
Pen had been standing with his back to the window , and to such a dubious light as Bury Street enjoys of a foggy January morning , so that his uncle could not see the expression of the young man 's countenance , or the looks of gloom and despair which even Mr. Morgan had remarked . 
But when the Major came out of his dressing-room neat and radiant , and preceded by faint odours from Delcroix 's shop , from which emporium Major Pendennis 's wig and his pocket-handkerchief got their perfume , he held out one of his hands to Pen , and was about addressing him in his cheery high-toned voice , when he caught sight of the boy 's face at length , and dropping his hand , said , `` Good God ! 
Pen , what 's the matter ? '' 
`` You 'll see it in the papers at breakfast , sir , '' Pen said `` See what ? '' 
`` I have lost everything , sir , '' Pen groaned out ; `` my honour 's gone ; I 'm ruined irretrievably ; I ca n't go back to Oxbridge . '' 
Pen laughed bitterly at the word feather , and repeated it . 
asked the guardian , looking Pen anxiously in the face . 
Pen perceived the error under which his guardian was labouring , and in the midst of his misery the blunder caused the poor wretch a faint smile , and served to bring down the conversation from the tragedy-key , in which Pen had been disposed to carry it on . 
He explained to his uncle that he had gone in to pass his examination , and failed . 
On which the Major said , that though he had expected far better things of his nephew , there was no great misfortune in this , and no dishonour as far as he saw , and that Pen must try again . 
`` Meagain at Oxbridge , '' Pen thought , `` after such a humiliation as that ! '' 
He felt that , except he went down to burn the place , he could not enter it . 
But it was when he came to tell his uncle of his debts that the other felt surprise and anger most keenly , and broke out into speeches most severe upon Pen , which the lad bore , as best he might , without flinching He had determined to make a clean breast , and had formed a full , true , and complete list of all his bills and liabilities at the university , and in London . 
All which items the reader may fill in at his pleasure -- such accounts have been inspected by the parents of many university youth , -- and it appeared that Mr. Pen 's bills in all amounted to about seven hundred pounds ; and , furthermore , it was calculated that he had had more than twice that sum of ready money during his stay at Oxbridge . 
This sum he had spent , and for it had to show -- what ? 
`` You need not press a man who is down , sir , '' Pen said to his uncle , gloomily . 
My mother wo n't like to see me dishonoured , sir , '' he continued , with his voice failing ; `` and I know she will pay these accounts . 
Pen , too , wrote his letter , and skulked about London streets for the rest of the day , fancying that everybody was looking at him and whispering to his neighbour , `` That is Pendennis of Boniface , who was plucked yesterday . '' 
His letter to his mother was full of tenderness and remorse : he wept the bitterest tears over it -- and the repentance and passion soothed him to some degree . 
He saw a party of roaring young blades from Oxbridge in the coffee-room of his hotel , and slunk away from them , and paced the streets . 
He remembers , he says , the prints which he saw hanging up at Ackermann 's window in the rain , and a book which he read at a stall near the Temple : at night he went to the pit of the play , and saw Miss Fotheringay , but he does n't in the least recollect in what piece . 
On the second day there came a kind letter from his tutor , containing many grave and appropriate remarks upon the event which had befallen him , but strongly urging Pen not to take his name off the university books , and to retrieve a disaster which , every body knew , was owing to his own carelessness alone , and which he might repair by a month 's application . 
He said he had ordered Pen 's skip to pack up some trunks of the young gentleman 's wardrobe , which duly arrived with fresh copies of all Pen 's bills laid on the top . 
On the third day there arrived a letter from Home ; which Pen read in his bedroom , and the result of which was that he fell down on his knees , with his head in the bed-clothes , and there prayed out his heart , and humbled himself ; and having gone down stairs and eaten an immense breakfast , he sallied forth and took his place at the Bull and Mouth , Piccadilly , by the Chatteris coach for that evening . 
She had read Pen 's letter , and it had relieved her somehow . 
What was this degree that they made such an outcry about , and what good would it do Pen ? 
For some time past , an agreeable practice , known since times ever so ancient , by which brothers and sisters are wont to exhibit their affection towards one another , and in which Pen and his little sister Laura had been accustomed to indulge pretty frequently in their childish days , had been given up by the mutual consent of those two individuals . 
Coming back from college after an absence from home of some months , in place of the simple girl whom he had left behind him , Mr. Arthur found a tall , slim , handsome young lady , to whom he could not somehow proffer the kiss which he had been in the habit of administering previously , and who received him with a gracious curtsey and a proffered hand , and with a great blush which rose up to the cheek , just upon the very spot which young Pen had been used to salute . 
Now , Miss Laura , since she had learned to think for herself -LRB- and in the past two years her mind and her person had both developed themselves considerably -RRB- , had only been half pleased with Pen 's general conduct and bearing . 
His letters to his mother at home had become of late very rare and short . 
Laura declared stoutly that she did not love Pen a bit , when he did not do his duty to his mother : nor would she be convinced by any of Helen 's fond arguments , that the boy must make his way in the world ; that his uncle was most desirous that Pen should cultivate the acquaintance of persons who were likely to befriend him in life ; that men had a thousand ties and calls which women could not understand , and so forth . 
Not that he ever offended her by rudeness , or addressed to her a word which she ought not to hear , for Mr. Pen was a gentleman , and by nature and education polite to every woman high and low ; but he spoke lightly and laxly of women in general ; was less courteous in his actions than in his words -- neglectful in sundry ways , and in many of the little offices of life . 
It offended Miss Laura that he should smoke his horrid pipes in the house ; that he should refuse to go to church with his mother , or on walks or visits with her , and be found yawning over his novel in his dressing-gown , when the gentle widow returned from those duties . 
Perhaps she did not know , that , if men throw themselves away upon women , women throw themselves away upon men , too ; and that there is no more accounting for love , than for any other physical liking or antipathy : perhaps she had been misinformed by the Clavering people and old Mrs. Portman , who was vastly bitter against Pen , especially since his impertinent behaviour to the Doctor , and since the wretch had smoked cigars in church-time : perhaps , finally , she was jealous ; but this is a vice in which it is said the ladies very seldom indulge . 
Albeit she was angry with Pen ; against his mother she had no such feeling ; but devoted herself to Helen with the utmost force of her girlish affection -- such affection as women , whose hearts are disengaged , are apt to bestow upon the near female friend . 
But as soon as Miss Laura heard that Pen was unfortunate and unhappy , all her wrath against him straightway vanished , and gave place to the most tender and unreasonable compassion . 
He was the Pen of old days once more restored to her , the frank and affectionate , the generous and tender-hearted . 
She at once took side with Helen against Doctor Portman , when he outcried at the enormity of Pen 's transgressions . 
And so , with flushing cheeks and eyes bright with anger , this young creature reasoned ; and she went up and seized Helen 's hand , and kissed her in the Doctor 's presence , and her looks braved the Doctor , and seemed to ask how he dared to say a word against her darling mother 's Pen ? 
There must be some jealousy against Pen . 
Pen , who was plunged in his shame and grief in London , and torn with great remorse for thinking of his mother 's sorrow , would have wondered , had he seen how easily she bore the calamity . 
And directly the Doctor was gone , Laura ordered fires to be lighted in Mr. Arthur 's rooms , and his bedding to be aired ; and had these preparations completed by the time Helen had finished a most tender and affectionate letter to Pen : when the girl , smiling fondly , took her mamma by the hand , and led her into those apartments where the fires were blazing so cheerfully , and there the two kind creatures sate down on the bed , and talked about Pen ever so long . 
Laura added a postscript to Helen 's letter , in which she called him her dearest Pen , and bade him come home instantly , with two of the handsomest dashes under the word , and be happy with his mother and his affectionate sister Laura . 
In the middle of the night -- as these two ladies , after reading their bibles a great deal during the evening , and after taking just a look into Pen 's room as they passed to their own -- in the middle of the night , I say , Laura , whose head not unfrequently chose to occupy that pillow which the nightcap of the late Pendennis had been accustomed to press , cried out suddenly , `` Mamma , are you awake ? '' 
The truth is , though she had been lying quite still and silent , she had not been asleep one instant , but had been looking at the night-lamp in the chimney , and had been thinking of Pen for hours and hours . 
Then Miss Laura -LRB- who had been acting with similar hypocrisy , and lying , occupied with her own thoughts , as motionless as Helen 's brooch , with Pen 's and Laura 's hair in it , on the frilled white pincushion on the dressing-table -RRB- began to tell Mrs. Pendennis of a notable plan which she had been forming in her busy little brains ; and by which all Pen 's embarrassments would be made to vanish in a moment , and without the least trouble to anybody . 
Now , to-morrow we will go to Chatteris , and see that nice old Mr. Rowdy , with the bald head , and ask him for it , -- not for his head , but for the five hundred pounds : and I dare say he will send you two more , which we will save and pay back ; and we will send the money to Pen , who can pay all his debts without hurting anybody , and then we will live happy ever after . '' 
But the two women slept well after that talk ; and when the night-lamp went out with a splutter , and the sun rose gloriously over the purple hills , and the birds began to sing and pipe cheerfully amidst the leafless trees and glistening evergreens on Fairoaks lawn , Helen woke too , and as she looked at the sweet face of the girl sleeping beside her , her lips parted with a smile , blushes on her cheeks , her spotless bosom heaving and falling with gentle undulations , as if happy dreams were sweeping over it -- Pen 's mother felt happy and grateful beyond all power of words , save such as pious women offer up to the Beneficent Dispenser of love and mercy -- in Whose honour a chorus of such praises is constantly rising up all round the world . 
Although it was January and rather cold weather , so sincere was Mr. Pen 's remorse , and so determined his plans of economy , that he would not take an inside place in the coach , but sate up behind with his friend the Guard , who remembered his former liberality , and lent him plenty of great coats . 
Perhaps it was the cold that made his knees tremble as he got down at the lodge gate , or it may be that he was agitated at the notion of seeing the kind creature for whose love he had made so selfish a return . 
`` I ` se garner and stable man , and lives in the ladge now , '' this worthy man remarked , with a grin of welcome to Pen , and something of a blush ; but instantly as Pen turned the corner of the shrubbery and was out of eye-shot of the coach , Helen made her appearance , her face beaming with love and forgiveness -- for forgiving is what some women love best of all . 
We may be sure that the widow , having a certain other object in view , had lost no time in writing off to Pen an account of the noble , the magnanimous , the magnificent offer of Laura , filling up her letter with a profusion of benedictions upon both her children . 
It was probably the knowledge of this money-obligation which caused Pen to blush very much when he saw Laura , who was in waiting in the hall , and who this time , and for this time only , broke through the little arrangement of which we have spoken , as having subsisted between her and Arthur for the last few years ; but the truth is , there has been a great deal too much said about kissing in the present chapter . 
No allusions were made to the Oxbridge mishap , or questions asked as to his farther proceedings , for some time But Pen debated these anxiously in his own mind , and up in his own room , where he passed much time in cogitation . 
He then informed his mother that he had left the horse to be sold ; and when that operation was effected , he handed her over the cheque , which she , and possibly Pen himself , thought was an act of uncommon virtue and self-denial , but which Laura pronounced to be only strict justice . 
He rarely mentioned the loan which she had made , and which , indeed , had been accepted by the widow with certain modifications ; but once or twice , and with great hesitation and stammering , he alluded to it , and thanked her ; but it evidently pained his vanity to be beholden to the orphan for succour . 
He was wild to find some means of repaying her . 
He left off drinking wine , and betook himself , but with great moderation , to the refreshment of whisky-and-water . 
He gave up cigar smoking ; but it must be confessed that of late years he had liked pipes and tobacco as well or even better , so that this sacrifice was not a very severe one . 
He fell asleep a great deal after dinner when he joined the ladies in the drawing-room , and was certainly very moody and melancholy . 
He watched the coaches with great interest , walked in to read the papers at Clavering assiduously , dined with anybody who would ask him -LRB- and the widow was glad that he should have any entertainment in their solitary place -RRB- , and played a good deal at cribbage with Captain Glanders . 
He avoided Dr. Portman , who , in his turn , whenever Pen passed , gave him very severe looks from under his shovel-hat . 
He went to church with his mother , however , very regularly , and read prayers for her at home to the little household . 
All this was Mr. Pen 's doing , and the state of things did not increase his cheerfulness . 
For some time Pen said no power on earth could induce him to go back to Oxbridge again , after his failure there ; but one day , Laura said to him , with many blushes , that she thought , as some sort of reparation , of punishment on himself for his -- for his idleness , he ought to go back and get his degree , if he could fetch it by doing so ; and so back Mr. Pen went . 
Pen felt himself plucked indeed of all the fine feathers which he had won during his brilliant years , and rarely appeared out of his college ; regularly going to morning chapel , and shutting himself up in his rooms of nights , away from the noise and suppers of the undergraduates . 
There were no duns about his door , they were all paid -- scarcely any cards were left there . 
The men of his year had taken their degrees , and were gone . 
He went into a second examination , and passed with perfect ease . 
He was somewhat more easy in his mind when he appeared in his bachelor 's gown . 
On his way back from Oxbridge he paid a visit to his uncle in London ; but the old gentleman received him with very cold looks , and would scarcely give him his forefinger to shake . 
He called a second time , but Morgan , the valet , said his master was from home . 
Pen came back to Fairoaks , and to his books and to his idleness , and loneliness and despair . 
Just about the time of Pen 's little mishap , and when he was so absorbed in the grief occasioned by that calamity as to take no notice of events which befel persons less interesting to himself than Arthur Pendennis , an announcement appeared in the provincial journals which caused no small sensation in the county at least , and in all the towns , villages , halls and mansions , and parsonages for many miles round Clavering Park . 
On the right of the hall door were the saloons and drawing-rooms , and on the other side the oak room , the parlour , the grand dining-room , the library , where Pen had found books in old days . 
The news was brought to Fairoaks , and received by the ladies there , and by Mr. Pen , with some excitement . 
Pen laughed , and said , `` Well , there is the young Sir Francis for you . '' 
Both the ladies pronounced him to be delightful -- and so he was ; though , indeed , they had not had much choice of man 's society as yet , having seen in the course of their lives but few persons , except old Portman and the Major , and Mr. Pen , who was a genius , to be sure ; but then your geniuses are somewhat flat and moody at home . 
`` I hate clever women , '' said Pen . 
And with this she looked Pen full in the face , as if every word the little hypocrite said was Gospel truth . 
Thus , an intimacy was arranged and prepared beforehand between the Fairoaks family and their wealthy neighbours at the Park ; and Pen and Laura were to the full as eager for their arrivals , as even the most curious of the Clavering folks . 
So Mr. Pen and Miss Laura found the society at Clavering Park an uncommonly agreeable resort of summer evenings . 
Blanche vowed that she raffoledof Laura ; and , very likely , Mr. Pen was pleased with Blanche . 
His spirits came back : he laughed and rattled till Laura wondered to hear him . 
It was not the same Pen , yawning , in a shooting-jacket , in the Fairoaks parlour , who appeared alert and brisk , and smiling and well dressed , in Lady Clavering 's drawing-room . 
Sometimes Mr. Pen joined in these concerts , or oftener looked sweet upon Miss Blanche as she sang . 
Although Laura and Pen commonly went to Clavering Park together , yet sometimes Mr. Pen took walks there unattended by her , and about which he did not tell her . 
He took to fishing the Brawl which runs through the Park , and passes not very far from the garden-wall , And by the oddest coincidence , Miss Amory would walk out -LRB- having been to look at her flowers -RRB- , and would be quite surprised to see Mr. Pendennis fishing . 
N6309054 I wonder what trout Pen caught while the young lady was looking on ? 
or whether Miss Blanche was the pretty little fish which played round his fly , and which Mr. Pen was endeavouring to hook ? 
It must be owned , he became very fond of that healthful and invigorating pursuit of angling , and was whipping the Brawl continually with his fly . 
As for Miss Blanche , she had a kind heart ; and having , as she owned , herself `` suffered '' a good deal in the course of her brief life and experience -- why , she could compassionate other susceptible beings like Pen , who had suffered too . 
She played with Laura ; she read French and German with Laura ; and Mr. Pen read French and German along with them . 
He turned sentimental ballads of Schiller and Gothe into English verse for the ladies , and Blanche unlocked `` Mes Larmes '' for him , and imparted to him some of the plaintive outpourings of her own tender Muse . 
They were not particularly briny , Miss Blanche 's tears , that is the truth ; but Pen , who read her verses , thought them very well for a lady -- and wrote some verses himself for her . 
His were very violent and passionate , very hot , sweet and strong : and he not only wrote verses ; but -- O , the villain ! 
he altered and adapted former poems in his possession , and which had been composed for a certain Miss Emily Fotheringay , for the use and to the Christian name of Miss Blanche Amory . 
Mr. Pen , however , besides other drawbacks , chose to entertain an extreme diffidence about himself . 
He was ashamed of his late failures , of his idle and nameless condition , of the poverty which he had brought on his mother by his folly , and there was as much of vanity as remorse in his present state of doubt and distrust . 
How could he ever hope for such a prize as this brilliant Blanche Amory , who lived in a fine park and mansion , and was waited on by a score of grand domestics , whilst a maid-servant brought in their meagre meal at Fairoaks , and his mother was obliged to pinch and manage to make both ends meet ? 
Obstacles seemed to him insurmountable , which would have vanished had he marched manfully upon them : and he preferred despairing , or dallying with his wishes , -- or perhaps he had not positively shaped them as yet , -- to attempting to win gallantly the object of his desire . 
Many a young man fails by that species of vanity called shyness , who might , for the asking , have his will . 
But we do not pretend to say that Pen had , as yet , ascertained his : or that he was doing much more than thinking about falling in love . 
She fascinated and cajoled him by a thousand arts or natural graces or flatteries . 
But there were lurking reasons and doubts , besides shyness and vanity , withholding him . 
Pen 's mother had divined the girl , and did not trust her . 
Laura and Pen battled these points strongly at first with the widow -- Laura being as yet enthusiastic about her new friend , and Pen not far-gone enough in love to attempt any concealment of his feelings . 
He would laugh at these objections of Helen 's , and say , `` Psha , mother ! 
But when , in the course of a month or two , and by watching the pair with that anxiety with which brooding women watch over their sons ' affections -- and in acknowledging which , I have no doubt there is a sexual jealousy on the mother 's part , and a secret pang -- when Helen saw that the intimacy appeared to make progress , that the two young people were perpetually finding pretexts to meet , and that Miss Blanche was at Fairoaks or Mr. Pen at the Park every day , the poor widow 's heart began to fail her -- her darling project seemed to vanish before her ; and , giving way to her weakness , she fairly told Pen one day what her views and longings were ; that she felt herself breaking , and not long for this world , and that she hoped and prayed before she went , that she might see her two children one . 
The late events , Pen 's life and career and former passion for the actress , had broken the spirit of this tender lady . 
She felt that he had escaped her , and was in the maternal nest no more ; and she clung with a sickening fondness to Laura , Laura who had been left to her by Francis in Heaven . 
Pen kissed and soothed her in his grand patronising way . 
He had seen something of this , he had long thought his mother wanted to make this marriage -- did Laura know anything of it ? 
-LRB- Not she , -- Mrs. Pendennis said -- not for worlds would she have breathed a word of it to Laura -RRB- -- `` Well , well , there was time enough , his mother would n't die , '' Pen said , laughingly : `` he would n't hear of any such thing , and as for the Muse , she is too grand a lady to think about poor little me -- and as for Laura , who knows that she would have me . 
`` O , Pen , you might be , '' was the widow 's reply ; not that Mr. Pen ever doubted that he was ; and a feeling of indefinable pleasure and self-complacency came over him as he thought over this proposal , and imaged Laura to himself , as his memory remembered her for years past , always fair and open , kindly and pious , cheerful , tender and true . 
He looked at her with brightening eyes as she came in from the garden at the end of this talk , her cheeks rather flushed , her looks frank and smiling -- a basket of roses in her hand . 
Pen thought , with a thrill of triumph , as he looked at the kindly girl . 
The image of the two women remained for ever after in his mind , and he never recalled it but the tears came into his eyes . 
And behold the Muse was boxing the darling brother 's ears instead of kneeling at his feet , and giving Miss Laura her first lesson in the Cynical philosophy -- not quite her first , however , -- something like this selfishness and waywardness , something like this contrast between practice and poetry , between grand versified aspirations and every-day life , she had witnessed at home in the person of our young friend Mr. Pen . 
N6309059 But then Pen was different . 
Pen was a man . 
It seemed natural somehow that he should be self-willed and should have his own way . 
And under his waywardness and selfishness , indeed there was a kind and generous heart . 
On this the two ladies went through the osculatory ceremony which they were in the habit of performing , and Mrs. Pendennis got a great secret comfort from the little quarrel -- for Laura 's confession seemed to say , `` That girl can never be a wife for Pen , for she is light-minded and heartless , and quite unworthy of our noble hero . 
Her darling Laura had come to pass a long day ; and as they were sitting in her own room together , had chosen to bring the conversation round to the subject of Mr. Pen . 
When the Claverings first came down to the Park , there were very few audiences before whom Miss Blanche could perform : hence Pen had all the benefits of her glances , and confidences , and the drawing-room window , or the garden walk all to himself . 
It was then that Blanche found other dear friends than Laura , and other places to walk in besides the river side , where Pen was fishing . 
He came day after day , and whipped the stream , but the `` fish , fish ! '' 
Mention has been made , in a former page , of a certain hollow tree , at which Pen used to take his station when engaged in his passion for Miss Fotheringay , and the cavity of which he afterwards used for other purposes than to insert his baits and fishing-cans in . 
The truth is , he converted this tree into a post-office . 
Under a piece of moss and a stone , he used to put little poems , or letters equally poetical , which were addressed to a certain Undine , or Naiad who frequented the stream , and which , once or twice , were replaced by a receipt in the shape of a flower , or by a modest little word or two of acknowledgment , written in a delicate hand , in French or English , and on pink scented paper . 
But after the great folks had invaded Clavering Park , and the family coach passed out of the lodge-gates , evening after evening , on their way to the other great country houses , nobody came to fetch Pen 's letters at the post-office ; the white paper was not exchanged for the pink , but lay undisturbed under its stone and its moss , whilst the tree was reflected into the stream , and the Brawl went rolling by . 
But if a man is baulked at this game ; he not unfrequently loses his temper ; and when nobody came any more for Pen 's poems , he began to look upon those compositions in a very serious light . 
He felt almost tragical and romantic again , as in his first affair of the heart : -- at any rate he was bent upon having an explanation . 
One day he went to the Hall , and there was a room-full of visitors : on another , Miss Amory was not to be seen ; she was going to a ball that night , and was lying down to take a little sleep . 
Pen cursed balls , and the narrowness of his means , and the humility of his position in the county that caused him to be passed over by the givers of these entertainments . 
On a third occasion , Miss Amory was in the garden , and he ran thither ; she was walking there in state with no less personages than the Bishop and Bishopess of Chatteris and the episcopal family , who scowled at him , and drew up in great dignity when he was presented to them , and they heard his name . 
Mrs. Pendennis was too unwell to come out , but Laura and Pen came , and there was a great party , and Pen only got an opportunity of a hurried word with Miss Amory . 
`` You never come to the river now , '' he said . 
`` Undine has left the stream , '' Mr. Pen went on , choosing to be poetical . 
Besides , you have other consolations at home , '' she added , looking him full in the face an instant , and dropping her eyes . 
If he wanted her , why did he not speak then ? 
But as she spoke of other consolations at home , he thought of Laura , so affectionate and so pure , and of his mother at home , who had bent her fond heart upon uniting him with her adopted daughter . 
he began , in a vexed tone , -- `` Miss Amory ! '' 
Laura indeed was looking at Pen . 
Pynsent and Pen had been at Oxbridge together , where the latter , during his heyday of good fortune and fashion , had been the superior of the young patrician , and perhaps rather supercilious towards him . 
`` You should come and see him , '' the girl said , laughing , and greatly amused at the notion that her Pen was a great county gentleman , and perhaps had given himself out to be such . 
Had the pleasure of meeting you at Gaunt House , '' Mr. Pen said with his very best air -- the acquaintance between the gentlemen was made in an instant . 
In the afternoon of the next day , the two gentlemen who were staying at Clavering Park were found by Mr. Pen on his return from a fishing excursion , in which he had no sport , seated in his mother 's drawing-room in comfortable conversation with the widow and her ward . 
Mr. John answered , `` Yes , they be ; '' and as the pair walked over the trim gravel , and by the neat shrubberies , up the steps to the hall-door , which old John opened , Mr. Wagg noted everything that he saw ; the barometer and the letter-bag , the umbrellas and the ladies ' clogs , Pen 's hats and tartan wrapper , and old John opening the drawing-room door , to introduce the new comers . 
I am sure Pen will never be like him . 
He spoke of Pen 's triumph as an orator at Oxbridge , and asked was he coming into parliament too ? 
He talked on very pleasantly , and greatly to Laura 's satisfaction , until Pen himself appeared , and , as has been said , found these gentlemen . 
Pen behaved very courteously to the pair , now that they had found their way into his quarters ; and though he recollected with some twinges a conversation at Oxbridge , when Pynsent was present , and in which after a great debate at the Union , and in the midst of considerable excitement produced by a supper and champagne-cup , -- he had announced his intention of coming in for his native county , and had absolutely returned thanks in a fine speech as the future member ; yet Mr. Pynsent 's manner was so frank and cordial , that Pen hoped Pynsent might have forgotten his little fanfaronnade , and any other braggadocio speeches or actions which he might have made . 
He suited himself to the tone of the visitors then , and talked about Plinlymmon and Magnus Charters , and the old set at Oxbridge , with careless familiarity and highbred ease , as if he lived with marquises every day , and a duke was no more to him than a village curate . 
All Pen 's splendour and magnificence vanished away at this -- and he faltered and became quite abashed . 
`` Then why do you look at Pen so ? '' 
`` We two women are no society for him : we do n't interest him ; we are not clever enough for such a genius as Pen . 
`` Pen has spent nothing for months . 
You should not be sad because Pen is unhappy here . 
He says Pen was one of the best speakers at Oxbridge , and had as great a character for talent as any of the young gentlemen there . 
Pen himself laughs at Mr. Wagg 's celebrity -LRB- and indeed he is a horrid person -RRB- , and says he is a dunce , and that any body could write his books . '' 
If Pen can write better than this gentleman , and speak better than Mr. Pynsent , why does n't he ? 
But she took her own way , and did not lose sight of the end she had in view , in imparting these new plans to Pen . 
At that news Pen 's countenance blazed up with pleasure , and he hugged his mother to his heart with an ardour that I fear disappointed the fond lady ; but she rallied when he said , `` By Heaven ! 
Pen went on with more incoherent phrases ; paced up and down the room , drank glasses of water , jumped about his mother with a thousand embraces -- began to laugh -- began to sing -- was happier than she had seen him since he was a boy -- since he had tasted of the fruit of that awful Tree of Life which , from the beginning , has tempted all mankind . 
Mr. Pen was greatly delighted at the relationship being acknowledged , though perhaps not over well pleased that Lady Rockminster took Miss Bell home with her for a couple of days to Baymouth , and did not make the slightest invitation to Mr. Arthur Pendennis . 
The dowager came to fetch her in her carriage , and she went off with a white dress in her box , happy and blushing , like the rose to which Pen compared her . 
said Pen , `` I 'll ride over -- No , I wo n't ride , but I 'll go too . '' 
His mother was charmed that he should do so and , as he was debating about the conveyance in which he should start for Baymouth , Captain Strong called opportunely , said he was going himself , and that he would put his horse , The Butcher Boy , into the gig , and drive Pen over . 
The Butcher Boy soon took Pen and Chevalier to Baymouth . 
asked Pen . 
said Pen , amused . 
A man with very black hair and whiskers , dyed evidently with the purple of Tyre , with twinkling eyes and white eyelashes , and a thousand wrinkles in his face , which was of a strange red colour , with two under-vests , and large gloves and hands , and a profusion of diamonds and jewels in his waistcoat and stock , with coarse feet crumpled into immense shiny boots , and a piece of particoloured ribbon in his buttonhole , here came up and nodded familiarly to the Chevalier . 
That officer bowed to the salute of Pen ; who was now looking out eagerly to see if the person he wanted had entered the room . 
Pen rushed by Blanche , ran up to Laura , and seized her hand . 
`` Not for three dances , dear Pen , '' she said , smiling : and he fell back , biting his nails with vexation , and forgetting to salute Pynsent . 
Laura went on dancing , and keeping an attentive eye upon Mr. Pen in the embrasure of the window . 
He did not quit that retirement during the first quadrille , nor until the second , when the good-natured Lady Clavering beckoned to him to come up to her to the dais or place of honour where the dowagers were , and whither Pen went blushing and exceedingly awkward , as most conceited young fellows are . 
He performed a haughty salutation to Lady Rockminster , who hardly acknowledged his bow , and then went and paid his respects to the widow of the late Amory , who was splendid in diamonds , velvet , lace , feathers , and all sorts of millinery and goldsmith 's ware . 
Laura laughed , and looked more good-humoured than ever ; and in the midst of her laughter caught a sight of Pen , and continued to laugh as he , on his side , continued to look absurdly pompous and sulky . 
Mr. Pynsent again claimed Miss Bell 's hand for this dance ; and Pen beheld her in a fury , twirling round the room , her waist encircled by the arm of that gentleman . 
After a couple of turns with the heavy dragoon , she pleaded fatigue , and requested to be led back to her place , near her mamma , to whom Pen was talking ; and she asked him why he had not asked her to waltz , and had left her to the mercies of that great odious man in spurs and a red coat ? 
`` I thought spurs and scarlet were the most fascinating objects in the world to young ladies , '' Pen answered . 
said Pen . 
Laura came up , and put out her hand to Pen , to whom Pynsent made a sort of bow , appearing to be not much more graceful than that domestic instrument to which Miss Amory compared him . 
`` I am so glad you have come , dear Pen , '' she said . 
The three dances are over , and I am engaged to you for the next , Pen . '' 
`` I have just engaged myself to Miss Amory , '' said Pen ; and Miss Amory nodded her head , and made her usual little curtsey . 
`` Well , then , he 'll waltz with me , dear Blanche , '' said the other `` Wo n't you , Pen ? '' 
Pen was delighted with his mischief . 
The two prettiest girls in the room were quarrelling about him . 
He flattered himself he had punished Miss Laura . 
He leaned in a dandified air , with his elbow over the wall , and talked to Blanche : he quizzed unmercifully all the men in the room -- the heavy dragoons in their jackets -- the country dandies in their queer attire -- the strange toilettes of the ladies . 
`` It 's a coiffureof almonds and raisins , '' said Pen , `` and might be served up for dessert . '' 
he was exceedingly satirical and amusing . 
During the quadrille he carried on this kind of conversation with unflinching bitterness and vivacity , and kept , Blanche continually laughing , both at his wickedness and jokes , which were good , and also because Laura was again their vis-à-vis , and could see and hear how merry and confidential they were . 
`` Arthur is charming to-night , '' she whispered to Laura , across Cornet Perch 's shell jacket , as Pen was performing cavalier seulbefore them , drawling through that figure with a thumb in the pocket of each waistcoat . 
And now the young ladies went over to Pen 's side , and Cornet Perch performed a pas seulin his turn . 
During the interval between the quadrille and the succeeding waltz , Pen did not take any notice of Laura , except to ask her whether her partner , Cornet Perch , was an amusing youth , and whether she liked him so well as her other partner , Mr. Pynsent . 
Laura was at a loss to account for her cousin 's sulky behaviour , and ignorant in what she had offended him ; however , she was not angry in her turn at Pen 's splenetic mood , for she was the most good-natured and forgiving of women , and besides , an exhibition of jealousy on a man 's part is not always disagreeable to a lady . 
As Pen would not dance with her , she was glad to take up with the active Chevalier Strong , who was a still better performer than Pen ; and being very fond of dancing , as every brisk and innocent young girl should be , when the waltz music began she set off , and chose to enjoy herself with all her heart . 
Captain Broadfoot on this occasion occupied the floor in conjunction with a lady of proportions scarcely inferior to his own ; Miss Roundle , a large young woman in a strawberry-ice coloured crape dress , the daughter of the lady with the grapes in her head , whose bunches Pen had admired . 
And now taking his time , and with his fair partner Blanche hanging lovingly on the arm which encircled her , Mr. Arthur Pendennis set out upon his waltzing career , and felt , as he whirled round to the music , that he and Blanche were performing very brilliantly indeed . 
But Pen 's triumph was not destined to last long ; and it was doomed that poor Blanche was to have yet another discomfiture on that unfortunate night . 
While she and Pen were whirling round as light and brisk as a couple of opera-dancers , honest Captain Broadfoot and the lady round whose large waist he was clinging , were twisting round very leisurely according to their natures , and indeed were in everybody 's way . 
But they were more in Pendennis 's way than in anybody 's else , for he and Blanche , whilst executing their rapid gyrations , came bolt up against the heavy dragoon and his lady , and with such force that the centre of gravity was lost by all four of the circumvolving bodies ; Captain Broadfoot and Miss Roundle were fairly upset , as was Pen himself , who was less lucky than his partner Miss Amory , who was only thrown upon a bench against a wall . 
But Miss Amory was savage at her mishap ; Miss Roundle placed on her séant , and looking pitifully round , presented an object which very few people could see without laughing ; and Pen was furious when he heard the people giggling about him . 
He was one of those sarcastic young fellows that did not bear a laugh at his own expense , and of all things in the world feared ridicule most . 
As he got up Laura and Strong were laughing at him ; everybody was laughing ; Pynsent and his partner were laughing ; and Pen boiled with wrath against the pair , and could have stabbed them both on the spot . 
He turned away in a fury from them , and began blundering out apologies to Miss Amory . 
It was the other couple 's fault -- the woman in pink had done it -- Pen hoped Miss Amory was not hurt -- would she not have the courage to take another turn ? 
She drank the water , smiled upon the bringer gracefully , and turning her white shoulder at Mr. Pen in the most marked and haughty manner , besought the gentleman with the star to conduct her to her mamma ; and she held out her hand in order to take his arm . 
The man with the star trembled with delight at this mark of her favour ; he bowed over her hand , pressed it to his coat fervidly , and looked round him with triumph . 
As she went off , Pen forgot his humiliation in his surprise , and cried out , `` By Jove , it 's the cook ! '' 
The instant he had uttered the words , he was sorry for having spoken them -- for it was Blanche who had herself invited Mirobolant to escort her , nor could the artist do otherwise than comply with a lady 's command . 
Blanche in her flutter did not hear what Arthur said ; but Mirobolant heard him , and cast a furious glance at him over his shoulder , which rather amused Mr. Pen . 
He was in a mischievous and sulky humour ; wanting perhaps to pick a quarrel with somebody ; but the idea of having insulted a cook , or that such an individual should have any feeling of honour at all , did not much enter into the mind of this lofty young aristocrat , the apothecary 's son . 
He had seen in the fêtes in his own country fine ladies , not certainly demoiselles -LRB- but the demoiselle Anglaise he knew was a great deal more free than the spinster in France -RRB- join in the dance with Blaise or Pierre ; and he would have taken Blanche up to Lady Clavering , and possibly have asked her to dance too , but he heard Pen 's exclamation , which struck him as if it had shot him , and cruelly humiliated and angered him . 
-- Strong asked , enjoying the idea of the mischief -- `` I think he would like to run little Pen through with one of his spits . '' 
`` He is an odious , conceited , clumsy creature , that Mr. Pen , '' said Blanche . 
Shortly after Strong had quitted the room , and whilst Mr. Pen , greatly irate at his downfall in the waltz , which had made him look ridiculous in the eyes of the nation , and by Miss Amory 's behaviour to him , which had still further insulted his dignity , was endeavouring to get some coolness of body and temper , by looking out of window towards the sea , which was sparkling in the distance , and murmuring in a wonderful calm -- whilst he was really trying to compose himself , and owning to himself , perhaps , that he had acted in a very absurd and peevish manner during the night -- he felt a hand upon his shoulder ; and , on looking round , beheld , to his utter surprise and horror , that the hand in question belonged to Monsieur Mirobolant , whose eyes were glaring out of his pale face and ringlets at Mr. Pen . 
Mirobolant said in his own language , to Pen `` What is that to you , pray ? '' 
said Pen , in English . 
`` Yes , sir , '' said Pen , with a stamp of his foot ; `` I understand it pretty well . '' 
`` Vous me comprendrez alors , Monsieur Pendennis , '' replied the other , rolling out his rwith Gascon force , `` quand je vous dis que vous êtes un lâche . 
said Pen , starting round on him . 
the artist said , putting his hand on his hip , and staring at Pen . 
`` The consequences are , that I will fling you out of window , you -- impudent scoundrel , '' bawled out Mr. Pen ; and darting upon the Frenchman , he would very likely have put his threat into execution , for the window was at hand , and the artist by no means a match for the young gentleman -- had not Captain , Broadfoot and another heavy officer flung themselves between the combatants , -- had not the ladies begun to scream , -- had not the fiddles stopped , -- had not the crowd of people come running in that direction , -- had not Laura , with a face of great alarm , looked over their heads and asked for Heaven 's sake what was wrong , -- had not the opportune Strong made his appearance from the refreshment-room , and found Alcides grinding his teeth and jabbering oaths in his Gascon French , and Pen looking uncommonly wicked , although trying to appear as calm as possible , when the ladies and the crowd came up . 
-- The poor fellow is not right in his head , '' he whispered to one or two people about him ; -- and others , and anxious Laura 's face visible amongst these , gathered round Pen and asked the cause of the disturbance . 
Pen did not know . 
I own I was so surprised and indignant , that if you gentlemen had not stopped me , I should have thrown him out of window , '' Pen said . 
`` I -- I 'm very sorry if I hurt his feelings , though , '' Pen added : and Laura was glad to hear him say that ; although some of the young bucks said , `` No , hang the fellow , -- hang those impudent foreigners -- little thrashing would do them good . '' 
`` You will go and shake hands with him before you go to sleep -- wo n't you , Pen ? '' 
said Laura , coming up to him . 
Would n't you , dear Pen ? '' 
She looked all forgiveness and gentleness , like an angel , as she spoke , and Pen took both her hands , and looked into her kind face , and said indeed he would . 
He thought , as she stood gazing at him . 
Laura asked -- Would n't he stop and dance with her ? 
She was as anxious to keep him in the room , as he to quit it . 
`` Wo n't you stop and waltz with me , Pen ? 
Pen saw himself prostrate on the ground , having tumbled over Miss Roundle and the dragoon , and flung Blanche up against the wall -- saw himself on the ground , and all the people laughing at him , Laura and Pynsent amongst them . 
`` I shall never dance again , '' he replied , with a dark and determined face . 
`` Because I do n't wish to make a fool of myself , for other people to laugh at me , '' Pen answered -- `` for youto laugh at me , Laura . 
`` Pen , Pen , do n't be so wicked ! '' 
cried out the poor girl , hurt at the morbid perverseness and savage vanity of Pen . 
He was glaring round in the direction of Mr. Pynsent as if he would have liked to engage that gentleman as he had done the cook . 
said Pen . 
She had no great desire for that repast , though it was served in Rimer 's well-known style , as the county paper said , giving an account of the entertainment afterwards ; indeed , she was very distraite ; and exceedingly pained and unhappy about Pen . 
But she got some relief at length , when , at the end of half an-hour -- a long half-hour it had seemed to her -- a waiter brought her a little note in pencil from Pen , who said , `` I met Cooky below ready to fight me ; and I asked his pardon . 
Pen . '' 
Pen went down stairs , his heart reproaching him for his absurd behaviour to Laura , whose gentle and imploring looks followed and rebuked him ; and he was scarcely out of the ball-room door but he lunged to turn back and ask her pardon . 
The Chevalier was pacing down below in the hall of the inn when Pen descended from the ball-room ; and he came up to Pen , with all sorts of fun and mischief lighting up his jolly face . 
`` I have got him in the coffee-room , '' he said , `` with a brace of pistols and a candle . 
`` Confound it , '' said Pen , in a fury , `` I ca n't fight a cook . '' 
Pen asked fiercely ; `` I 'll call a policeman for him ; but -- but -- '' `` You 'll invite me to hair triggers ? '' 
And then he told Pen the grand secret which he had had from Madame Fribsby of the violent passion under which the poor artist was labouring . 
He remembered how jealous he had been of Oaks in his first affair ; he was ready to pardon anything to a man under a passion like that : and he went into the coffee-room where Mirobolant was waiting , with an outstretched hand , and made him a speech in French , in which he declared that he was `` Sincèrement fâche d'avoir usé une expression qui avoit pu blesser Monsieur Mirobolant , et qu'il donnoit sa parole comme un gentilhomme qu'il ne l'avoit jamais , jamais -- intendé , '' said Pen , who made a shot at a French word for `` intended , '' and was secretly much pleased with his own fluency and correctness in speaking that language . 
cried Strong , as much amused with Pen 's speech as pleased by his kind manner . 
And so they shook hands and parted , Arthur in the first place dispatching his note to Laura before he and Strong committed themselves to the Butcher-boy As they drove along , Strong complimented Pen upon his behaviour , as well as upon his skill in French . 
`` I 've been accustomed to it from my youth upwards , '' said Pen ; and Strong had the grace not to laugh for five minutes , when he exploded into fits of hilarity which Pendennis has never , perhaps , understood up to this day . 
A short time after the disturbance between Pen and the chef , Blanche had come out of the refreshment-room , looking as pale as a lemon-ice . 
So Pen returned to Fairoaks , in company with his friend the Chevalier , without having uttered a word of the message which he had been so anxious to deliver to Laura at Baymouth . 
When Helen 's anxious looks inquired of him what had happened at Baymouth , and whether her darling project was fulfilled , Pen , in a gay tone , told of the calamity which had befallen ; laughingly said , that no man could think about declarations under such a mishap , and made light of the matter . 
When he was not with her , Mr. Pen occupied himself in packing books and portmanteaus , burning and arranging papers , cleaning his gun and putting it into its case : in fact , in making dispositions for departure . 
For though he was ready to marry , this gentleman was eager to go to London too , rightly considering that at three and-twenty it was quite time for him to begin upon the serious business of life , and to set about making a fortune as quickly as possible . 
Ponto licked his hand and shoe , as they all did in that house , and Mr. Pen received their homage as other folks do the flattery which they get . 
But when Helen rose , Laura said , with a blush and rather an alarmed voice , that she was also very tired and wanted to go to bed : so that the widow was disappointed in her scheme for that night at least , and Mr. Pen was left another day in suspense regarding his fate . 
His dignity was offended at being thus obliged to remain in the ante-chamber when he wanted an audience . 
`` Dear Pen , rouse up , '' said this lady . 
Pen laughed . 
So Pen , now he was actually come to the point , felt very grave , and by no means elated , and , indeed , thought it was a great sacrifice he was going to perform . 
Somehow she had the very same smile with which she had laughed at him on the night previous , and the recollection of his disaster again offended Pen . 
But Laura , though she saw him coming down the walk looking so gloomy and full of care , accorded to him a smile of the most perfect and provoking good-humour , and went to meet him , holding one of the gauntlets to him , so that he might shake it if he liked -- and Mr. Pen condescended to do so . 
His face , however , did not lose its tragic expression in consequence of this favour , and he continued to regard her with a dismal and solemn air . 
`` Excuse my glove , '' said Laura , with a laugh , pressing Pen 's hand kindly with it . 
`` We are not angry again , are we , Pen ? '' 
said Pen . 
Dear Pen , it was n't a serious fall . 
`` Confound Miss Roundle , '' bellowed out Pen . 
-- and Laura began to make a face in imitation of Miss Roundle 's under the disaster , but she checked herself repentantly , saying , `` Well , we must not laugh at her , but I am sure we ought to laugh at you , Pen , if you were angry about such a trifle . 
N6309065 `` Youshould not laugh at me , Laura , '' said Pen , with some bitterness ; `` not you , of all people . '' 
`` Ah no , Laura , I 'm such a poor one , '' Pen answered . 
`` My dear Pen , and how ? '' 
`` It is your kindness that humiliates me more even than your laughter , Laura , '' Pen said . 
`` Those who confer benefits should not sneer , '' said Pen . 
For shame , Pen ; this is ungenerous , '' Laura said , flushing red . 
Oh , Pen , it 's cruel -- it 's unworthy of you to take it so ! 
`` Isyour life my mother 's , '' said Pen , beginning to tremble , and speak in a very agitated manner . 
And he took her hand once more . 
she said , dropping it , and looking at him , at the window again , and then dropping her eyes to the ground , so that they avoided Pen 's gaze . 
`` Our mother has one wish above all others in the world , Laura , '' Pen said ; `` and I think you know it . 
`` And why should I not be , '' asked Pen eagerly , `` with so dear a creature as you by my side ? 
Laura said , with a grave sadness of tone , which made Pen start , and see that his words had committed him . 
Indeed , his declaration had not been such as he would have made it two days earlier , when , full of hope and gratitude , he had run over to Laura , his liberatress , to thank her for his recovered freedom . 
Had he been permitted to speak then , he had spoken , and she , perhaps , had listened differently . 
Laura was offended with the terms in which Pen offered himself to her . 
He had , in fact , said that he had no love , and yet would take no denial . 
`` I give myself to you to please my mother , '' he had said : `` take me , as she wishes that I should make this sacrifice , '' The girl 's spirit would brook a husband under no such conditions : she was not minded to run forward because Pen chose to hold out the handkerchief , and her tone , in reply to Arthur , showed her determination to be independent . 
`` You have seen somebody else , '' said Pen , angry at her tone , and recalling the incidents of the past days . 
Pardon me , Pen , '' -- and she held the kind hand out to Pen once more . 
`` We were both jealous , '' said Pen . 
`` Dear Laura , let us both forgive '' -- and he seized her hand and would have drawn her towards him . 
He thought that she was relenting , and already assumed the airs of a victor . 
If ever I say these words , dear Pen , I hope to say them in earnest , and by the blessing of God to keep my vow . 
Pen left home whilst it was as yet pending -- and Helen , who could pardon almost everything , could not pardon an act of justice in Laura . 
With these thoughts to occupy him , Pen did not fall asleep until the nipping dawn of an October morning , and woke considerably refreshed when the coach stopped at the old breakfasting place at B -- , where he had had a score of merry meals on his way to and from school and college many times since he was a boy . 
As they left that place , the sun broke out brightly , the pace was rapid , the horn blew , the milestones flew by , Pen smoked and joked with guard and fellow-passengers and people along the familiar road ; it grew more busy and animated at every instant ; the last team of greys came out at H -- , and the coach drove into London What young fellow has not felt a thrill as he entered the vast place ? 
`` Here is my place , '' thought Pen ; `` here is my battle beginning , in which I must fight and conquer , or fall . 
As they came along the road , Pen had formed acquaintance with a cheery fellow-passenger in a shabby cloak , who talked a great deal about men of letters with whom he was very familiar , and who was , in fact , the reporter of a London newspaper , as whose representative he had been to attend a great wrestling-match in the west . 
As they passed by Brompton , this gentleman pointed out to Pen Mr. Hurtle , the reviewer , walking with his umbrella . 
Pen craned over the coach to have a long look at the great Hurtle . 
He was a Boniface man , said Pen . 
And Mr. Doolan , of the Star newspaper -LRB- for such was the gentleman 's name and address upon the card which he handed to Pen -RRB- , said `` Faith he was , and he knew him very well . '' 
Pen thought it was quite an honour to have seen the great Mr. Hurtle , whose works he admired . 
Pen began to calculate instantly whether he might not make five thousand a year . 
Pen , my boy ! '' 
Mr. Doolan had a great respect for Pen who had an acquaintance in such a grand cab ; and Pen was greatly excited and pleased to be at liberty and in London . 
He asked Doolan to come and dine with him at the Covent Garden Coffee House , where he put up : he called a cab and rattled away thither in the highest spirits . 
He was glad to see the bustling waiter and polite bowing landlord again ; and asked for the landlady , and missed the old Boots , and would have liked to shake hands with everybody . 
He had a hundred pounds in his pocket . 
He dressed himself in his very best ; dined in the coffee-room with a modest pint of sherry -LRB- for he was determined to be very economical -RRB- , and went to the theatre adjoining . 
The lights and the music , the crowd and the gaiety , charmed and exhilarated Pen , as those sights will do young fellows from college and the country , to whom they are tolerably new . 
He laughed at the jokes ; he applauded the songs , to the delight of some of the dreary old habituésof the boxes , who had ceased long ago to find the least excitement in their place of nightly resort , and were pleased to see any one so fresh , and so much amused . 
At the end of the first piece , he went and strutted about the lobbies of the theatre , as if he was in a resort of the highest fashion . 
Foker rushed upon Pen with eagerness , and insisted that the latter should come into his private box , where a lady with the longest ringlets , and the fairest shoulders , was seated . 
where cottage windows twinkled , and by darkling woods under calm starlit skies , Pen was vowing to reform and to resist temptation , and his heart was at home . 
Pen , being new to the town , would have liked to listen to Mrs. Leary ; but the other people in the box did not care about her song or her pantaloons , and kept up an incessant chattering . 
Miss Blenkinsop said she sang out of all tune , to the pain and astonishment of Pen , who thought that she was as beautiful as an angel , and that she sang like a nightingale ; and when Hoppus came on as Sir Harcourt Featherby , the young man of the piece , the gentlemen in the box declared that Hoppus was getting too stale , and Tiptoff was for flinging Miss Blenkinsop 's bouquet to him . 
Pen remembered that nobleman 's name , and with a bow and a blush said he believed he had to thank Lord Colchicum for having proposed him at the Megatherium Club , at the request of his uncle , Major Pendennis . 
Pen blushed to hear his venerable uncle called by such a familiar name . 
Here was delightful news for Pen ! 
He professed himself very much obliged indeed to Lord Colchicum , and made him a handsome speech of thanks , to which the other listened , with his double opera-glass up to his eyes . 
Pen was full of excitement at the idea of being a member of this polite Club . 
`` We 've heard of her before , have n't we , Pen ? '' 
It was Pen 's first love . 
And Pen looked out and beheld his first love once again -- and wondered how he ever could have loved her . 
Pen went the next day and paid his entrance-money at the Club , which operation carried off exactly one-third of his hundred pounds : and took possession of the edifice , and ate his luncheon there with immense satisfaction . 
Pen left his card upon the shelf with the rest . 
When the Major returned to London , which he did in time for the fogs of November , after enjoying which he proposed to spend Christmas with some friends in the country , he found another card of Arthur 's , on which Lamb Court , Temple , was engraved , and a note from that young gentleman and from his mother , stating that he was come to town , was entered a member of the Upper Temple , and was reading hard for the bar . 
That alert messenger had little difficulty in discovering Mr. Pen 's abode . 
And having ascertained from Morgan that he could reach the Temple without much difficulty , and that a city omnibus would put him down at the gate , the Major one day after breakfast at his Club -- not the Polyanthus , whereof Mr. Pen was just elected a member , but another Club : for the Major was too wise to have a nephew as a constant inmate of any house where he was in the habit of passing his time -- the Major one day entered one of those public vehicles , and bade the conductor to put him down at the gate of the Upper Temple . 
The gentleman who was speaking was seated on a table , unshorn and smoking a short pipe ; in a farther chair sate Pen , with a cigar , and his legs near the fire . 
`` Pen , my boy , it 's I -- it 's your uncle , '' he said , choking with the smoke . 
Mr. Warrington got up from the table , and Pen , in a very perturbed manner , from his chair . 
Pen flung his cigar into the grate ; and was pleased with the cordiality with which his uncle shook him by the hand . 
As soon as he could speak for the stairs and the smoke , the Major began to ask Pen very kindly about himself and about his mother ; for blood is blood , and he was pleased once more to see the boy . 
Pen gave his news , and then introduced Mr. Warrington -- an old Boniface man -- whose chambers he shared . 
When he had sate for a minute or two after his draught he went out of the room , leaving it to Pen and his uncle , that they might talk over family affairs were they so inclined . 
A French novel was lying at the foot of Pen 's chair . 
`` We were out very late at a party last night -- at Lady Whiston 's , '' Pen added , knowing his uncle 's weakness . 
`` Every body in town was there except you , sir ; Counts , Ambassadors , Turks , Stars and Garters -- I do n't know who -- it 's all in the paper -- and my name , too , '' said Pen , with great glee . 
`` I met an old flame of mine there , sir , '' he added , with a laugh . 
`` Some two or three , '' Mr. Pen said , laughing . 
It was thus this affectionate uncle spoke , and expounded to Pen his simple philosophy . 
`` Look here , sir , here is Pen 's room . 
He is a dandy , and has got curtains to his bed , and wears shiny boots , and a silver dressing-case . '' 
Indeed , Pen 's room was rather coquettishly arranged , and a couple of neat prints of opera-dancers , besides a drawing of Fairoaks , hung on the walls . 
We cook 'em ourselves hot and hot : and I am teaching Pen the first principles of law , cooking , and morality at the same time . 
He 's a lazy beggar , sir , and too much of a dandy '' And so saying , Mr. Warrington wiped a gridiron with a piece of paper , put it on the fire , and on it two mutton-chops , and took from the cupboard a couple of plates and some knives and silver forks , and castors . 
Pen fell to at his chop with a good appetite , after looking up at his uncle , and seeing that gentleman was still in good-humour . 
`` You see , sir , '' Warrington said , `` Mrs. Flanagan is n't here to do 'em , and we ca n't employ the boy , for the little beggar is all day occupied cleaning Pen 's boots . 
Pen drinks tea ; it 's only fit for old women . '' 
`` Ask Pen He was there after Lady Whiston 's . 
Tell Major Pendennis about the Back Kitchen , Pen -- do n't be ashamed of yourself . '' 
So Pen said it was a little eccentric society of men of letters and men about town , to which he had been presented ; and the Major began to think that the young fellow had seen a good deal of the world since his arrival in London . 
If we could but get the history of a single day as it passed in any one of those four-storied houses in the dingy court where our friends Pen and Warrington dwelt , some Temple Asmodeus might furnish us with a queer volume . 
On the other side of the third landing , where Pen and Warrington live , till long after midnight , sits Mr. Paley , who took the highest honours , and who is a fellow of his college , who will sit and read and note cases until two o'clock in the morning ; who will rise at seven and be at the pleader 's chambers as soon as they are open , where he will work until an hour before dinner-time ; who will come home from Hall and read and note cases again until dawn next day , when perhaps Mr. Arthur Pendennis and his friend Mr. Warrington are returning from some of their wild expeditions . 
It may have been the sight of that cadaverous ambition and self-complacent meanness , which showed itself in Paley 's yellow face , and twinkled in his narrow eyes , or it may have been a natural appetite for pleasure and joviality , of which it must be confessed Mr. Pen was exceedingly fond , which deterred that luckless youth from pursuing his designs upon the Bench or the Woolsack with the ardour , or rather steadiness , which is requisite in gentlemen who would climb to those seats of honour . 
He enjoyed the Temple life with a great deal of relish : his worthy relatives thought he was reading as became a regular student ; and his uncle wrote home congratulatory letters to the kind widow at Fairoaks , announcing that the lad had sown his wild oats , and was becoming quite steady . 
The truth is , that it was a new sort of excitement to Pen the life in which he was now engaged , and having given up some of the dandyfied pretensions , and fine-gentleman airs which he had contracted among his aristocratic college acquaintances , of whom he now saw but little , the rough pleasures and amusements of a London bachelor were very novel and agreeable to him , and he enjoyed them all . 
But the Major would have been almost as much horrified as Mr. Paley was , had he known what was Mr. Pen 's real course of life , and how much pleasure entered into his law studies . 
In term-time , Mr. Pen showed a most praiseworthy regularity in performing one part of the law-student 's course of duty , and eating his dinners in Hall . 
Pen looked about , on his first introduction , not a little amused with the scene which he witnessed . 
There were little squads of reading students who talked law all dinner-time ; there were rowing men , whose discourse was of sculling matches , the Red House , Vauxhall and the Opera ; there were others great in politics , and orators of the students ' debating clubs ; with all of which sets , except the first , whose talk was an almost unknown and a quite uninteresting language to him , Mr. Pen made a gradual acquaintance , and had many points of sympathy . 
`` Wait a bit , '' said Mr. Lowton , tugging at Pen 's gown -- `` the tables are very full , and there 's only three benchers to eat ten side dishes -- if we wait , perhaps we shall get something from their table . '' 
And Pen looked with some amusement , as did Mr. Lowton with eyes of fond desire , towards the benchers ' high table , where three old gentlemen were standing up before a dozen silver dish-covers , while the clerk was quavering out a grace . 
Thus he would have the command of the joint on which he operated his favourite cuts , and made rapid dexterous appropriations of gravy , which amused Pen infinitely . 
Pen was somewhat older than many of his fellow-students , and there was that about his style and appearance which , as we have said , was rather haughty and impertinent , that stamped him as a man of ton -- very unlike those pale students who were talking law to one another , and those ferocious dandies , in rowing shirts and astonishing pins and waistcoats , who represented the idle part of the little community . 
The humble and good-natured Lowton had felt attracted by Pen 's superior looks and presence -- and had made acquaintance with him at the mess by opening the conversation . 
`` This is boiled-beef day , I believe , sir , '' said Lowton to Pen . 
`` Upon my word , sir , I 'm not aware , '' said Pen , hardly able to contain his laughter , but added , `` I 'm a stranger ; this is my first term ; '' on which Lowton began to point out to him the notabilities in the Hall . 
said Pen , still amused . 
asked Pen . 
Pen asked , still puzzled . 
`` Ah , Mr. Lowton , I see you are a sly fellow , '' Pen said , delighted with his acquaintance : on which the other modestly replied , that he had lived in London the better part of his life , and of course had his eyes about him : and went on with his catalogue to Pen . 
`` There 's a lot of Irish here , '' he said ; `` that Corkoran 's one , and I ca n't say I like him . 
It was while Pen was taking his share of one of these dinners with his acquaintance Lowton as the captain of his mess , that there came to join them a gentleman in a barrister 's gown , who could not find a seat , as it appeared , amongst the persons of his own degree , and who strode over the table and took his place on the bench where Pen sate . 
He was dressed in old clothes and a faded gown , which hung behind him , and he wore a shirt which , though clean , was extremely ragged , and very different to the magnificent pink raiment of Mr. Molloy Maloney , who occupied a commanding position in the next mess . 
He smiled when he saw Pen 's name , and looked at him . 
Pen said , delighted to see this hero . 
`` The college talks about you still , '' said Pen , who had a generous admiration for talent and pluck . 
And Pen , who had been acting rather the fine gentleman on a previous day , when he pretended to Lowton that he could not drink port wine at dinner , seeing Warrington take his share with a great deal of gusto , did not scruple about helping himself any more , rather to the disappointment of honest Lowton . 
`` I thought of going home to dress , and hear Grisi in Norma , '' Pen said . 
he asked . 
Pen said , `` No -- only to hear the music , of which he was very fond . '' 
Pen and Warrington became sworn friends from that night . 
Warrington 's cheerfulness and jovial temper , his good sense , his rough welcome , and his never-failing pipe of tobacco , charmed Pen , who found it more pleasant to dive into shilling taverns with him , than to dine in solitary state amongst the silent and polite frequenters of the Polyanthus . 
Ere long Pen gave up the lodgings in St. James 's , to which he had migrated on quitting his hotel , and found it was much more economical to take up his abode with Warrington in Lamb Court , and furnish and occupy his friend 's vacant room there . 
For it must be said of Pen , that no man was more easily led than he to do a thing , when it was a novelty , or when he had a mind to it . 
And Pidgeon , the youth , and Flanagan , the laundress , divided their allegiance now between Warrington and Pen . 
ELATED with the idea of seeing life , Pen went into a hundred queer London haunts . 
He liked to think he was consorting with all sorts of men -- so he beheld coalheavers in their tap-rooms ; boxers in their inn-parlours ; honest citizens disporting iin the suburbs or on the river ; and he would have liked to hob and nob with celebrated pickpockets , or drink a pot of ale with a company of burglars and cracksmen , had chance afforded him an opportunity of making the acquaintance of this class of society . 
Pen followed him then to these various resorts of men with great glee and assiduity . 
But he was considerably younger , and therefore much more pompous and stately than Warrington ; in fact a young prince in disguise , visiting the poor of his father 's kingdom . 
Pen 's condescension at this time of his life was a fine thing to witness . 
I wonder what Laura and Helen would have said , could they have seen , as they might not unfrequently have done had they been up and in London , in the very early morning when the bridges began to blush in the sunrise , and the tranquil streets of the city to shine in the dawn , Mr. Pen and Mr. Warrington rattling over the echoing flags towards the Temple , after one of their wild nights of carouse -- nights wild , but not so wicked as such nights sometimes are , for Warrington was a woman-hater ; and Pen , as we have said , too lofty to stoop to a vulgar intrigue . 
That was what an acquaintance of Pen 's said to him in his hard homely way ; -- an old friend with whom he had fallen in again in London -- no other than honest Mr. Bows of the Chatteris Theatre , who was now employed as piano-forte player , to accompany the eminent lyrical talent which nightly delighted the public at the Fielding 's Head in Covent Garden : and where was held the little club called the Back Kitchen . 
Numbers of Pen 's friends frequented this very merry meeting . 
`` And I 'll thank ye give me a glass of punch too , John , and take care the wather boils , '' a voice would cry not unfrequently , a well-known voice to Pen , which made the lad blush and start when he heard it first -- that of the venerable Captain Costigan ; who was now established in London , and one of the great pillars of the harmonic meetings at the Fielding 's Head . 
It was in one of these moments of exultation that Pen found his old friend swaggering at the singers ' table at the Back Kitchen of the Fielding 's Head , and ordering glasses of brandy and water for any of his acquaintances who made their appearance in the apartment . 
Warrington , who was on confidential terms with the bass singer , made his way up to this quarter of the room , and Pen walked at his friend 's heels . 
Pen started and blushed to see Costigan . 
The tipsy Captain returning the clasp of Pen 's hand with all the strength of a palm which had become very shaky by the constant lifting up of weights of brandy and water , looked hard in Pen 's face , and said `` Grecious Heavens , is it possible ? 
Five years of constant punch had passed since Pen and Costigan met . 
Pen saw his condition and laughed , although , perhaps , he was somewhat mortified . 
he said . 
The sound of the young man 's friendly voice recalled and steadied Cos 's tipsy remembrance , and he saluted Arthur , as soon as he knew him , with a loud volley of friendly greetings . 
Pen was his dearest boy , his gallant young friend , his noble collagian , whom he had held in his inmost heart ever since they had parted -- how was his fawther , no , his mother , and his guardian , the General , the Major . 
Here the gentleman who presided at the pianoforte began to play upon his instrument , and Pen , looking in the direction of the music , beheld that very Mr. Bows , for whom he had been asking but now , and whose existence Costigan had momentarily forgotten . 
Bows had seen and recollected Pen at once when the latter came into the room , and had remarked the eager warmth of the young man 's recognition of Costigan . 
He now began to play in air , which Pen instantly remembered as one which used to be sung by the chorus of villagers in `` The Stranger , '' just before Mrs. Haller came in . 
It shook Pen as he heard it . 
He remembered how his heart used to beat as that air was played , and before the divine Emily made her entry . 
Pen went up and kindly shook the player by the hand at the end of his performance ; and Bows greeted Arthur with great respect and cordiality . 
Pen had many opportunities of seeing his early acquaintances afterwards , and of renewing his relations with Costigan and the old musician . 
As they sate thus in friendly colloquy , men of all sorts and conditions entered and quitted the house of entertainment ; and Pen had the pleasure of seeing as many different persons of his race , as the most eager observer need desire to inspect . 
Whilst Pen and his friend were sitting here together one night , or rather morning , two habitués of the house entered almost together . 
`` Mr. Hoolan and Mr. Doolan , '' whispered Warrington to Pen , saluting these gentlemen , and in the latter Pen recognised his friend of the Alacrity coach , who could not dine with Pen on the day on which the latter had invited him , being compelled by his professional duties to decline dinner-engagements on Fridays , he had stated , with his compliments to Mr. Pendennis . 
`` Pen , this is Mr. Archer , whom you have heard me talk about . 
You must know Pen 's uncle , the Major , Archer , you who know everybody ? '' 
`` Why , my uncle is in Scot -- '' Pen was going to break out , but Warrington pressed his foot under the table as a signal for him to be quiet . 
asked Warrington -- and turning to Pen , added , `` You know , I suppose , that when there is anything wrong at court they always send for Archer . '' 
''' `` How do you say Governor in French , '' asked Pen , who piqued himself on knowing that language . 
`` asked Pen . 
`` Look at that , Pen , '' Warrington said . 
An only child , with a mother at her country house , and an old dandy of an uncle who dined with a great man every day , Pen might have a large bank at his command for anything that the other knew . 
He had gold chains and a dressing-case fit for a lord . 
His habits were those of an aristocrat , -- not that he was expensive upon any particular point , for he dined and laughed over the pint of porter and the plate of beef from the cook 's shop with perfect content and good appetite , -- but he could not adopt the penny-wise precautions of life . 
Warrington then did not know , and Pen had not thought proper to confide to his friend , his pecuniary history . 
That Pen had been wil and wickedly extravagant at college , the other was aware ; every body at college was extravagant and wild ; but how great the son 's expenses had been , and how small the mother 's means , were points which had not been as yet submitted to Mr. Warrington 's examination . 
At last the story came out , while Pen was grimly surveying the change for the last five-pound note , as it lay upon the tray from the public-house by Mr. Warrington 's pot of ale . 
`` It is the last rose of summer , '' said Pen ; `` its blooming companions have gone long ago ; and behold the last one of the garland has shed its leaves ; '' and he told Warrington the whole story which we know of his mother 's means , of his own follies , of Laura 's generosity ; during which time Warrington smoked his pipe and listened intent . 
`` Inpecuniosity will do you good , '' Pen 's friend said , knocking out the ashes at the end of the narration ; `` I do n't know anything more wholesome for a man -- for an honest man , mind you -- for another , the medicine loses its effect -- than a state of tick . 
You have been bred up as a molly-coddle , Pen , and spoilt by the women . 
said Pen . 
`` Suppose we advertise in the Times , '' he said , `` for an usher 's place at a classical and commercial academy -- A gentleman , B.A. of St. Boniface College , Oxbridge , and who was plucked for his degree -- '' `` Confound you , '' cried Pen . 
`` Go on , '' said Pen , growling . 
`` Hang gallypots , '' cried Pen . 
asked Pen . 
Look , I begin to feel empty , '' Warrington said , and showed Pen a long lean purse , with but a few sovereigns at one end of it . 
said Pen . 
And Warrington , going with Pendennis to the club one day , called for a file of the `` Dawn , '' and pointed with his finger silently to one or two articles , which Pen read with delight . 
`` I am not up to this , '' said Pen , with a genuine admiration of his friend 's powers . 
You are a poet , Pen , my boy , '' and so speaking , Warrington stretched out his broad hand , and clapped Pen on the shoulder . 
Pen was too much pleased with his own thoughts to perceive the sadness of the friend who was complimenting him . 
`` Thank you , Warrington , '' he said , `` thank you for your friendship to me , and -- and what you say about me . 
said Pen , bouncing up and stamping his foot , `` I 'll show you that I am a better man than you think for . '' 
Warrington only laughed the more , and blew twenty-four puffs rapidly out of his pipe by way of reply to Pen . 
`` Of course , '' said Mr. Hack ; and Warrington , having dispatched his own business , went home to Mr. Pen , plate in hand . 
`` Well , I will try , '' said Pen . 
`` And I 'll go out to dinner , '' said Warrington , and left Mr. Pen in a brown study . 
`` There they are , '' said Pen . 
Pen examined his portfolio and found another ballad which he thought might figure with advantage in the Spring Annual , and consigning these two precious documents to Warrington , the pair walked from the Temple , to the famous haunt of the Muses and their masters , Paternoster Row . 
Warrington went into the shop of Mr. Bacon , but Pen stayed without . 
It was agreed that his ambassador should act for him entirely ; and the young fellow paced up and down the street in a very nervous condition , until he should learn the result of the negotiation . 
Pen looked at all the wonders of all the shops ; and the strange variety of literature which they exhibit . 
Pen looked in at all the windows and shops , as a gentleman who is going to have an interview with the dentist , examines the books on the waiting-room table . 
Pen 's natural conceit would have swollen immensely if he could but have heard the report which Warrington gave of him . 
When he heard that the negotiation only related as yet to a couple of ballads , which Mr. Warrington offered for the Spring Annual , Mr. Bacon said , `` Law bless you , give him a check directly ; '' and with this paper Warrington went out to his friend , and placed it , grinning , in Pen 's hands . 
Pen was as elated as if somebody had left him a fortune . 
He offered Warrington a dinner at Richmond instantly . 
`` Well , you may get bread and cheese , Pen : and I own it tastes well , the bread which you earn yourself . '' 
They had a magnum of claret at dinner at the club that day , at Pen 's charges . 
It never rains but it pours , according to the proverb ; so very speedily another chance occurred , by which Mr. Pen was to be helped in his scheme of making a livelihood . 
He paid many a subsequent visit there , and brought many a message to Pen . 
`` C. S. '' `` Some more opposition , '' Warrington said , when Pen had read the note . 
There may be a place for you in it , Pen , my boy . 
We are sure to find him at home . '' 
`` Where does he live ? '' 
asked Pen . 
`` And very much at home he is there , too . 
He is the king of the place . '' 
Pen had never seen this scene of London life , and walked with no small interest in at the grim gate of that dismal edifice . 
The noise and the crowd , the life and the shouting , the shabby bustle of the place , struck and excited Pen . 
Pen felt as if he choked in the place , and as if the door being locked upon him they never would let him out . 
They went through a court up a stone-staircase , and through passages full of people , and noise , and cross lights , and black doors clapping and banging ; -- Pen feeling as one does in a feverish morning-dream . 
When Pen and Warrington arrived , the Captain -LRB- he had been in an Irish militia regiment once , and the title remained with him -RRB- was sitting on his bed in a torn dressing-gown , with a desk on his knees , at which he was scribbling as fast as his rapid pen could write . 
Mamma began to cry ; Mr. Bungay turned red , and looked fiercely out of his bloodshot little eyes ; Shandon 's pen went on , and Pen and Warrington arrived with their knock . 
Warrington pulled forward an old portmanteau -- the only available seat -- and sate down on it with a bow to Mrs. Shandon , and a nod to Bungay : the child came and looked at Pen solemnly : and in a couple of minutes the swift scribbling ceased ; and Shandon , turning the desk over on the bed , stooped and picked up the papers . 
`` An ancestor of mine sealed it with his sword-hilt , '' Pen said , with great gravity . 
But she shrank back from his rough caress , and preferred to go and take refuge at Pen 's knee , and play with his fine watch-chain : and Pen was very much pleased that she came to him ; for he was very soft-hearted and simple , though he concealed his gentleness under a shy and pompous demeanour . 
So she clambered up on his lap , whilst her father continued to read his programme . 
Pen was amused to hear the shabby prisoner in a tattered dressing-gown talking glibly about the great of the land . 
Mr. Bungay presently had enough of this talk and got up to take leave , whereupon Warrington and Pen rose to depart with the publisher , though the latter would have liked to stay to make a further acquaintance with this family , who interested him and touched him . 
The publisher and the two gentlemen had had some talk together after quitting Shandon , and Warrington reiterated to Bungay what he had said to his rival , Bacon , viz. , that Pen was a high fellow , of great genius , and what was more , well with the great world , and related to `` no end '' of the peerage . 
`` It is hard to see such a man as Shandon , '' Pen said , musing , and talking that night over the sight which he had witnessed , `` of accomplishments so multifarious , and of such an undoubted talent and humour , an inmate of a gaol for half his time , and a bookseller 's hanger-on when out of prison . '' 
`` Much solitary pipes and ale make a cynic of you , '' Pen said . 
Bravo , Pen , my boy ! '' 
`` Misfortune drives a man into bad company , '' Pen said . 
`` I would give him more money to buy coats , '' said Pen , smiling . 
`` You deal in metaphors , Warrington , '' Pen said ; `` but you rightly say that you are very prosaic . 
`` His genius sings within his prison bars , '' Pen said . 
Pen said , with a humorous look . 
`` I would have some more , too , only I do n't want it , '' said Pen . 
`` All except poor Shandon , '' said Pen , nodding a good night to his friend , and he went into his own little room . 
The events and acquaintances of the day had excited him a good deal , and he lay for some time awake thinking over them , as Warrington 's vigorous and regular snore from the neighbouring apartment pronounced that that gentleman was engaged in deep slumber . 
`` Pen , you beggar ! '' 
roared Warrington to Pen , who was in his own room . 
sung out Pen . 
`` Come here , you 're wanted , '' cried the other , and Pen came out . 
said he . 
`` cried Warrington , and flung the parcel at Pen 's head , who would have been knocked down had he not caught it . 
As for Pen , he never had been so delighted in his life : his hand trembled as he cut the string of the packet , and beheld within a smart set of new neat calico-bound books , travels , and novels , and poems . 
`` Sport the oak , Pidgeon , '' said he . 
And he flung into his easy chair , and hardly gave himself time to drink his tea , so eager was he to begin to read and to review . 
CAPTAIN SHANDON , urged on by his wife , who seldom meddled in business matters , had stipulated that John Finucane , Esquire , of the Upper Temple , should be appointed sub-editor of the forthcoming `` Pall Mall Gazette , '' and this post was accordingly conferred upon Mr. Finu cane by the spirited proprietor of the Journal . 
As Pen and Warrington came to Bungay 's door , a carriage and a cab drove up to Bacon 's . 
They were all literary gentlemen , though unknown as yet to Pen . 
This gentleman , Pen remarked , was listened to with great attention by Mrs. Bungay ; his anecdotes of the aristocracy , of which he was a middle-aged member , delighted the publisher 's lady ; and he wass almost a greater man than the great Mr. Wagg himself in her eyes . 
`` It 's Percy Popjoy , '' said Pen , looking out of window , and seeing an individual , in extremely lacquered boots , descend from the swinging cab : and , in fact , it was that young noblemen -- Lord Falconet 's eldest son , as we all very well know , who was come to dine with the publisher -- his publisher of the Row . 
He and Pen had had some bouts at the Oxbridge Union debates , in which Pen had had very much the better of Percy . 
who presently appeared , with his hat under his arm , and a look of indescribable good humour and fatuity in his round dimpled face : upon which Nature had burst out with a chin-tuft , but , exhausted with the effort , had left the rest of the countenance bare of hair . 
He was delighted to see Pen , too , and shook hands with him , and slapped him on the back cordially ; for he was full of spirits and good humour . 
And he talked in a loud voice about their last place and occasion of meeting at Baymouth ; and asked how their friends of Clavering Park were , and whether Sir Francis was not coming to London for the season ; and whether Pen had been to see Lady Rockminster , who had arrived -- fine old lady , Lady Rockminster ! 
These remarks Wagg made not for Pen 's ear so much as for the edification of the company , whom he was glad to inform that he paid visits to gentlemen 's country seats , and was on intimate terms with the nobility . 
Wenham also shook hands with our young friend -- all of which scenes Mrs. Bungay remarked with respectful pleasure , and communicated her ideas to Bungay , afterwards , regarding the importance of Mr. Pendennis -- ideas by which Pen profited much more than he was aware . 
Pen , who had read , and rather admired some of her works , -LRB- and expected to find in Miss Bunion a person somewhat resembling her own description of herself in the `` Passion-Flower , '' in which she stated that her youth resembled -- `` A violet , shrinking meanly When blows the March wind keenly ; A timid fawn , on wild-wood lawn , Where oak-boughs rustle greenly , -- '' and that her maturer beauty was something very different , certainly , to the artless loveliness of her prime , but still exceedingly captivating and striking , -RRB- beheld , rather to his surprise and amusement , a large and bony woman in a crumpled satin dress , who came creaking into the room with a step as heavy as a grenadier 's . 
''' Pen said to Wenham , by whom he was standing . 
And now the bell of Saint Paul 's tolled half an hour later than that for which Mr. Bungay had invited his party , and it was complete with the exception of two guests , who at last made their appearance , and in whom Pen was pleased to recognise Captain and Mrs. Shandon . 
When these two had made their greetings to the master and mistress of the house , and exchanged nods of more or less recognition with most of the people present , Pen and Warrington went up and shook hands very warmly with Mrs. Shandon , who , perhaps , was affected to meet them , and think where it was she had seen them but a few days before Shandon was brushed up , and looked pretty smart , in a red velvet waistcoat , and a frill , into which his wife had stuck her best brooch . 
Pen found himself next to Bunion on one side , and to Mr. Wagg -- the truth is , Wagg fied alarmed from the vacant place by the poetess , and Pen was compelled to take it . 
The gifted being did not talk much during dinner , but Pen remarked that she ate , with a vast appetite , and never refused any of the supplies of wine which were offered to her by the butler . 
`` I took you for one of the little Mayfair dandies , '' she said to Pen . 
`` And you did both very well , my dear Miss Bunion , '' Pen said with a laugh . 
`` Ah , Miss Bunion , how I pine for that ` next time ' to come , '' Pen said with an air of comical gallantry : -- But we must return to the day , and the dinner at Paternoster Row . 
The repast was of the richest description -- `` What I call of the florid Gothic style , '' Wagg whispered to Pen , who sate beside the humourist , in his side-wing voice . 
`` The dinner is from Griggs , in St. Paul 's Church-yard ; so is Bacon 's , '' he whispered Pen . 
This -- hum -- ha -- this Brimborion à la Sévignéis delicious , Mrs. B. , '' he said , helping himself to a dish which the undertaker handed to him . 
Abashed by the failure of his first pun , for he was impudent and easily disconcerted , Wagg kept his conversation pretty much to Pen during the rest of dinner , and of course chiefly spoke about their neighbours . 
`` Glad you like it , '' Popjoy answered ; `` it 's a favourite bit of my own '' `` There 's no such thing in the whole book , '' whispered Wagg to Pen . 
Pen and Warrington walked home together in the moonlight . 
Pen was forced to confess that the literary personages with whom he had become acquainted had not said much , in the course of the night 's conversation , that was worthy to be remembered or quoted . 
In the political department of the paper Mr. Pen did not take any share ; but he was a most active literary contributor . 
The `` Pall Mall Gazette '' had its offices , as we have heard , in Catherine Street , in the Strand , and hither Pen often came with his manuscripts in his pocket , and with a great deal of bustle and pleasure ; such as a man feels at the outset of his literary career , when to see himself in print is still a novel sensation , and he yet pleases himself to think that his writings are creating some noise in the world . 
The incongruity of Finucane 's avocation , and his manners and appearance , amused his new friend Pen . 
Pen took a great deal of pains with the writing of his reviews , and haing a pretty fair share of desultory reading acquired in the early years of his life , an eager fancy and a keep sense of fun , his articles pleased his chief and the public , and he was proud to think that he deserved the money which he earned . 
It was received at Clavering Park , too , where we know there was a young lady of great literary testes ; and old Doctor Portman himself , to whom the widow sent her paper after she had got her son 's articles by heart , signified his approval of Pen 's productions , saying that the lad had spirit , taste , and fancy , and wrote , if not like a scholar , at any rate like a gentleman . 
The critic was no other than Pen : he jumped and danced round about his subject with the greatest jocularity and high spirits : he showed up the noble lady 's faults with admirable mock gravity and decorum . 
Lord Falconet giggled and laughed with all his heart ; Lord Muffborough and he had been rivals ever since they began life ; and these complimented Major Pendennis , who until now had scarcely paid any attention to some hints which his Fairoaks correspondence threw out of `` dear Arthur 's constant and severe literary occupations , which I fear may undermine the poor boy 's health , '' and had thought any notice of Mr. Pen and his newspaper connexions quite below his dignity as a Major and a gentleman . 
But when the oracular Wenham praised the boy 's production ; when Lord Falconet , who had had the news from Percy Popjoy , approved of the genius of young Pen ; when the great Lord Steyne himself , to whom the Major referred the article , laughed and sniggered over it , swore it was capital , and that the Muffborough would writhe under it , like a whale under a harpoon , the Major , as in duty bound , began to admire his nephew very much , said , `` By gad , the young rascal had some stuff in him , and would do something ; he had always said he would do something ; '' and with a hand quite tremulous with pleasure , the old gentleman sate down to write to the widow at Fairoaks all that the great folks had said in praise of Pen ; and he wrote to the young rascal , too , asking when he would come and eat a chop with his old uncle , and saying that he was commissioned to take him to dinner at Gaunt House , for Lord Steyne liked anybody who could entertain him , whether by his folly , wit , or by his dulness , by his oddity , affectation , good spirits , or any other quality . 
Pen flung his letter across the table to Warrington : perhaps he was disappointed that the other did not seem to be much affected by it . 
Had Macaulay 's History or Herschel 's Astronomy been put before Pen at this period , he would have looked through the volumes , meditated his opinion over a cigar , and signified his august approval of either author , as if the critic had been their born superior and indulgent master and patron . 
By the help of the Biographie Universelle or the British Museum , he would be able to take a rapid résuméof a historical period , and allude to names , dates , and facts , in such a masterly , easy way , as to astonish his mamma at home , who wondered where her boy could have acquired such a prodigious store of reading , and himself , too , when he came to read over his articles two or three months after they had been composed , and when he had forgotten the subject and the books which he had consulted . 
At that period of his life Mr. Pen owns , that he would not have hesitated , at twenty-four hours ' notice , to pass an opinion upon the greatest scholars , or to give a judgment upon the Encyclopædia . 
Luckily he had Warrington to laugh at him and to keep down his impertinence by a constant and wholesome ridicule , or he might have become conceited beyond all sufferance ; for Shandon liked the dash and flippancy of his young aide-de-camp , and was , indeed , better pleased with Pen 's light and brilliant flashes , than with the heavier metal which his elder co-adjutor brought to bear . 
But though he might justly be blamed on the score of impertinence and a certain prematurity of judgment , Mr. Pen was a perfectly honest critic ; a great deal too candid for Mr. Bungay 's purposes , indeed , who grumbled sadly at his impartiality . 
Pen and his chief , the Captain , had a dispute upon this subject one day . 
Pen 's eyes opened with wide astonishment . 
`` Do you mean to say , '' he asked , `` that we are to praise no books that Bacon publishes : or that , if the books are good , we are to say they are bad ? '' 
`` To benefit himself certainly , but to tell the truth too , '' Pen said -- `` ruat coelum , to tell the truth . '' 
`` Pardon me , that is not the question , '' Pen said ; `` and I do n't think you very much care to argue it . 
We agreed , however , '' Pen said , laughing , `` that because the prospectus was rather declamatory and poetical , and the giant was painted upon the show-board rather larger than the original , who was inside the caravan ; we need not be too scrupulous about this trifling inaccuracy , but might do our part of the show , without loss of character or remorse of conscience . 
`` Yes , but , '' said Pen , with a fine sense of the dignity of his position , `` we are all party men in England , and I will stick to my party like a Briton . 
One ca n't tell all the truth , I suppose ; but one can tell nothing but the truth ; and I would rather starve , by Jove , and never earn another penny by my pen '' -LRB- this redoubted instrument had now been in use for some six weeks , and Pen spoke of it with vast enthusiasm and respect -RRB- `` than strike an opponent an unfair blow , or , if called upon to place him , rank him below his honest desert . '' 
And Pen went away from his chief , after their little dispute and colloquy , pointing his own moral to the Captain 's tale , and thinking to himself , `` Behold this man , stored with genius , wit , learning , and a hundred good natural gifts : see how he has wrecked them , by paltering with his honesty , and forgetting to respect himself . 
Wilt thou remember thyself , O Pen ? 
A punishment , or , at least , a trial , was in store for Mr. Pen . 
The person of all most cruelly mauled was Pen himself . 
It might be that a historian of three-score , who had spent a quarter of a century in composing a work of which our young gentleman disposed in the course of a couple of days ' reading at the British Museum , was not altogether fairly treated by such a facile critic ; or that a poet , who had been elaborating sublime sonnets and odes until he thought them fit for the public and for fame , was annoyed by two or three dozen pert lines in Mr. Pen 's review , in which the poet 's claims were settled by the critic , as if the latter were my lord on the bench , and the author a miserable little suitor trembling before him . 
It is different now as we know ; but there were so few great historians , or great poets , or great actors , in Pen 's time , that scarce any at all came up for judgment before his critical desk . 
Pen had a strong sense of humour and justice , and had not therefore an overweening respect for his own works ; besides , he had his friend Warrington at his elbow -- a terrible critic if the young man was disposed to be conceited , and more savage over Pen than ever he was to those whom he tried at his literary assize . 
In the second winter , Pen came for a very brief space , and cheered the widow 's heart , and lightened up the lonely house at Fairoaks . 
Helen had her son all to herself ; Laura was away on a visit to old Lady Rockminister ; the folks of Clavering Park were absent ; the very few old friends of the house , Doctor Portman at their head , called upon Mr. Pen , and treated him with marked respect ; between mother and son , it was all fondness , confidence , and affection . 
The holiday was gone only too quickly ; and Pen was back in the busy world , and the gentle widow alone again . 
She sent Arthur 's money to Laura : I do n't know why this young lady took the opportunity of leaving home when Pen was coming thither , or whether he was the more piqued or relieved by her absence . 
He was by this time , by his own merits and his uncle 's introductions , pretty well introduced into London , and known both in literary and polite circles . 
Amongst the former his fashionable reputation stood him in no little stead ; he was considered to be a gentleman of good present means and better expectations , who wrote for his pleasure , than which there can not be a greater recommendation to a young literary aspirant . 
Here would be Finucane , the sub-editor , with the last news from the Row : and Shandon would come in presently , and giving a nod to Pen , would begin scribbling his leading article at the other end of the table , flanked by the pint of sherry , which , when the attendant boy beheld him , was always silently brought for the Captain ; or Mr. Bludyer 's roaring voice would be heard in the front room , where that truculent critic would impound the books on the counter in spite of the timid remonstrances of Mr. Midge , the publisher , and after looking through the volumes would sell them at his accustomed book-stall and having drunken and dined upon the produce of the sale in a tavern box , would call for ink and paper , and proceed to `` smash '' the author of his dinner and the novel . 
Towards evening Mr. Pen would stroll in the direction of his club , and take up Warrington there for a constitutional walk . 
This exercise freed the lungs , and gave an appetite for dinner , after which Pen had the privilege to make his bow at some very pleasant houses which were opened to him ; or the town before him for amusement . 
There was the Opera ; or the Eagle Tavern ; or a ball to go to in May Fair ; or a quiet night with a cigar and a book and a long talk with Warrington ; or a wonderful new song at the Back Kitchen ; -- at this time of his life Mr. Pen beheld all sorts of places and men ; and very likely did not know how much he enjoyed himself until long after , when balls gave him no pleasure , neither did farces make him laugh ; nor did the tavern joke produce the least excitement in him ; nor did the loveliest dancer that ever showed her ancles cause him to stir from his chair after dinner . 
At his present mature age all these pleasures are over : and the times have passed away too . 
said Popjoy to Pen , as they passed , `` did you ever pass Bays 's at four o'clock , without seeing that collection of old fogies ? 
They ought to be cast in wax , and set up at Madame Tussaud 's -- '' `` -- In a chamber of old horrors by themselves '' Pen said , laughing . 
`` It 's my uncle , the Major , '' said Pen . 
`` Notorious old rogue , '' Pop said , wagging his head . 
-LRB- `` Notowious old wogue , '' he pronounced the words , thereby rendering them much more emphatic . -RRB- 
`` Come in too , '' Pen said . 
`` Cut uncle Col. two years ago , about Mademoiselle Frangipane -- Ta , ta , '' and the young sinner took leave of Pen , and the club of the elder criminals , and sauntered into Blacquière 's , an adjacent establishment , frequented by reprobates of his own age . 
The Duke gave the elder Pendennis a finger of a pipe-clayed glove to shake , which the Major embraced with great veneration ; and all Pen 's blood tingled , as he found himself in actual communication , as it were , with this famous man , -LRB- for Pen had possession of the Major 's left arm , whilst that gentleman 's other wing was engaged with his Grace 's right , -RRB- and he wished all Grey Friars ' School , all Oxbridge University , all Paternoster Row and the Temple , and Laura and his mother at Fairoaks , could be standing on each side of the street , to see the meeting between him and his uncle , and the most famous duke in Christendom . 
Pen laughed in his roguish sleeve at the manner in which his uncle began to imitate the great man from whom they had just parted : but Mr. Pen was as vain in his own way , perhaps , as the elder gentleman , and strutted , with a very consequential air of his own , by the Major 's side . 
`` A very pious manner of spending his time , '' Pen said , laughing , and thinking that his uncle was falling into the twaddling state . 
''' `` You do n't act up to your principles , uncle , '' Pen said , good-naturedly . 
`` You would have cut me in Saint James 's Street , sir , '' Pen said , `` were your practice not more benevolent than your theory ; you who live with dukes and magnates of the land , and would take no notice of a poor devil like me . '' 
By which speech we may see that Mr. Pen was getting on in the world , and could flatter as well as laugh in his sleeve . 
Pen did not think fit to tell his uncle who was the author who had made use of that remarkable phrase , and here descending from the Green Park , the pair made their way into Grosvenor Place , and to the door of the mansion occupied there by Sir Francis and Lady Clavering . 
The dining-room shutters of this handsome mansion were freshly gilded ; the knockers shone gorgeous upon the newly-painted door ; the balcony before the drawing-room bloomed with a portable garden of the most beautiful plants , and with flowers , white , and pink , and scarlet ; the windows of the upper room -LRB- the sacred chamber and dressing-room of my lady , doubtless -RRB- , and even a pretty little casement of the third story , which keen-sighted Mr. Pen presumed to belong to the virgin bedroom of Miss Blanche Amory , were similarly adorned with floral ornaments , and the whole exterior face of the house presented the most brilliant aspect which fresh new paint , shining plate glass , newly cleaned bricks , and spotless mortar , could offer to the beholder . 
`` How Strong must have rejoiced in organising all this splendour , '' thought Pen . 
He recognised the Chevalier 's genius in the magnificence before him . 
He used the word `` pasteboards , '' having heard it from some of the ingenuous youth of the nobility about town , and as a modern phrase suited to Pen 's tender years . 
These things and men , the which to tell of demands time , are seen in the glance of a practised eye : and , in fact , the Major and Pen had scarcely crossed the street , when the second battantof the door flew open ; the horse-hair carpet tumbled down the door-steps to those of the carriage ; John was opening it on one side of the emblazoned door , and Jeames on the other , and two ladies , attired in the highest style of fashion , and accompanied by a third , who carried a Blenheim spaniel , yelping in a light blue ribbon , came forth to ascend the carriage . 
The Pendennises senior and junior beheld those charms as they came up to the door -- the Major looking grave and courtly , and Pen somewhat abashed at the carriage and its owners ; for he thought of sundry little passages at Clavering , which made his heart beat rather quick . 
jumped back to terra firma directly , and holding out two fat hands , encased in tight orange-coloured gloves , the good-natured woman warmly greeted the Major and his nephew . 
We 've been waitin and waitin for you ever so long , Come in , luncheon ai n't gone down , '' cried out this hospitable lady , squeezing Pen 's hand in both hers , -LRB- she had dropped the Major 's after a brief wrench of recognition -RRB- , and Blanche , casting up her eyes towards the chimneys , descended from the carriage presently , with a timid , blushing , appealing look , and gave a little hand to Major Pendennis . 
Pen and his uncle declined the refection , but they admired the dining-room with fitting compliments , and pronounced it `` very chaste , '' that being the proper phrase . 
She was angry because Pen was talking and laughing with Mamma , because Mamma had made a number of blunders in describing the house -- for a hundred other good reasons . 
`` I should like to have been by to give Lady Clavering my arm if she had need of it , '' Pen answered , with a bow and a blush . 
`` I have a fellow-feeling with those who fall , remember , '' Pen said `` I suffered myself very much from doing so once . '' 
Pen winced . 
He did not like the remembrance of the consolation which Laura had given to him , nor was he very well pleased to find that his rebuff in that quarter was known to the world ; so as he had nothing to say in reply , he began to be immensely interested in the furniture round about him , and to praise Lady Clavering 's taste with all his might . 
`` My cousin Laura has been staying with her , '' Pen said . 
cried Major Pendennis , when he heard this great name of fashion , `` If you have her ladyship 's approval , Lady Clavering , you can not be far wrong . 
As for Pen , he was not a diner-out of thirty years ' standing as yet , and the idea of a fine feast in a fine house was still perfectly welcome to him . 
the Major asked of Pen , as they walked away together . 
`` Used to be , '' answered Pen , with a dandified air ; `` is a vague phrase regarding a woman . 
`` You seem to be a connoisseur in millinery , Uncle , '' Pen said . 
-- you understand , '' -- and he gave a killing though somewhat superannuated leer and bow to a carriage that passed them and entered the Park . 
`` Lady Catherine Martingale 's carriage , '' he said , `` mons ` ous fine girls the daughters , though , gad , I remember their mother a thousand times handsomer . 
`` It must be a cottage with a double coach-house , a cottage of gentility , sir , '' said Pen , quoting the hackneyed ballad of the Devil 's Walk : but his Uncle did not know that poem -LRB- though , perhaps , he might be leading Pen upon the very promenade in question -RRB- , and went on with his philosophical remarks , very much pleased with the aptness of the pupil to whom he addressed them . 
Warrington , the grumbler , growled out that Pen was becoming such a puppy that soon there would be no bearing him . 
He liked to see Pen gay and spirited , and brim-full of health , and life , and hope ; as a man who has long since left off being amused with clown and harlequin , still gets a pleasure in watching a child at a pantomime . 
Mr. Pen 's former sulkiness disappeared with his better fortune : and he bloomed as the sun began to shine upon him . 
The only tenants of the drawing-room when Pen and his uncle reached it , were Sir Francis and his wife , and our friend Captain Strong , whom Arthur was very glad to see , though the Major looked very sulkily at Strong , being by no means well pleased to sit down to dinner with Clavering 's d -- house-steward , as he irreverently called Strong . 
Foker whispered to Pen , who regarded her with eyes of evident admiration , that he considered her `` a stunner . '' 
Not accustomed much to the society of ladies , and ordinarily being dumb in their presence , he found that he could speak before Miss Amory , and became uncommonly lively and talkative , even before the dinner was announced and the party descended to the lower rooms He would have longed to give his arm to the fair Blanche , and conduct her down the broad carpeted stair ; but she fell to the lot of Pen upon this occasion , Mr. Foker being appointed to escort Mrs. Welbore Welbore in consequence of his superior rank as an earl 's grandson . 
`` Miss Amory is a sylph herself , '' said Mr. Pen . 
Pen remembered that words very similar had been addressed to himself by the young lady , and that she had liked to sing with him in former days . 
And sneering within himself , he wondered with how many other gentlemen she had sung duets since his time ? 
But he did not think fit to put this awkward question aloud : and only said , with the very tenderest air which he could assume , `` I should like to hear you sing again , Miss Blanche . 
`` Laura 's is a contralto : and that voice is very often out , you know , '' Pen said , bitterly . 
`` I have heard a great deal of music , in London , '' he continued . 
`` Sing me one of the old songs after dinner , will you , '' said Pen , with an imploring voice . 
I 'm a domestic character , Miss Amory -- my habits are simple -- and when I 'm pleased I 'm generally in a good humour , ai n't I , Pen ? 
She dropped her gloves on Foker 's side of the table , and her handkerchief on Pen 's . 
As the dinner at which Pen and his uncle took their places was not one of our grand parties , it had been served at a considerably earlier hour than those ceremonial banquets of the London season , which custom has ordained shall scarcely take place before nine o'clock ; and , the company being small , and Miss Blanche , anxious to betake herself to her piano in the drawing-room , giving constant hints to her mother to retreat , -- Lady Clavering made that signal very speedily , so that it was quite daylight yet when the ladies reached the upper apartments , from the flower-embroidered balconies of which they could command a view of the two Parks , of the poor couples and children still sauntering in the one , and of the equipages of ladies and the horses of dandies passing through the arch of the other . 
`` It 's the man who would sing the Malay song at the Back-Kitchen '' he whispered to Pen . 
Then , the Colonel seeing Pen 's honest face , regarded it for a while with as much steadiness as became his condition ; and said , `` I know you , too , young fellow . 
Strong said : upon which Pen , bowing rather stiffly , said , `` he had the pleasure of remembering that circumstance perfectly . '' 
The cab which Strong had desired to be called , drove away with the Chevalier and Colonel Altamont ; coffee was brought to the remaining gentlemen , and they went up stairs to the ladies in the drawing-room , Foker declaring confidentially to Pen that `` this was the rummest go he ever saw , '' which decision Pen said , laughing , `` showed great discrimination on Mr. Foker 's part . '' 
Then , according to her promise , Miss Amory made music for the young men . 
Pen affected to talk aside with others of the party , but Blanche brought him quickly to the piano , by singing some of his own words , those which we have given in a previous number , indeed , and which the sylphide had herself , she said , set to music . 
I do n't know whether the air was her 's , or how much of it was arranged for her by Signor Twankidillo , from whom she took lessons : but good or bad , original or otherwise , it delighted Mr. Pen , who remained by her side , and turned the leaves now for her most assiduously -- `` Gad ! 
how I wish I could write verses like you , Pen , '' Foker sighed afterwards to his companion . 
No mention was made before the ladies of the curious little scene which had been transacted below stairs ; although Pen was just on the point of describing it to Miss Amory , when that young lady enquired for Captain Strong , who she wished should join her in a duet . 
Blanche was as much astonished by these compliments as Pen was , to whom his uncle , a little time since , had been speaking in very disparaging terms of the Sylph . 
`` And I say , Pen , '' he said in a confidential whisper , calling his nephew back , `` mind you make a point of calling in Grosvenor Place to-morrow . 
Pen promised and wondered , and the Major 's door having been closed upon him by Morgan , Foker took Pen 's arm , and walked with him for some time silently puffing his cigar . 
And all the way along the Strand , and up to the door of Pen 's very staircase , in Lamb Court , Temple , young Harry Foker did not cease to speak about singing and Blanche Amory . 
When we remember what good advice he had given to Pen in former days , how an early wisdom and knowledge of the world had manifested itself in the gifted youth ; how a constant course of self-indulgence , such as becomes a gentleman of his means and expectations , ought by right to have increased his cynicism , and made him , with every succeeding day of his life , care less and less for every individual in the world , with the single exception of Mr. Harry Foker , one may wonder that he should fall into the mishap to which most of us are subject once or twice in our lives , and disquiet his great mind about a woman . 
Why to drive down to Lamb Court , Temple , taking Grosvenor Place by the way -LRB- which lies in the exact direction of the Temple from Grosvenor Street , as everybody knows -RRB- , where he just had the pleasure of peeping upwards at Miss Amory 's pink window curtains , having achieved which satisfactory feat , he drove off to Pen 's chambers . 
Why did he want to see his dear friend Pen so much ? 
Why did he yearn and long after him ; and did it seem necessary to Foker 's very existence that he should see Pen that morning , having parted with him in perfect health on the night previous ? 
Pen had lived two years in London , and Foker had not paid half-a-dozen visits to his chambers . 
And he is not a man , or she a woman , who is not conquered by it , or who does not conquer it in his time ... Now , then , if you ask why Henry Foker , Esquire , was in such a hurry to see Arthur Pendennis , and felt such a sudden value and esteem for him , there is no difficulty in saying it was because Pen had become really valuable in Mr. Foker 's eyes : because if Pen was not the rose , he yet had been near that fragrant flower of love . 
Was not he in the habit of going to her house in London ? 
Did he not live near her in the country ? 
when Foker reached Lamb Court , leaving his carriage for the admiration of the little clerks who were lounging in the arch-way that leads thence into Flag Court which leads into Upper Temple Lane , Warrington was in the chambers but Pen was absent . 
Pen was gone to the printing-office to see his proofs . 
-- Warrington asked , remarking with a pleased surprise the splendid toilet of this scented and shiny-booted young aristocrat ; but Foker had not the slightest wish for beer or tobacco : he had very important business : he rushed away to the `` Pall-Mall Gazette '' office , still bent upon finding Pen . 
Pen had quitted that place . 
`` Give the young men their pleasures , '' this worthy guardian said to Pen more than once . 
There was a charity sermon at Saint James 's , as the Major knew by the bills posted on the pillars of his parish church , which probably caused him , for he was a thrifty man , to forsake it for that day : besides he had other views for himself and Pen . 
`` I met them at dinner last week , at Lady Agnes Foker 's , sir , '' Pen said , `` and the Begum was very kind indeed . 
`` I think her the most confounded little flirt in London , '' Pen answered , laughing . 
I 've no pride about me , Pen . 
I like a man of birth certainly , but dammy , I like a brewery which brings in a man fourteen thousand a year ; hey , Pen ? 
`` Blanche is a dangerous girl , sir , '' Pen said . 
`` I was smitten with her myself once , and very far gone , too , '' he added ; `` but that is years ago . '' 
asked the Major , looking hard at Pen . 
Pen , with a laugh , said `` that at one time he did think he was pretty well in Miss Amory 's good graces . 
Pen did not think it fit to tell his uncle all the particulars of that courtship which had passed between himself and the young lady . 
`` Her birth , sir ; her father was the mate of a ship , they say : and she has not money enough , '' objected Pen , in a dandyfied manner . 
But , I tell you in confidence , Pen , -- in strict honour , mind , -- that it 's my belief she has a devilish deal more than ten thousand pound : and from what I saw of her the other day , and -- and have heard of her -- I should say she was a devilish accomplished , clever girl : and would make a good wife with a sensible husband . '' 
Pen asked , smiling . 
and the Major looked still more knowingly , and still harder at Pen . 
Indeed , the bells were tolling , the people were trooping into the handsome church , the carriages of the inhabitants of the lordly quarter poured forth their pretty loads of devotees , in whose company Pen and his uncle , ending their edifying conversation , entered the fane . 
As for Pen 's gravity , it was sorely put to the test when , upon looking by change towards the seats where the servants were collected , he spied out , by the side of a demure gentleman in plush , Henry Foker , Esquire , who had discovered this place of devotion . 
Pen found that it alighted upon a yellow bonnet and a pink one : and that these bonnets were on the heads of Lady Clavering and Blanche Amory . 
If Pen 's uncle is not the only man who has talked about his worldly affairs up to the church door , is poor Harry Foker the only who has brought his worldly love into the aisle ? 
N6309096 When the congregation issued forth at the conclusion of the service , Foker was out amongst the first , but Pen came up with him presently , as he was hankering about the entrance which he was unwilling to leave , until my lady 's barouche , with the bewigged coachman , had borne away its mistress and her daughter from their devotions . 
It 's adorable , '' she added , still addressing herself to Pen . 
`` I suppose Miss Clavering means ` Walter Lorraine , ''' said the Major , looking knowing and nodding at Pen . 
`` You are not a literary man , Foker , '' Pen said , laughing , and hooking his arm into his friend 's . 
`` I read Bell 's Life regular , old boy , '' Mr. Foker answered : at which Pen laughed again , and the three gentlemen proceeded in great good humour to Lady Clavering 's house . 
Pen said , with some fatuity , `` I am happy to think I have a part of vos larmes , Miss Blanche '' -- And the Major -LRB- who had not read more than six pages of Pen 's book -RRB- put on his sanctified look , saying , `` Yes , there are some passages quite affecting , mons ` ous affecting : and , '' -- `` O , if it makes you cry , '' -- Lady Amory declared she would not read it , `` that she would n't . '' 
`` Do n't , mamma , '' Blanche said , with a French shrug of her shoulders ; and then she fell into a rhapsody about the book , about the snatches of poetry interspersed in it , about the two heroines , Leonora and Neæra ; about the two heroes , Walter Lorraine and his rival the young Duke -- and what good company you introduce us to , '' said the young lady , archly , `` quel ton!How much of your life have you passed at court , and are you a prime minister 's son , Mr. Arthur ? '' 
Pen began to laugh -- `` It is as cheap for a novelist to create a Duke as to make a Baronet , '' he said . 
and she gave him the full benefit of her eyes , -- both of the fond appealing glance into his own , and of the modest look downwards towards the carpet , which showed off her dark eyelids and long fringed lashes Pen of course protested that he had not changed in the least , to which the young lady replied by a tender sigh ; and thinking that she had done quite enough to make Arthur happy or miserable -LRB- as the case might be -RRB- , she proceeded to cajole his companion , Mr. Harry Foker , who during the literary conversation had sate silently imbibing the head of his cane , and wishing that he was a clever chap like that Pen . 
And then , having praised and coaxed the weak youth until he blushed and tingled with pleasure , and until Pen thought she really had gone quite far enough , she took another theme . 
`` I am afraid Mr. Foker is a very sad young man , '' she said , turning round to Pen . 
`` He does not look so , '' Pen answered with a sneer . 
But here , seeing that Harry 's countenance assumed a great expression of alarm , while Pen 's wore a look of amusement , she turned to the latter and said , `` I believe you are just as bad : I believe you would have liked to have been there , -- would n't you ? 
Pen came down with his uncle , in Sir Hugh Trumpington 's brougham , which the Major borrowed for the occasion . 
And , being an old soldier , he allowed the two young men to pay for the dinner between them , and all the way home in the brougham he rallied Pen about Miss Amory 's evident partiality for him : praised her good looks , spirits , and wit : and again told Pen in the strictest confidence , that she would be a devilish deal richer than people thought . 
OME account has been given , in a former part of this story , how Mr. Pen , during his residence at home , after his defeat at Oxbridge , had occupied himself with various literary compositions , and amongst other works , had written the greater part of a novel . 
This book , written under the influence of his youthful embarrassments , amatory and pecuniary , was of a very fierce , gloomy , and passionate sort , -- the Byronic despair , the Wertherian despondency , the mocking bitterness of Mephistopheles of Faust , were all reproduced and developed in the character of the hero ; for our youth had just been learning the German language , and imitated , as almost all clever lads do , his favourite poets and writers . 
Many a bitter smile passed over Pen 's face as he read his novel , and recalled the time and feelings which gave it birth . 
How pompous some of the grand passages appeared ; and how weak others were in which he thought he had expressed his full heart ! 
This page was imitated from a then favourite author , as he could now clearly see and confess , though he had believed himself to be writing originally then . 
As he mused over certain lines he recollected the place and hour where he wrote them : the ghost of the dead feeling came back as he mused , and he blushed to review the faint image . 
As you come in the desert to a ground where camels ' hoofs are marked in the clay , and traces of withered herbage are yet visible , you know that water was there once ; so the place in Pen 's mind was no longer green , and the fons lacrymarum was dried up . 
He used this simile one morning to Warrington , as the latter sate over his pipe and book , and Pen , with much gesticulation , according to his wont when excited , and with a bitter laugh , thumped his manuscript down on the table , making the tea-things rattle , and the blue milk dance in the jug . 
said Pen , thumping down his papers , `` when I think that these were written but very few years ago , I am ashamed of my memory . 
And he stretched over from his easy chair , and caught hold of Pen 's manuscript with the fire-tongs , which he was just using in order to put a coal into his pipe . 
O Leonora -- ''' `` Cut that part , '' cried out Pen , making a dash at the book , which , however , his comrade would not release . 
`` Both , or something like them , '' Pen said . 
`` Well , Shakspeare was a man who wrote for money , just as you and I do , '' Pen answered , at which Warrington confounded his impudence , and resumed his pipe and his manuscript . 
There was not the slightest doubt then that this document contained a great deal of Pen 's personal experiences , and that . 
Now , though he had kept it in his box for nearly half of the period during which , according to the Horatian maxim , a work of art ought to lie ripening -LRB- a maxim , the truth of which may , by the way , be questioned altogether -RRB- , Mr. Pen had not buried his novel for this time , in order that the work might improve , but because he did not know where else to bestow it , or had no particular desire to see it . 
Now Pen had never any notion , even in the time of his youthful inexperience and fervour of imagination , that the story he was writing was a masterpiece of composition , or that he was the equal of the great authors whom he admired ; and when he now reviewed his little performance , he was keenly enough alive to its faults , and pretty modest regarding its merits . 
This , too , was Warrington 's verdict , when that severe critic , after half-an-hour 's perusal of the manuscript , and the consumption of a couple of pipes of tobacco , laid Pen 's book down , yawning portentously . 
`` I ca n't read any more of that balderdash now , '' he said ; `` but it seems to me there is some good stuff in it , Pen , my boy . 
Pen , the spring time was the best . '' 
Pen said -LRB- who , perhaps , may have been nettled by Warrington 's allusion to those ornaments , which , to say the truth , the young man coaxed , and curled , and oiled , and purfumed , and petted , in rather an absurd manner -RRB- . 
Here goes , '' said Pen , and `` Walter Lorraine '' went off the table . 
But the fire having done its duty of boiling the young man 's breakfast-kettle , had given up work for the day , and had gone out , as Pen knew very well ; and Warrington , with a scornful smile , once more took up the manuscript with the tongs from out of the harmless cinders . 
N6309099 `` O , Pen , what a humbug you are ! '' 
No , we wo n't burn him : we will carry him to the Egyptians , and sell him . 
We will exchange him away for money , yea , for silver and gold , and for beef and for liquors , and for tobacco and for raiment . 
This youth will fetch some price in the market ; for he is a comely lad , though not over strong ; but we will fatten him up , and give him the bath , and curl his hair , and we will sell him for a hundred piastres to Bacon or to Bungay . 
said Pen , delighted , for this was great praise from his cynical friend . 
And with the manuscript which he held in his hand he playfully struck Pen on the cheek . 
That part of Pen 's countenance turned as red as it had ever done in the earliest days of his blushes : he grasped the other 's hand and said , `` Thank you , Warrington , '' with all his might : and then he retired to his own room with his book , and passed the greater part of the day upon his bed re-reading it : and he did as Warrington had advised , and altered not a little , and added a great deal , until at length he had fashioned `` Walter Lorraine '' pretty much into the shape in which , as the respected novel-reader knows , it subsequently appeared . 
It was at the period when the novel , called `` The Fashionable , '' was in vogue among us ; and Warrington did not fail to point out , as before , how Pen was a man of the very first fashion himself , and received at the houses of some of the greatest personages in the land . 
For a gentleman of fashion as poor Pen was represented to be , it must be confessed , that the apartments he and his friend occupied , were not very suitable . 
Warrington burst out laughing , said that Bacon had got the game chair , and bawled out to Pen to fetch a sound one from his bed-room . 
It is very possible that Mr. Bacon would have set the two gentlemen down as impostors altogether , but that there chanced to be on the breakfast-table certain cards of invitation which the post of the morning had brought in for Pen , and which happened to come from some very exalted personage of the beau-monde , into which our young man had his introduction . 
This piqued the other into such liberal , though vague offers , that Pen began to fancy Eldorado was opening to him , and that his fortune was made from that day . 
By merit , then , or good fortune , or the skilful playing off of Bungay against Bacon which Warrington performed -LRB- and which an amateur novelist is quite welcome to try upon any two publishers in the trade -RRB- , Pen 's novel was actually sold for a certain sum of money to one of the two eminent patrons of letter , whom we have introduced to our readers . 
The sum was so considerable that Pen thought of opening an account at a banker 's , or of keeping a cab and horse , or of descending into the first floor of Lamb Court into newly furnished apartments , or of migrating to the fashionable end of the town . 
Major Pendennis advised the latter move strongly ; he opened his eyes with wonder when he heard of the good luck that had befallen Pen ; and which the latter , as soon as it occurred , hastened eagerly to communicate to his uncle . 
The Major was almost angry that Pen should have earned so much money . 
he thought to himself , when he heard of the bargain which Pen had made . 
Pen 's a lucky fellow . 
And on this simple calculation it was that the Major counselled Pen . 
And he wrote a letter to her , in which he told her his thanks and his regard ; and inclosed to her such an instalment of his debt as nearly wiped it off . 
It was written with genuine tenderness and modesty ; and old Dr. Portman , when he read a passage in the letter , in which Pen , with an honest heart full of gratitude , humbly thanked Heaven for his present prosperity , and for sending him such dear and kind friends to support him in his ill-fortune , -- when Doctor Portman read this portion of the letter , his voice faltered , and his eyes twinkled behind his spectacles . 
And when he had quite finished reading the same , and had taken his glasses off his nose , and had folded up the paper and given it back to the widow , I am constrained to say , that after holding Mrs. Pendennis 's hand for a minute , the Doctor drew that lady towards him and fairly kissed her : at which salute , of course , Helen burst out crying on the Doctor 's shoulder , for her heart was too full to give any other reply : and the Doctor , blushing a great deal after his feat , led the lady , with a bow , to the sofa , on which he seated himself by her ; and he mumbled out , in a low voice , some words of a Great Poet whom he loved very much , and who describes how in the days of his prosperity he had made `` the widow 's heart to sing for joy . '' 
We may be sure that the widow and Laura walked out to meet the mail which brought them their copy of Pen 's precious novel , as soon as that work was printed and ready for delivery to the public : and that they read it to each other : and that they also read it privately and separately , for when the widow came out of her room in her dressinggown at one o'clock in the morning with volume two , which she had finished , she found Laura devouring volume three in bed . 
This regarded an event which had occurred during that visit to Lady Rockminster , which Laura had paid in the last Christmas holidays : when Pen was at home with his mother , and when Mr. Pynsent , supposed to be so cold and so ambitious , had formally offered his hand to Miss Bell . 
When at length the famous novel appeared , it not only met with applause from more impartial critics than Mrs. Pendennis , but , luckily for Pen , it suited the taste of the public , and obtained a quick and considerable popularity . 
Before two months were over , Pen had the satisfaction and surprise of seeing the second edition of `` Walter Lorraine '' advertised in the newspapers ; and enjoyed the pleasure of reading and sending home the critiques of various literary journals and reviewers upon his book . 
Their censure did not much affect him ; for the good-natured young man was disposed to accept with considerable humility the dispraise of others . 
A strange and motley set they were , these friends of the Chevalier ; and though Major Pendennis would not much have relished their company , Arthur and Warrington liked it not a little , and Pen thought it as amusing as the society of the finest gentlemen in the finest houses which he had the honour to frequent . 
Do n't look too curiously into any man 's affairs , Pen my boy ; every fellow has some cupboard in his house , begad , which he would not like you and me to peep into . 
Perhaps Pen was somewhat intoxicated by his success in the world ; and it may also have entered into the young man 's mind -LRB- his uncle 's perpetual hints serving not a little to encourage the notion -RRB- that Miss Amory was tolerably well disposed to renew the little flirtation which had been carried on in the early days of both of them , by the banks of the rural Brawl . 
And the Major began to think that Pen was growing exceedingly pert and conceited , and that the world made a great deal too much of him . 
The Major 's anger amused Pen . 
Untiring in his efforts to be agreeable , the Major wished that Pen , too , should take particular notice of this child ; incited Arthur to invite him to his chambers , to give him a dinner at the club , to take him to Madame Tussaud 's , the Tower , the play , and so forth , and to tip him , as the phrase is , at the end of the day 's pleasures . 
As the Major rightly predicted , Lady Clavering was very grateful for Arthur 's attention to the boy ; more grateful than the lad himself , who took attentions as a matter of course , and very likely had more sovereigns in his pocket than poor Pen , who generously gave him one of his own slender stock of those coins . 
Miss Amory did not of course in the least understand what Major Pendennis meant -- Perhaps she thought over circumstances in her mind and asked herself , could he be a negotiator for a former suitor of her 's , and could he mean Pen ? 
Was Pen growing worldly , and should a man not get the experience of the world and lay it to his account ? 
Each had come in from his night 's amusement ; and Pen was smoking his pipe , and recounting , as his habit was , to his friend the observations and adventures of the evening just past . 
`` How I am changed , '' he said , `` from the simpleton boy at Fairoaks , who was fit to break his heart about his first love ! 
Pen said , simply -- at which the other burst out laughing according to his wont . 
`` Is it possible , '' he said , `` that any body should think of patronising the eminent author of Walter Lorraine ? '' 
`` You laugh at both of us , '' Pen said , blushing a little -- `` I was coming to that myself . 
N6309107 `` My mother is not a countess , '' said Pen , `` though she has very good blood in her veins too -- but commoner as she is , I have never met a peeress who was more than her peer , Mr. George ; and if you will come to Fairoaks Castle you shall judge for yourself of her and of my cousin too . 
`` You are a professed misogynist , and hate the sex because , I suspect , you know very little about them , '' Mr. Pen continued , with an air of considerable self-complacency . 
`` You are on the bank , old boy , content to watch the waves tossing in the winds , and the struggles of others at sea , '' Pen said . 
You are big enough and strong enough , '' Pen said . 
`` That philosopher , '' Pen said , `` had held a great place amongst the leaders of the world , and enjoyed to the full what it had to give of rank and riches , renown and pleasure , who came , weary-hearted , out of it , and said that all was vanity and vexation of spirit . 
While they were talking , the dawn came shining through the windows of the room , and Pen threw them open to receive the fresh morning air . 
`` Look , George , '' said he ; `` look and see the sun rise : he sees the labourer on his way a-field ; the work-girl plying her poor needle ; the lawyer at his desk , perhaps ; the beauty smiling asleep upon her pillow of down ; or the jaded reveller reeling to bed ; or the fevered patient tossing on it ; or the doctor watching by it , over the throes of the mother for the child that is to be born into the world ; -- to be born and to take his part in the suffering and struggling , the tears and laughter , the crime , remorse , love , folly , sorrow , rest . '' 
Pynsent and Pen had this view of each other ; and regarded each other accordingly . 
remarked the other to his partner . 
And so in truth Mr. Pen had practised a good deal in this life ; and had undoubtedly arrived at being able to dance better . 
She was tired of dancing ; it was getting very late ; she must go to mamma ; -- and , without another word , she sprang away from Harry Foker 's arm , and seized upon Pen 's , who was swaggering about the dancing-room , and again said , `` Mamma , mamma ! 
His lordship gave Mr. Arthur Pendennis his hand to shake ; said he had read his book , which was very wicked and clever ; asked Miss Blanche if she had read it , -- at which Pen blushed and winced . 
She laughed , she winked , and nodded knowingly at Pen ; she tapped him on the arm with her fan ; she tapped Blanche ; she tapped the Major ; -- her contentment was boundless , and her method of showing her joy equally expansive . 
Amongst other wicked London habits which Pen had acquired , the moralist will remark that he had got to keep very bad hours ; and often was going to bed at the time when sober country people were thinking of leaving it . 
We have shown in the last chapter how Pen was in a brisk condition of mind at this period , inclined to smoke his cigar at ease , and to speak freely . 
Foker and Pen walked away from Gaunt House , then , indulging in both the above amusements ; or rather Pen talked , and Foker looked as if he wanted to say something . 
Pen was sarcastic and dandyfied when he had been in the company of great folks ; he could not help imitating some of their airs and tones , and having a most lively imagination , mistook himself for a person of importance very easily . 
He rattled away , and attacked this person and that ; sneered at Lady John Turnbull 's bad French , which her ladyship will introduce into all conversations in spite of the sneers of everybody ; at Mrs. Slack Roper 's extraordinary costume and sham jewels ; at the old dandies and the young ones ; -- at whom did n't he sneer and laugh ? 
`` You fire at everybody , Pen -- you 're grown awful , that you are , '' Foker said . 
Pen cried out , in high spirits . 
And as he spoke , flinging himself into an absurd theatrical attitude , the men in the cab-stand in Piccadilly wondered and grinned at the antics of the two young swells . 
Pen , however , did not remark this agitation much , but continued in the same bantering and excited vein . 
Were I in grief , I would discharge my grief upon his sympathising bosom -- '' `` Gammon , Pen -- go on , '' Foker said . 
`` But you ai n't got any money , Pen , '' said the other , still looking alarmed . 
Without bantering further , Pen continued , `` I 've rather serious thoughts of settling and marrying . 
They were walking down Grosvenor Street , as they talked , or rather as Pen talked , in the selfish fulness of his heart ; and Mr. Pen must have been too much occupied with his own affairs to remark the concern and agitation of his neighbour , for he continued -- `` We are no longer children , you know , you and I , Harry . 
Pen shrugged his shoulders . 
`` Not quite , '' Arthur replied , with a confident smile , which seemed to say , I have but to ask , and she comes to me that instant . 
`` Oh , not quite , '' said Foker ; and he broke out with such a dreadful laugh , that Pen , for the first time , turned his thoughts from himself towards his companion , and was struck by the other 's ghastly pale face . 
You 're ill , '' Pen said , in a tone of real concern . 
Foker and Pen passed by this chamber , now closed with death-like shutters , and entered into the young man 's own quarters . 
I ca n't help telling you , Pen , '' he said . 
I ca n't stand it , Pen . 
Ah , Pen ! 
I do n't think that would tempt her , '' Pen said , eyeing his friend with a great deal of real good-nature and pity . 
It 's that kills me , Pen . 
Pen said , with rather a cheap magnanimity , `` I wish I could help you . 
`` As for my affair , '' Pen went on -- `` my dear fellow , if I had thought matters were so critical with you , at least I would not have pained you by choosing you as my confident . 
Pen cried , starting up in great wrath . 
Foker returned his friend 's salute with an imploring look , and a piteous squeeze of the hand , sank back on his cushions again , and Pen , putting on his hat , strode forth into the air , and almost over the body of the matutinal housemaid , who was rubbing the steps at the door . 
thought Pen as he marched along -- and noted within himself with a fatal keenness of perception and almost an infernal mischief , that the very pains and tortures which that honest heart of Foker 's was suffering gave a zest and an impetus to his own pursuit of Blanche : if pursuit that might be called which had been no pursuit as yet , but mere sport and idle dallying . 
When Pen was gone away , poor Harry Foker got up from the sofa , and taking out from his waistcoat -- the splendidly buttoned , the gorgeously embroidered , the work of his mamma -- a little white rosebud , he drew from his dressing-case , also the maternal present , a pair of scissors , with which he nipped carefully the stalk of the flower , and placing it in a glass of water opposite his bed , he sought refuge there from care and bitter remembrances . 
The season was now come to a conclusion : Pen 's neighbours , the lawyers , were gone upon circuit : and his more fashionable friends had taken their passports for the continent , or had fled for health or excitement to the Scotch moors . 
Pen was left alone in chambers for a while , for this man of fashion could not quit the metropolis when he chose always : and was at present detained by the affairs of his newspaper , the Pall Mall Gazette , of which he acted as the editor and charge d'affaires during the temporary absence of the chief , Captain Shandon , who was with his family at the salutary watering-place of Boulogne sur Mer . 
Although , as we have seen , Mr. Pen had pronounced himself for years past to be a man perfectly blaséand wearied of life , yet the truth is that he was an exceedingly healthy young fellow ; still , with a fine appetite , which he satisfied with the greatest relish and satisfaction at least once a-day ; and a constant desire for society , which showed him to be anything but misanthropical . 
If he could not get a good dinner he sate down to a bad one with perfect contentment ; if he could not procure the company of witty or great or beautiful persons , he put up with any society that came to hand ; and was perfectly satisfied in a tavern-parlour or on board a Greenwich steam-boat , or in a jaunt to Hampstead with Mr. Finucane , his colleague at the Pall Mall Gazette ; or in a visit to the summer theatres across the river ; or to the Royal Gardens of Vauxhall , where he was on terms of friendship with the great Simpson , and where he shook the principal comic singer or the lovely equestrian of the arena by the hand . 
As another man has an ardour for art or music , or natural science , Mr. Pen said that anthropology was his favourite pursuit ; and had his eyes always eagerly open to its infinite varieties and beauties : contemplating with an unfailing delight all specimens of it in all places to which he resorted , whether it was the coquetting of a wrinkled dowager in a ball-room , or a high-bred young beauty blushing in her prime there ; whether it was a hulking guardsman coaxing a servant-girl in the Park -- or innocent little Tommy that was feeding the ducks whilst the nurse listened . 
Yes , Pen used to brag and talk in his impetuous way to Warrington . 
But Mr. Pen was blushing whilst he made this reply to his unromantical friend , and indeed cared a great deal more about himself still than such a philosopher perhaps should have done . 
Indeed , considering that he was careless about the world , Mr. Pen ornamented his person with no small pains in order to make himself agreeable to it , and for a weary pilgrim as he was , wore very tight boots and bright varnish . 
Pen went to exhibit his ticket at the last-named orifice , where , however , a gentleman and two ladies were already in parley before him . 
The gentleman , whose hat was very much on one side , and who wore a short and shabby cloak in an excessively smart manner , was crying out in a voice which Pen at once recognised -- `` Bedad , sir , if ye doubt me honour , will ye obleege me by stipping out of that box , and -- '' `` Lor , Capting ! '' 
Pen was pleased with her pleasure , and pressed to his side the little hand which clung so kindly to him . 
Ye 've been me preserver , Pen , -LRB- I 've known um since choildhood , Mrs. Bolton ; he 's the proproietor of Fairoaks Castle , and many 's the cooper of Clart I 've dthrunk there with the first nobilitee of his neetive countee -RRB- -- Mr. Pendennis , ye 've been me preserver , and oi thank ye ; me daughtther will thank ye ; -- Mr. Simpson , your humble servant , sir . '' 
If Pen was magnificent in his courtesy to the ladies , what was his splendour in comparison to Captain Costigan 's bowing here and there , and crying bravo to the singers ? 
But Pen , on his part , had no such scruples . 
As for Fanny , her colour heightened , and her bright eyes shone the brighter with pleasure , as she leaned for protection on the arm of such a fine gentleman as Mr. Pen . 
When Pen and his young lady met the Viscount 's party , that noble peer only gave Arthur a passing leer of recognition as his lordship 's eyes passed from Pen 's face under the bonnet of Pen 's companion . 
`` That is Lord Viscount Colchicum , Miss Fanny , '' said Pen , with an air of protection . 
He meant no harm ; he was pleased to patronise the young girl , and he was not displeased that she should be so pretty , and that she should be hanging upon his arm , and that yonder elderly Don Juan should have seen her there . 
So this young person hung upon Mr. Pen 's arm , and they paced the gardens together . 
Pen and Miss Bolton were hard by listening to the same concert , and the latter remarked , and Pen laughed at , Mr. Foker 's wo-begone face . 
Pen said . 
And he looked down at her , splendidly protecting her , like Egmont at Clara in Goethe 's play , or Leicester at Amy in Scott 's novel . 
And with this Mr. Huxter released his hand from the pocket where his cane was , and pulling off the top of his card case with his teeth produced thence a visiting ticket , which he handed to Pen . 
`` You are exceedingly kind , I am sure , '' said Pen : `` but I regret that I have an engagement which will take me out of town to-morrow night . '' 
So did Pen presently , when this agreeable youth was out of sight , begin to run with his little companion ; Mrs. Bolton following after them , with Captain Costigan at her side . 
But the Captain was too majestic and dignified in his movements to run for friend or enemy , and he pursued his course with the usual jaunty swagger which distinguished his steps , so that he and his companion were speedily distanced by Pen and Miss Fanny . 
Perhaps Arthur forgot , or perhaps he did not choose to remember , that the elder couple had no money in their pockets , as had been proved by their adventure at the entrance of the Gardens ; howbeit , Pen payed a couple of shillings for himself and his partner , and with her hanging close on his arm , scaled the staircase which leads to the firework gallery . 
Here Pen broke out , rapidly putting an end to the calm oration which he had begun to deliver ; for the sight of a woman 's tears always put his nerves in a quiver , and he began forthwith to coax her and soothe her , and to utter a hundred-and-twenty little ejaculations of pity and sympathy , which need not be repeated here , because they would be absurd in print . 
Well , the truth is , that however you may suspect him , and whatever you would have done under the circumstances , or Mr. Pen would have liked to do , he behaved honestly , and like a man . 
`` I will not play with this little girl 's heart , '' he said within himself , `` and forget my own or her honour . 
It was so much so , that Pen could not refrain from bursting into a laugh . 
`` You should have taken my arm , Mrs. Bolton , '' he said , offering it . 
`` And the bouquet was magnificent , '' said Pen . 
`` A lobster salad is the best thing in the world for a headache , '' Pen said gallantly , `` and a glass of wine I 'm sure will do you good . 
The cab , the lobster salad , the frank and good-humoured look of Pendennis , as he smilingly invited the worthy matron , subdued her suspicions and her anger . 
Since he wouldbe so obliging , she thought she could take a little bit of lobster , and so they all marched away to a box ; and Costigan called for a waither with such a loud and belligerent voice , as caused one of those officials instantly to run to him . 
This delicacy was provided by Pen , and a bottle of the most frisky champagne was moreover ordered for the delight of the ladies . 
When the supper , which was very brisk and gay , was over , and Captain Costigan and Mrs. Bolton had partaken of some of the rack punch that is so fragrant at Vauxhall , the bill was called and discharged by Pen with great generosity , -- `` loike a foin young English gentleman of th ' olden toime , be Jove , '' Costigan enthusiastically remarked . 
And as , when they went out of the box , he stepped forward and gave Mrs. Bolton his arm , Fanny fell to Pen 's lot , and the young people walked away in high good-humour together , in the wake of their seniors . 
The champagne and the rack punch , though taken in moderation by all persons , except perhaps poor Cos , who lurched ever so little in his gait , had set them in high spirits and good humour , so that Fanny began to skip and move her brisk little feet in time to the band , which was playing waltzes and galops for the dancers . 
Pen had no mishap this time with little Fanny , as he had with Miss Blanche in old days , -- at least , there was no mishap of his making . 
Mr. Huxter very probably had been also partaking of supper , for he was even more excited now than at the time when he had previously claimed Pen 's acquaintance ; and , having run against Arthur and his partner , and nearly knocked them down , this amiable gentleman of course began to abuse the people whom he had injured , and broke out into a volley of slang against the unoffending couple . 
the young surgeon roared out -LRB- using , at the same time , other expressions far more emphatic -RRB- , and was joined in his abuse by the shrill language and laughter of his partner ; -- to the interruption of the ball , the terror of poor little Fanny , and the immense indignation of Pen . 
Mr. Huxter had been one of the boys of the Clavering School , who had been present at a combat which has been mentioned in the early part of this story , when young Pen knocked down the biggest champion of the academy , and Huxter knew that it was dangerous to quarrel with Arthur . 
Pen stopped his tipsy remonstrances by telling him to hold his tongue , and desiring him not to use his -LRB- Pendennis 's -RRB- name in that place or any other ; and he walked out of the gardens with a litter behind him from the crowd , every one of whom he would have liked to massacre for having been witness to the degrading broil . 
He walked out of the gardens , quite forgetting poor little Fanny , who came trembling behind him with her mother and the stately Costigan . 
Pen burst out laughing . 
The Captain muttered something about honour , and winked knowingly at Pen , but Arthur said gallantly , `` No , Fanny , do n't be frightened . 
`` Will nothing satisfy you , '' said Pen , in great good-humour , `` that I am not going back to fight him ? 
Pen put the ladies into their lodge , having shaken hands kindly with both of them ; and the Captain again whispered to him that he would see um in the morning if he was inclined , and take his message to that `` scounthrel . '' 
But the Captain was in his usual condition when he made the proposal ; and Pen was perfectly sure that neither he nor Mr. Huxter , when they awoke , would remember anything about the dispute . 
COSTIGAN never roused Pen from his slumbers ; there was no hostile message from Mr. Huxter to disturb him ; and when Pen woke , it was with a brisker and more lively feeling than ordinarily at tends that moment in the day of the tired and blaséLondon man . 
`` What a nice little artless creature that was , '' Mr. Pen thought at the very instant of waking after the Vauxhall affair ; `` what a pretty natural manner she has ; how much pleasanter than the minauderies of the young ladies in the ball-rooms '' -LRB- and here he recalled to himself some instances , of what he could not help seeing , was the artful simplicity of Miss Blanche , and some of the stupid graces of other young ladies in the polite world -RRB- ; `` who could have thought that such a pretty rose could grow in a porter 's lodge , or bloom in that dismal old flowerpot of a Shepherd 's Inn ? 
Mr. Pen , we have seen , was rather a dandy about shirts and haberdashery in general . 
Fanny had looked with delight at the fineness of his linen , at the brilliancy of his shirt studs , at his elegant cambric pocket-handkerchief and white gloves , and at the jetty brightness of his charming boots . 
N6309115 Mrs. Bolton was perhaps rather shy and suspicious about these advances ; but Mr. Pen 's good humour was inexhaustible , he could not see that he was unwelcome . 
He looked about the premises for a seat , and none being disengaged , for a dish-cover was on one , a work-box on the other , and so forth , he took one of the children 's chairs , and perched himself upon that uncomfortable eminence . 
At this , the children began laughing , the child Fanny louder than all -- at least , she was more amused than any of them , and amazed at his Royal Highness 's condescension . 
So Pen sate down and talked away with great volubility to Mrs. Bolton . 
He asked about the undertaking business , and how many mutes went down with Lady Estrich 's remains ; and about the Inn , and who lived there . 
He seemed very much interested about Mr. Campion 's cab and horse , and had met that gentleman in society . 
Was n't he a stout man , with a large quantity of jewellery , and a wig and large black whiskers -- veryblack -LRB- here Pen was immensely waggish , and caused hysteric giggles of delight from the ladies -RRB- -- very black indeed ; in fact , blue black ; that is to say , a rich greenish purple ? 
Pen was rather curious about the bill stamps , and concerning the transactions in Strong 's chambers . 
And he asked , when Altamont came and joined the Chevalier , whether he too sent out for bill stamps , who he was , whether he saw many people , and so forth . 
These questions , put with considerable adroitness by Pen . 
These questions answered , and Pen being at a loss for more , luckily recollected his privilege as a member of the Press , and asked the ladies whether they would like any orders for the play ? 
At first , against Pen , and suspicious of him , she was his partisan now , and almost as enthusiastic about him as her daughter . 
And here , as they were playing , they very possibly communicated with an old friend of theirs and dweller in the Inn ; for while Pen was making himself agreeable to the ladies at the Lodge , who were laughing delighted at his sallies , an old gentleman passed under the archway from the Inn-square , and came and looked in at the door of the Lodge . 
He made a very blank and rueful face when he saw Mr. Arthur seated upon a table , like Macheath in the play , in easy discourse with Mrs. Bolton and her daughter . 
cried out Pen , in a cheery , loud voice . 
OUR friend Pen said `` How d'ye do , Mr. Bows , '' in a loud cheery voice on perceiving that gentleman , and saluted him in a dashing off-hand manner , yet you could have seen a blush upon Arthur 's face -LRB- answered by Fanny , whose cheek straightway threw out a similar fluttering red signal -RRB- ; and after Bows and Arthur had shaken hands , and the former had ironically accepted the other 's assertion that he was about to pay Mr. Costigan 's chambers a visit , there was a gloomy and rather guilty silence in the company , which Pen presently tried to dispel by making a great rattling and noise . 
Pen felt that his story was a failure ; his voice sank and dwindled away dismally at the end of it -- flickered , and went out ; and it was all dark again . 
said Pen , whose candle flamed up again in his wrath , and who was disposed to be as quarrelsome as men are when they are in the wrong . 
But he was not acting or masquerading , as Pen knew very well , though he was disposed to pooh-pooh the old fellow 's melo-dramatic airs . 
`` Come along , sir , '' he said , `` as you are so very pressing . 
And he took her hand , pressed it , was pressed by it , and was gone . 
When I was at the Wells with Mrs. Serle , '' Mrs. Bolton continued , looking through the window curtain after Pen , as he went up the court with Bows ; `` there was a young gentleman from the city , that used to come in a tilbry , in a white at , the very image of him , ony his whiskers was black , and Mr. P. 's is red . '' 
Although Costigan had once before been made pretty accurately to understand what Pen 's pecuniary means and expectations were , I suppose Cos had forgotten the information acquired at Chatteris years ago , or had been induced by his natural enthusiasm to exaggerate his friend 's income . 
He had described Fairoaks Park in the most glowing terms to Mrs. Bolton , on the preceding evening , as he was walking about with her during Pen 's little escapade with Fanny , had dilated upon the enormous wealth of Pen 's famous uncle , the Major , and shown an intimate acquaintance with Arthur 's funded and landed property . 
Pen was sulky . 
If Bows had anything on his mind , he did not care to deliver himself of his thoughts in the presence of Captain Costigan , who remained in the apartment during the whole of Pen 's visit ; having quitted his bed-chamber , indeed , but a very few minutes before the arrival of that gentleman . 
But it was hard upon Bows , and grating to his feelings as a man and a sentimentalist , that he should find Pen again upon his track , and in pursuit of this little Fanny . 
He entertained him affably with news of the day , or rather of ten days previous ; for Pen , in his quality of Journalist , remembered to have seen some of the Captain 's opinions in the Sporting and Theatrical Newspaper , which was Costigan 's oracle . 
Pen replied with great gravity , that he had heard that Baden was very pleasant , and the Grand Duke exceedingly hospitable to English . 
And Pen -- as he heard these oft-told well-remembered legends -- recollected the time when he had given a sort of credence to them , and had a certain respect for the Captain . 
He had quite forgotten about little Fanny Bolton whilst the Captain was talking , and Pen himself was absorbed in other selfish meditations . 
He only remembered her again as Bows came hobbling down the stairs after him , bent evidently upon following him out of Shepherd 's Inn . 
thought Pen . 
Perhaps it was solitude , then , which drove Pen into the garden ; for although he had never before passed the gate , and had looked rather carelessly at the pretty flower-beds , and the groups of pleased citizens sauntering over the trim lawn and the broad gravel-walks by the river , on this evening it happened , as we have said , that the young gentleman , who had dined alone at a tavern in the neighbourhood of the Temple , took a fancy , as he was returning home to his chambers , to take a little walk in the gardens , and enjoy the fresh evening air , and the sight of the shining Thames . 
The bells of the multitudinous city churches were ringing to evening prayers , -- such peaceful Sabbath evenings as this Pen may have remembered in his early days , as he paced , with his arm round his mother 's waist , on the terrace before the lawn at home . 
Pen looked very grave , pompous , and dandified . 
And Ameliar-Ann , sticking her little chubby fingers into the arm-holes of her pinafore , as Pen was wont to do with his waistcoat , had said , `` Now , Bessy-Jane , I 'll be Missa Pendennis . '' 
asked Pen , amused . 
How had Fanny discovered the novel of Walter Lorraine , and that Pen was the author ? 
But he knew the name of Pen 's novel from the fact that Messrs. Finucane , Bludyer , and other frequenters of the Back-Kitchen , spoke of Mr. Pendennis -LRB- and not all of them with great friendship ; for Bludyer called him a confounded coxcomb , and Hoolan wondered that Doolan did not kick him , & c. -RRB- by the sobriquet of Walter Lorraine , -- and was hence enabled to give Fanny the information which she required . 
Bows thought Pen had some reason for hurrying to his rooms . 
They were not in Pen 's chambers , as we know . 
Warrington 's old bookcase and battered library , Pen 's writing-table with its litter of papers , presented an aspect cheerless enough . 
he said bitterly ; `` or whether I have made away with the little girls , and hid them in the coal-hole ? '' 
`` Your word is sufficient , Mr. Pendennis , '' the other said in his sad tone . 
Here Pen stammered and turned red , directly he had said the words ; he felt he had given the other an opening , which Bows instantly took . 
Bows was speaking beside the question , and Pen had his advantage here , which he was not sorry to take -- not sorry to put off the debate from the point upon which his adversary had first engaged it . 
Its accents touched Pen , much more than the menacing or sarcastic tone which Bows had commenced by adopting . 
`` Indeed , '' said he , kindly , `` you do me a wrong if you fancy I intend one to poor little Fanny . 
And on taking farewell of Pen , Bows asked leave to shake hands with him , and with a very warm and affectionate greeting on both sides , apologised to Arthur for having mistaken him , and paid him some compliments which caused the young man to squeeze his old friend 's hand heartily again . 
And as they parted at Pen 's door , Arthur said he had given a promise , and he hoped and trusted that Mr. Bows might rely on it ? 
EARLY in this history , we have had occasion to speak of the little town of Clavering , near which Pen 's paternal home of Fairoaks stood , and of some of the people who inhabited the place ; and as the society there was by no means amusing or pleasant , our reports concerning it were not carried to any very great length . 
Mr. Hobnell , the young gentleman whom Pen had thrashed , in consequence of the quarrel in the Fotheringay affair , was , whilst a pupil at the Grammar School at Clavering , made very welcome at the tea-table of Mrs. Huxter , Samuel 's mother , and was free of the Surgery , where he knew the way to the tamarind-pots , and could scent his pocket-handkerchief with rose-water . 
As ill-luck would have it , Pen again fell in with Mr. Huxter , only three days after the rencontre at Vauxhall . 
It would have damped the spirits of the buffoon on the stage to have seen Pen 's dismal face . 
How strange they seemed to Pen ! 
Huxter whispered to his companions , greatly to Pen 's annoyance . 
Huxter then worked through the room , followed by his friends , and came and took a place opposite to Pen , nodding familiarly to him , and holding him out a dirty hand to shake . 
Pen shook hands with his fellow townsman . 
He thought he had been needlessly savage to him on the last night when they had met . 
The disciple of Galen having called for `` four stouts , '' with which he and his party refreshed themselves , began to think what would be the most amusing topic of conversation with Pen , and hit upon that precise one which was most painful to our young gentleman . 
`` I 'm glad you liked it , '' poor Pen said , groaning in spirit . 
`` I did n't mean any offence -- beg pardon -- hang it , you cut up quite savage , '' said Pen 's astonished interlocutor . 
Pen asked , with gathering wrath . 
which popular song began as Pen left the Back-kitchen . 
He flattered himself that he had commanded his temper perfectly . 
He rather wished that Huxter had been pugnacious . 
This was what came of early indulgence , and insolence , and extravagance , and aristocratic airs -LRB- it is certain that Pen had refused to drink tea with Mrs. Pybus -RRB- , and attending the corrupt and horrid parties in the dreadful modern Babylon ! 
Pen formed the subject for a second sermon at the Clavering chapel of ease : where the dangers of London , and the crime of reading or writing novels , were pointed out on a Sunday evening , to a large and warm congregation . 
They took his wickedness for granted : and with these admirable moralists , it was who should fling the stone at poor Pen . 
She had had an anonymous letter ; -- some Christian had thought it his or her duty to stab the good soul who had never done mortal a wrong -- an anonymous letter with references to Scripture , pointing out the doom of such sinners , and a detailed account of Pen 's crime . 
Doctor Portman , glancing over the letter , thought he knew the hand-writing , and , of course , was already acquainted with the charge made against poor Pen . 
Against his own conscience , perhaps , -LRB- for the worthy Doctor , like most of us , had a considerable natural aptitude for receiving any report unfavourable to his neighbours , -RRB- he strove to console Helen ; he pointed out that the slander came from an anonymous quarter , and therefore must be the work of a rascal ; that the charge might not be true -- was not true , most likely -- at least , that Pen must be heard before he was condemned ; that the son of such a mother was not likely to commit such a crime , & c. & c. Helen at once saw through his feint of objection and denial . 
And Doctor Portman , still beseeching her to be tranquil , and growing bolder and more confident of Arthur 's innocence as he witnessed the terrible grief of the poor mother , wrote a letter to Pen warning him of the rumours that were against him , and earnestly praying that he would break off and repent of a connexion so fatal to his best interests and his soul 's welfare . 
DOCTOR PORTMAN 'S letter was sent off to its destination in London , and the worthy clergyman endeavoured to soothe down Mrs. Pendennis into some state of composure until an answer should arrive , which the Doctor tried to think , or at any rate , persisted in saying , would be satisfactory as regarded the morality of Mr. Pen . 
Unluckily for himself and all parties , Pen never read that homily which Doctor Portman addressed to him , until many weeks after the epistle had been composed ; and day after day the widow waited for her son 's reply to the charges against him ; her own illness increasing with every day 's delay . 
So Pen never got the letter , although it was duly posted and faithfully discharged by the postman into his letter-box in Lamb Court , and thence carried by the laundress to his writing-table with the rest of his lordship 's correspondence ; into which room , have we not seen a picture of him , entering from his little bed-room , adjoining , as Mrs. Flanagan , his laundress , was in the act of drinking his gin ? 
Those kind readers who have watched Mr. Arthur 's career hitherto , and have made , as they naturally would do , observations upon the moral character and peculiarities of their acquaintance , have probably discovered by this time what was the prevailing fault in Mr. Pen 's disposition , and who was that greatest enemy , artfully indicated in the titlepage , with whom he had to contend . 
In a word , Pen 's greatest enemy was himself : and as he had been pampering , and coaxing , and indulging that individual all his life , the rogue grew insolent , as all spoiled servants will be ; and at the slightest attempt to coerce him , or make him do that which was unpleasant to him , became frantically rude and unruly . 
A person who is used to making sacrifices -- Laura , for instance , who had got such a habit of giving up her own pleasure for others -- can do the business quite easily ; but Pen , unaccustomed as he was to any sort of self-denial , suffered woundily when called on to pay his share , and savagely grumbled at being obliged to forego anything he liked . 
He had resolved in his mighty mind then that he would not see Fanny ; and he would n't . 
He tried to drive the thoughts of that fascinating little person out of his head , by constant occupation , by exercise , by dissipation and society . 
He worked then too much ; he walked and rode too much ; he ate , drank , and smoked too much : nor could all the cigars and the punch of which he partook drive little Fanny 's image out of his inflamed brain , and at the end of a week of this discipline and self-denial our young gentleman was in bed with a fever Let the reader who has never had a fever in chambers pity the wretch who is bound to undergo that calamity . 
Mr. Finucane rushed up to Pen 's chambers , and found that gentleman so exceedingly unwell , that the good-natured Irishman set to work to supply his place , if possible , and produced a series of political and critical compositions , such as no doubt greatly edified the readers of the periodical in which he and Pen were concerned . 
And besides doing Pen 's work for him , to the best of his ability , his kind-hearted comrade offered to forego his Saturday 's and Sunday 's holiday , and pass those days of holiday and rest as nursetender to Arthur , who , however , insisted , that the other should not forego his pleasure , and thankfully assured him that he could bear best his malady alone . 
Pen 's condition had so much alarmed her , that she was obliged to have recourse to the stimulus of brandy to enable her to support the grief which his illness occasioned . 
Pen , who was by this time in a very fevered state , was yet greatly pleased to receive Costigan 's visit . 
The Captain felt the young man 's pulse with great gravity -- -LRB- his own tremulous and clammy hand growing steady for the instant while his finger pressed Arthur 's throbbing vein -RRB- -- the pulse was beating very fiercely -- Pen 's face was haggard and hot -- his eyes were bloodshot and gloomy ; his `` bird , '' as the Captain pronounced the word , afterwards giving a description of his condition , had not been shaved for nearly a week . 
Pen made his visitor sit down , and , tossing and turning in his comfortless bed , began to try and talk to the Captain in a lively manner , about the Back-Kitchen , about Vauxhall and when they should go again , and about Fanny -- how was little Fanny ? 
Whereupon the musician informed her of the conversation of the day previous , showed her that Pen could not and must not think of her as a wife fitting for him , and that she , as she valued her honest reputation , must strive too to forget him . 
Pen was not wicked and a seducer : Pen was high-minded in wishing to avoid her . 
Pen loved her ; the good and the great , the magnificent youth , with the chains of gold and the scented auburn hair ! 
And so he did : or so he would have loved her five years back perhaps , before the world had hardened the ardent and reckless boy -- before he was ashamed of a foolish and imprudent passion , and strangled it as poor women do their illicit children , not on account of the crime , but of the shame , and from dread that the finger of the world should point to them . 
Perhaps Bows was right in admiring that passion of Pen 's , blind and unreasoning as it was , that made him ready to stake his all for his love ; perhaps , if self-sacrifice is a laudable virtue , mere worldly self-sacrifice is not very much to be praised ; -- in fine , let this be a reserved point to be settled by the individual moralist who chooses to debate it . 
So much is certain , that with the experience of the world which Mr. Pen now had , he would have laughed at and scouted the idea of marrying a penniless girl out of a kitchen . 
And this point being fixed in his mind , he was but doing his duty as an honest man , in crushing any unlucky fondness which he might feel towards poor little Fanny . 
It chanced on that very evening after Costigan had visited Pen , that Arthur 's uncle the excellent Major arrived in town from Buxton , where his health had been mended , and sent his valet Morgan to make inquiries for Arthur , and to request that gentleman to breakfast with the Major the next morning . 
But the young man must have advice -- the best advice ; and Morgan was straightway dispatched with a note from Major Pendennis to his friend Doctor Goodenough , who by good luck happened to be in London and at home , and who quitted his dinner instantly , and whose carriage was in half an hour in Upper Temple Lane , near Pen 's chambers . 
The affair was very serious : the patient was in a high fever : he had had Pen bled instantly : and would see him the first thing in the morning . 
The Major declared upon his honour , that if he could be of any use he would rush to Pen 's chambers . 
Thus it was the old gentleman tried to satisfy his conscience : and he went his way that day to Stillbrook by railway -LRB- for railways have sprung up in the course of this narrative , though they have not quite penetrated into Pen 's country yet -RRB- , and made his appearance in his usual trim order and curly wig , at the dinner-table of the Marquis of Steyne . 
It was Helen and Laura that were asking their way to poor Pen 's room . 
He ran up to them ; hastily clasped his sister 's arm and kissed her hand ; and the three entered into Lamb Court , and mounted the long gloomy stair . 
AS Fanny saw the two ladies and the anxious countenance of the elder who regarded her with a look of inscrutable alarm and terror , the poor girl at once knew that Pen 's mother was before her ; there was a resemblance between the widow 's haggard eyes and Arthur 's as he tossed in his bed in fever . 
A horrid shriek of laughter came out of Pen 's room , whereof the door was open ; and , after several shouts , the poor wretch began to sing a college drinking song , and then to hurray and to shout as if he was in the midst of a wine party , and to thump with his fist against the wainscot . 
And the widow hastily pushed by little Fanny , and through the dark passage which led into Pen 's sitting room . 
On which the Doctor called her a stupid little thing ; put her down upon the bench where Pen 's printer 's devil used to sit so many hours ; tapped her pale cheek with his finger , and bustled into the further room . 
Mrs. Pendennis was ensconced pale and solemn in a great chair by Pen 's bed-side . 
Her watch was on the bed-table by Pen 's medicines . 
Pen knew his mother quite well , and familiarly smiled and nodded at her . 
But for that day and the next , a little figure might be seen lurking about Pen 's staircase , -- a sad , sad little face looked at and interrogated the apothecary , and the apothecary 's boy , and the laundress , and the kind physician himself , as they passed out of the chambers of the sick man . 
This priceless gem of art the widow determined to devote to Goodenough , the preserver of her son ; and there was scarcely any other favour which her gratitude would not have conferred upon him , except one , which he desired most , and which was that she should think a little charitably and kindly of poor Fanny , of whose artless , sad story , he had got something during his interviews with her , and of whom he was induced to think very kindly , -- not being disposed , indeed , to give much credit to Pen for his conduct in the affair , or not knowing what that conduct had been . 
He knew , enough , however , to be aware that the poor infatuated little girl was without stain as yet ; that while she had been in Pen 's room it was to see the last of him , as she thought , and that Arthur was scarcely aware of her presence ; and that she suffered under the deepest and most pitiful grief , at the idea of losing him , dead or living . 
Some of those mischievous and prosaic people who carp and calculate at every detail of the romancer , and want to know , for instance , how , when the characters ` in the Critic ' are at a dead lock with their daggers at each other 's throats , they are to be got out of that murderous complication of circumstances , may be induced to ask how it was possible in a set of chambers in the Temple , consisting of three rooms , two cupboards , a passage , and a coal-box , Arthur a sick gentleman , Helen his mother , Laura her adopted daughter , Martha their country attendant , Mrs. Wheezer a nurse from St. Bartholomew 's Hospital , Mrs. Flanagan an Irish laundress , Major Pendennis a retired military officer , Morgan his valet , Pidgeon Mr. Arthur Pendennis 's boy , and others could be accommodated -- the answer is given at once , that almost everybody in the Temple was out of town , and that there was scarcely a single occupant of Pen 's house in Lamb court except those who were occupied round the sick bed of the sick gentleman , about whose fever we have not given a lengthy account , neither shall we enlarge very much upon the more cheerful theme of his recovery . 
Everybody we have said was out of town , and of course such a fashionable man as young Mr. Sibwright , who occupied chambers on the second floor in Pen 's staircase , could not be supposed to remain in London . 
It must be confessed that these two gentlemen have nothing to do with our history , will never appear in it again probably , but we can not help glancing through their doors as they happen to be open to us , and as we pass to Pen 's rooms ; as in the pursuit of our own business in life through the Strand , at the Club , nay at church itself , we can not help peeping at the shops on the way , or at our neighbour 's dinner , or at the faces under the bonnets in the next pew Very many years after the circumstances about which we are at present occupied , Laura , with a blush and a laugh showing much humour , owned to having read a French novel once much in vogue , and when her husband asked her , wondering where on earth she could have got such a volume , she owned that it was in the Temple , when she lived in Mr. Percy Sibwright 's chambers . 
When Miss Laura played this prank with the wig , you ca n't suppose that Pen could have been very ill up-stairs ; otherwise , though she had grown to care for him ever so little , common sense of feeling and decorum would have prevented her from performing any tricks or trying any disguises . 
But all sorts of events had occurred in the course of the last few days which had contributed to increase or account for her gaiety , and a little colony of the reader 's old friends and acquaintances was by this time established in Lamb Court , Temple , and round Pen 's sick bed there . 
It is true that ere that day a great and delightful alteration in Pen 's condition had taken place . 
Warrington only appeared with the rest of the good luck upon the lucky day after Pen 's convalescence may have been said to have begun . 
His surprise was , after all , not very great when he found the chambers of his sick friend occupied , and his old acquaintance the Major seated demurely in an easy chair , -LRB- Warrington had let himself into the rooms with his own pass-key , -RRB- listening , or pretending to listen , to a young lady who was reading to him a play of Shakspeare in a low sweet voice . 
As these two were standing in this attitude , the door of Pen 's bedchamber was opened stealthily as his mother was wont to open it , and Warrington saw another lady , who first looked at him , and then turning round towards the bed , said , `` Hsh ! '' 
It was to Pen Helen was turning , and giving caution . 
Then , and after the friends had had a brief , very brief interview , the delighted and inexorable mother , giving her hand to Warrington , sent him out of the room too , back to Laura and the Major , who had not resumed their play of Cymbeline where they had left it off at the arrival of the rightful owner of Pen 's chambers . 
Some misty notions regarding the first part of his illness , and that Fanny had nursed him , Pen may have had , but they were so dim that he could not realise them with accuracy , or distinguish them from what he knew to be delusions which had occurred and were remembered during the delirium of his fever . 
So as he had not thought proper on former occasions to make any allusions about Fanny Bolton to his mother , of course he could not now confide to her his sentiments regarding Fanny , or make this worthy lady a confidante . 
Seeing Miss Bolton installed as nurse and tender to Pen , I am sorry to say Mrs. Pendennis had put the worst construction on the fact of the intimacy of these two unlucky young persons , and had settled in her own mind that the accusations against Arthur were true . 
Poor Pen got a good stock of this suspicious kind of love from the nurse who was now watching over him ; and the kind and pure creature thought that her boy had gone through a malady much more awful and debasing than the mere physical fever , and was stained by crime as well as weakened by illness . 
In a word , Warrington went to work with all his might , in place of his prostrate friend , and did Pen 's portion of the `` Pall-Mall Gazette '' `` with a vengeance , '' as the saying is . 
At this , Helen , though she heaved a deep , deep sigh , and Laura , though she , too , was sadly wounded , nevertheless were most thankful for Warrington 's good opinion of Arthur , and loved him for being so attached to their Pen . 
Warrington got chambers hard by , -- Grenier 's chambers in Flag Court ; and having executed Pen 's task with great energy in the morning , his delight and pleasure of an afternoon was to come and sit with the sick man 's company in the sunny autumn evenings ; and he had the honour more than once of giving Miss Bell his arm for a walk in the Temple Gardens ; to take which pastime , when the frank Laura asked of Helen permission , the Major eagerly said , `` Yes , yes , begad -- of course you go out with him -- it 's like the country , you know ; everybody goes out with everybody in the Gardens , and there are beadles , you know , and that sort of thing -- everybody walks in the Temple Gardens . '' 
When the news arrived of Pen 's alarming illness , Laura insisted upon accompanying the terrified mother to London , would not hear of the refusal which the still angry Helen gave her , and , when refused a second time yet more sternly , and when it seemed that the poor lost lad 's life was despaired of , and when it was known that his conduct was such as to render all thoughts of union hopeless , Laura had , with many tears , told her mother a secret with which every observant person who reads this story is acquainted already . 
If Warrington had proposed to take her to Vauxhall itself , this most complaisant of men would have seen no harm , -- nor would Helen , if Pendennis the elder had so ruled it , -- nor would there have been any harm between two persons whose honour was entirely spotless , -- between Warrington , who saw in intimacy a pure , and high-minded , and artless woman for the first time in his life , -- and Laura , who too for the first time was thrown into the constant society of a gentleman of great natural parts and powers of pleasing ; who possessed varied acquirements , enthusiasm , simplicity , humour , and that freshness of mind which his simple life and habits gave him , and which contrasted so much with Pen 's dandy indifference of manner and faded sneer . 
In his energy , his respect , his desire to please , his hearty laughter , or simple confiding pathos , what a difference to Sultan Pen 's yawning sovereignty and languid acceptance of homage ! 
What had made Pen at home such a dandy and such a despot ? 
So then Laura liked Pen because she saw scarcely anybody else at Fairoaks except Doctor Portman and Captain Glanders , and because his mother constantly praised her Arthur , and because he was gentlemanlike , tolerably good-looking and witty , and because , above all , it was of her nature to like somebody . 
A long time afterwards , when these days were over , and Fate in its own way had disposed of the various persons now assembled in the dingy building in Lamb Court , perhaps some of them looked back and thought how happy the time was , and how pleasant had been their evening talks and little walks and simple recreations round the sofa of Pen the convalescent . 
And the permission to drink a glass or two of pure sherry being accorded to Pen by Doctor Goodenough , the Major told with almost tears in his eyes how his noble friend the Marquis of Steyne , passing through London on his way to the Continent , had ordered any quantity of his precious , his priceless Amontillado , that had been a present from King Ferdinand to the noble Marquis , to be placed at the disposal of Mr. Arthur Pendennis . 
Pen cheered with his feeble voice from his arm-chair . 
Let Pen 's biographer be pardoned for alluding to a time not far distant when a somewhat similar mishap brought him a providential friend , a kind physician , and a thousand Proofs of a most touching and surprising kindness and sympathy . 
When Pen 's bed-time came the songs were hushed . 
Lights appeared in the upper room : hisroom , whither the widow used to conduct him ; and then the Major and Mr. Warrington , and sometimes Miss Laura , would have a game at écartéor backgammon ; or she would sit by working a pair of slippers in worsted -- a pair of gentleman 's slippers -- they might have been for Arthur or for George or for Major Pendennis : one of those three would have given anything for the slippers . 
In all which opinions no doubt Mr. Warrington agreed ; and though he laughed as he shook hands with the Major , his face fell as he left his veteran companion ; and he strode back to chambers , and smoked pipe after pipe long into the night , and wrote-article upon article , more and more savage , in lieu of friend Pen disabled . 
Pen mended daily . 
Sleeping and eating were his constant occupations . 
His appetite was something frightful . 
He was ashamed of exhibiting it before Laura , and almost before his mother who laughed and applauded him . 
As the roast chicken of his dinner went away he eyed the departing friend with sad longing , and began to long for jelly , or tea , or what not . 
He was like an ogre in devouring . 
The Doctor cried stop , but Pen would not . 
Nature called out to him more loudly than the Doctor , and that kind and friendly physician handed him over with a very good grace to the other healer . 
When this direful loss was made visible to Major Pendennis , as of course it was the first time the elder saw the poor young man 's shorn pate , and when Pen was quite out of danger , and gaining daily vigour , the Major , with something like blushes and a queer wink of his eyes , said he knew of a -- a person -- a coiffeur , in fact -- a good man , whom he would send down to the Temple , and who would -- a -- apply -- a -- a temporary remedy to that misfortune . 
Warrington voted that Pen should wear a barrister 's wig . 
Pen said `` Stuff , '' and seemed as confused as his uncle ; and the end was that a gentleman from Burlington Arcade waited next day upon Mr. Pendennis , and had a private interview with him in his bed-room ; and a week afterwards the same individual appeared with a box under his arm , and an ineffable grin of politeness on his face , and announced that he had brought ` ome Mr. Pendennis 's ` ead of ` air . 
It must have been a grand but melancholy sight to see Pen in the recesses of his apartment , sadly contemplating his ravaged beauty , and the artificial means of hiding its ruin . 
He appeared at length in the ` ead of ` air ; but Warrington laughed so that Pen grew sulky , and went back for his velvet cap , a neat turban which the fondest of mammas had worked for him . 
The antique travelling chariot was brought out again and cushioned with many pillows for Pen and his mother ; and Miss Laura went in the most affable manner in the omnibus under the guardianship of Mr. George Warrington . 
She had caused the brass knocker to be screwed off the inner door of the chambers , whereupon the postman 's startling double rap would , as she justly argued , disturb the rest of her patient , and she did not allow him to see any letter which arrived , whether from boot-makers who importuned him , or hatters who had a heavy account to make up against next Saturday , and would be very much obliged if Mr. Arthur Pendennis would have the kindness to settle , & c. Of these documents , Pen , who was always freehanded and careless , of course had his share , and though no great one , one quite enough to alarm his scrupulous and conscientious mother . 
She had some savings ; Pen 's magnificent self-denial , and her own economy amounting from her great simplicity and avoidance of show to parsimony almost , had enabled her to put by a little sum of money , a part of which she delightedly consecrated to the paying off the young gentleman 's obligations . 
So it was very kind of Mrs. Pendennis doubly to spare Pen the trouble of hearing or answering letters during his illness . 
When they were at Richmond one day , and Pen with Warrington had taken a seat on a bench on the terrace , the widow kept Major Pendennis in consultation , and laid her terrors and perplexities before him , such of them at least -LRB- for as is the wont of men and women , she did not make quitea clean confession , and I suppose no spendthrift asked for a schedule of his debts , no lady of fashion asked by her husband for her dress-maker 's bills ever sent in the whole of them yet -RRB- -- such , we say , of her perplexities , at least , as she chose to confide to her Director for the time being . 
`` I recommend you , '' he gravely continued , `` if you can , to seal it up -- those letters ai n't unfrequently sealed with wafers -- and to put it amongst Pen 's other letters , and let him have them when he calls for them . 
She had been on the watch for that letter every day since Pen had been ill . 
She had opened some of his other letters because she wanted to get at that one . 
And as you ask me '' -- here the Major began to look a little queer for his own part , and put on his demure look -- `` as you ask me , my dear , for information , why , I do n't mind telling you that -- ah -- that -- Morgan , my man , has made some enquiries regarding this affair , and that -- my friend Doctor Good enough also looked into it -- and it appears that this person was greatly smitten with Arthur ; that he paid for her and took her to Vauxhall Gardens , as Morgan heard from an old acquaintance of Pen 's and ours , an Irish gentleman , who was very nearly once having the honour of being the -- from an Irishman , in fact ; -- that the girl 's father , a violent man of intoxicated habits , has beaten her mother , who persists in declaring her daughter 's entire innocence to her husband on the one hand , while on the other she told Goodenough that Arthur had acted like a brute to her child . 
I have but to ask Pen , and he will tell me at once -- he is as honourable a man as ever lived . 
`` He had been away , I know , for two months before it happened ; Pen wrote me so . '' 
`` Not a word -- I -- I 've asked him about it . 
I 've pumped him . 
He never heard of the transaction , never ; I pledge you my word , '' cried out the Major , in some alarm . 
`` And , my dear , I think you had much best not talk to him about it -- much best not -- of course not : the subject is most delicate and painful . '' 
The young men sate , meanwhile , dawdling away the sunshiny hours on the terrace , very happy , and Pen , at least , very talkative . 
He was narrating to Warrington a plan for a new novel , and a new tragedy . 
She had been to drive with Lady Rockminster in the Park , she said ; and she had brought home game for Pen , and flowers for mamma . 
the farther the better -- to some place so remote that even recollection could not follow them thither : so delightful that Pen should never want to leave it -- anywhere so that he could be happy . 
urged Pen 's companion , little knowing what grief and annoyance these good people had already suffered . 
Pen cried out , in a state of great alarm . 
And , '' he added , with a knowing air , and as if , like a young rascal of a Lovelace , he had been engaged in what are called affaires de coeur , all his life ; `` the best way , when a danger of that sort menaces , is not to face it , but to turn one 's back on it and run . '' 
After this little discourse upon a subject about which Pen would have talked a great deal more eloquently a month back , the conversation reverted to the plans for going abroad , and Arthur eagerly pressed his friend to be of the party . 
He must stop at home and take Pen 's place . 
This little obstacle seemed fatal to Pen . 
`` What is this I hear from Pen , my dear Mr. Warrington ? '' 
We ca n't hear of such a thing -- Pen wo n't get well without you . 
And -- and pray , Warrington , remember that I was your father 's very old friend , and if you and your brother are not on such terms as to enable you to -- to anticipate your younger brother 's allowance , I beg you to make me your banker , for has n't Pen been getting into your debt these three weeks past , during which you have been doing what he informs me is his work , with such exemplary talent and genius , begad ? '' 
At the tea-table that evening , Helen happening to be absent from the room for the moment , looking for Pen who had gone to roost , old Pendennis returned to the charge and rated Warrington for refusing to join in their excursion . 
He seemed to be about to speak , when , from Pen 's neighbouring room Helen entered , looking at them as the candle which she held lighted her pale frightened face . 
`` It 's a bargain we have been making , my dear creature , '' said the Major in his most caressing voice . 
COULD Helen have suspected that , with Pen 's returning strength , his unhappy partiality for little Fanny would also reawaken ? 
On the whole , I dare say , Pen was rather annoyed that he had no remonstrances from Fanny . 
could she part from him , and never so much as once look round ? 
Though Pen was as yet too weak to walk half a mile ; and might not , on account of his precious health , be trusted to take a drive in a carriage by himself , and without a nurse in attendance ; yet Helen could not keep watch over Mr. Warrington too , and had no authority to prevent that gentleman from going to London if business called him thither . 
Yet somehow , one morning when his affairs called him to town , she divined what Warrington 's errand was , and that he was gone to London to get news about Fanny for Pen . 
Pen asked , eagerly . 
`` I said I would tell you about it some day , Pen : and will , but not now . 
Take the moral without the fable now , Pen , my boy ; and if you want to see a man whose whole life has been wrecked , by an unlucky rock against which he struck as a boy -- here he is , Arthur : and so I warn you . '' 
For Huxey , when not silenced by the company of `` swells , '' and when in the society of his own friends , was a very different fellow to the youth whom we have seen cowed by Pen 's impertinent airs , and , adored by his family at home , was the life and soul of the circle whom he met , either round the festive board or the dissecting table . 
It was from this lady , who was very free in her conversation , that Huxter presently learnt what was the illness which was evidently preying upon little Fan , and what had been Pen 's behaviour regarding her . 
But why did he not write home to Clavering , as he had done previously , giving an account of Pen 's misconduct , and of the particulars regarding it , which had now come to his knowledge ? 
He once , in a letter to his brother-in-law , announced that that nice young man , Mr. Pendennis , had escaped narrowly from a fever , and that no doubt all Clavering , where he was so popular , would be pleased at his recovery ; and he mentioned that he had an interesting case of compound fracture , an officer of distinction , which kept him in town ; but as for Fanny Bolton , he made no more mention of her in his letters -- no more than Pen himself had made mention of her . 
Then it was that Bows on his part spoke , and told hisversion of the story , whereof Arthur and little Fan were the hero and heroine ; how they had met by no contrivance of the former , but by a blunder of the old Irishman , now in bed with a broken shin -- how Pen had acted with manliness and self-control in the business -- how Mrs. Bolton was an idiot ; and he related the conversation which he , Bows , had had with Pen , and the sentiments uttered by the young man . 
Perhaps Bows 's story caused some twinges of conscience in the breast of Pen 's accuser , and that gentleman frankly owned that he had been wrong with regard to Arthur , and withdrew his project for punching Mr. Pendennis 's head . 
But the cessation of his hostility for Pen did not diminish Huxter 's attentions to Fanny , which unlucky Mr. Bows marked with his usual jealousy and bitterness of spirit . 
Fanny attributed Pen 's silence somehow to Bows 's interference . 
Fanny hated him . 
Fanny treated Bows with constant cruelty and injustice She turned from him when he spoke -- she loathed his attempts at consolation . 
When Warrington came to Shepherd 's Inn as Pen 's ambassador , it was for Mr. Bows 's apartments he inquired -LRB- no doubt upon a previous agreement with the principal for whom he acted in this delicate negotiation -RRB- , and he did not so much as catch a glimpse of Miss Fanny when he stopped at the inn-gate and made his inquiry . 
After a little preliminary talk , Warrington said that he had come from his friend Arthur Pendennis , and from his family , to thank Bows for his attention at the commencement of Pen 's illness , and for his kindness in hastening into the country to fetch the Major . 
Bows replied that it was but his duty : he had never thought to have seen the young gentleman alive again when he went in search of Pen 's relatives , and he was very glad of Mr. Pendennis 's recovery , and that he had his friends with him . 
It was from Mr. Huxter that Bows had learned Pen 's parentage , no doubt , and if he took Pen 's part against the young surgeon , and Fanny 's against Mr. Pendennis , it was because the old gentleman was in so savage a mood , that his humour was to contradict everybody . 
I think -LRB- I have never spoken with her on the subject -RRB- she had some notion that the young woman and my friend Pen were on -- on terms of -- of an intimacy which Mrs. Pendennis could not , of course , recognise -- '' `` Oh , of course not , sir . 
And not sorry , perhaps , to hear that such was the state of things , and that Pen 's forsaken was consoling herself , Warrington took his leave of the irascible musician . 
How mad Pen will be -- eh , Warrington ? 
`` I think Mrs. Pendennis ought to know that Pen acted very well in the business . 
She evidently thinks him guilty , and according to Mr. Bows , Arthur behaved like a good fellow , '' Warrington said . 
Pen was very anxious to hear from his envoy what had been the result of the latter 's mission ; and as soon as the two young men could be alone , the ambassador spoke in reply to Arthur 's eager queries . 
`` You remember your poem , Pen , of Ariadne in Naxos , '' Warrington said ; `` devilish bad poetry it was , to be sure . '' 
asked Pen , in a great state of excitement . 
cried out Pen , starting up , his face turning red . 
`` Sit down , stoopid , '' Warrington said , and with two fingers pushed Pen back into his seat again . 
WORTHY Major Pendennis fulfilled his promise to Warrington so far as to satisfy his own conscience , and in so far to ease poor Helen with regard to her son , as to make her understand that all connexion between Arthur and the odious little gate-keeper was at an end , and that she need have no farther anxiety with respect to an imprudent attachment or a degrading marriage on Pen 's part . 
The late events connected with her son had cruelly shaken her ; Laura watched with intense , though hidden anxiety , every movement of her dearest friend ; and poor Pen was most constant and affectionate in waiting upon his mother , whose wounded bosom yearned with love towards him , though there was a secret between them , and an anguish or rage almost on the mother 's part , to think that she was dispossessed somehow of her son 's heart , or that there were recesses in it which she must not or dared not enter . 
Watching this devouring care and racking disappointment in her friend , Laura once said to Helen , `` If Pen had loved me as you wished , I should have gained him , but I should have lost you , mamma , I know I should ; and I like you to love me best . 
Warrington was a good German scholar , and was willing to give Miss Laura lessons in the language , who was very glad to improve herself , though Pen , for his part , was too weak or lazy now to resume his German studies . 
But Laura did not appear in the ball-room , except once or twice , when Pen vouchsafed to walk with her ; and as for Warrington , that rough diamond had not had the polish of a dancing-master , and he did not know how to waltz , -- though he would have liked to learn , if he could have had such a partner as Laura . 
So Warrington selfishly devoted himself to Helen , who selfishly devoted herself to Pen , who selfishly devoted himself to himself at this present period , having no other personage or object to occupy him , except , indeed , his mother 's health which gave him a serious and real disquiet ; but though they sate together , they did not talk much , and the cloud was always between them . 
He found himself looking at the young bucks at the bath -- at the blond , tight waisted Germans -- at the capering Frenchmen , with their lacquered moustachios and trim varnished boots -- at the English dandies , Pen amongst them , with their calm domineering air , and insolent languor : and envied each one of these some excellence or quality of youth , or good looks , which he possessed , and of which Warrington felt the need . 
Meanwhile Pen got well rapidly ; slept with immense perseverance twelve hours out of the twenty-four ; ate huge meals ; and , at the end of a couple of months , had almost got back the bodily strength and weight which he had possessed before his illness . 
The elder Pendennis read over the strangers ' list with great gratification on the night of his arrival , was pleased to find several of his acquaintances among the great folks , and would have the honour of presenting his nephew to a German Grand Duchess , a Russian Princess , and an English Marquis , before many days were over : nor was Pen by any means averse to making the acquaintance of these great personages , having a liking for polite life , and all the splendours and amenities belonging to it . 
He pointed out the Russians and Spaniards gambling for heaps of gold , and denounced their eagerness as something sordid and barbarous ; an English gentleman should play where the fashion is play , but should not elate or depress himself at the sport ; and he told how he had seen his friend the Marquis of Steyne , when Lord Gaunt , lose eighteen thousand at a sitting , and break the bank three nights running at Paris , without ever showing the least emotion at his defeat or victory -- `` And that 's what I call being an English gentleman , Pen , my dear boy , '' the old gentleman said , warming as he prattled about his recollections -- `` what I call the great manner only remains with us and with a few families in France . '' 
Egad , he felt himself quite young again , he remarked to Pen , as , rouged and grinning , her enormous chasseur behind her bearing her shawl , the Princess Obstropski smiled and recognised and accosted him . 
She had shrunk terrified out of the pandemonium , imploring Pen , extorting from him a promise , on his word of honour . 
that he would never play at those tables ; and the scene which so frightened the simple window , only amused the worldly old veteran , and made him young again ! 
To the credit of Mr. Pen , let it be said , that he kept honestly the promise made to his mother , and stoutly told his uncle of his intention to abide by it . 
N6309137 When the Major arrived , his presence somehow cast a damp upon at least three of the persons of our little party -- upon Laura , who had anything but respect for him ; upon Warrington , whose manner towards him showed an involuntary haughtiness and contempt ; and upon the timid and alarmed widow , who dreaded lest he should interfere with her darling , though almost desperate , projects for her boy . 
Pen with his two ladies had apartments in the town of Rosenbad ; honest Warrington had lodgings hard by ; the Major , on arrival at Rosenbad , had , as befitted his dignity , taken up his quarters at one of the great hotels , at the Roman Emperor or the Four Seasons , where two or three hundred gamblers , pleasure-seekers , or invalids , sate down and over-ate themselves daily at the enormous table d'hôte . 
To this hotel Pen went on the morning after the Major 's arrival , dutifully to pay his respects to his uncle , and found the latter 's sitting-room duly prepared and arranged by Mr. Morgan , with the Major 's hats brushed , and his coats laid out : his dispatch-boxes and umbrella-cases , his guide-books , passports , maps , and other elaborate necessaries of the English traveller , all as trim and ready as they could be in their master 's own room in Jermyn-street . 
The old gentleman had been to take one of the baths for which Rosenbad is famous , and which everybody takes , and his after-bath toilet was not yet completed when Pen arrived . 
The elder called out to Arthur in a cheery voice from the inner apartment , in which he and Morgan were engaged , and the valet presently came in , bearing a little packet to Pen 's address -- Mr. Arthur 's letters and papers , Morgan said , which he had brought from Mr. Arthur 's chambers in London , and which consisted chiefly of numbers of the `` Pall Mall Gazette , '' which our friend Mr. Finucane thought his collaborateurwould like to see . 
The papers were tied together : the letters in an envelope , addressed to Pen , in the last-named gentleman 's handwriting . 
When Pen reached home he only found Warrington in the ladies ' drawing-room , waiting their arrival in order to conduct them to the room where the little English colony at Rosenbad held their Sunday church . 
Pen 's wrath was so great that he could not defer expressing it . 
He flung Fanny 's letter across the table to his friend . 
`` Look there , Warrington , '' he said ; `` she tended me in my illness , she rescued me out of the jaws of death , and this is the way they have treated the dear little creature . 
`` It only makes the crime the greater , because it is she who has done it , '' Pen answered . 
Pen cried out , only so much the louder . 
She looked at Pen with glances from which beamed pride , defiance , aversion . 
`` It is a pity that I should have been obliged to speak at all , '' Pen answered . 
`` You are welcome to hear it or not , as you like , '' said Mr. Pen . 
`` Not now , sir , '' she said to Pen . 
cried out Pen , in a fury . 
this is too much , '' Pen cried out , with a violent execration . 
Pen was bewildered with wonder , perplexity , fury , at this monstrous and unreasonable persecution . 
`` She loves Pen still , '' he said . 
-- `` Come away , Pen . 
Now , all Bows 's statements had been coloured by an insane jealousy and rage on that old man 's part ; and instead of allaying Pen 's renascent desire to see his little conquest again , Warrington 's accounts inflamed and angered Pendennis , and made him more anxious than before to set himself right , as he persisted in phrasing it , with Fauny . 
He complimented them upon being seen at church ; again he said that every comme-il-fautperson made a point of attending the English service abroad ; and he walked back with the young men , prattling to them in garrulous good-humour , and making bows to his acquaintances as they passed ; and thinking innocently that Pen and George were both highly delighted by his anecdotes , which they suffered to run on in a scornful and silent acquiescence . 
At the time of Mr. Shamble 's sermon -LRB- an erratic Anglican divine , hired for the season at places of English resort , and addicted to debts , drinking , and even to roulette , it was said -RRB- , Pen , chafing under the persecution which his womankind inflicted upon him , had been meditating a great act of revolt and of justice , as he had worked himself up to believe ; and Warrington on his part had been thinking that a crisis in his affairs had likewise come , and that it was necessary for him to break away from a connexion which every day made more and more wretched and dear to him . 
She came in leaning on Laura , with her back to the waning light , so that Arthur could not see how pallid and woe-stricken her face was , and as she went up to Pen , whom she had not seen during the day , and placed her fond arms on his shoulder and kissed him tenderly , Laura left her , and moved away to another part of the room . 
Pen remarked that his mother 's voice and her whole frame trembled , her hand was clammy cold as she put it up to his forehead , piteously embracing him . 
`` I have had much to annoy me , mother , '' Pen said , with a throbbing breast : and as he spoke Helen 's heart began to beat so , that she sate almost dead and speechless with terror . 
`` It is you who are cruel , '' cried Pen , more exasperated and more savage , because his own heart , naturally soft and weak , revolted indignantly at the injustice of the very suffering which was laid at his door . 
`` Do you mean , Pen , that you -- '' here the widow , with eager eyes and out-stretched hands , was breaking out , but Laura stopped her ; `` Silence , hush , dear mother , '' she cried , and the widow hushed . 
Savagely as Pen spoke , she was only too eager to hear what more he had to say . 
The sound of his breaking voice stayed Pen 's anger instantly , and he stopped pacing the room , as he had been doing until that moment . 
he said , -- `` you have been so good to me , ma'am -- you have been so kind to me , Laura -- I hope I may call you so sometimes -- my dear Pen and I have been such friends that -- that I have long wanted to tell you my story such as it is , and would have told it to you earlier but that it is a sad one and contains another 's secret . 
`` Pray speak , '' was all Helen said ; and indeed she was not much heeding ; her mind was full of another idea with which Pen 's words had supplied her , and she was in a terror of hope that what he had hinted might be as she wished . 
The men from our college at Oxbridge brought up accounts of that early affair with the Chatteris actress , about whom Pen has often talked to me since ; and who , but for the Major 's generalship , might have been your daughter-in-law , ma'am . 
I ca n't see Pen in the dark , but he blushes , I 'm sure ; and I dare say Miss Bell does ; and my friend Major Pendennis , I dare say , laughs as he ought to do -- for he won . 
he added , in a lower voice , leaning over to her , `` and Pen has been a great comfort and companion to a lonely and unfortunate man . 
`` I , too , had an adventure before I went to college ; and there was no one to save me as Major Pendennis saved Pen . 
I told you the moral before , Pen ; and now I have told you the fable . 
As for Helen , she was so delighted , that she started up , and said , `` God bless you -- God for ever bless you , Mr. Warrington ; '' and kissed both his hands , and ran up to Pen , and fell into his arms . 
`` Yes , dearest mother , '' he said as he held her to him , and with a noble tenderness and emotion , embraced and forgave her . 
He led her , tottering , into her room , and closed the door , as the three touched spectators of the reconciliation looked on in pleased silence . 
Ever after , ever after , the tender accents of that voice faltering sweetly at his ear -- the look of the sacred eyes beaming with an affection unutterable -- the quiver of the fond lips smiling mournfully -- were remembered by the young man . 
Pen looked round , scared with a ghastly terror . 
`` I am glad that she gave me her blessing before she went away , '' Warrington said to Pen ; and as for Arthur , with a humble acknowledgment and wonder at so much affection , he hardly dared to ask of Heaven to make him worthy of it , though he felt that a saint there was interceding for him . 
After she had been here awhile , Pen knocked and led her down stairs to the parlour again , and made her drink a little wine , and said , `` God bless you , '' as she touched the glass . 
`` Nothing shall ever be changed in your room , '' he said -- `` it is always your room -- it is always my sister 's room . 
One legacy of his mother 's Pen remembered , of which Laura could have no cognizance . 
It was that wish of Helen 's to make some present to Fanny Bolton ; and Pen wrote to her , putting his letter under an envelope to Mr. Bows , and requesting that gentleman to read it before he delivered it to Fanny . 
`` Dear Fanny , '' Pen said , `` I have to acknowledge two letters from you , one of which was delayed in my illness , '' -LRB- Pen found the first letter in his mother 's desk after her decease , and the reading it gave him a strange pang -RRB- , `` and to thank you , my kind nurse and friend , who watched me so tenderly during my fever . 
Pen concluded by saying that his friend , George Warrington , Esq. , of Lamb Court , Temple , was trustee of a little sum of money , of which the interest would be paid to her until she became of age , or changed her name , which would always be affectionately remembered by her grateful friend , A. Pendennis . 
The sum was in truth but small , although enough to make a little heiress of Fanny Bolton , whose parents were appeased , and whose father said Mr. P. had acted quite as the gentleman -- though Bows growled out that to plaster a wounded heart with a bank-note was an easy kind of sympathy ; and poor Fanny felt only too clearly that Pen 's letter was one of farewell . 
And I say , Pen , I think you should give up living in those dirty chambers in the Temple and get a decent lodging . 
Pen and Warrington saw her depart . 
The poor fellow himself felt , as he laid it in Pen 's hand , how hot his own was , and how black -- it left black marks on Pen 's gloves ; he saw them , -- he would have liked to have clenched it again and dashed it into the other 's good-humoured face ; and have seen , there upon that ground , with Fanny , with all England looking on , which was the best man -- he Sam Huxter of Bartholomew 's , or that grinning dandy . 
Pen with ineffable good-humour took a glass -- he did n't mind what it was -- he was content to drink after the ladies ; and he filled it with frothing lukewarm beer , which he pronounced to be delicious , and which he drank cordially to the health of the party . 
As he was drinking and talking on in an engaging manner , a young lady in a shot dove-coloured dress , with a white parasol lined with pink , and the prettiest dove-coloured boots that ever stepped , passed by Pen , leaning on the arm of a stalwart gentleman with a military moustache . 
The young lady clenched her little fist , and gave a mischievous side-look as she passed Pen . 
He of the moustachios burst out into a jolly laugh . 
He had taken off his hat to the ladies of cab No. 2002 . 
When Pen came up to Lady Clavering 's carriage , he had to push his way through a crowd of these young bucks who were paying their court to Miss Amory , in order to arrive as near that young lady , who beckoned him by many pretty signals to her side . 
said Pen , with a laugh ; `` Honi soit qui mal y pense . 
`` It did not strike me that the man laughed , '' Pen said . 
The perpetual recurrence to the word `` monster '' jarred upon Pen . 
`` She speaks about these matters a great deal too lightly , '' he thought . 
Laura would not speak in that way , thank God ; '' and as he thought so , his own countenance fell . 
But he had not managed matters with prudence , and the unhappy passion at first confided to Pen became notorious and ridiculous to the town , was carried to the ears of his weak and fond mother , and finally brought under the cognisance of the bald-headed and inflexible Foker senior . 
For some time previous , Pen 's uncle had held similar language to Miss Amory . 
My boy 's wife brings the horse , and begad Pen goes in and wins the plate . 
If you had Cupid himself to talk to -- if Blanche and Pen were Cupid and Psyche , begad -- they 'd begin to yawn after a few evenings , if they had nothing but sentiment to speak on . '' 
As for Miss Amory , she was contented enough with Pen as long as there was nobody better . 
These views of life and philosophy the Major was constantly , according to his custom , inculcating to Pen , whose mind was such that he could see the right on both sides of many questions , and , comprehending the sentimental life which was quite out of the reach of the honest Major 's intelligence , could understand the practical life too , and accommodate himself , or think he could accommodate himself , to it . 
Do we wish to apologise for Pen because he has got a white hat , and because his mourning for his mother is fainter ? 
Of these matters Pen and Warrington often spoke in many a solemn and friendly converse in after days ; and Pendennis 's mother was worshipped in his memory , and canonised there , as such a saint ought to be . 
But as it is certain that if , in the course of these sentimental conversations , any outer stranger , Major Pendennis for instance , had walked into Pen 's chambers , Arthur and Warrington would have stopped their talk , and chosen another subject , and discoursed about the Opera , or the last debate in Parliament , or Miss Jones 's marriage with Captain Smith , or what not , -- so , let us imagine that the public steps in at this juncture , and stops the confidential talk between author and reader , and begs us to resume our remarks about this world , with which both are certainly better acquainted than with that other one into which we have just been peeping . 
So Pen had many acquaintances , and being of a jovial and easy turn , got more daily : but no friend like Warrington ; and the two men continued to live almost as much in common as the Knights of the Temple , riding upon one horse , -LRB- for Pen 's was at Warrington 's service -RRB- , and having their chambers and their servitor in common . 
Mr. Warrington had made the acquaintance of Pen 's friends of Grosvenor Place during their last unlucky season in London , and had expressed himself no better satisfied with Sir Francis and Lady Clavering and her ladyship 's daughter than was the public in general . 
`` The Begum is the most innocent and good-natured soul alive , '' interposed Pen . 
It seems to me that your honest Begum is not a lady , Pen . 
`` She is as moral as Lady Portsea , who has all the world at her balls , and as refined as Mrs. Bull , who breaks the king 's English , and has half-a-dozen dukes at her table , '' Pen answered , rather sulkily . 
`` No more has Mrs. Flanagan the laundress , '' growled out Pen 's Mentor ; `` no more has Betty the housemaid ; and I have no word of blame against them . 
`` Because you like a raw beef-steak and a pipe afterwards , '' broke out Pen , `` you give yourself airs of superiority over people , whose tastes are more dainty , and are not ashamed of the world they live in . 
`` Indeed , I do n't think you have much of either , '' growled Pen 's interlocutor . 
continued Pen . 
`` Perhaps I would , '' said Pen , with some sadness . 
`` Were the world composed of Saint Bernards or Saint Dominics , it would be equally odious , '' said Pen , `` and at the end of a few scores of years would cease to exist altogether . 
`` O Pen , you scoundrel ! 
said Pen with a laugh . 
So , though the elder Pendennis , having his own ulterior object , was bent upon seeing Pen 's country neighbour and representative in Parliament , it took the Major no inconsiderable trouble and time before he could get him into such a confidential state and conversation , as were necessary for the ends which the Major had in view . 
On the day of Strong 's visit , the Major bethought him of Pen 's story , and that Morgan might help him , and rallied the valet regarding his wealth with that free and insolent way which so high-placed a gentleman might be disposed to adopt towards so unfortunate a creature . 
Mrs. Smirke was the wife of our old friend Smirke , Pen 's tutor and poor Helen 's suitor . 
The first day Pen came down , he kept Blanche laughing for hours after dinner . 
N6309151 `` She is very much improved , '' thought Pen , looking out into the night , very much . 
Pen burst into a laugh . 
And Pen began to sing the good night to Don Basilio . 
And walking with his old tutor over his little parish , and going to visit his school , it was with inexpressible delight that Pen found Blanche seated instructing the children , and fancied to himself how patient she must be , how good-natured , how ingenuous , how really simple in her tastes , and unspoiled by the world . 
he asked her , as they walked together . 
In the meantime there came occasionally to Lamb Court , Temple , pretty little satin envelopes , superscribed in the neatest handwriting , and sealed with one of those admirable ciphérs , which , if Warrington had been curious enough to watch his friend 's letters , or indeed if the cipher had been decipherable , would have shown George that Mr. Arthur was in correspondence with a young lady whose initials were B. A. To these pretty little compositions Mr. Pen replied in his best and gallantest manner ; with jokes , with news of the town , with points of wit , nay , with pretty little verses very likely , in reply to the versicles of the Muse of `` Mes Larmes . '' 
Blanche we know rhymes with `` branch , '' and `` stanch , '' and `` launch , '' and no doubt a gentleman of Pen 's ingenuity would not forego these advantages of position , and would ring the pretty little changes upon these pleasing notes . 
Indeed we believe that those love-verses of Mr. Pen 's , which had such a pleasing success in the `` Roseleaves , '' that charming Annual edited by Lady Violet Lebas , and illustrated by portraits of the female nobility by the famous artist Pinkney , were composed at this period of our hero 's life ; and were first addressed to Blanche , per post , before they figured in print , cornetsas it were to Pinkney 's pictorial garland . 
`` Verses are all very well , '' the elder Pendennis said , who found Pen scratching down one of these artless effusions at the Club as he was waiting for his dinner ; `` and letter-writing if mamma allows it , and between such old country friends of course there may be a correspondence , and that sort of thing -- but mind , Pen , and do n't commit yourself , my boy . 
Pen laughed at the examples , and blushing a little at his uncle 's remonstrances , said that he would bear them in mind and be cautious . 
He blushed , perhaps , because he hadborne them in mind ; because he wascautious : because in his letter to Miss Blanche he had from instinct or honesty perhaps refrained from any avowals which might compromise him . 
No doubt , if Warrington had been consulted , his opinion would have been different : and he would have told Pen that the boy 's foolish letters were better than the man 's adroit compliments and slippery gallantries ; that to win the woman he loves , only a knave or a coward advances under cover , with subterfuges , and a retreat secured behind him : but Pen spoke not on this matter to Mr. Warrington , knowing pretty well that he was guilty , and what his friend 's verdict would be . 
Strong pressed the Colonel 's foot under the table here ; and Altamont , rather excited , filled up another bumper , nodded to Pen , drank off his wine , and said , `` Hewas a gentleman , and that was sufficient , and they were all gentlemen . '' 
As he emptied his bottle , the Colonel described at full length all his plans and prospects to Pen , who was interested in listening to his story , and the confessions of his daring and lawless good-humour . 
`` I met that queer fellow Altamont the other day , '' Pen said to his uncle , a day or two afterwards . 
`` I should think , mind you , Pen , I should think , but of course I have only the idea , that there has been something in Clavering 's previous life which gives these fellows and some others a certain power over him ; and if there should be such a secret , which is no affair of ours , my boy , dammy , I say , it ought to be a lesson to a man to keep himself straight in life , and not to give any man a chance over him . '' 
The Colonel had an answer of this kind to most of Pen 's objections , and Pen accepted his uncle 's replies , not so much because he believed them , but because he wished to believe them . 
At his next visit to Tunbridge , Mr. Pen did not forget to amuse Miss Blanche with the history which he had learned at Richmond of the Chevalier 's imprisonment , and of Altamont 's gallant rescue . 
His own part in that drama he described , to do him justice , with becoming modesty ; the moral which he wished to draw from the tale being one in accordance with his usual satirical mood , viz. , that women get over their first loves quite as easily as men do -LRB- for the fair Blanche , in their intimesconversations , did not cease to twit Mr. Pen about his notorious failure in his own virgin attachment to the Fotheringay -RRB- , and , number one being withdrawn , transfer themselves to number two without much difficulty . 
What griefs she had endured and surmounted , what bitter pangs of hopeless attachment she had gone through , what time it had taken to heal those wounds of the tender little bleeding heart , Mr. Pen did not know , or perhaps did not choose to know ; for he was at once modest and doubtful about his capabilities as a conqueror of hearts , and averse to believe that he had executed any dangerous ravages on that particular one , though his own instance and argument told against himself in this case ; for if , as he said , Miss Fanny was by this time in love with her surgical adorer , who had neither good looks , nor good manners , nor wit , nor anything but ardour and fidelity to recommend him , must she not in her first sickness of the love complaint , have had a serious attack , and suffered keenly for a man , who had certainly a number of the showy qualities which Mr. Huxter wanted ? 
Perhaps Miss Amory was right , as the blush which came in spite of himself and tingled upon Pendennis 's cheek -LRB- one of those blows with which a man 's vanity is constantly slapping his face -RRB- , proved to Pen that he was angry to think he had been superseded by such a rival . 
`` Jealous or not , '' Pen said , `` and , Blanche , I do n't say no , I should have liked Fanny to have come to a better end than that . 
`` Again , I do n't say no , '' said Pen , looking very gloomily at Blanche , and not offering by any means to repeat the attempt at consolation , which had elicited that sweet monosyllable `` do n't '' from the young lady . 
`` Look , my little Blanche , '' said Pen , taking her hand , and with his voice of sad good-humour ; '' at least I stoop to no flatteries . '' 
`` And if thieves are about the house , '' said Pen , grimly pursuing the simile , `` forty besetting thieves in the shape of lurking cares and enemies in ambush and passions in arms , my Morgiana will dance round me with a tambourine , and kill all my rogues and thieves with a smile . 
But Pen looked as if he did not believe that she would . 
`` Ah , Blanche , '' he continued after a pause , `` do n't be angry ; do n't be hurt at my truth-telling . 
And it shall have its bonbons , its pootty little sugar-plums , that it shall , '' Pen said with a bitter smile . 
Dry the pretty eyes , I ca n't bear that ; '' and he proceeded to offer that consolation which the circumstance required , and which the tears , the genuine tears of vexation , which now sprang from the angry eyes of the author of `` Mes Larmes '' demanded . 
`` shouted out Pen , with a savage burst of laughter , and Blanche blushed one of the most genuine blushes which her cheek had ever exhibited , and she cried out , `` O , Arthur , vous êtes un homme terrible ! 
In the -- the family disputes , when your mamma paid his debts so liberally , it was stipulated , I suppose , that you -- that is , that I -- that is , upon my word , I do n't know why he goes out of Parliament , '' Pen said , with rather a forced laugh . 
So , when Pen went to London , he sent Blanche a box of bonbons , each sugar plum of which was wrapped up in ready-made French verses , of the most tender kind ; and , besides , dispatched to her some poems of his own manufacture , quite as artless and authentic ; and it was no wonder that he did not tell Warrington what his conversations with Miss Amory had been , of so delicate a sentiment were they , and of a nature so necessarily private . 
Lightfoot , his man , had passed over to my Lady 's service ; and , as Pen was informed in a letter from Mr. Smirk , who performed the ceremony , had executed his prudent intention of marrying Mrs. Bonner , my Lady 's woman , who , in her mature years , was stricken with the charms of the youth , and endowed him with her savings and her mature person . 
Pen graciously promised that he would give his election dinner there , when the Baronet should vacate his seat in the young man 's favour ; and , as it had been agreed by his uncle , to whom Clavering seemed to be able to refuse nothing , Arthur came down in September on a visit to Clavering Park , the owner of which was very glad to have a companion who would relieve his loneliness , and perhaps would lend him a little ready money . 
Pen furnished his host with these desirable supplies a couple of days after he had made his appearance at Clavering : and no sooner were these small funds in Sir Francis 's pocket , than the latter found he had business at Chatteris and at the neighbouring watering-places , of which -- shire boasts many , and went off to see to his affairs , which were transacted , as might be supposed , at the county race-grounds and billiard-rooms . 
Friend Pen went about at Clavering , laboriously simple and adroitly pleased , and quite a different being from the scornful and rather sulky young dandy whom the inhabitants remembered ten years ago . 
Doctor Portman was gone , with his gout and his family , to Harrowgate , -- an event which Pen deplored very much in a letter to the Doctor , in which , in a few kind and simple words , he expressed his regret at not seeing his old friend , whose advice he wanted and whose aid he might require some day : but Pen consoled himself for the Doctor 's absence by making acquaintance with Mr. Simcoe , the opposition preacher , and with the two partners of the cloth factory at Chatteris , and with the Independent preacher there , all of whom he met at the Clavering Athenæum , which the Liberal party had set up in accordance with the advanced spirit of the age , and perhaps in opposition to the aristocratic old reading-room , into which the Edinburgh Review had once scarcely got an admission , and where no tradesmen were allowed an entrance . 
Pen himself was amused with the sport in which he was engaged , and his success inspired him with a wicked good-humour . 
When he sees the cottage the next time , it is smiling in sunset ; those bedroom windows are open where the light was burning the night before ; and Pen 's tenant , Captain Stokes , of the Bombay Artillery , -LRB- whose mother , old Mrs. Stokes , lives in Clavering -RRB- , receives his landlord 's visit with great cordiality : shows him over the grounds and the new pond he has made in the back-garden from the stables ; talks to him confidentially about the roof and chimneys , and begs Mr. Pendennis to name a day when he will do himself and Mrs. Stokes the pleasure to , & c. Pen , who has been a fortnight in the country , excuses himself for not having called sooner upon the Captain by frankly owning that he had not the heart to do it . 
`` I understand you , sir , '' the Captain says ; and Mrs. Stokes who had slipped away at the ring of the bell -LRB- how odd it seemed to Pen to ring the bell ! -RRB- 
It was Pen 's father 's arm-chair ; and Arthur remembers the days when he would as soon have thought of mounting the king 's throne as of seating himself in that arm-chair . 
The dinner at Fairoaks given in Pen 's honour by his tenant , and at which old Mrs. Stokes , Captain Glanders , Squire Hobnell , and the clergyman and his lady , from Tinckleton , were present , was very stupid and melancholy for Pen , until the waiter from Clavering -LRB- who aided the captain 's stable-boy and Mrs. Stokes 's butler -RRB- whom Pen remembered as a street boy , and who was now indeed barber in that place , dropped a plate over Pen 's shoulder , on which Mr. Hobnell -LRB- who also employed him -RRB- remarked , `` I suppose , Hodson , your hands are slippery with bear 's - grease . 
On which Hodson blushed , and looked so disconcerted , that Pen burst out laughing ; and good-humour and hilarity were the order of the evening . 
For the second course , there was a hare and partridges top and bottom , and when after the withdrawal of the servants , Pen said to the Vicar of Tinckleton , `` I think , Mr. Stooks , you should have asked Hodson to cut the hare , '' the joke was taken instantly by the clergyman , who was followed in the course of a few minutes by Captains Stokes and Glanders , and by Mr. Hobnell , who arrived rather late , but with an immense guffaw . 
While Mr. Pen was engaged in the country in the above schemes , it happened that the lady of his choice , if not of his affections , came up to London from the Tunbridge villa bound upon shopping expeditions or important business , and in company of old Mrs. Bonner , her mother 's maid , who had lived and quarrelled with Blanche many times since she was an infant , and who now being about to quit Lady Clavering 's service for the hymeneal state , was anxious like a good soul to bestow some token of respectful kindness upon her old and young mistress before she quitted them altogether , to take her post as the wife of Lightfoot , and landlady of the Clavering Arms . 
WHILST Pen , in his own county , was thus carrying on his selfish plans and parliamentary schemes . 
news came to him that Lady Rockminster had arrived at Baymouth , and had brought with her our friend Laura . 
At the announcement that Laura his sister was near him , Pen felt rather guilty . 
His wish was to stand higher in her esteem , perhaps , than in that of any other person in the world . 
She was his mother 's legacy to him . 
He was to be her patron and protector in some sort . 
How would she brave the news which he had to tell her ; and how should he explain the plans which he was meditating ? 
He felt as if neither he nor Blanche could bear Laura 's dazzling glance of calm scrutiny , and as if he would not dare to disclose his worldly hopes and ambitions to that spotless judge . 
At her arrival at Baymouth , he wrote a letter thither which contained a great number of fine phrases and protests of affection , and a great deal of easy satire and raillery ; in the midst of all which Mr. Pen could not help feeling that he was in a panic , and that he was acting like a rogue and hypocrite . 
How was it that a simple country-girl should be the object of fear and trembling to such an accomplished gentleman as Mr. Pen ? 
His worldly tactics and diplomacy , his satire and knowledge of the world , could not bear the test of her purity , he felt somehow . 
And he had to own to himself that his affairs were in such a position , that he could not tell the truth to that honest soul . 
As he rode from Clavering to Baymouth he felt as guilty as a school-boy , who does n't know his lesson and is about to face the awful master . 
For is not truth the master always , and does she not have the power and hold the book ? 
Under the charge of her kind , though somewhat wayward and absolute , patroness , Lady Rockminster , Laura had seen somewhat of the world in the last year , had gathered some accomplishments , and profited by the lessons of society . 
Miss Laura Bell was one of these fortunate persons ; and besides the gentle widow 's little cross , which , as we have seen , Pen gave her , had such a sparkling and brilliant kohinoorin her bosom , as is even more precious than that famous jewel ; for it not only fetches a price , and is retained by its owner in another world where diamonds are stated to be of no value , but here , too , is of inestimable worth to its possessor ; is a talisman against evil , and lightens up the darkness of life , like Cogia Hassan 's famous stone . 
On the one or two occasions when he had seen Lady Rockminster , the old lady , who did not admire him , had been very pitiless and abrupt with our young friend , and perhaps Pen expected when he came to Baymouth to find Laura installed in her house in the quality of humble companion , and treated no better than himself . 
When she heard of his arrival she came running down stairs , and I am not sure that she did not embrace him in the presence of Calverley and Coldstream : not that those gentlemen ever told : if the fractus orbishad come to a smash , if Laura , instead of kissing Pen , had taken her scissors and snipped off his head -- Calverley and Coldstream would have looked on impavidly , without allowing a grain of powder to be disturbed by the calamity . 
Laura had so much improved in health and looks that Pen could not but admire her . 
The frank and kind eyes which met his , beamed with good health ; the cheek which he kissed blushed with beauty . 
As he looked at her , artless and graceful , pure and candid , he thought he had never seen her so beautiful . 
Why should he remark her beauty now so much , and remark too to himself that he had not remarked it sooner ? 
He took her fair trustful hand and kissed it fondly : he looked in her bright clear eyes and read in them that kindling welcome which he was always sure to find there . 
He was affected and touched by the tender tone and the pure sparkling glance ; their innocence smote him somehow and moved him . 
said Pen , `` I do n't deserve that you should -- that you should be so kind to me . '' 
`` Mamma left you to me , '' she said , stooping down and brushing his forehead with her lips hastily . 
and she looked at him with an arch glance of kindness . 
Pen asked . 
`` My home is your 's , dear Laura , and everything I have , '' Pen said . 
Why did Pen , as he looked at the girl and slowly uttered the words , begin to feel angry and jealous of the invisible somebody with the right to take her away ? 
Anxious , but a minute ago , how she would take the news regarding his probable arrangements with Blanche , Pen was hurt some-how that she received the intelligence so easily , and took his happiness for granted . 
And I have had some lessons in Paris in singing too , with the money which you sent me , you kind boy : and I can sing much better now : and I have learned to dance , though not so well as Blanche , and when you become a minister of state , Blanche shall present me : '' and with this , and with a provoking good-humour , she performed for him the last Parisian curtsey . 
`` Sir Francis Clavering is tired of Parliament , '' Pen said , wincing , `` and -- and I rather wish to attempt that career . 
`` I am very sorry Miss Amory does not please your ladyship , '' said Pen , smiling . 
`` I am very glad you see Laura with such favourable eyes , '' Pen said . 
`` I hope before you offered Miss Bell to the attachés , '' said Pen , with some heat , `` you did her the favour to consult her ? '' 
The terrors of Pen 's conscience being thus appeased , and his examination before Laura over without any reproaches on the part of the latter , Pen began to find that his duty and inclination led him constantly to Baymouth , where Lady Rockminster informed him that a place was always reserved for him at her table . 
asked Pen , with a blush . 
And Pen looked at her , and blushed again , as he remembered that , during all the time of her illness , he had never written to her , and had scarcely thought about her . 
In consequence of his relationship , Pen was free to walk and ride with his cousin constantly , and in the course of those walks and rides , could appreciate the sweet frankness of her disposition , and the truth , simplicity , and kindliness , of her fair and spotless heart . 
The desire of poor Helen to make an union between her two children , had caused a reserve on Laura 's part towards Pen ; for which , under the altered circumstances of Arthur 's life , there was now no necessity . 
One day the people in Clavering saw a lad in charge of a couple of horses at the churchyard-gate : and it was told over the place that Pen and Laura had visited Helen 's grave together . 
As they rode over the downs between home and Baymouth , Pen did not speak much , though they rode very close together . 
He was thinking what a mockery life was , and how men refuse happiness when they may have it ; or , having it , kick it down ; or barter it , with their eyes open , for a little worthless money or beggarly honour . 
The lives of the best and purest of us are consumed in a vain desire , and end in a disappointment : as the dear soul 's who sleeps in her grave yonder . 
She had her selfish ambition , as much as Cæsar had ; and died , baulked of her life 's longing . 
`` Other people 's children are playing on the grass , '' he broke out , in a hard voice , `` where you and I used to play , Laura . 
`` Women do n't understand about politics , my dear , '' Pen said , sneering at himself as he spoke . 
He is not a clever man -- '' `` He certainly is not a genius , Pynsent , '' said Pen . 
Pen asked . 
said Laura , as a blush mounted up to her cheek , and of which Pen saw the fervour , though Laura 's veil fell over her face to hide it . 
Pen rode on by Laura 's side silently for awhile . 
`` Yes , Pen , '' she said , bursting into tears . 
`` He deserved you better than I did , '' poor Arthur groaned forth , with an indescribable pang at his heart . 
`` Yes , Pen , '' said Laura , reaching out her hand to her cousin , and he put his arm round her , and for a moment she sobbed on his shoulder . 
Poor Laura felt guilty before her friend , with the secret which she dared not confide to her ; felt as if she had been ungrateful for Helen 's love and regard ; felt as if she had been wickedly faithless to Pen in withdrawing that love from him which he did not even care to accept ; humbled even and repentant before Warrington , lest she should have encouraged him by undue sympathy , or shown the preference which she began to feel . 
She determined that she had done Pen a great injury by withdrawing that love which , privately in her mother 's hearing , she had bestowed upon him ; that she had been ungrateful to her dead benefactress by ever allowing herself to think of another or of violating her promise ; and that , considering her own enormous crimes , she ought to be very gentle in judging those of others , whose temptations were much greater , very likely ; and whose motives she could not understand . 
When Pen and Laura reached home , after Laura 's confession , -LRB- Pen 's noble acknowledgment of his own inferiority and generous expression of love for Warrington , causing the girl 's heart to throb , and rendering doubly keen those tears which she sobbed on his shoulder , -RRB- a little slim letter was awaiting Miss Bell in the hall , which she trembled rather guiltily as she unsealed , and which Pen blushed as he recognised ; for he saw instantly that it was from Blanche . 
Laura opened it hastily , and cast her eyes quickly over it , as Pen kept his fixed on her , blushing . 
And she handed the letter to Pen who read -- ``` I saw Madame Mère , who was scrubbing the room , and looked at me with very scrubbylooks ; but la belleFanny was not au logis ; and as I heard that she was in Captain Strong 's apartments , Bonner and I mounted au troisièmeto see this famous beauty . 
A bible -LRB- his mother 's -RRB- , a road book , Pen 's novel -LRB- calf elegant -RRB- , and the Duke of Wellington 's Despatches , with a few prints , maps , and portraits of that illustrious general , and of various sovereigns and consorts of this country , and of the General under whom Major Pendennis had served in India , formed his literary and artistical collection : he was always ready to march at a few hours ' notice , and the cases in which he had brought his property into his lodgings some fifteen years before , were still in the lofts amply sufficient to receive all his goods . 
Pen 's domestic announced to him that Warrington was in Chambers too , and , of course , Arthur ran up to his friend 's room straightway , and found it , as of old , perfumed with the pipe , and George once more at work at his newspapers and reviews . 
Pen advanced and held out his hand , and said , `` How are you , old boy ? '' 
says Pen . 
`` And the seat in Parliament , Pen ? 
`` All right , -- as soon as Parliament meets and a new writ can be issued , Clavering retires , and I step into his shoes , '' says Pen . 
`` I am not Moses , '' said Pen , with , as usual , somewhat of melancholy in his voice . 
`` Laura , George , '' said Pen , looking his friend hard in the face -- `` by Heaven , Laura is the best , and noblest , and dearest girl the sun ever shone upon . '' 
His own voice fell as he spoke : it seemed as if he could hardly utter the words : he stretched out his hand to his comrade , who took it and nodded his head . 
He saw her there -- he heard the sweet low voice -- he saw the sweet smile and eyes shining so kindly -- the face remembered so fondly -- thought of in what night-watches -- blest and loved always -- gone now ! 
Pen broke it presently , by saying that he must go and seek for his uncle , and report progress to the old gentleman . 
`` The new blood I bring into the family , '' mused Pen , `` is rather tainted . 
She has been unlucky in her selection of husbands , the good old lady , for , between ourselves , a more despicable creature than Sir Francis Clavering , of Clavering Park , Baronet , never -- '' `` Never legislated for his country , '' broke in Warrington ; at which Pen blushed rather . 
And , taking his hat , Pen prepared to go . 
And they descended the stairs , stopping , however , at Pen 's chambers , which , as the reader has been informed , were now on the lower story . 
Here Pen began sprinkling himself with Eau-de-Cologne , and carefully scenting his hair and whiskers with that odoriferous water . 
`` I am going to call upon some women , '' said Pen . 
`` Do n't laugh at me , George , '' said Pen . 
`` I say , Pen , '' continued the other , sadly , `` if you write -- if you write to Laura , I wish you would say ` God bless her ' from me . '' 
Pen blushed ; and then looked at Warrington ; and then -- and then burst into an uncontrollable fit of laughing . 
`` I 'm going to dine with her , '' he said . 
`` Yes -- and the most extraordinary story , '' said Pen . 
`` No , '' said Pen ; `` Blanche does not even know the history of her father . 
The d -- d rascal supposed I was cognisant of it , '' said Pen , white with anger ; `` asked me if I would give him an annuity to keep it quiet ; threatened me , me , as if I was trafficking with this wretched old Begum 's misfortune ; and would extort a seat in Parliament out of that miserable Clavering . 
You must wash your hands of the whole affair , Pen . 
Besides , you can get from that dog Clavering -- I can fetch that for you easily enough -- an acknowledgment that the reasons which you have given to him as the head of the family are amply sufficient for breaking off the union . 
Pen had started up whilst he was speaking , looking eagerly at him . 
He turned his head away . 
He saw Laura rise up also and go to Pen , and once more take his hand and kiss it . 
`` Our mother is an angel with God , '' Pen sobbed out . 
`` Amen , '' groaned out Warrington , with his head in his hands . 
`` She is right , '' he murmured to himself . 
Many a day after he saw that smile -- saw her radiant face as she looked up at Pen -- saw her putting back her curls , blushing and smiling , and still looking fondly towards him . 
Upon this announcement , Laura , not without some alarm , and an appealing look to Pen , which said `` Behave yourself well -- hold to the right , and do your duty -- be gentle , but firm with your uncle '' -- Laura , we say , with these warnings written in her face , took leave of the two gentlemen , and retreated to her dormitory . 
He was drunk last night , and challenged me to fight him , Pen ; and , begad , at one time I was so excited that I thought I should have driven a knife into him ; and the infernal rascal has made ten thousand pound , I believe -- and deserves to be hanged , and will be ; but , curse him , I wish he could have lasted out my time . 
I ai n't long for this business : I am getting very old , Pen , my boy ; and , gad , I was thinking to-day , as I was packing up my little library , there 's a bible amongst the books that belonged to my poor mother ; I would like you to keep that , Pen . 
His age -- his kindness , disarmed Pen 's anger somewhat , and made Arthur feel no little compunction for the deed which he was about to do . 
His words smote Pen . 
-- I -- I went into your lodgings at Bury Street , though I did not find you , '' Pen slowly began -- `` and I talked with Morgan , uncle . '' 
`` He told me a story , sir , which gave me the deepest surprise and pain , '' said Pen . 
said the old man , rubbing his nose . 
WHEN , arrayed in his dressing-gown , Pen , walked up , according to custom , to Warrington 's chambers next morning , to inform his friend of the issue of the last night 's interview with his uncle ; and to ask , as usual , for George 's advice and opinion , Mrs. Flanagan , the laundress , was the only person whom Arthur found in the dear old chambers . 
Two or three books for reference , fragments of torn up manuscript , drawers open , pens and inkstand , lines half visible on the blotting paper , a bit of sealing wax twisted and bitten and broken into sundry pieces -- such relics as these were about the table , and Pen flung himself down in George 's empty chair -- noting things according to his wont , or in spite of himself . 
He has taken that with him , thought Pen . 
He knew why his friend was gone . 
Pen rubbed his hand over his eyes . 
When Pen descended to his own chambers , his eye fell on the letter-box of his outer door , which he had previously overlooked , and there was a little note to A. P. , Esq. , in George 's well-known handwriting , George had put into Pen 's box probably as he was going away . 
`` Dr Pen , -- I shall be half way home when you breakfast , and intend to stay over Christmas , in Norfolk , or elsewhere . 
N6309170 Pen of course had to go and see his uncle on the day after their colloquy , and not being admitted , he naturally went to Lady Rock-minster 's apartments , where the old lady instantly asked for Bluebeard , and insisted that he should come to dinner . 
`` Bluebeard is gone , '' Pen said , and he took out poor George 's scrap of paper , and handed it to Laura , who looked at it -- did not look at Pen in return , but passed the paper back to him , and walked away Pen rushed into an eloquent eulogium upon his dear old George to Lady Rockminster , who was astonished at his enthusiasm . 
cried out Pen -- the reader , no doubt , has likewise recognised Arthur 's old schoolfellow -- and he held out his hand to the heir of the late lamented John Henry Foker , Esq. , the master of Logwood and other houses , the principal partner in the great brewery of Foker & Co. : the greater portion of Foker 's Entire . 
Pen 's keen eyes and satiric turn showed him at once upon what errand Mr. Foker had been employed : and he thought of the heir in Horace pouring forth the gathered wine of his father 's vats ; and that human nature is pretty much the same in Regent Street as in the Via Sacra . 
How do you do , Pen ? 
He had blushed on seeing Pen , and shown other signs of guilt and perturbation , which Pen attributed to the novelty of his situation ; and on which he began to speculate in his usual sardonic manner . 
`` Yes : so wags the world , '' thought Pen . 
`` Why make yourself more selfish than you are , Pen ; and allow your mind to own for an instant that it would have entertained such -- such dreadful meanness ? 
`` There are some truths which women will never acknowledge , '' Pen said , `` and from which your modesty always turns away . 
That is what But is , '' Pen said . 
`` Pen , you frighten me , '' cried Laura . 
Did n't I say , '' he added fondly , `` that some of you seem exempt from the fall ? 
asked Pen . 
Laura was anxious that Pen 's marriage intentions should be put into execution as speedily as possible , and pressed on his arrangements with rather a feverish anxiety . 
Pen could afford to do so with perfect equanimity , but Laura would hear of no delay . 
She wrote to Pen : she implored Pen : she used every means to urge expedition . 
To this frank communication came back the letter from Blanche to Laura , and one to Pen himself , which perhaps his own letter justified . 
`` B. '' The words of this letter were perfectly clear , and written in Blanche 's neatest hand upon her scented paper ; and yet the meaning of the composition not a little puzzled Pen . 
Her phrases either meant that Pen did not love her , and she declined him , or that she took him , and sacrificed herself to him , cold as he was . 
He laughed sardonically over the letter , and over the transaction which occasioned it . 
He laughed to think how Fortune had jilted him , and how he deserved his slippery fortune . 
He turned over and over the musky gilt-edged riddle . 
It amused his humour : he enjoyed it as if it had been a funny story . 
He was thus seated , twiddling the queer manuscript in his hand , joking grimly to himself , when his servant came in with a card from a gentleman , who wished to speak to him very particularly . 
And if Pen had gone out into the passage , he would have seen sucking his stick , rolling his eyes , and showing great marks of anxiety , his old acquaintance , Mr. Samuel Huxter . 
Pray , beg Mr. Huxter to come in , '' said Pen , amused rather ; and not the less so when poor Sam appeared before him . 
`` Pray take a chair , Mr. Huxter , '' said Pen , in his most superb manner . 
`` You -- you do n't mean to say you have -- you have done any wrong to that dear little creature , sir , '' said Pen , starting up in a great fury . 
asked Pen , not over well pleased , most likely , that a person who had once attracted some portion of his royal good graces should have transferred her allegiance , and consoled herself for his loss . 
Pen remembered that Blauche had written and mentioned her visit `` I was called in , '' Huxter said . 
She has known the story for a month , thought Pen , with a sharp pang of grief , and a gloomy sympathy -- this accounts for her letter of to-day . 
She will not implicate her father , or divulge his secret ; she wishes to let me off from the marriage -- and finds a pretext -- the generous girl ! 
asked Huxter , after the pause during which Pen had been thinking of his own affairs . 
`` Let us talk about your affairs , '' said Pen . 
`` She thinks you can , sir , '' said Huxter , accepting Pen 's proffered hand , `` and I 'm very much obliged to you , I 'm sure ; and that you might talk over my father , and break the business to him , and my mother , who always has her back up about being a clergyman 's daughter . 
N6309172 `` The wife takes the husband 's rank , of course , '' said Pen . 
`` You should have her mother with her , '' said Pen , laughing . 
`` Au fait , '' said Mr. Pen , who was infinitely amused , and concerning whom mutato nomine -LRB- and of course concerning nobody else in the world -RRB- the fable might have been narrated . 
As the two gentlemen were in the midst of this colloquy , another knock came to Pen 's door , and his servant presently announced Mr. Bows . 
The old man followed slowly , his pale face blushing , and his hand trembling somewhat as he took Pen 's . 
He coughed , and wiped his face in his checked cotton pocket-handkerchief , and sate down with his hands on his knees , the sun shining on his bald head . 
Pen looked at the homely figure with no small sympathy and kindness . 
`` So we have lost , Mr. Bows , and here is the lucky winner , '' Pen said , looking hard at the old man . 
asked Huxter , who , having winked at Bows with one eye , now favoured Pen with a wink of the other -- a wink which seemed to say , `` Infatuated old boy -- you understand -- over head and ears in love with her -- poor old fool . '' 
Pen laughed ; the scene suited his bitter humour more and more . 
Why , sir , '' he said , turning round to Pen with a sneer , `` she had a reason even for giving me that message . 
he said to Pen . 
Pen said , good-naturedly . 
asked Pen . 
When Bows had taken his leave , Pen carried his letter from Blanche , and the news which he had just received , to his usual adviser , Laura . 
Pen said , `` Yes , she must know it ; '' and told the story , which he had just heard from Huxter , of the interview at Shepherd 's Inn . 
`` But she was bound to keep her father 's secret , Pen , '' Laura added . 
here interposed the stout gentleman -LRB- it had a flaming article against the order of the black coated gentleman who was travelling with them in the carriage -RRB- , and Pen thanked him and took it , and pursued his reverie , without reading two sentences of the journal . 
he thought . 
Here it ends , '' thought Pen ; `` this day or to-morrow will wind up the account of my youth ; a weary retrospect , alas ! 
And his head fell on his breast , and the young man 's heart prostrated itself humbly and sadly before that Throne where sits wisdom , and love , and pity for all , and made its confession . 
he thought . 
The train stopped at Tunbridge as Pen was making these reflections ; and he handed over the newspaper to his neighbour , of whom he took leave , while the foreign clergyman in the opposite corner still sate with his eyes on his book . 
Pen jumped out of the carriage then , his carpetbag in hand , and briskly determined to face his fortune . 
And she put her handkerchief over the bracelet , and then she advanced , with a hand which trembled very much , to greet Pen . 
The face of Foker looking up from his profound mourning -- that face , so piteous and puzzled , was one which the reader 's imagination must depict for himself ; also that of Master Frank Clavering , who , looking at the three interesting individuals with an expression of the utmost knowingness , had only time to ejaculate the words , `` Here 's a jolly go ! '' 
N6309174 Pen , too , had restrained himself up to that minute ; but looking still at Foker , whose ears and cheeks tingled with blushes , Arthur burst out into a fit of laughter , so wild and loud , that it frightened Blanche much more than any the most serious exhibition . 
said Pen , with a meaning look at Blanche . 
`` I swear that is a villain who deceives such a loving creature as that , '' said Pen . 
`` I 'll go back with him , '' cried Pen . 
He longed to be off that instant . 
`` It was but a short word I had to say , '' said Blanche to Pen , with great calm , when they were alone . 
said Pen . 
said Pen . 
`` The pirate would have wearied you like the rest , '' said Pen . 
Pen had never seen her or known so much about her in all the years of their intimacy as he saw and knew now : though he saw more than existed in reality . 
UPON the platform at Tunbridge , Pen fumed and fretted until the arrival of the evening train to London , a full half hour , -- six hours it seemed to him ; but even this immense interval was passed , the train arrived , the train sped on , the London lights came in view -- a gentleman who forgot his carpet-bag in the train rushed at a cab , and said to the man , `` Drive as hard as you can go to Jermyn Street . '' 
The cabman , although a Hansom cabman , said thank you for the gratuity which was put into his hand , and Pen ran up the stairs of the hotel to Lady Rockminster 's apartments . 
The pale face looked up when Pen opened the door . 
May we follow him ? 
And well may she say so ; and well may the attendant cast wondering eyes ; for the young people are in an attitude ; and Pen in such a position as every young lady who reads this has heard tell of , or has seen , or hopes , or at any rate deserves to see . 
In a word , directly he entered the room , Pen went up to Laura of the pale face , who had not time even to say , What , back so soon ? 
and seizing her outstretched and trembling hand just as she was rising from her chair , fell down on his knees before her , and said quickly , `` I have seen her . 
Pen 's head sinks down in the girl 's lap , as he sobs out , `` Come and bless us , dear mother , '' and arms as tender as Helen 's once more enfold him . 
Pen starts up with looks of triumph , still holding Laura 's hand . 
`` She is consoling me for my misfortune , ma'am , '' he says . 
Pen kissed her ladyship 's . 
`` Ihave been to Tunbridge , '' he says , `` and seen Miss Amory ; and find on my arrival that -- that a villain has transplanted me in her affections , '' he says with a tragedy air . 
`` Yes -- another has superseded me , '' goes on Pen ; `` but why call him villain ? 
`` I acted as she bade me , '' said Pen . 
And now Pen , to divert the conversation from a theme which was growing painful to some parties present , bethought him of his interview with Huxter in the morning , and of Fanny Bolton 's affairs , which he had forgotten under the immediate pressure and excitement of his own . 
And he told the ladies how Huxter had elevated Fanny to the rank of wife , and what terrors he was in respecting the arrival of his father . 
`` If you did any wrong , you repented , dear Pen , '' she said , `` and you know , '' she added , with meaning eyes and blushes , `` that Ihave no right to reproach you . '' 
I will do my best to make your morrow happy , dear Laura , '' Pen said . 
His heart was humbled by the prospect of his happiness : it stood awe-stricken in the contemplation of her sweet goodness and purity . 
He liked his wife better that she had owned to that passing feeling for Warrington , and laid bare her generous heart to him . 
`` What a sly demure little wretch you have been , '' she whispered to Laura -- while Pen , in great spirits , was laughing , and telling his story about Huxter -- `` and how you have kept your secret ! '' 
`` We must go and see them , '' said Pen . 
`` An earl 's coronet , '' said Pen , who , no doubt , was pleased himself , `` will have a great effect in Lamb Court and Smithfield . 
She had not seen her `` guardian , '' as she was pleased to call Pen in consequence of his bequest , since the event had occurred which had united her to Mr. Huxter . 
While Fanny is answering these questions in reply to Pen , Laura says to herself -- `` Well , now really is thisthe creature about whom we were all so frightened ? 
Fanny still regarded Pen in the light of a superior being , that was evident . 
And when they heard that it was Mr. Pendennis and his sister , they remarked that Pen 's father was only a sawbones ; and that he gave himself confounded airs ; they had been in Huxter 's company on the night of his little altercation with Pen in the Back Kitchen . 
Returning homewards through Fleet Street , and as Laura was just stating to Pen 's infinite amusement that Fanny was very well , but that really there was no beauty in her , -- there might be , but shecould not see it , -- as they were locked near Temple Bar , they saw young Huxter returning to his bride . 
Pen said he would go and call at that moment upon Mr. Huxter , and see what might be done . 
`` And I can afford to give myself a lark , sir , '' said Mr. Huxter , shaking hands with Pen . 
Pen remembered that there was a letter from Mr. Tatham , at Chambers , these three days ; but he had not opened the communication , being interested with other affairs . 
`` I hope you do n't intend to grow rich , and give up practice , '' said Pen . 
`` It was my father 's , too , '' said Pen . 
`` Her ladyship is not very well ; and when I heard that you were coming to town , I strongly urged her to see you , Mr. Huxter , '' Pen said . 
Old Huxter felt , if he had a hundred votes for Clavering , he would give them all to Pen . 
asked Pen . 
The old surgeon was delighted to speak to a coronetted carriage in the midst of the full Strand : he ran out bowing and smiling . 
Huxter junior , dodging about the district , beheld the meeting between his father and Laura , saw the latter put out her hand , and presently , after a little colloquy with Pen , beheld his father actually jump into the carriage , and drive away with Miss Bell . 
`` The town is full of temptations , sir , '' continued Pen . 
`` And -- and suppose , sir , '' Pen said , `` that I had a piece of news to communicate to you . '' 
`` His lordship is charmed with her , '' said Pen , telling almost the first fib which he has told in the course of this story . 
`` They will do it , sir , '' said Pen ; and went and opened the door . 
The Major had been prepared , if not for the news which her ladyship was about to give him , at least with the intelligence that Pen 's marriage with Miss Amory was broken off . 
I will tell you this , and more when we meet ; and am always your affectionate , -- A. P. '' `` I think I am aware of what you were about to tell me , '' the Major said , with a most courtly smile and bow to Pen 's ambassadress . 
There could be no reason why Pen should not marry according to his own and his mother 's wish ; and as for Lady Rockminster , she supported the marriage by intimations which had very great weight with the Major , but of which we shall say nothing , as her ladyship -LRB- now , of course , much advanced in years -RRB- is still alive , and the family might be angry ; and , in fine , the old gentleman was quite overcome by the determined graciousness of the lady , and her fondness for Laura . 
Nothing , indeed , could be more bland and kind than Lady Rockminster 's whole demeanour , except for one moment when the Major talked about his boy throwing himself away , at which her ladyship broke out into a little speech , in which she made the Major understand , what poor Pen and his friends acknowledge very humbly , that Laura was a thousand times too good for him . 
So that when Herr Frosch was requested to walk up-stairs to Lady Rockminster 's apartments , and inform Miss Bell and Mr. Arthur Pendennis that the Major would receive them , and Laura appeared blushing and happy as she hung on Pen 's arm , the Major gave a shaky hand to one and the other , with no unaffected emotion and cordiality , and then went through another salutation to Laura , which caused her to blush still more . 
The story-teller turns from this group to his young audience , and hopes that one day their eyes may all shine so . 
Pen having retreated in the most friendly manner , and the lovely Blanche having bestowed her young affections upon a blushing bride-groom , with fifteen thousand a-year , there was such an outbreak of happiness in Lady Clavering 's heart and family as the good Begum had not known for many a year , and she and Blanche were on the most delightful terms of cordiality and affection . 
Pen gave the syren a look full of meaning , and we suppose that the syren understood meaning looks , for when , after finding the veracious handkerchief of which he came in quest , he once more went out , the syren , with a laughing voice , said , `` O , Arthur -- Mr. Pendennis -- I want you to tell dear Laura something ! '' 
`` Morgan will , '' said Pen . 
Pen heard Blanche 's piano breaking out into brilliant music as he went down to join his uncle ; and they walked away together . 
`` I hope to Heaven she 'll tell him , '' said Pen . 
He bowed stiffly to Strong , and clung to his nephew 's arm , as he turned down St. James 's Street , and again cautioned Pen to leave the affair alone . 
`` It had like to have cost you so much , sir , that you may take my advice , '' he said . 
`` I have no reason to complain , '' said Pen . 
asked Pen . 
`` He has lost all his winnings , I suppose , '' said Pen . 
said Pen . 
Pen laughed as he took the card . 
`` I do n't know whether I shall be allowed to go to bachelors ' parties , '' he said . 
That worthy , Altamont and his daughter correspond , I hear , '' Pen added after a pause . 
Pen came out and shook hands with him on the door-steps ; and Harry Foker rode away , followed by his groom in mourning . 
from Pen . 
After dinner , Pen said , `` I will walk down to Clavering and see if he is come . '' 
And he walked through the dark avenue , across the bridge and road by his own cottage , -- the once quiet and familiar fields of which were flaming with the kilns and forges of the artificers employed on the new railroad works ; and so he entered the town , and made for the Clavering Arms . 
It was past midnight when he returned to Clavering Park . 
He was exceedingly pale and agitated . 
he asked . 
He went up to her , and there found the poor lady in a piteous state of tears and agitation . 
`` It is I , -- Arthur , '' he said , looking in ; and entering , he took her hand very affectionately and kissed it . 
`` You were always the kindest of friends to me , dear Lady Clavering , '' he said . 
`` Do n't call me by that name , '' she said , pressing his hand . 
what he sometimes said to me , '' she screamed out , -- `` that he -- '' `` He was married before he married you , '' said Pen . 
There came another shriek from Lady Clavering , as she flung her arms round Pen , and kissed him , and burst into tears on his shoulder . 
What Pen had to tell , through a multiplicity of sobs and interruptions , must be compressed briefly , for behold our prescribed limit is reached , and our tale is coming to its end . 
He ordered his dinner at the place under his assumed name of Altamont ; and , being of a jovial turn , he welcomed the landlord , who was nothing loth to a share of his wine . 
`` And now for the other letter , '' said Pen . 
and he kissed the seal before he broke it . 
I think , Pen , that you have the best wife in the world ; and pray that , as such , you will cherish her and tend her . 
The chambers will be lonely without you , dear Pen ; but if I am tired , I shall have a new home to go to in the house of my brother and sister . 
He lives splendidly , and through Pen 's mediation , gets his wine from the celebrated vintages of the Duke of Garbanzos . 
If Mr. Pen 's works have procured him more reputation than has been acquired by his abler friend , whom no one knows , George lives contented without the fame . 
