`` Yes , Master Tommy , and Darby ` the blast ' is there , and a tune an the pipes will raise you . '' 
I suffered myself to be led along listlessly between them to the kitchen , where , around a huge fire of red turf , the servants of the house were all assembled , together with some neighbouring cottagers ; Darby `` the blast '' occupying a prominent place in the party , his pipes laid across his knees , as he employed himself in concocting a smoking tumbler of punch . 
`` Your most obadient , '' said Darby , with a profound reverence , as I entered . 
What I muttered in reply I know not ; but the whole party were speedily reseated , every eye turned admiringly on Darby for the very neat and appropriate expression of his apology . 
Darby alone manifested a little impatience at the sudden change in a party where his powers of agreeability had so lately been successful , and fidgeted on his chair , unscrewed his pipes , blew into them , screwed them on again , and then slily nodded over to the housemaid , as he raised his glass to his lips . 
said Darby , in a contemptuous tone of voice : `` a few dirty laves , with a drop of water on top of them , that has neither beatification nor invigoration . 
Maybe Darby would raise a tune now , and there 's nothing equal to it for the spirits . '' 
`` Devil a doubt he does , '' replied Darby so maliciously as to make poor Kitty blush a deep scarlet , `` and no shame to him ! 
`` How did that happen , Darby ? '' 
`` Nevertheless , '' observed Darby , with an air of ill-dissembled condescension , `` if it is n't umbrageous to your honour , I 'll intonate something in the way of an ode , or a canticle . '' 
`` One of your own , Darby , '' said the butler , interrupting . 
`` Well , I 've no objection , '' replied Darby , with an affected modesty ; `` for you see , master , like Homer , I accompany myself on the pipes , though -- glory be to God ! 
Darby , to do him justice , seemed fully sensible of his triumph , and sat back in his chair , and imbibed his liquor , like a man who had won his laurels , and needed no further efforts to maintain his eminent position in life . 
`` Well , Darby , '' said the butler : `` you were n't far wrong when you took my advice to stay here for the night ; listen to how it 's blowing . '' 
`` For all that , '' said Darby , `` I ought to be up at Crocknavorrigha this blessed evening . 
`` It 's just for peace he 's marrying now , then , '' said Darby ; `` the women never gave him any quietness -- just so , Kitty , you need n't be looking cross that way -- it 's truth I 'm telling you ; they were always coming about him , and teazing him , and the like , and he could n't bear it any longer . '' 
`` Arrah , howld your prate , '' interrupted the old cook , whose indignation for the honour of the sex could not endure more ; `` he 's the biggest liar from this to himself -- and that same 's not a small word , Darby M'Keown . '' 
Many 's the quare thing happened to me , '' said Darby , meditatingly ; `` and sure if it was n't my guardian angel , or something of the kind prevented it , I 'd maybe have more wives this day than the Emperor of Roossia himself . '' 
`` Arrah , do n't be talking , '' grunted out the old cook , whose passion could scarcely be restrained at the boastful tone Mister M'Keown assumed , in descanting on his successes . 
`` There was Biddy Finn , '' continued Darby , without paying any attention to the cook 's interruption ; `` she might be Mrs. M'Keown this day , av it was n't for a remarkable thing that happened . '' 
`` There 's thim here does not care for agreeable intercoorse , '' said Darby , assuming a grand air . 
`` Come , Darby , I 'd like to hear the story , '' said I . 
Darby 's consent to the arrangements was not altogether the result of his reverence 's eloquence , nor indeed the justice of the case -- nor was it quite owing to Biddy 's black eyes and pretty lips -- but rather to the soul-persuading powers of some fourteen tumblers of strong punch , which he swallowed at a séance in Biddy 's father 's house , one cold evening in November ; after which he betook himself to the road homewards , where -- but we must give his story in his own words : -- `` Whether it was the prospect of happiness before me , or the potteen , '' quoth Darby , `` but so it was , I never felt a step of the road home that night , though it was every foot of five mile . 
``` Do n't be making a fool of yourself , Darby M'Keown , ' said a gruff voice near the chimley . 
`` I jumped at him , and cried out , ` Who 's that ? ' 
``` And it 's yerself , Biddy , ' says I , ` that would be an ornament to a dacent cabin ; and a purtier leg and foot -- ' ``` Be the light that shines , you 're making me sick , Darby M'Keown , said the voice again . 
``` Darby , ' says he , ` I 'm famished with the druth . 
cried the cook , with a look of ineffable scorn , as he concluded . 
`` Look now , '' said Darby , `` see this -- if it is n't thruth -- '' `` And what became of your father ? '' 
Darby , however , vouchsafed no reply , but sat back in his chair with an offended look , and sipped his liquor in silence . 
A fresh brew of punch under the butler 's auspices speedily , however , dispelled the cloud that hovered over the conviviality of the party ; and even the cook vouchsafed to assist in the preparation of some rashers , which Darby suggested `` were beautiful things for the thirst at this hour of the night '' -- but whether in allaying or exciting it , he did n't exactly lay down . 
I listened , and in a moment recognised the piper , Darby M'Keown . 
He moved quickly about , and by his motions I could collect that he was making preparations for his journey . 
If I could venture to pronounce , from the merry tones of his voice , and the light elastic step with which he trod the floor , I certainly would not suppose that the dreary weather had any terror for him . 
He spoke so loud that I could catch a great deal of the dialogue he maintained with himself , and some odd verses of the song with which from time to time he garnished his reflections . 
Darby seemed to afford me the best possible opportunity for this purpose , and I dressed myself , therefore , in the greatest haste , and , throwing whatever I could find of my wardrobe into my carpet-bag , I pocketed my little purse , with all my worldly wealth -- some twelve or thirteen shillings -- and noiselessly slipped down stairs to the room beneath . 
I reached the door at the very moment Darby opened it to issue forth . 
He started back with fear , and crossed himself twice . 
`` Do n't be afraid , Darby , '' said I , uneasy lest he should make any noise that would alarm the others . 
`` That 's exactly where I want to go , Darby -- will you take me with you ? '' 
`` I see it all , '' replied Darby , as he placed the tip of his finger on his nose . 
I hastened to assure Darby of his error , and in a few words informed him of what I had overheard of Basset 's intentions respecting me . 
said Darby , interrupting me abruptly -- `` an attorney ! 
`` Yes , Darby ; my mind 's made up . '' 
Indeed his own eloquent eulogium on legal pursuits assisted my resolution , and filled my heart with renewed disgust at the thought of such a guardian as Tony Basset . 
`` No , Master Tom , no , you must go back , '' said Darby , who watched with a tender interest the sickly paleness of my cheek , and the tottering uncertainty of my walk . 
`` No , Darby , '' said I , with an effort at firmness . 
Darby , who only waited to let my first burst of sorrow find its natural vent , no sooner perceived from my step , and the renewed colour of my cheek , that I had rallied my courage once more , than he opened all his stores of agreeability , which to my inexperience in such matters were by no means inconsiderable . 
`` And the captain , Master Tom , you say he 's an agreeable man , '' said Darby , alluding to my late companion on the coach , whose merits I was never tired of recapitulating . 
I 'm sure he 'll do something for me ; and for you too , Darby , when he knows you have been so kind to me . '' 
Darby M'Keown 's a proud man this day to have you beside him . '' 
`` What happened there , Darby ? '' 
If the portrait M'Keown drew of Ireland was sad and gloomy , he painted France in colours the brightest and most seductive . 
Dwelling less on the political advantages which the revolution had won for the popular party , he directed my entire attention to the brilliant career of glory the French army had followed -- the triumphant success of the Italian campaign -- the war in Germany , and the splendour of Paris , which he represented as a very paradise on earth ; but , above all , he dwelt on the character and achievements of the first consul , recounting many anecdotes of his early life , from the period when he was a schoolboy at Brienne to the hour when he dictated the conditions of peace to the oldest monarchies of Europe , and proclaimed war with the voice of one who came as an avenger . 
I drank in every word he spoke with avidity -- the very enthusiasm of his manner was contagious -- I felt my heart bound with rapturous delight at some hardy deed of soldierlike daring , and conceived a kind of wild idolatry for the man who seemed to have infused his own glorious temperament into the mighty thousands around him , and converted a whole nation into heroes . 
Darby 's information on all these matters -- which seemed to me something miraculous -- had been obtained at different periods from French emissaries who were scattered through Ireland , many of them old soldiers , who had served in the campaigns of Egypt and Italy . 
`` Very little , Darby . 
`` Will there be another rebellion , then , Darby ? '' 
Darby saluted the stranger respectfully , and seemed desirous to pass on , but the other , turning round in his saddle , fixed a stern look on him , and he cried out -- `` What ! 
at the old trade , M'Keown . 
`` Just so , major , '' said Darby , assuming a tone of voice he had not made use of the entire morning ; `` I 'm conveying a little instrumental recreation . '' 
`` He 's a son of a neighbour of mine , your honour , '' said Darby , with an imploring look at me not to betray him . 
`` His father 's a schoolmaster -- a philomath , as one might say . '' 
And you , '' said he , turning to Darby , `` let me see you in Athlone at ten o'clock to-morrow . 
The piper grew pale as death as he heard this command , to which he only responded by touching his hat in silence ; while the horseman , drawing his cloak around , dashed his spurs into his beast 's flanks , and was soon out of sight . 
Darby stood for a moment or two , looking down the road where the stranger had disappeared ; a livid hue coloured his cheek , and a tremulous quivering of his under lip gave him the appearance of one in ague . 
`` I 'm thinking , '' said Darby , after a pause of some minutes -- `` I 'm thinking it 's better for you not to go into Athlone with me ; for if Basset wishes to track you out , that ` illbe the first place he 'll try ; besides , now that the major has seen you , he 'll never forget you . '' 
`` A good ten miles , '' said Darby , `` no less ; but we 'll stop here above , and get something to eat , and then we 'll take a rest for an hour or two , and you 'll think nothing of the road after . '' 
Darby , on the other hand , seemed more depressed than before , and betrayed in many ways a state of doubt and uncertainty as to his movements -- sometimes pushing on rapidly for half a mile or so , then relapsing into a slow and plodding pace , often looking back too , and more than once coming to a perfect stand-still , taking the whole time to himself in a low muttering voice . 
`` Yes , '' said Darby , `` that 's Peg 's cabin ; and though it 's not very remarkable in the way of cookery or the like , it 's the only house within seven miles of us . '' 
Displacing this important member of the family with an unceremonious kick , Darby stooped to enter the low door way , uttering as he did so the customary `` God save all here . '' 
As I followed him in , I did not catch the usual response to the greeting , and from the thick smoke which filled the cabin , could see nothing whatever around me . 
`` Well , Peg , '' said Darby , `` how is it with you the day . '' 
Darby 's first movement was , to take off the lid and peer into the pot , when the bubbling sound of the boiling potatoes assured him that we should have at least something to eat ; his next was , to turn a little basket upside down for a seat , to which he motioned me with his hand ; then , approaching the old woman , he placed his hand to his mouth and shouted in her ear -- `` What 's the major after this morning , Peg ? '' 
`` I 'm thinking there 's bad work going on at the town there , '' cried he , in the same loud tone as before . 
`` Begorra , she is a witch -- devil a doubt of it , '' muttered Darby between his teeth . 
`` You 're right , Peg , '' continued he , after a moment . 
So saying , he lifted the pot from the fire , and carried it to the door to strain off the water . 
The action seemed to rouse the old woman , who rose rapidly to her legs , and , hastening to the door , snatched the pot from his hand and pushed him to one side . 
`` Let us be going , '' said Darby , in a whisper . 
`` Good-by , Peg : I hope we 'll be better friends when we meet again , '' said Darby , as he passed out . 
`` Come along quick , '' said Darby , with a look of terror , `` she 's going to curse you . '' 
The old woman by this time had knelt down on the road , and was muttering rapidly to herself -- `` Come along , I say , '' said Darby , pulling me by the arm . 
`` And now , '' cried the hag aloud , `` may bad luck be your shadow wherever you walk , with sorrow behind and bad hopes before you -- may you never taste happiness nor ease , and , like this turf , may your heart be always burning here , and -- '' I heard no more , for Darby , tearing me away by main force , dragged me along the road , just as the hissing turf embers had fallen at my feet , where the hag had thrown them . 
`` Come , come , Master Tom , '' said Darby , `` do n't be afeard , it ` ill never do you harm , all she said . 
The mention of that name recalled me in a moment to the consideration of my own danger if he were to succeed in overtaking me , and I eagerly communicated my fear to Darby . 
`` That 's thrue , '' said he ; `` we must leave the high road , for Basset will be up at the house by this , and will lose no time in following you out . 
`` As to that Darby , '' said I , with a sickly effort to smile , `` Peg 's curse took away my appetite , full as well as her potatoes would have done . '' 
`` 'T is a bad way to breakfast after all , '' said Darby . 
`` Well , '' replied he , a little piqued by the tone of my answer , '' 't is worse you might be doin ' than that same . 
`` And how does all that come into your head , Darby ? '' 
`` Troth , 't is hard to tell , '' said Darby , with a sigh ; `` but my notion is , that the poor man that has neither fine houses , nor fine clothes , nor horses , nor sarvants to amuse him , that Providence is kind to him in another way , and fills his mind with all manner of dhroll thoughts , and quare stories , and bits of songs , and the like ; and lets him into many a sacret about fairies , and the good people , that the rich has no time for : and sure you must have often remarked it , that the quality has never a bit of fun in them at all , but does be always coming to us for something to make them laugh . 
In this way did Darby converse until we reached a cross road , when , coming to a halt , he pointed with his finger to the distance and said -- `` Athlone is down beyant that low mountain . 
`` But I do n't know him , '' said I. `` What signifies that -- sure 't is no need you have -- tell him you 'll stop there till Darby the Blast comes for you ; and see now , here 's all you have to do -- put your right thumb in the palm of your lift hand this way , and then kiss the other thumb , then you have it ; but mind do n't do that till you 're alone with him -- 't is a token between ourselves . '' 
`` I wish you were coming with me , Darby -- I 'd rather not leave you ! '' 
`` 'T is myself mislikes it too , '' said Darby with a sigh ; `` but I dar n't miss going to Athlone , the major would soon ferret me out -- and it 's worse it would be for me . '' 
I shook Darby 's hand with a firm grasp , and , asuming the easiest smile I could accomplish , set out on the path before me , with all the alacity in my power . 
At length I reached the ruined church Darby spoke of , and following the track he indicated , soon came out upon the boreen , where for the first time some little shelter existed . 
`` Darby the Blast told me , '' said I , with a great effort to seem at ease , `` that you would give me shelter to-night . 
As for me , I longed impatiently for Darby 's return -- a thousand half-formed plans were flitting through my mind , and I burned to hear whether Basset was still in pursuit of me -- what course he was adopting to regain me within his control -- if Darby had seen my friend Bubbleton , and whether he showed any disposition to befriend and protect me . 
These and such like thoughts kept passing through my mind ; and as the storm would shake the rude door , I would stand up with eagerness , hoping every moment to see him enter . 
But the day moved on , and the dusky half-light of a wintry afternoon was falling , and Darby made not his appearance . 
When I spoke of him to the others , they expressed no surprise at his absence , merely remarking that he was always uncertain -- no one knew when to expect him -- that he rarely came when they looked for him , and constantly dropped in when no one anticipated it . 
`` Nothing remarkable I believe ; they have taken up that rascal , Darby the Blast , as they call him . 
The major had him under examination this morning for two hours ; and they say , he 'll give evidence against the Dillons -- a little more fat if ye please -- money , you know , Ned , will do any thing these times . '' 
Here was the very realization before my eyes of what M'Keown had been telling me ; here the horrible picture he had drawn of tyranny and outrage . 
He was doubtless one of those Darby alluded to . 
`` 'T is me , Darby M'Keown , '' said a well-known voice , but in a tone of deepest sorrow : `` I came over to have a look at the ould walls once more . '' 
`` You heard it all , then , Darby ? '' 
`` Maybe I could guess , '' said Darby , quietly . 
`` Come , Master Tom , '' said Darby suddenly ; '' 't is time we were moving . 
`` That 's easily done , Darby , '' said I , attempting to seem at ease ; `` whichever is your road shall be mine , if you let me . '' 
`` If we make haste , '' said Darby , `` we 'll be beyond Shannon harbour before day ; and then , when we 're on the canal , we 'll easy get a lift in some of the boats going to Dublin . '' 
`` Indeed , Darby ! 
`` No , '' said Darby , laying his hand on my shoulder -- `` no , not at least if we had twenty thousand like you , my brave boy . 
Darby now commenced his code of instruction to me , by which I learned that I was to perform a species of second to him in all minstrelsy -- not exactly on the truest principles of harmony , but merely alternating with him in the verses of his songs . 
These , which were entirely of his own composition , were all to be learned , and orally , too , for Mister M'Keown was too jealous of his copyright ever to commit them to writing , and especially charged me never to repeat any lyric in the same neighbourhood . 
`` It 's not only the robbery I care for , '' quoth Darby , `` but the varmint destroys my poethry completely -- sometimes changing the words , injuring the sentiments , and even altering the tune . 
''' Besides the musical portion of my education , there was another scarcely less difficult to be attended to : this was , the skilful adaptation of our melodies not only to the prevailing tastes of the company , but to their political and party bearings -- Darby supplying me with various hints how I was to discover at a moment the peculiar bias of any stranger 's politics . 
`` The boys , '' said Darby , thereby meaning his own party , `` does be always sly and careful , and begin by asking , maybe , for ` Do you incline ? ' 
''' `` And , of course , you refuse Darby ? '' 
Here Darby took from the lining of his hat a bunch of orange ribbon , whose faded glories showed it had done long and active service in the cause of loyalty . 
I confess Darby 's influence over me did not gain any accession of power by this honest avowal of his political expediency ; and the bold assertion of a nation 's wrongs , by which , at first , he won over my enthusiasm , seemed sadly at variance with this truckling policy . 
He was quick-sighted enough to perceive what was passing in my mind , and at once remarked -- `` 'T is a hard part we 're obliged to play , Master Tom , but one comfort we have -- it 's only a short time we 'll need it . 
Here he broke into the popular tune of the day : -- `` And the French will come again , Says the Shan van vaugh , And they 'll bring ten thousand men , Says the Shan van vaugh , And , with powder and with ball , For our rights we 'll loudly call ; Do n't you think they 'll hear us then ? 
Sure it 's that same makes us sich favourites with the ladies , and gives us a kind of native ganius for coortin ' -- '' 'T is the look of his eye And a way he can sigh Makes Paddy a darlin ' wherever he goes ; With a sugary brogue , Ye 'd hear the rogue Cheat the girls before their nose . 
As we journeyed along , Darby maintained a strict reserve as to the event which had required his presence in Athlone , nor did he allude to the major but passingly , observing that -- `` He did n't know how it happened that a Dublin magistrate should have come up to these parts , though , to be sure , he 's a great friend of the Right Honourable . '' 
The name seemed at once to suggest a whole flood of recollections , and Darby expatiated for hours long on the terrible power of a man , in whose hands life and death were distributed , without any aid from judge or jury -- thus opening to me another chapter of the lawless tyranny to which he was directing my attention , and by which he already saw my mind was greatly influenced . 
As we came close , Darby remarked that there was no smoke from the chimney , and that the door was fastened on the outside . 
`` That looks bad , '' said he , as he stopped short about a dozen paces from the hove , and looked steadily at it ; `` they 've taken him too . '' 
`` Who is it , Darby ? '' 
said I. `` What did he do ? '' 
M'Keown paid no attention to my question , but unfastening the hasp which attached the door , without any padlock , entered . 
Darby , however , scrutinized every thing most carefully ; looking everywhere , and into every thing , till , at last , reaching his hand above the door , he pulled out , from the straw of the thatch , a small piece of dirty and crumpled paper , which he opened with the greatest care and attention ; and then flattening it out with his hand , began to read it over to himself , his eye flashing , and his cheek growing redder , as he pored over it . 
At last he broke silence with -- `` 'T is myself never doubted ye , Tim , my boy . 
Darby replaced the piece of paper carefully , and then , listening for a moment , exclaimed -- `` I hear the boat coming ; let 's wait for it outside . '' 
While he employed himself in getting his pipes into readiness , I could not help ruminating on the strength of loyalty to each other the poor people observed amid every temptation and every seduction -- how , in the midst of such misery as theirs , neither threats nor bribery seemed to influence them , was a strong testimony in favour of their truth , and to such a reasoner as I was , a no less cogent argument for the goodness of the cause that elicited such virtues As the boat came alongside , I remarked that the deck was without a passenger ; heaps of trunks and luggage littered it the entire way ; but the severity of the weather had driven every one under cover , except the steersman and the captain , who , both of them wrapped up in thick coats of frize , seemed like huge bears standing on their hind quarters . 
`` How are you , Darby ? '' 
`` I do n't think he 's at home , sir , '' said Darby , as innocently as though he knew nothing of the reason for his absence . 
Come , youngster , '' cried he , addressing me , `` take the key there , and open the lock . '' 
Until this moment , I forgot the character which my dress and appearance assigned to me ; but a look from the piper recalled me at once to recollection ; and , taking up the iron key , I proceeded , under Darby 's instruction ; to do what I was desired , while Darby and the captain amused themselves by wondering what had become of Tim , and speculated on the immediate consequence his absence would bring down on him . 
`` Are you going with us , Darby ? '' 
We were soon under weigh again ; and Darby , having arranged his instrument to his satisfaction , commenced a very spirited voluntary to announce his arrival . 
`` Yes , sir , '' said Darby , without turning his face round , while , at the same time , he put a question , in Irish , to the skipper , who answered it with a single word . 
`` I 'm coming , sir , '' cried Darby , standing up ; and holding out his hand to me , he called out , `` Tom , alannah , lead me down stairs . '' 
I looked up in his face , and , to my amazement , perceived that he had turned up the white of his eyes , to represent blindness , and was groping with his hand , like one deprived of sight . 
As any hesitation on my part might have betrayed him at once , I took his hand , and led him along , step by step , to the cabin door . 
For the remainder of the day I saw nothing of Darby : the shouts of laughter and clapping of hands , below stairs , occasionally informing me how successful were his efforts to amuse his company ; while I had abundant time to think over my own plans , and make some resolutions for the future . 
How this long , melancholy day wore on I can not say ; to me it was as gloomy in reverie as in its own dismal aspect : the very sounds of mirth that issued from the cabin beneath grated harshly on my ear ; and the merry strains of Darby 's pipes and the clear notes of his rich voice seemed like treachery from one , who so lately had spoken in terms of heart-breathing emotion of his countrymen and their wrongs . 
All that M'Keown had told me of English tyranny and oppression was connected in my mind with the dreadful scene I had so lately been a witness to , and for the cause of which I looked no further than an act of simple hospitality . 
It was Darby , buttoned up in his coat , his pipes unfastened for the convenience of carriage . 
Keeping my eye on him , I elbowed my way through the crowded deck , and sprang out just as the boat began her forward movement . 
`` Here we are all safe , '' said Darby , patting me on the shoulder ; `` and now that I 've time to ask you , did you get your dinner , my child ? '' 
`` I wonder , Darby , '' said I , `` that you have n't more firmness than to change this way at every moment ? '' 
`` I almost forget the way here , '' said Darby , stopping and looking about him . 
At last , unable to solve the difficulty , he leaned over the half-door of a shop , and called out to a man within -- `` Can you tell where is Kevin-street ? '' 
Darby stroked down one side of his face with his hand slowly , a gesture immediately imitated by the other man . 
said Darby . 
`` I know ` N. ''' `` That ` illdo , '' said Darby , shaking hands with him cordially . 
`` Begorra , you 're in as great haste as if ye were Darby the Blast himself . 
Darby only laughed ; and again excusing himself , he asked the way , which having learned , he wished his newly-made friend good night , and we proceeded . 
`` That they do , '' said Darby proudly . 
This he spoke with more of determination than I ever heard him use previously . 
As he spoke , we entered a narrow passage , through which the streetlamp threw a dubious half light . 
Darby knocked in a peculiar manner , and the door was speedily opened by a man , who whispered something , to which M'Keown made answer in the same low tone . 
Darby stepped back and said something in his ear : the other replied sturdily in the negative ; and although Darby , as it appeared , used every power of persuasion he possessed , the man was inexorable . 
At last , when the temper of both appeared nearly giving way , Darby turned to me , and said -- `` Wait for me a moment , Tom , where you are , and I 'll come for you . '' 
So saying , he disappeared , and the door closed at the same time , leaving me in darkness on the outside . 
My patience was not severely taxed -- ere five minutes the door opened , and Darby , followed by another person , appeared . 
He grasped my hand warmly as he spoke , and shook it affectionately . 
`` Why , M'Keown , you told me -- . '' 
`` It 's a disguise I made him wear , '' said Darby ; `` he 'd no chance of escaping the country without it . '' 
continued he , addressing me , but with far less courtesy than before . 
`` This is a sad mistake of yours , Darby . 
-- he 's only a child after all . '' 
`` He 's a child I 'll go bail for with my head , '' said Darby . 
`` Have you told him any thing of the object and intentions of this society ? 
Young gentleman , '' continued he , in a voice of earnest and impressive accent , `` all I know of you is the few particulars this man has stated respecting your unfriended position , and the cruelty to which you fear to expose yourself in trusting to the guardianship of Mr. Basset . 
`` That 's it , '' interrupted Darby -- `` if you feel in your heart a friend to your country -- '' `` Silence , '' said the other harshly ; `` let him decide for himself . '' 
`` I see , '' said the stranger , `` this is but another of your pranks , M'Keown . 
`` Come along , M'Keown , we shall want you presently . '' 
I would gladly have detained Darby to interrogate him about my new abode and its inhabitants , but he was obliged to obey , and I heard the door locked , as they closed it , on the outside ; and shortly after , the sounds of their feet died away , and I was left in silence . 
`` 'T is Darby , sir -- Darby the Blast , coming to speak a word to Mister Burke , '' said a voice from without . 
The door was opened at once , and Darby entered . 
Making a deep reverence to the French officer , in whose presence he seemed by no means at his ease , Darby dropped his voice to its most humble cadence , and said -- `` Might I be so bould as to have a word with ye , Master Tom ? '' 
No sooner was the door closed , than Darby drew a chair close to me , and , bending down his head , whispered -- `` Do n't trust him -- not from here to that window : they 're going to do it without him -- Mahony told me so himself : but my name was not drawn , and I 'm to be off to Kildare this evening . 
The state of doubt and uncertainty which had harassed my mind for the last twenty-four hours was no longer tolerable ; so I boldly asked M'Keown for an explanation as to the people in whose house I was -- their objects and plans -- and how far I was myself involved in their designs . 
In fewer words than I could convey it , Darby informed me that the house was the meeting-place of the United Irishmen , who still cherished the hope of reviving the scenes of ' 98 : that -- conscious the failure before was attributable to their having taken the field as an army , when they should have merely contented themselves with secret and indirect attacks -- they had resolved to adopt a different tactique . 
`` It will be seen , then , '' said Darby , with a fiendish grin , `` how the enemies of Ireland pay for their hatred of her . 
With ready quickness , Darby saw what my impression was , and hastily remarked -- `` We 'll be all away out of this , Master Tom , you know , before that . 
`` Yes , sir ; and I beg a thousand pardons , '' said Darby , servilely : `` and Master Tom only wants to bid you good-by before he goes . '' 
said he , in an accent of most winning sweetness . 
`` He 's obliged to be at the Curragh , at the meeting there , '' said Darby , answering for me . 
Darby 's face grew dark with rage , and for a second , I thought he would have sprung on his assailant , but with a fawning , shrewd smile he lisped out -- `` It 's what they call it , captain ; sure the poor boys knows no better . '' 
`` I should not like to desert one who has been so kind to me as Darby , and if he wishes -- '' Before I could finish my sentence , the door was opened by a key from without , and Dalton , as he was called , stood amongst us . 
Darby , '' said he , in a voice of something like emotion , `` not gone yet : you know I forbid you coming up here ; I suspected what you would be at . 
Darby hung his head sorrowfully and left the room without speaking , followed by Dalton , whose voice I heard in a tone of anger , as he descended the stairs . 
There was a certain openness -- an easy air of careless freedom in the young Frenchman , which made me feel at home in his company , almost the very moment of our acquaintance ; and when he asked some questions about myself and my family , I hesitated not to tell him my entire history , with the causes which had first brought me into Darby 's society , and led me to imbibe his doctrines and opinions . 
He paused when I finished , and , after reflecting for some minutes , he looked me gravely in the face , and said -- `` But you are aware of the place you are now in ? '' 
`` No , sir , '' said a voice , I at once knew to be no other than my friend Darby 's . 
Another shout of rude laughter from his audience followed this speech , amid the uproar of which Darby began tuning his pipes , as if perfectly unaware that any singularity on his part had called forth the mirth . 
said he who appeared the chief spokesman of the party . 
`` 'T is a trifling production of my own muse , sir -- a kind of biographical , poetical , and categorical dissertation of the delights , devices , and daily doings of your obaydient servant , and ever submissive slave , Darby the Blast . '' 
Darby accordingly assumed his wonted dignity of port , and having given some half dozen premonitory flourishes , which certainly had the effect of astonishing and overawing the audience , he began to the air of `` The Night before Larry was stretched '' the following ditty : -- `` Eh ! 
`` 'T is a rhetorical amplification , that means , he would if he could , '' said Darby , stopping to explain . 
`` 'T is an Irish corpse I was describin ' , '' said Darby , proudly , and evidently , while sore pushed for an explanation , having a severe struggle to keep down his contempt for the company that needed it . 
It had been so left by Darby , to give me an opportunity of cutting the cords that bound my arms , and thus facilitating my escape . 
His presence was doubtless there for this object -- and all the entertaining powers he displayed , only brought forth to occupy the soldiers ' attention , while I effected my deliverance . 
Just then I heard Darby 's voice raised above its former pitch , and evidently intended to be heard by me . 
Ay , in George 's - st. Barracks , '' said he , repeating the words as if to impress them on me . '' 
`` I never heard them play but onst , sir , '' said Darby meekly , `` and they were in sich a hurry that day , I could n't pick up the tune . '' 
`` 'T is what they wor running away , sir , '' replied Darby , with a most insulting coolness ; `` and small blame to thim for that same , av they wor frightened . '' 
In an instant the party sprang to their legs , while a perfect shower of curses fell upon the luckless piper , and fifty humane proposals to smash his skull , break his neck and every bone in his body , were mooted on all sides : meanwhile , M'Keown remonstrated in a spirit which in a minute I perceived was not intended to appease their irritation ; on the contrary , his apologies were couched in very different guise , being rather excuses for his mishap in having started a disagreeable topic , than any regret for the mode in which he treated it . 
`` And sure , sir , '' continued he , addressing the corporal , `` twas n't my fault av they tuck to their heels , would n't any one run for his life av he had the opportunity . '' 
He raised his voice once more at these words with such significance , that I resolved to profit by the counsel if the lucky moment should offer . 
I had not long to wait -- the insulting manner of Darby , still more than his words , had provoked them beyond endurance , and one of the soldiers drawing his bayonet , drove it through the leather bag of his pipes ; a shout of rage from the piper , and a knock-down blow that levelled the offender , replied to the insult . 
In an instant the whole party were upon him -- their very numbers , however , defeated their vengeance ; as I could hear from the tone of Darby 's voice , who , far from declining the combat , continued to throw in every possible incentive to battle , as he struck right and left of him . 
The uproar had now reached its height , and Darby 's yells and invectives were poured forth with true native fluency . 
The sounds of the conflict , amid which Darby 's own voice rose pre-eminent , told me that all were too busily engaged to waste a thought on me . 
Where was I , was the frequent but unsatisfactory query I ever put to myself -- could this be a prison -- had I been captured on that riotous evening , and carried off to a gaol -- or was I in Darby M'Keown 's territory ; for , somehow , a very general impression was on my mind that Darby 's gifts of ubiquity were somewhat remarkable ; or , lastly , -LRB- and the thought was not a pleasant one , -RRB- was this the domicile of Anthony Basset , Esq. , attorney-at-law ? 
Well , maybe you 'll have this -- Here 's the bloody and cruel outrage com-mitted by the yeomen on the body of a dacent and respectable young man , by the name of Darby M'Keown , with the full and true account of how he was inhumanly stabbed and murdered on the 8th day of July -- '' `` Ay , give me that ; I hope they 've done for that scoundrel ; I have been on his track three years . '' 
`` Buy one , master , '' said he , and as he spoke he turned completely round , so as only to be observed by myself , and as suddenly the whole expression of his vacant features changed like magic , and I saw before me the well-known face of Darby himself . 
`` Yes , sir ; here it is , '' and with that he pulled off his tattered hat , and withdrew a letter which lay concealed within the lining . '' 
'T is sixpence you ought to be afther givin ' me this mornin ' , major , '' continued he , in an insinuating tone of voice ; `` the devil a less than twenty-one mile it is out of this , not to spake of the danger I ran , and the boys out on every side o ' me . '' 
asked the major , as he broke the seal of the letter . 
`` And you wo n't buy Darby , sir ? '' 
I had neither seen Barton nor Basset since the day of my leave-taking ; and , stranger still , never could meet with Darby , who seemed to have deserted Dublin . 
The wreck of the party he belonged to seemed now effectually accomplished , and the prospect of Irish independence was lost , as it seemed , for ever . 
cried I , in amazement , `` it surely can not be -- Darby , is this really you ? '' 
But Darby heard me not : his eyes were fixed on vacancy , and his lips moved rapidly as though he were speaking to himself . 
`` Ay , '' said he half aloud , `` true enough , 't is the gentlemen that betrayed us always -- never came good of the cause where they took a part . 
But you '' -- here he turned full round , and grasping my arm , spoke directly to me -- `` you that I loved better than my own kith and kin , that I thought would one day be a pride and glory to us all -- you that I brought over myself to the cause -- '' `` And when have I deserted -- when have I betrayed it ? '' 
repeated he , in a tone of mocking irony . 
'T is no wonder ye left us ; we were poor and humble people , we had nothing at heart but the good cause -- '' `` Stop , '' cried I , maddened by his taunts -- `` what could I have done ? 
`` You wrong them , Darby , and you wrong me . 
`` As to myself , '' said I , for there was no use in attempting to reason with him further , `` my every wish is with the cause as warmly as on the day we parted ; but I look to France -- '' `` Ay , and why not ? 
`` Yes , Darby , '' said I , after a pause , `` and I had not been here now , but that the only means I possessed of forwarding myself in the French service are unfortunately lost to me . '' 
interrupted he eagerly . 
Darby stooped down as I spoke , and ripping open the lining of his cloak , produced a small parcel fastened with a cord saying -- `` Are these what you mean ? '' 
`` How came you by these , Darby ? '' 
`` If it is , it 's mine then , '' said Darby , doggedly , and after a pause he continued -- `` the soldier galloped up the very minute I was stooping for the papers ; he called out to me to give them up , but I pretended not to hear , and took a long look round to see what way I could escape where his horse could n't follow me ; but he saw what I was at , and the same instant his sabre was in my shoulder , and the blood running hot down my arm -- I fell on my knees , but if I did , I took this from my breast , '' here he drew forth a long-barrelled rusty pistol , `` and shot him through the neck . '' 
The easy indifference with which he spoke , the tone of coolness in which he narrated this circumstance , thrilled through me far more painfully than the most passionate description ; and I stood gazing on him with a feeling of dread , that unhappily my features but too plainly indicated . 
He seemed to know what was passing in my mind , and , as if stung by what he deemed my ingratitude for the service he rendered me , his face grew darkly red , the swollen veins stood out thick and knotted in his forehead , his livid lips quivered , and he said in a thick guttural voice -- `` Maybe ye think I murdered him ? '' 
And then as I made no answer , he resumed in a different tone -- `` And , faix , ye war n't long larnin ' their lessons . 
I do n't think ye 're come to that yet ; for if I did , by the mortial -- '' As he pronounced the last word , in a tone of the fiercest menace , the sounds of many voices talking without , and the noise of a key turning in the lock , broke in upon our colloquy ; and Darby had barely time to resume his disguise when Bubbleton entered , followed by three of his brother officers , all speaking together , and in accents that evidently betokened their having drank somewhat freely . 
At this instant his eye fell upon Darby , who had quietly ensconced himself behind the door , and hoped to escape unseen . 
The young gentleman was buying a ballad from me , the heavens prosper him , '' said Darby . 
I thought this a good opportunity for Darby to effect his escape , and , raising my hand noiselessly , I pointed to the door . 
Darby , who had been only waiting for the fortunate moment , stole quietly towards it ; but , while his hand was on the lock , Crofts lifted his eyes towards me , and then throwing them half round , intimated at once that he observed the manoeuvre . 
The blood suffused my face and temples , and though I saw the door close behind the piper , I could not recover from my embarrassment , or the fear that pressed on me , lest Crofts should have penetrated the secret of Darby 's disguise , and augured from the fact something to my discredit . 
`` The game is now arranged , '' said he . 
`` Why you 've lost , that 's all , '' said the other , as he looked intently on the table , and seemed to consider the point . 
In a second I was on my feet ; my senses were reeling and uncertain , but I could see that it was Darby who came to my rescue , and who was now binding a sash round my wound to staunch the blood . 
`` Now for it -- life or death 's on it now , '' said he , in a low , but distinct whisper ; `` wipe the blood from your face , and be calm as you can when you 're passing the sentry . '' 
Darby raised one arm , and as he let it go , it fell heavily on the ground ; he stooped down and , placing his lips near the mouth , endeavoured to ascertain if he breathed , and then jumping to his feet he seized my arm , and in a tone I shall never forget , he said -- `` It 's over now . '' 
I tottered back as he spoke ; the horrible thought of murder -- the frightful sense of crime -- the heaviest , the blackest that can stain the heart of man -- stunned me : my senses reeled , and as I looked on that corpse stretched at my feet , I would have suffered my every bone to be broken on the rack , to see one quiver of life animate its rigid members . 
Meanwhile , Darby was kneeling down , and seemed to search for something beside the body . 
`` All right -- come now , '' said he , `` we must be far from this before day-break ; and it 's lucky if we 've the means to do it . '' 
I moved onward like one walking in a dream , when horrible images surround him , and dreadful thoughts are ever crowding fast ; but where , amid all , some glimmering sense of hope sustains him , and he half feels that the terrors will pass away , and his soul be calm and tranquil once more . 
was the ever rising question , as I heard Darby groping his way along the dark gallery , and the darker stairs . 
`` Be steady now , '' said he , in a whisper , `` we 're at the gate . '' 
`` A friend , '' said Darby , in a feigned voice , answering for me , while he dropped behind me . 
`` Lean on me , and do n't speak , '' said Darby . 
I walked on without further questioning , and almost without thought ; and though , from time to time , Darby spoke to several persons as we passed , I heard not what they said , nor took any notice of them . 
said Darby , as I staggered heavily against him , and gasped twice or thrice for breath . 
was his next question , while he passed his hand gently within the sash , and felt my wound . 
I endeavoured to mutter something in reply , to which he paid no attention -- but , stooping down , he threw me across his shoulder , and darting off at a more rapid pace than before , he left the more frequented thoroughfare , and entered a narrow and gloomy alley , unlighted by a single lamp . 
As he hurried onward he stopped more than once , as in quest of some particular spot , but which in the darkness he was unable to detect . 
Holy Mother ! '' 
`` This must be it -- ay , here it is , '' said Darby , as he laid me gently down on the stone sill of the door , and knocked loudly with his knuckles . 
The summons , though repeated three or four times , was unheeded -- and although he knocked loudly enough to have alarmed the neighbourhood , and called out at the top of his voice , no one came -- and the only sounds we could hear were the distant cadences of a drinking song , mingled with wild shouts of laughter , and still wilder cries of agony and woe . 
`` Here they are , at last , '' said Darby , as he almost staved in the door with a heavy stone . 
`` 'T is me , Molly -- 't is Darby M'Keown . 
`` I 'll break open the door this minit , '' said Darby , with a horrible oath , `` av ye do n't open it . '' 
`` If ye wor Darby M'Keown ye 'd know well how easy that is -- try it -- try it , acushla ! 
`` See , now , '' said Darby , dropping his voice to a whisper -- `` see , Molly , here 's five goold guineas for ye , av ye 'll let us in -- 't is a man 's life 's on it , and one I 'd give my own for twice over . '' 
`` Av ye offered me forty , '' replied she , `` I dar n't do it . 
I 'm coming , I 'm coming , '' muttered she to some call from within , and then , without waiting to hear more , she shuffled back along the passage , and left us once more alone . 
`` There 's nothing for it but this now , '' said Darby , as retiring a few paces , he dashed his shoulder against the door with all his force ; but , though a powerful man , and though every window rattled and trembled with the tremendous shock , the strong panels withstood the stroke , and never yielded in the least . '' 
'T is no use , firing through the lock , '' said he , in a tone of despair . 
As he spoke , the light tread of a bare-footed child was heard coming up the lane , and the same moment a little girl approached the door , she carried a cup in her hand , and held it carefully , as if fearful of spilling its contents : as she neared the door , she seemed uncertain how to proceed , and at last , as if gaining courage , tapped twice at it with her knuckles . 
said Darby ; `` do n't ye know Darby the Blast ? '' 
I 'm bringing him this to take , but -- '' `` Nora , dear , '' said Darby , `` I 've a secret for Mr. Fortescue , and must see him before he dies . 
Here he stooped down , and whispered rapidly some words in her ear . 
`` Come in quick , then , '' said the crone , as she opened the door carefully , and only wide enough to let the child pass -- but the same instant Darby dashed forward his foot , and flinging the door full wide , seized me by the collar and dragged me in , after him , closing the door at once behind him . 
The screams of the hag , though loud and vehement , were as unheeded as were Darby 's own efforts to attract notice half an hour before . 
The cold air of the street , and the rest combined , had given me strength , and I was able to follow Darby , as he led the way through many a passage , and up more than one stair . 
`` Go in now , '' said Darby , in a whisper to the child , `` I 'll follow you . '' 
The little girl gently pushed the door and entered , followed by M'Keown , who , however , only advanced one foot within the room , as if doubting what reception he should meet with . 
I had barely time to see this much , when the figure beside the bed sprang forward , and in a low but menacing tone addressed M'Keown . 
`` And if he does , '' said Darby , doggedly , `` who cares . 
Look here . '' 
He dragged me forward as he spoke , and , tearing open my coat , pointed to the sash that was now saturated with the blood that flowed at every stir from my wound . 
The other looked fixedly at me for a second or two , took my hand within his , and , letting it fall heavily , he whispered a word to M'Keown , and turned away . 
`` No , no , '' cried Darby , violently : `` by the holy mass ! 
Sit down , Master Tom , '' said he , as he forced me into an old arm-chair beside the fire . 
Come here , doctor ; come here , now , stop the bleeding ; stand by me this wonst , and by this -- '' Here he crossed his fingers before him and looked fervently upwards ; but at this instant the sick man sprang up in his bed , and looked wildly about him . 
`` Is n't that Darby -- is n't that M'Keown there ? '' 
`` Darby , '' he continued , in a low clear whisper , `` Darby , see here , my boy ; you often said I 'd do nothing for the cause . 
`` Is it nothing that I gave up rank , and place , and fortune , the broad acres that were in my family for three centuries -- all my hopes , all my prospects -- '' `` And if you did , '' interrupted M'Keown , hastily , `` you knew what for . '' 
`` Was he there , '' said Darby to the doctor , with a significant emphasis on the word -- `` was he there to-night ? '' 
-- That child is going fast , '' continued he , as his eye fell upon me . 
`` Look to him , then , and do n't be losin ' time , '' said Darby , fiercely ; `` look to him , '' he added more mildly , `` and the heavens will bless ye . 
The old man knelt down beside me , and slipping a scissors within the scarf that lay fastened to my side with clotted blood , he proceeded to open and expose the situation of my wound . 
The doctor sat beside the sick man 's bed , and Darby , his eyes rivetted on me , knelt close to my chair , and held his hand upon the bandage over my wound . 
The old man nodded in silence , and then turning towards Darby he whispered something in his ear . 
M'Keown sprung to his legs at once , his cheek flushed deeply , and his eyes sparkled with animation . 
cried he -- `` there never was such luck for us before . '' 
With that he drew the old man to one side , and speaking to him in a low , but rapid tone , evinced by the violence of his gesture , and the tremulous eagerness of his voice , how deeply he was interested . 
said Darby , pointing towards me with his finger ; `` that 's all I ask . 
As he spoke , he took from a cupboard in the wall a small vial , which he handed to M'Keown , who received the precious elixir with as much reverence as though it contained the very well-spring of human existence . 
`` And now , '' said Darby , `` the less time lost the better . 
I made another attempt to stand up , but before I could effect it , Darby 's strong arms were round my waist , and I felt myself lifted on his shoulder , and borne from the room ; a muttered good-by passed between the others , and Darby began to descend the stair cautiously , while the little child went before with a candle . 
As the street-door was opened , I could perceive that a car and horse stood in waiting , accompanied by two men , who -- the moment they saw me -- sprang forward to Darby 's assistance , and helped to place me on the car . 
M'Keown was soon beside me , and supporting my head upon his shoulder , he contrived to hold me in a leaning position , giving me at the same time the full benefit of the fresh breeze , which already refreshed and restored me . 
Darby frequently questioned me , but my utmost effort at reply was to press his hand . 
From my dark musings I was roused suddenly by Darby 's voice , asking of the men who sat at the opposite side , `` how the wind was ? '' 
I lifted my eyes as he spoke , and beheld the pink stain of coming day rising above the top of a large mountain . 
`` That 's Howth , '' said Darby , `` seizing with eagerness the proof of my returning senses . 
said Darby , in a low whisper . 
Darby 's eyes brightened as I spoke , he pressed my hand firmly within his , but made me no reply . 
Attributing his silence to caution , I pressed him no further -- and , indeed , already my former indifference came back on me , and I felt listless as before . 
`` No , no , '' said Darby , `` put him on my back , I 'll do it myself . '' 
With that , he lifted me from the car , and placing me between Darby and himself , they grasped each other 's hands beneath me , and soon began a descent , which I saw would have been perfectly impracticable for one man to have accomplished with another on his back . 
During the time , my desire to know where they were bringing me again grew stronger than ever -- and as I turned to ask Darby , I perceived that the tears were coursing each other fast down his weatherbeaten cheeks , while his lips shook and trembled like one in an ague . 
But Darby could not speak one word . 
A livid pallor was over his features , and the tears fell , drop by drop , upon his cheek . 
`` Master Tom , '' said he , at length , as his lips almost touched me -- `` my child , my heart 's blood , you wo n't forget poor Darby . 
`` One minit more , and God love ye for it , '' said Darby , in a voice of imploring accent -- `` who knows will we ever meet again . 
I could but press his hand to my heart ; for my agitation increased the debility I felt , and every effort to speak was in vain . 
`` One half minit more -- if it 's only that he 'll be able to say , ` God bless you , Darby , ' and I 'll be happy . '' 
What a change had the time , short as it was , worked in all my opinions ; how completely had I unlearned all the teaching of my early instructor , poor Darby ; how had I been taught to think that glory was the real element of war , and that its cause was of far less moment than its conduct . 
`` Darby ! 
What of him , Bubbleton ; they did not take him , I trust ? '' 
When I came to this part of my story , the stranger became unusually attentive , and more than once questioned me respecting the origin of my quarrel with Crofts , and the timely appearance of Darby , of whose name and character , however , I gave him no information , merely speaking of him as an old and attached follower of my family . 
`` Since that period , then , you have not been in Ireland , '' said he , as I concluded . 
Darby was arraigned four several times , but always acquitted . 
Now , it was defective evidence -- now , a lenient jury -- now , an informal indictment -- but so was it , he escaped the meshes of the law , though every one knew him guilty of a hundred offences . 
Darby was arrested in Ennis -- thrown into jail -- kept four weeks in a dark cell , on prison fare -- and at the end , one morning , the hangman appeared to say his hour was come , and that the warrant for his execution had arrived . 
Until that moment I believed Darby had repossessed himself of the assignat when Crofts lay insensible on the ground -- at least I remembered well that he stooped over him and appeared to take something from him . 
With the steadiness of purpose truth inspires , and in few words , I narrated the whole of my adventure with Crofts , down to the moment of Darby 's sudden appearance . 
I then told of Darby 's appearance that night in the barrack , disguised as a ballad-singer -- how in this capacity he passed the sentry , and was present in the room when the officers entered to decide the wager -- that he had quitted it soon after their departure , and only returned on hearing the noise of the scuffle between Crofts and myself . 
''' With this brief preface I told how Darby had brought me to a house in an obscure street , in which a man , apparently dying , was stretched upon a miserable bed -- that while my wound was being dressed , a car came to the door with the intention of conveying the sick man away somewhere . 
In a few sentences , he explained that a large reward was at that very moment offered for the apprehension of Darby , who never would have ventured , under any disguise , to approach the capital -- much less trust himself within the walls of a barrack . 
The prisoner appeals also to the absent , but with less of reason ; for if we could call this man , M'Keown , before us -- if , I say , we had this same Darby M'Keown in court -- '' A tremendous uproar in the hall without drowned the remainder of the sentence , and although the crier loudly proclaimed silence , and the bench twice interposed its authority to enforce it , the tumult continued , and eventually extended within the court itself , where all semblance of respect seemed suddenly annihilated . 
`` Your lordship was asking for Darby M'Keown , and it is n't himself 's ashamed of the name ! '' 
And now , raised upon the shoulders of the crowd , Darby appeared , borne aloft in triumph ; his broad and daring face , bronzed with sun and weather , glowed with a look of reckless effrontery , which no awe of the court , nor any fear for himself was able to repress . 
This point being speedily established in my favour , another and a graver question raised -- how far the testimony of a convicted felon -- for such the lawyer at once called Darby -- could be received as evidence . 
An eager and animated discussion ensued , in which my advocate was assisted by the advice of some senior counsel , and again the point was ruled in my favour , and Darby M'Keown was desired to mount the table . 
Darby 's appearance was the climax of this popular enthusiasm . 
His air and demeanour , as he took his seat on the table , seemed an acknowledgment of the homage rendered him ; for though as he placed his worn and ragged hat beside his feet , and stroked down his short black hair on his forehead , a careless observer might have suspected him of feeling awed and abashed by the presence in which he sat , one more conversant with his countrymen would have detected in the quiet leer of his roguish black eye , and a certain protrusion of his thick under lip , that Darby was as perfectly at his ease there as the eminent judge was , who now fixed his eyes upon him . 
A short , but not disrespectful nod was the only notice he bestowed on me , and then concealing his joined hands within his sleeves , and drawing his legs back beneath the chair , he assumed that attitude of mock humility your least bashful Irishman is so commonly fond of . 
Never did a matador survey the brawny animal with which he was about to contend in skill or strength , with more critical acumen , than did the lawyer regard Darby the Blast ; nor was the object of this examination unaware of it . 
Very far from this , indeed ; he seemed pleased by the degree of attention bestowed on him , and felt all the flattery such notice conveyed ; but while doing so , you could only detect his satisfaction in an occasional side-long look of drollery , which , brief and flitting as it was , had still a numerous body of admirers through the court , whose muttered expressions of `` Divil fear ye , Darby , but ye 're up to them any day ; '' or `` Faix , 't is himself cares little about them , '' showed they had no lack of confidence in the piper . 
`` Your name is M'Keown , sir ? '' 
`` Yes , sir -- Darby M'Keown . '' 
`` They do call me ` Darby the Blast ' betimes , av that 's name . '' 
`` They say , sir , '' said Darby , and as he spoke his voice assumed a peculiar lisp , meant to express great modesty , `` they say , sir , that when a man has a big wart on his nose there , like yer honour , it 's not lucky to bate him , for that 's the way the divil marks his own . '' 
This time the decorum of the court gave way entirely , and the unwashed faces which filled the avenues and passages were all expanded in open laughter ; nor was it easy to restore order again amid the many marks of approval and encouragement bestowed on Darby by his numerous admirers . 
`` Yes , my lord , '' said Darby , with an air of submission . '' 
Here a burst of laughter at the recollection seemed to escape Darby so naturally , that its contagious effects were felt throughout the assembly . 
said Darby , with an energy of tone and manner very different from what he had hitherto used . 
As the poor fellow 's cheek flushed , and his eye sparkled with proud emotion , I could perceive that the lawyer 's face underwent a change equally rapid . 
`` A very natural thing it is , Darby , that he should call you so . 
You were companions at an early period -- at least of his life ; -- fellow-travellers , too , if I do n't mistake . '' 
Although these words were spoken in a tone of careless freedom , and intended to encourage Darby to some expansion on the same theme , the cunning fellow had recovered all his habitual self-possession , and merely answered , if answer it could be called -- `` I was a poor man , sir , and lived by the pipes . '' 
Each seemed to say , it was a drawn battle ; but the lawyer returned with vigour to the charge , desiring Darby to mention the manner in which our first acquaintance began , and how the intimacy was originally formed . 
Indeed , he laid great stress on the fact that my acquaintance with Charles de Meudon had withdrawn me from all relations with the insurgent party , between whom and the French allies feelings of open dislike and distrust existed . 
`` Faix , I 'd know his skin upon a bush , '' said Darby , `` av he was like what I remember him ; but sure he may be changed since that . 
Darby rose from his seat , and shading his eyes with his hand , took a deliberate survey of the court . 
Though well knowing , from past experience , in what part of the assembly the person he sought would probably be , he seized the occasion to scrutinize the features of the various persons , whom , under no other pretence , could he have examined . 
`` It 's not on the bench , sir , you need look for him , '' said the lawyer , as M'Keown remained for a considerable time with his eyes bent in that direction . 
`` Bedad there 's no knowing , '' rejoined Darby , doubtfully ; `` av he was dressed up that way , I would n't know him from an ould ram . '' 
He turned round as he said this , and gazed steadfastly towards the bar . 
Should Darby make any mistake in the identity of Crofts , his whole testimony would be so weakened in the opinion of the jury , as to be nearly valueless . 
I watched his eyes , therefore , as they ranged over the crowded mass , with a palpitating heart ; and when , at last , his glance settled on a far part of the court , very distant from that occupied by Crofts , I grew almost sick with apprehension , lest he should mistake another for him . 
`` Arrah its humbugging me yez are , '' said Darby , roughly , while he threw himself down into his chair in apparent ill temper . 
A loud burst of laughter broke from the bar at this sudden ebullition of passion , so admirably feigned that none suspected its reality ; and while the sounds of mirth were subsiding , Darby dropped his head , and placed his hand above his ear . 
`` There it is , by gorra ; there 's no mistaking that laugh , anyhow , '' cried he ; `` there 's a screech in it might plaze an owl , '' and with that he turned abruptly round and faced the bench where Crofts was seated . 
`` I know nothing about Sir Montague , '' said Darby , composedly , while rising he walked over towards the edge of the table where Crofts was sitting ; `` but I 'll swear that 's the same Captain Crofts that I knocked down while he was shortening his sword to run it through Master Burke ; and by the same token , he has a cut in the skull , where he fell on the fender , '' and before the other could prevent it , he stretched out his hand , and placed it on the back of the crown of Croft 's head . 
The examination was resumed , but Darby 's evidence tallied so accurately with my statement , that its continuance only weakened the case for the prosecution . 
From that moment it was clear the jury to a man were with Darby . 
They paid implicit attention to all he said , and made notes of every trivial fact he mentioned ; while he , as if divining the impression he had made , became rigorously cautious that not a particle of his evidence could be shaken , nor the effect of his testimony weakened by even a passing phrase of exaggeration . 
The examination lasted three hours , and at its conclusion , every fact I stated had received confirmation from Darby 's testimony , down to the moment when we left the barrack together . 
`` Now , M'Keown , '' said the lawyer , `` I am about to call your recollection , which is so wonderfully accurate , that it can give you no trouble in remembering , to a circumstance which immediately followed this affair . '' 
A brief dialogue ensued between them , at the conclusion of which the lawyer turned round , and addressing Darby , said -- `` You may go down , sir , I 've done with you . '' 
Darby 's eyes flashed with unwonted brilliancy , and I thought I caught a glance of triumphant meaning towards Crofts , as he began his recital , which was in substance nothing more than what the reader already knows -- when he came to the mention of Fortescue 's name , however , Crofts , whose excitement was increasing at each moment , lost all command over himself , and cried out , `` It 's false -- every word untrue -- the man was dead at the time . '' 
The court rebuked the interruption , and Darby went on . 
It was ruled , at last , the evidence should be heard , as touching the case on trial , and not immediately as regarded Crofts ; and then Darby began a recital , of which I had never heard a syllable before , nor had I conceived the slightest suspicion . 
Such was , in substance , the singular story which was now told before the court -- told without any effort at concealment or reserve -- and to the proof of which M'Keown was willing to proceed at once . 
`` This , my lord , '' said Darby as he concluded , `` is a good time and place to give back to Mr. Crofts a trifling article I took from him the night at the barracks . 
With that he produced a strong black leather pocket-book , fastened by a steel clasp . 
No sooner did Crofts behold it than , with the spring of a tiger , he leaped forward and endeavoured to clutch it . 
But Darby was on his guard , and immediately drew back his hand , calling out -- `` No , no , sir ! 
There , my lords , '' said he , as he handed it to the bench , `` there 's his pocket-book , with plenty of notes in it from many a one well known -- Maurice Mulcahy among the rest -- and you 'll soon see who it was first tempted Fortescue to ruin , and who paid the money for doing it . '' 
A burst of horror and astonishment broke from the assembled crowd as Darby spoke . 
`` Faix , and for a dead man he has a remarkable appetite , '' said Darby , `` and an elegant colour in his face besides , for there he stands , '' and as he spoke he pointed with his finger to a man who was leaning with folded arms against one of the pillars that supported the gallery . 
Every eye was now turned in the direction towards him , while the young barrister called out -- `` Is your name Daniel Fortescue ? '' 
-- but before any answer could follow , several among the lawyers who had known him in his college days , and felt attachment to him , had surrounded and recognized him . 
A scene of tumultuous excitement now ensued , for while Crofts ' friends , many of whom were present , assisted to carry him into the air , others pressed eagerly forward to catch a sight of Fortescue , who had already rivalled Darby himself in the estimation of the spectators . 
As he mounted the witness-table -- for it was finally agreed that his testimony , in disproof or corroboration of M'Keown , should be heard -- a murmur of approbation went round , partly at the daring step he had thus ventured on taking , and partly excited by those personal gifts which are ever certain to have their effect upon any crowded assembly . 
His narrative not only confirmed all that Darby asserted , but also disclosed the atrocious scheme by which he had been first induced to join the ranks of the disaffected party . 
In a party sent on shore for water , Fortescue came up with Darby , who had made his escape from the convict settlement , and was wandering about the woods , almost dead of starvation , and scarcely covered with clothing . 
Mulcahy , who worked in the same gang with Darby , or , to use the piper 's grandiloquent expression , for he burst out in this occasionally , was `` in concatenated proximity to him , '' told the whole story of his own baseness , and loudly inveighed against Crofts for deserting him in his misfortunes . 
The pocket-book taken from Crofts by Darby , amply corroborated this statement . 
`` Here , '' continued Barton , `` is the warrant for your committal ; and you also , Darby , '' said he , turning round , `` we want your company once more in Newgate . '' 
`` Faix , maybe you 'll not be for letting him out so aisy , '' said Darby , drily , for his notions of justice were tempered by a considerable dash of suspicion . 
`` And for Darby M'Keown , '' whispered he . 
`` What of him ? '' 
`` I 'll have him free . 
I have the whole papers by me ; and a statement to the privy council will obtain his liberation . '' 
`` This evening , be it , if it hasten M'Keown 's liberation . 
My influence was enabled to procure the liberation of M'Keown ; and my interference in his behalf mainly contributed to procure for Fortescue the royal pardon . 
From `` Darby the Blast , '' for he was now a member of my household , I learned the light in which I was regarded by the people , and heard the dissatisfaction they expressed that one who `` sarved Boney , '' should not be ready to head a rising , if need be . 
Terrified at the ravages a few weeks had made in my health , and fearful what secret malady was preying upon me , Darby , without asking any leave from me , left the house one morning at daybreak , and returned with the physician of the neighbouring town . 
