`` Have ye looked to the stranger agin , Ella , and moisted his bandage ? '' 
`` And how appeared he , Ella ? '' 
`` I judged not , '' answered Ella ; `` though from his tranquil sleep , I argued favorably of his case . '' 
` Spose you look at him agin , Ella ; or , stay , I 'll look myself . 
As the speaker concluded , she advanced to where the object of her remarks was lying , and drawing aside , in a gentle manner , some of the skins near his head , gazed upon him . 
O Lord o ' marey , Ella , child , do come here ! '' 
Behind her , with a timid step , stole up Ella , and , peeping over her shoulders , encountered the eyes of the young man beaming upon her , with a look which her acute perception advised her was any thing but insane ; and instantly starting back , the blood rushed upward , crimsoning her neck and face with a beautiful glow . 
As for Reynolds , in whom , as already stated , the voice of Ella alone was sufficient to awaken a thrill of pleasure , no sooner did he behold her , though but for an instant , than he felt that thrill revived with a sensation , which , in spite of himself , he knew was expressed in his own countenance ; and he hastoned to speak , in order as much as possible to conceal it . 
`` Thar , thar , Ella , child ! '' 
Why you 're in the cabin o ' Ben Younker -- as honest a man as ever shot a painter -- whose my husband , and father of Isaac Younker , what brought ye here , according to the directions of Colonel Boone , arter you war shot by the Injens -- the varmints -- three days ago ; and uncle of Ella Barnwell here , as I calls daughter , 'cause her parents is dead , poor creaters , and she had n't a home to go to , but come 'd to live with us , that are fetching her up in a dutiful way ; '' and the good woman concluded her lucid account of family matters with a sound that much resembled a person taking breath after some laborious exertion . 
`` And Ella , the darling , has tended on ye like you war her own nateral born brother ; and Isaac , and Ben , and , myself ha ' tended on ye too , while you war raving and running on at an orful rate -- though you 've had the best bed , and best o ' every thing we 've got in the house . '' 
`` For all of which I am at a loss for terms to express my gratitude , '' returned Reynolds , coloring slightly as he thought of the assiduous attentions he had unconsciously received from Ella Barnwell , who already began to be an object in his eyes of no little importance . 
Ella , child , -- do n't you say so ? '' 
`` No one , save the gentleman himself , or his dearest friends , can be more rejoiced at his favorable symptoms than myself , '' responded Ella , timidly , in a voice so low , sweet and touching , that Reynolds , who heard without seeing her -- for she kept the rude curtain of skins between them -- felt his heart beat strangely , while his eyes involuntarily grew moist . 
`` That 's truly said , gat , -- truly said , I do believe , '' rejoined Mrs. Younker ; `` for she 's hung over you , sir , -LRB- turning to the wounded man -RRB- night and day , like a mother over her child , until we 've had to use right smart authority to make her go to bed , for fear as how she 'd be sick too . '' 
`` Under God , '' repeated the matron , `` that 's true ; I like the way you said that , stranger ; it sounds reverential -- it 's just -- and it raises my respect for you a good deal ; for all our doings is under God 's permit ; '' and she turned her eyes upward , with a devout look , in which position she remained several seconds , while Ella , with her fair hands clasped , followed her example , and seemed , with her moving lips , engaged in prayer . 
Saying thus , Mrs. Younker again disposed the curtains so as to conceal from Reynolds all external objects , and , together with Ella , withdrew , leaving him to repose . 
Whether he profited by her advice immediately , or whether he meditated for some time on other matters , not excluding Ella , we shall leave to the imagination of the reader , while we proceed , by way of episode , to give a general , though brief account , of the Younker family . 
But there is another , and though last , we trust will not prove least in point of interest to the reader , with whom we shall close this episodical history -- namely -- Ella Barnwell . 
The mother of Ella -- a half sister to the elder Younker -- died when she was very young , leaving her to the care of a kind and indulgent father , who , having no other child , lavished on her his whole affections . 
At the demise of his wife , Barnwell was a prosperous , if not wealthy merchant , in one of the eastern cities of Virginia ; and knowing the instability of wealth , together with his desire to fit his daughter for any station in society , he spared no expense necessary to educate her in all the different branches of English usually studied by a female . 
To this was added drawing , needle work , music and dancing ; and as Ella proved by no means a backward scholar in whatever she undertook , she was , at the age of fifteen , to use a familiar phrase , turned out an accomplished young lady . 
Naturally high spirited and proud , this misfortune and persecution proved too much for his philosophy -- and what was more , his reason -- and in a state of mental derangement , he one night hung himself to the bars of his prison window -- leaving his daughter at the age we have named , a poor , unprotected , we might almost add friendless , orphan ; for moneyless and friendless are too often synonymous terms , as poor Ella soon learned to her mortification and sorrow . 
Ella Barnwell the young , the beautiful and accomplished heiress , was a very different personage from poor Ella Barnwell the bankrupt 's daughter ; and those who had fawned around and flattered and courted the one , now saw proper to pass the other by in silent contempt . 
It was a hard , a very hard lesson for one at the tender age of Ella , who had been petted and pampered all her life , and taught by her own simplicity of heart to look upon all pretenders as real friends -- it was a hard lesson , we say , for one of her years , to be forced at one bold stroke to learn the world , and see her happy artless dreams vanish like froth from the foaming cup ; but if hard , it was salutary -- at least with her -- and instead of blasting in the bud , as it might have done a frailer flower , it set her reason to work , destroyed the romantic sentimentalism usually attached to females of that excitable age , taught her to rely more upon herself and less upon others , more upon actions and less upon words , and , in short , made a strong minded woman of her at once . 
Yet this was not accomplished without many a heart rending pang , as the briny tears of chagrin , disappointment , and almost hopeless destitution , that nightly chased each other down the pale cheeks of Ella Barnwell to the pillow which supported her feverish head , for weeks , and even months , after the death of her father , could well attest . 
The father of Ella was an Englishman , who had emigrated to this country a few years previous to his marriage ; and as noue of his near relations had seen proper to follow his example , Ella , on his side , was left entirely destitute of any to whom she could apply for assistance and protection . 
On her mother 's side , she knew of none who would be likely to assist her so readily as her half uncle , Benjamin Younker , whom she remembered as having seen at the funeral of her mother , and who then , taking her in his brawny arms , while the tears dimmed his eyes , in a solemn , impressive manner told her , that in the ups and downs of life , should she ever stand in need of another 's strong arm or purse , to call on him , and that while blest with either himself , she should not want . 
This at the time had made a deep impression on her youthful mind , but latterly had been nearly or quite obliterated , until retouched by feeling the want of that aid then so solemly and generously tendered . 
Accordingly , after trying some of her supposed true-hearted friends , -- who had more than once been sharers in her generosity , and who , in return , had professed the most devoted attachment -- but who now , in her distress , unkindly treated her urgent requests with cold neglect , -- Ella hastened to make her situation known to her uncle ; the result of which had been her adoption into a family , who , if not graced with that refinement and education to which she had been accustomed , at least possessed virtues that many of the refined and learned were strangers to -- namely -- truth , honesty , benevolence and fidelity . 
Ella , in her new situation , with her altered views of society in general , soon grew to love her benefactor and his family , and take that sincere pleasure in their rude ways , which , at one time , she would have considered as next to impossible . 
With a happy faculty belonging only to the few , she managed to work herself into their affections , by little and little , almost imperceptibly , until ere they were aware of the fact themselves , she was looked upon rather as a daughter and sister , than a more distant relation . 
In sooth , the former appellation the reader has already seen applied to her , during the recorded conversation of the voluble Mrs. Younker -- an appellation which Ella ever took good care to acknowledge by the corresponding title of mother . 
About a year from the period of Ella 's becoming a member of the family , the Younkers had removed , as already stated , to what was then considered the `` Far West , '' and had finally purchased and settled where we find them in the opening of our story . 
In this expedition , Ella -- though somewhat reluctantly -- had accompanied them -- had remained with them ever since -- and was now -- notwithstanding her former lady-like mode of life -- by the prime tuition of Mrs. Younker -- regularly installed into all the mysteries of milking , churning , sewing , baking , spinning and weaving . 
Eighteen years of sunshine and cloud , had served to mould the form of Ella Barnwell into one of peculiar beauty and grace . 
In height she was a little above five feet , had a full round bust , and limbs of that beautiful and airy symetry , which ever give to their possessor an appearance of etherial lightness . 
Her complexion was sufficiently dark to entitle her to the appellation of brunette , though by many it would have been thought too light , perhaps , owing to the soft rich transparency of her skin , through which , by a crimson tint , could be traced the `` tell-tale-blood , '' on the slightest provocation tending to excitement . 
Her features , if examined closely , could not be put down as entirely regular , owing to a very slight defect in the mouth , which otherwise was very handsome , and graced with two plump , pretty , half pouting lips . 
The remainder of her features were decidedly good , and , seen in profile , really beautiful . 
Her eye was a full , soft , animated hazel , that could beam tenderly with love , sparkle brilliantly with wit , or flash scornfully with anger ; but inclining more to the first and second qualities than the last . 
Her eye-brows were well defined , and just sufficiently arched to correspond with the eyes themselves . 
Her forehead was prominent , of a noble cast , and added dignity to her whole appearance . 
Her hair was a rich , dark brown -- fine and glossy -- and although neatly arranged about the head , evidently required but little training to enable it to fall gracefully about her neck in beautiful ringlets . 
The general expression of her face , was a soft bewitching playfulness , that , combined with the half timid , benevolent look , beaming from her large , mild , hazel eye , invariably won upon the beholder at the first glance , and increased upon acquaintance . 
Her voice we have already spoken of as possessing a silvery sweetness ; and if one could be moved at merely seeing her , it only required this addition to complete the charm . 
To all of the foregoing , let us add an ardent temperament -- capable of the most tender , lasting and devoted attachment , when once the affections were placed on an object -- a sweet disposition , modest deportment , and graceful manners , and you have the portrait in full of Ella Barnwell , the orphan , the model of her sex , and the admiration of all who knew her . 
In the vicinity of the bed , along the wall , was a row of pegs , suspending various garments of the occupants , all of which -- with the exception of a few articles , beloging to Ella , procured for her before the death of her father -- were of the plainest and coarsest description . 
In the after part of a day as mild and beautiful as the one with which we opened our narrative , but some four weeks later , Ella Barnwell , needle , work in hand , was seated near the open door leading from the apartment first described to the reader . 
Her head was bent forward , and her eyes were apparently fixed upon her occupation with great intentness -- though a close observer might have detected furtive glances occasionally thrown upon a young man , with a pale and somewhat agitated countenance , who was pacing to fro on the ground without . 
`` Then I must have said some strange things Ella -- I beg pardon -- Miss Barnwell . '' 
`` Have I not requested you , Mr. Reynolds , on more than one occasion , to callme Ella , instead of using the formality of miss , which rather belongs to strangers in fashionable society , than to those dwelling beneath the same roof , in the wilds of Kentucky ? '' 
`` Well , well , Ella , '' rejoined Reynolds , `` I crave pardon for my heedlessness , and promise you , on that score at least , no more cause for offence in future . '' 
said Ella quickly , catching at the word : `` O no -- no -- not offence , Mr. Reynolds ! 
I should be sorry to take offence at what was meant in all kindness , and with true respect ; but somehow I -- that is -- perhaps it may not appear so to others -- but I -- to me it appears studied -- and -- and -- cold ; '' and as she concluded , in a hesitating manner , she quickly bent her head forward , while her cheek crimsoned at the thought , that she might , perhaps , have ventured too far , and laid herself liable to misconstruction . 
`` And yet , Ella , '' returned Reynolds , somewhat playfully , `` you resemble many others I have known , in preaching what you do not practice . 
`` You have reference to my saying Mr.Reynolds , I presume , '' answered Ella ; `` but I see no analogy between the two ; as in addressing you thus , I do but what , under the circumstances , is proper ; and what , doubtless , habit has rendered familiar to your ear ; while , on the other hand , no one ever thinks of calling me any thing but Ella , -- or at the extreme , Ella Barnwell -- and hence all superfluities grate harshly . '' 
`` I trust such is not your case , '' responded , Ella , quickly , while her eyes rested on the other with a searching glance . 
`` O many things , '' returned Ella , `` the half of which I could not repeat ; but more particularly you spoke of troubles at home , and often repeated the name Elvira , with great bitterness . 
`` Good heavens , Ella ! 
`` Not in my hearing , '' answered Ella , while her own face blanched at the sudden vehemence of the other . 
said Reynolds , evidently somewhat relieved , and softening his voice , as he noticed the change in her countenance ; `` people sometimes say strange things , when reason , the great regulator of the tongue , is absent . 
What construction did you put upon my words , Ella ? '' 
`` Why in sooth , '' replied Ella , watching his features closely as she spoke , `` I thought nothing of them , other than to suppose you might formerly have had some trouble ; and that in the chaos of wild images crowding your brain . 
`` Nothing -- until -- '' `` Well , well , '' said Reynolds , quickly , as she hesitated , `` speak out and fear nothing ! '' 
`` Until but now , when you became so agitated , and spoke so vehemently on my repeating your delirious language , '' added Ella , concluding the sentence . 
Well , Ella , '' continued he , addressing her more direct , `` you have heard enough to make you doubtful of my character ; therefore you must needs hear the whole , that you may not judge me worse than I am ; but remember , withal , the tale is for your ear alone . '' 
`` Nay , Mr. Reynolds , if it be a secret I would rather not have it in keeping , '' answered Ella . 
but hear it you must , Ella , for various reasons , from my lips , and then we part -- -LRB- his voice slightly faltered -RRB- we part -- forever ! '' 
gasped Ella , quickly , with a choking sensation , while her features grew pale , and then suddenly flushed , and her work unconsciously dropped from her hand . 
Then , as if ashamed of having betrayed her feelings , she became confused and endeavored to cover the exposure by adding with a forced laugh : `` But realy , Mr. Reynolds , I must crave pardon for my silly behavior -- but your manner of speaking , somehow , startled me -- and -- and I -- before I was aware -- really , it was very silly -- indeed it was , and I pray you overlook it ! '' 
`` Were circumstances not as I have too much reason to fear they are , '' ceturned Reynolds , slowly , sadly and impressively , with his eyes fixed earnestly and even tenderly upon the other , `` I would not exchange that simple expression of yours , Ella , for a mine of gold . 
Nay , turn not your head away , Ella , -- dear Ella , if you will allow me so to address you -- it is better , under the circumstances , that we speak plain and understandingly , as the time of our final separation draweth near . 
Ella , if such be the case , I would to God , for your dear sake , we had never met ! 
But one thing , dear Ella , before I go farther , let me ask : Can you , and will you forgive me , for the manner in which I have conducted myself in your company ? '' 
`` I have nothing to forgive ; and had I , it should be forgiven , '' answered Ella , sweetly , in a timid voice , her hands unconsciously toying with her needle-work , and her face half averted , whereon could be traced the suppressed workings of internal emotion . 
`` Thank you , Ella -- thank you , for taking a weight from my heart . 
`` Name it , '' said Ella , timidly , as the other paused . 
answered Ella , looking up to the other with a pale , anxious countenance . 
For a moment the young man paused , as though undecided as to his reply , while his countenance expressed a look of mortified regret really painful to behold -- so much so , that Ella , moved by this to a feeling of compassion , said : `` I perceive my answer wounds your feelings -- I meant no harm ; go on with your story -- I will listen , and endeavor to concede all you desire . '' 
Saying which , he entered the apartment where the other was sitting , and seating himself a few feet distant from her , after some little hesitation , as if to bring his resolution to the point , thus began . 
This , Ella , I know you think , and I am ready to admit , was wrong -- very wrong ; -- but I make no pretensions to be other than a frail mortal , liable to all the crrors appertaining thereto ; and were this the only sin to be laid to my charge , my conscience were far less troublesome than now . 
`` I determined , I say , to regain my former place in her favor or affection -- whichever you like -- and , to be brief , I apparently succeeded . 
exclaimed Ella , suddenly , who had during the last fow sentences been unconsciously leaning forward , as though to devour each syllable as it was uttered , and who now resumed her former position with a long drawn breath . 
`` Call me Algernon , Ella , I pray you ; it sounds more sweet and friendly . 
Ay , she answered in the negative . 
-- pardon me , Ella -- I -- shot him through the body . '' 
Ella , who had partly risen from her seat , and was listening with breathless attention , now uttered an exclamation of horror and sunk back , with features ghastly pale ; while the other , burying his face in his hands , shook his whole frame with convulsive sobs . 
asked Ella , breathlessly . 
I know not , Ella , and I fear to know . 
`` But not one guilty of murder , Algernon , '' said Ella , energetically . 
`` Amen to that , dear Ella ; and a thousand , thousand thanks , for your sweet words of hope ; they are as balm to my torn and bleeding heart ; but until I knowmy fate , we must not meet again ; and if , oh God ! 
As the eyes of the new comer , after closely scanning Reynolds , rested for the first time upon Ella , there flashed across his ugly features an expression of admiration and surprise -- while the look of suspicion which he had previously exhibited , seemed entirely to disappear . 
`` Then this young lady '' -- slightly bowing to Ella . 
`` Is a more distant relation -- a niece , '' answered Ella , rising as she spoke and disappearing from his sight . 
proceeded to the cow-yard , to assist Isaac in milking ; while Ella burried hither and thither , with almost noiseless activity , to prepare the evening repast . 
In the course of another half hour , the cake was baked and on the table -- Isaac and his mother had entered with the milk -- the announcement was made by Ella that all was ready , and the whole party taking seats around the humble board , proceeded to do justice to the fare before them . 
Occasionally , when he thought no eye was on him , he would steal a glance at Ella , and some times gaze steadily -- like one who is resolved upon a certain event , without being decided as to the exact manner of its accomplishment -- until he found himself observed , when his glance would fall to his plate , or be directed to some other object , with the seeming embarrassment of one caught in some guilty act . 
The face of Ella , too , was paler than usual -- more sad and thoughtful , -- so much so , that it was remarked by Mrs. Younker , who immediately instituted the necessary inquiries concerning her health , and explained to her at some length the most approved method of curing a cold , in case that were the cause . 
So loud , sudden and unexpected was this question put -- for all had been silent some minutes previous -- that Isaac started , blushed , dropped the bread already near enough to his teeth to have felt uncomfortable , had it been capable of feeling , endeavered to catch it , blundered , and finally upset his plate and contents into his lap , in a manner so truly ridieulous , that Ella and Mrs. Younker , unable to restrain their mirth , laughed heartily , while the stranger and Algernon smiled , and the stern features of the father relaxed into an expression of quiet humor seldom seen on his countenance . 
`` Perhaps he was thinking of his dear Peggy , '' said Ella , archly , who was , by the way , very fond of teasing him whenever opportunity presented , and could not even now , despite her previous low spirits , forbear a little innocent raillery -- such being the natural and happy tone of her temperament , that wit and humor were ever ready on the slightest provocation to take the ascendency , as old wine when stirred ever sends its sparkling beads upward . 
asked Isaac , in reply , who having meantime regained his former position , and restored the plate , minus some of its contents , now sat a perfect picture of comical surprise , with his mouth slightly ajar , and his small eyes strained to their utmost and fastened seriously upon the querist as he awaited her answer . 
`` Murder will out , dear Isaac , '' replied Ella , with a ringing laugh , in which she was joined by most of the others , and particularly by the subject of the joke , who perceiving too late for retreat , that he had been betrayed into an acknowledgement of his secret , deemed this his wisest course for defence . 
Mr. Younker , his wife and son all started with looks of surprise at this announcement , while Ella again grew deadly pale , and rising with some little trepidation , retired from the table . 
`` Why , I 'll jest tell you what tis , '' put in Isaac ; `` I 've fixed on you for groomsman , and I ar n't a going to gin in no how ; so unless you want to quarrel , you 'll have to stay ; and more 'n that , it 's spected you 'll see to taking Ella thar , for I know she do n't like to go with any o ' the fellers round here , and I shall gin out she 's going with you , which may be wo n't hurt your feelings none , -- at any rate I know it wo n't hers . '' 
At the mention of Ella , Algernon crimsoned to the eyes , and became so exceedingly confused that he could with difficulty stammer forth , by way of reply , the query as to the time when the important event was expected to take place . 
Isaac thanked him cordially , and the father and mother looked gratified at the result ; Ella he could not see -- she having withdrawn from the table , as previously noted . 
Even Algernon , as he assisted the graceful Ella into her saddle , and then sprang lightly himself upon the back of a high mettled , beautiful steed by her side , could not avoid exhibiting a look of cheerfulness , almost gaiety , in striking contrast to his habitual gloom . 
And this too produced a like effect upon Ella , who , mounted upon a fine spirited , noble animal , and displaying all the ease and grace of an accomplished rider , with her flushed cheek and sparkling eyes , seemed the personification of loveliness . 
Her dress was exceedingly neat , of the fashion and quality worn in the east -- being one she had brought with her on her removal hither . 
A neat hood , surmounted with a green veil , now thrown carelessly back and floating down behind , covered her head and partially concealed a profusion of tasty ringlets . 
Algernon as groomsman came next with Ella , followed in turn by the father and mother of the groom , and then in double file by the whole company -- talking , laughing and full of glee -- to the number of some fifteen couples . 
According to custom , as previously mentioned , the bottle was presented first to Isaac , and then passed in regular order through the lines -- Algernon and Ella merely putting it to their lips without drinking . 
Whatever the cause of his present gloomy state of mind , it was evidently not the ordinary one -- at least not wholly that -- for never before had Ella -LRB- who was in the habit , since their acquaintance , of observing him narrowly -RRB- seen him in such a mood as now . 
This serious change in the appearance of Algernon , was not without its effect upon Ella . 
Naturally of a tender , affectionate and sympathetic disposition , she could not feel at ease when another was suffering , and particularly when that other was one standing so high in her estimation as Algernon Reynolds . 
Naturally , too , possessing light and buoyant spirits -- fond of gaiety where all were gay -- she exhibited on the present occasion the effect of two strong but counteracting passions . 
Her features , if we may be allowed the comparison , were like the noon-day heavens , when filled with the broken clouds of a passing storm . 
-- Now all would be bright and cheerful , and the sun of mirth would sparkle in her eyes ; and anon some dark cloud of dejection would sweep along , shut out the merry light , and cast its shadow drearily over the whole countenance , -- or , to use language without methapor , she would one moment be merry and another sad . 
Toward the last , however , the latter feeling gained the ascendancy , she appeared to take no further share in the meriment of the dance , and had any watched her closely , they might have guesed the cause , from the manner in which she from time to time gazed at the pale face of Algernon . 
About three o'clock in the morning , Algernon and Ella took leave of the company and set out upon their return -- he plending illness as an apology for withdrawing thus early . 
Deep and gloomy were the meditations of Algernon Reynolds , as , in company with Ella Barnwell , he rode slowly along the narrow path which he had traversed , if not with buoyant , at least with far lighter spirits than now , the morning before . 
For some time both Algernon and Ella continued their journey scarcely exchanging a syllable -- she too , as well as himself , being deeply absorbed in no very pleasant reflections . 
She thought of him , of his hard fate , to meet with so many bitter disappointments at an age so young ; and at last -- for no premiditated , no intentional crime -- be forced to fly from home and friends , and all he held dear -- to wander in a far off land , among strangers -- or worse , among the solitudes of the wilderness , -- exposed to a thousand dangers from wild , savage beasts , and wilder and more savage human beings ; and perhaps , withal , be branded as a felon and fugitive from justice . 
Until she saw him , Ella had never known what it was to love -- perchance she did not now , -- but at least she had experienced those fluttering sensations , those deep and strange emotions , those involuntary yearnings of the heart toward some object in his presence -- that aching void in his absence -- which the more experienced would doubtless put down to that cause ; and which no other being had ever even for a moment awakened in her breast . 
For something like half an hour the two rode on together , buried in their own sad reflections , when Ella broke the silence , by saying in a low touching voice : `` You seem sad to-night , Algernon . '' 
Algernon started , sighed heavily , and turning slightly on his sadle , said : `` I am sad , Ella -- very , very sad . '' 
rejoined Ella , gently . 
`` Doubtless you will think it strange , Ella , but the cause I believe to have originated in a waking vision or presentiment . '' 
observed Ella , in return . 
`` Did it never strike you , dear Ella , that we are all strange beings , subject to strange influences , and destined , many of us , to strange ends ? '' 
`` Perhaps I do not understand you , '' replied Ella ; `` but with regard to destiny , I am inclined to think that we in a measure shape our own . 
`` Are there any we do understand , Ella ? '' 
Algernon spoke in a clear , distinct , earnest tone -- in a manner that showed the subject was not new to his thoughts , -- and after a short pause , during which Ella made no reply , he again proceeded . 
inquired Ella , quickly and earnestly . 
`` Against my will and sober reason , dear Ella , I must own I have . 
exclaimed Ella , with a shudder . 
Suddenly -- I know not how nor why -- that ill-looking stranger who lodged one night at your uncle 's , and departed so mysteriously , came up in my mind ; and almost at the same moment , I fancied myself riding with you , dear Ella , through a dark and lonely wood , -- when all of a sudden there came a fierce yell -- several dark , hideous forms , with him among them , swam around me -- I heard you shriek for aid -- and then all became darkness and confusion , from which I was aroused by some one inquiring if I were ill ? 
`` It all seems very strange , Algernon , '' observed Ella , thoughtfully ; `` but it was probably nothing more than a feverish dream , brought about by your exercise acting too sudden and powerfully upon your nervous system , which doubtless has not as yet recovered from the prostration caused by your wound . '' 
`` So I tried to think , dear Ella , '' returned Algernon , with a sigh ; `` but I have not even yet been able to shake off the gloomy impression , that , whatever the cause , it was sent as a warning of danger . 
You said , if I mistake not , you believed each individual capable of shaping his own . '' 
`` I did , '' answered Ella , `` with the exception that I qualified it by saying in a measure . 
No person , I think , has the power of moulding himself to an end which is contrary to the law of nature and his own physical organization ; but at the same time , he has many ways , some good some evil , left open for him to choose , else he were not a free agent . '' 
I look upon every one here , Ella , as a traveller placed upon the great highway called destiny -- with a secret power within that impels him forward , but allows no pause nor retrograde . 
obseryed Ella , inquiringly . 
To Ella the ideas he advanced were , many of them , entirely new ; and she mused thoughtfully upon them , as they rode along , without reply ; while he , becoming warm upon a subject that evidently occupied no inferior place in his mind , went on to speak of the wrongs and abuses which society in general heaped upon the unfortunate , as he termed them -- contrasted the charity of professing Christians of the eighteenth century with that of Christ himself -- and pointed out what he considered the most effectual means of remedy . 
To show that a train of circumstances would frequently force persons against their own will and reason to be what society terms criminal , he referred to himself , and his own so far eventful destiny ; and Ella could not but admit to herself , that , in this case at least , his arguments were well grounded , and she shaped her replies accordingly . 
Drawing rein , Algernon and Ella paused as if to contemplate the scene . 
exclaimed Ella , with animation , as she glanced over the scene . 
`` I have often thought the same myself , '' returned Ella ; `` for I never gaze upon a beautiful scene in nature , but I always feel refreshed therefor . 
Ella , '' said Algernon , turning to her with a gentle smile , `` methinks morning and evening are somewhat indebted to you for a touch of poetry in their behalf . '' 
`` Rather say I am indebted to them for a thousand fine feelings I have not even power to express , '' rejoined Ella . 
Ella noticed this sudden change , and in a voice slightly tremulous inquired the cause . 
Ella also looked down , but seeing nothing worthy of note , and growing somewhat alarmed at his silence , was on the point of addressing him again , when slightly turning his head , and rubbing his eyes with his hand , he said : `` Methought I saw a dark object move in the hollow below ; but I think I must have been mistaken , for all appears quiet there now -- not even a limb or so much as a leaf stirs . 
Lest there should be danger , however , dear Ella , I will ride down first and ascertain . 
exclaimed Ella , with vehemence , laying her hand upon his arm , as he was about starting forward , her own features now growing very pale . 
Algernon turned towards her a face that one moment crimsoned with animation and the next became deadly pale , while his whole frame quivered with intense emotion , and he seemed vainly struggling to command contending feelings . 
Suddenly clusping her hand in his , he pressed it warmly , raised it to his lips , and in a trembling tone said : `` Ella -- dear Ella -- God bless you ! 
and covering his face with his hands , he wept convulsively ; while she , no less deeply affected , could scarcely sit her horse . 
During this operation , he failed not to press Ella to alter her design and remain , while he went forward ; but finding her determined on keeping him company , he signified his readiness to proceed , and both started slowly down the hill together . 
The sun was perhaps an hour above the mountain tops , when a solitary hunter , in the direction of the cane-brake , might have been seen shaping his course toward the hill whereon Algernon and Ella had so lately paused to contemplate the dawning day . 
`` I 'm either mightily mistaken , '' said he at length , with a grave look , `` or that thar horse and saddle is the property of Ben Younker ; and I reckon it 's the same critter as is rid by Elia Barnwell . 
cried the young man supporting the lady ; `` it is Ella Barnwell and the stranger Reynolds ! '' 
As he came up to the carcass of Ella 's horse , he slackened his speed , looked at it earnestly , then gazed cautiously around , and was about to spur his beast onward again , when the sound of Boone 's voice reached his ear , requesting him to pause ; and at the same time , to his astonishment , Boone himself emerged into the path before him . 
`` Why I suppose Ella Barnwell -- Younker 's niece , you know -- and a likely young stranger who war along with her , called Reynolds , have been captured . '' 
Father , mother , Ella and Reynolds -- all gone , and our house in ashes . 
The last comers , as the reader has doubtless conjectured , were Algernon and Ella . 
Meantime the animal which bore the lovely Ella , being wounded by the same fire which had killed her companion 's bounded forward some twenty paces , when a blow on the head with a tomahawk laid him prostrate , and she had been secured also . 
At the sound of his voice , the old man and his wife , both of whom had been too intently occupied with Algerpon and Ella to notice him before , started , and turning their eyes suddenly upon him , simultaneously exclaimed : `` Mr. Williams ! '' 
As he uttered these words , Ella shrieked and fell fainting to the earth . 
Springing to , Girty raised her in his arms , and pointing to her pale features , as he did so , continued : `` See ! 
replied Girty , as he chafed the temples of Ella with his hands ; `` but in a little lower key , or I shall be under the necessity of ordering a stopper to your mouth ; which , saving the tortures of the stake , is the worst punishment for you I can now invent . 
old man , '' cried Girty , casting Ella roughly from him , and starting upright , the perfect picture of a tiend in human shape , `` another word , and your brains shall be scattered to the four winds of heaven ! '' 
Meantime Girty turning to Ella , and finding her gradually recovering , assisted her to rise ; and then motioning the chief aside , he held a short consultation with him , in the Indian dialect , regarding their next proceedings , and the disposal of the prisoners . 
If the unhappy prisoners regretted meeting one another in distress , their parting regrets were an hundred fold more poignant ; for to them it seemed evidently the last time they would ever behold on earth each others faces ; and this thought alone was enough to dim the eyes of Ella and her adopted mother with burning tears , and shake their frames with heart rending sobs of anguish ; while the old man and Algernon , although both strove to be stoical , could not look on unmoved to a similar show of grief . 
Just before entering the stream , they passed through a cluster of bushes that skirted the river 's bank ; and Ella , the only prisoner whose hands were unbound , by a quick and sly movement succeeded in detaching a small portion of her dress , which she there left as a sign to those who might follow , that she was still alive , and so encourage them to proceed , in case they were about to falter and turn back . 
And Ella , my poor sweet cousin , as war raised up in good sarcumstances , and lost her all -- she too I reckon feels kind o ' grateful to you , colonel , besides . '' 
`` Why I do n't know 's it 's exactly right for me to tell as how , '' replied Isaac , shrewdly , who was fearful of saying what Ella herself might wish kept a secret . 
In the course of conversation that followed , it was asked of Boone how he chanced to be in the vicinity , and learnt of the calamity that had befallen Algernon and Ella , before any of the others ; to which he replied , by stating that he was on his way from Boonesborough to Bryan 's Station , and coming into the path just above the ravine , had been indebted to his noble brute companion for the discovery -- a circumstance which raised Cæsar in the estimation of the whole party to a wonderful degree . 
On examination it was recognised as a detached portion of a ribbon worn by Ella ; and this little incident gave great animation and encouragement to the party -- as it proved , that she at least was yet alive , and had a hope of being followed by friends . 
At the river 's bank , the sagacious Cæsar discovered another piece of ribbon -- dropped there as the reader knows by Ella -- which he carried in triumph to his master , and received in turn a few fond caresses . 
The next one you 'll obsarve turns out in like manner ; and though it 's smaller nor the first , it ar n't exactly the shape of Reynolds 's , and it 's too big for Ella 's ; and moreover I opine it 's a woman 's -- though for the matter o ' that I only guess at it . 
`` Why , '' answered Boone , energetically , `` God knows my heart yearns to rescue all my fellow creaters who 're in distress ; but more particularly , prehaps , them as I know 's desarving ; and as I set out for Master Reynolds , and his sweet companion , Ella Barnwell , God bless her ! 
It 's this as troubles me ; for I 'm fearful poor Ella and Reynolds wo n't get succor in time . 
The trail was now broad and distinct , and the footprints of the Indians , as also those of their captives , Algernon and Ella , could be clearly defined wherever the ground chanced to be of a clayey nature . 
The feelings in the breasts of Algernon and Ella , as they reluctantly moved onward , captives to a savage , blood-thirsty foe , are impossible to be described . 
We have previously stated that Ella was left unbound ; but wherefore , would perhaps be hard to conjecture ; unless we suppose that the renegade -- feeling for her that selfish affection which pervades the breasts of all beings , however base or criminal , to a greater or less degree -- fancied it would be adding unnecessary cruelty to bind her delicate hands . 
Whatever the cause , matters but little ; but the fact itself was of considerable importance to Ella , who took advantage of her freedom , in passing the bushes before noticed , to snatch a leaf unperceived , whereon , by great adroitness , she managed to trace with a pin a few almost illegible characters ; and also , in ascending the bank , which she was allowed to do in her own way , to throw down with her foot the stone , break the twig at the same instant , and pin the leaf to it , in the faint hope that an old hunter might follow on the trail , who , if he came to the spot , would hardly fail to notice it . 
The freedom thus given to Ella , and the deference shown her by the renegade and his allies -- who appeared to treat her with the same respect they would have done the wife of their chief -- were in striking contrast with their manners toward Algernon , on whom they seemed disposed to vent their scorn by petty insults . 
This was not for himself alone ; for Algernon was a brave man , and in reality feared not death ; though , like many another brave man , had no desire to die at his time of life , especially with all the tortures of the stake , which he knew , from Girty 's remark , would be his assignment ; -- but his soul was harrowed at the thought of Ella -- her awful doom -- and what she might be called upon to undergo : perhaps a punishment a thousand times worse than death -- that of being the pretended wife , but in reality the mistress , of the loathsome renegade . 
Ella uttered a piercing shriek of fear , and sprung forward to arrest the blow ; but ere she could have reached the renegade , the axe would have been buried to the helve in the brain of Algernon , had not a tall powerful Indian suddenly interposed his rifle between it and the victim . 
Towards night , Ella became so fatigued and exhausted by the long day 's march , that it was with the greatest difficulty she could move forward at all ; and Girty , taking some compassion on her , ordered the party to halt , until a rough kind of litter could be prepared , on which being seated , she was borne forward by four of the Indians . 
Ella , on first perceiving their canoes silently advancing up the stream , and who were their occupants , started up with a cry of joy , which was the next moment saddened , by the thought that she was only welcoming her relatives to a miserable doom . 
Still it was a joy to know they were yet alive ; and as the sinking heart is ever buoyed up with hope , until completely engulfed in the dark billows of despair -- so she could not , or would not , altogether banish the animating feeling , that something might yet interfere to save them all from destruction . 
As the canoes touched the shore , Ella sprang forward to greet her adopted mother and father ; but her course was suddenly checked , by one of the Indian warriors , who , grasping her somewhat roughly by the arm , with a gutteral grunt and fierce gesture of displeasure , pointed her back to her former place . 
Ella , downcast and frightened , tremblingly retraced her steps , and could only observe the pale faces and fatigued looks of her relatives and the little girl at a distance ; but she saw enough to send a thrill of anguish to her heart ; and Girty , who perceived the expressions of agony her sweet features now displayed , at once advanced to her , and , modulating his voice somewhat from its usual tones , said : `` Grieve not , Ella . 
The kindness manifested in the tones of the speaker , caused Ella to look up with a start of surprise and hope ; and thinking he might perhaps be moved to mercy , by a direct appeal to his better feelings , she replied , energetically , with a flush on her now animated countenance : `` O , sir ! 
Here the compression of Girty 's lips , and a knitting together of his shaggy brows , warned Ella she was treading on dangerous ground , and she quickly added : `` All of us are liable to err ; and there may be circumstances , unknown to others , that force us to be , or seem to be , that which in our hearts we are not ; and to do acts which our calm moments of reason tell us are wrong , and which we afterwards sincerely regret . '' 
`` To be more explicit , then , '' rejoined Ella , `` I trust that you , Simon Girty , whose acts hitherto have been such as to draw down reproaches and even curses upon your head , from many of your own race , may now be induced , by the prayer of her before you , to do an act of justice and generosity . '' 
returned Girty , as Ella , evidently fearful of broaching the subject too suddenly , paused , in order to observe the effect of what had already been said . 
rejoined Ella , passionately , as she fancied she saw something of relentment in his stern features . 
cried Ella , energetically . 
Hark you , Ella Barnwell ! 
asked Ella , quickly . 
Girty , toward the last , spoke rapidly , in short sentences , as one to whom the conversation was disagreeable ; and Ella listened breathlessly , with a pale cheek and trembling form ; for she saw , alas ! 
As he concluded , she suddenly started , clasped her hands together , and looked up into his stern countenance , with a wild , thrilling expression , saying , in a trembling voice : `` You have said you love me ! '' 
But I see Wild-cat is getting impatient ; '' and as he concluded , he turned abrutly on his heel , and advanced to Peshewa -- who was now standing with his warriors and prisoners on the bank of the stream , some fifty paces distant , awaiting a consultation with him -- while Ella hid her face in her hands and wept convulsively . 
-- and why the pesky Injens do n't let me and Ella and the rest on 'em come together agin , as we did afore ? 
Thar she stands -- the darling -- as pale nor a lily , and crying like all nater , jest as if her little heart war a going to break and done with it . 
The conclusion was succeeded by a stare of surprise , on being civilly informed by Girty , that she was now at liberty to join Ella as soon as she pleased . 
When informed by Girty , in an authoritive tone , that he must join the detachment of Wild-cat , Algernon turned toward Ella , and in a trembling voice said : `` Farewell , dear Ella ! 
If God wills that we never meet again on earth , let us hope we may in the Land of Spirits ; '' and ere she , overcome by her emotion , had power to reply , he had passed on beyond the reach of her silvery voice . 
By his side , and within two feet of the renegade , lay extended the beautiful form of Ella Barnwell -- with nothing but a blanket and her own garments between her and the earth -- with none but a similar covering over her -- with her head resting upon a stone , and apparently asleep . 
We say apparently asleep ; but the drowsy son of Erebus and Nox had not yet closed her eyelids in slumber ; for there were thoughts in her breast more potent than all his persuasive arts of forgetfulness , or those of his prime minister , Morpheus . 
Was she thinking of her own hard fate -- away there in that lonely forest -- with not a friend nigh that could render her assistance -- with now no hope of escape from the awful doom to which she was hastening ? 
Or was she thinking of him , for whom her heart yearned with all the thousand , undefined , indescribable sympathies of affection ? 
-- he who so lately had been her companion ? 
-- for the heart of love measures duration , not by the cold mathematical calculation of minutes and hours , and days and weeks , and months and years , but by events and feelings ; and the acquaintance of weeks may seem the friend of years , and the acquaintance of years be almost forgotton in weeks ; -- was she thinking of him , we say -- of Algernon ? 
who , even in misery , had been torn from her side , had said perchance his last trembling farewell and gone so suffer a death at which humanity must shudder ! 
Ay , all these thoughts , and a thousand others , were rushing wildly through her feverish brain . 
She thought of her own fate -- of his -- of her relations -- pictured out in her imagination the terrible doom of each -- and her tender heart became wrung to the most excruciating point of agony . 
By the side of Ella , was her adopted mother -- buried in that troubled sleep , which great fatigue sends to the body , even when the mind is ill at ease , filling it with startling visions -- and around the fire , as we said before , lay the dusky forms of the savages , lost to all consciousness of the outer world . 
The position of Ella was such , that , by slightly turning her head , she could command a view of the features of the renegade , whose strange workings , as before noted , served to fix her attention and divide her thoughts , between him , as the cause of her present unhappiness , and that unhappiness itself -- and she gazed on his loathsome , contorted countenance , with much the same feeling as one might be supposed to gaze upon a serpent , coiling itself around his body , whose deadly fangs , either sooner or later , would assuredly give the fatal stroke of death . 
She noted the sudden start of Girty , and the wildness with which he peered around him , with feelings of hope and fear -- hope , that rescue might be at hand -- fear , lest something more dreadful was about to happen . 
At length Girty started again , and turned his head toward Ella so suddenly , that she had not time to withdraw her eyes , ere his were fixed searchingly upon them . 
`` Not when the guilty are abroad , with deeds of death , and friends exposed , '' returned Ella , bitterly . 
`` Well may you muse and writhe under the tortures of your guilty acts , '' continued Ella , in the same bitter tone ; `` for you have much to answer for , Simon Girty . '' 
cried Girty , quickly , turning on her a fierce expression . 
`` Your changing features and guilty starts , '' answered Ella . 
said Girty , pressing the words slowly through his clenched teeth , knitting his shaggy brows , and fixing his eye with intensity upon hers , until she quailed and trembled beneath its seeming fiery glance , which the light , whereby it was seen , rendered more demon-like than usual , while it made shadow chase shadow , like waves of the sea , across his face : `` You have been a spy upon my actions , eh ? 
Ella Barnwell -- beware ! 
had other than you told me what I just now heard , he or she had not lived to repeat it . 
`` Far better an early death and innocence , than a long life of guilt and misery , '' returned Ella , at once regaining her former boldness of speech : `` Far better the fate you speak of , than mine . '' 
replied Ella , energetically , rising as she spoke , into a sitting posture , and looking fearlessly upon the renegade , her previously pale features now flushed with excitement . 
During this speech of Ella , Girty sat and gazed upon her with the look of a baffled demon ; and , as she concluded , fairly hissed through his teeth : `` And so you would prefer death to me , eh ? 
As he spoke , he grasped Ella by the wrist with one hand , seized his tomahawk with the other , and sprang upon his feet . 
His rapid movement and wild manner now really frightened her ; and uttering a faint cry of horror , she endeavored to release his hold ; while the warriors , aroused by the noise , bounded up from the earth , weapon in hand , with looks of alarm . 
Turning to them , Girty now spoke a few words in the Indian tongue , and with significant glances at Ella , they were just in the act of again encamping , when crack went some five or six rifles , followed by yells little less savage than their own , and four of them rolled upon the earth , groaning with pain , while the others , surprised and bewildered , grasped their weapons and shouted : `` The Shemanoes ! '' 
For a moment he stood irresolute -- his nostrils fairly dilated with fear and rage , still holding Ella by the wrist , who was too paralyzed with what she had seen to speak or move -- straining his eyes in every direction to note , if possible , the number of his foes and whence their approach . 
The whole glance was momentary ; but he saw himself nearly surrounded by his enemies , who were fast closing in toward the center with fierce yells ; and pausing no longer in indecision , he encircled Ella 's waist with his left arm , raised her from the ground , and keeping her as much as possible between himself and his enemies , to deter them from firing , darted away toward a thicket , some fifty yards distant , pursued by two of the attacking party . 
Almost at the same moment , Girty received a blow on the back of his head , from the breech of the rifle of his other antagonist , that staggered him forward , when releasing his hold of Ella , he turned and darted off in another direction , firing a pistol as he went , the ball of which whizzed close to the head of him for whom it was designed , and in a moment more he was lost in the mazes of the forest . 
where in marcy 's sake is my dear , darling Ella ! '' 
`` She 's here , mother , '' answered a voice close behind her ; and turning round , the dame uttered a cry of joy , sprang into the arms of her son Isaac , and wept upon his neck -- occasionally articulating , in a choked voice : `` God bless you , Isaac ! 
`` I know it , '' sobbed forth Isaac , his whole frame shaken with the force of his feelings : `` I -- I know the whole o n't mother -- Ella 's told me . 
cried Ella in alarm , who , having greeted the old hunter , with tearful eyes , now stood weeping by his side . 
Then turning wildly to Boone , she grasped his hand in both of hers , and exclaimed : `` Oh ! 
A few words now rapidly uttered by Isaac , put the old hunter in possession of the facts , concerning the forced march of Younker and Reynolds , of which he had previously heard nothing ; and musing on the information a few moments , he shook his head sadly , and said , with a sigh : `` I 'm sorry for you , Ella -- I 'm sorry for all o ' ye -- I 'm sorry on my own account , -- but I 'm o ' the opinion o ' Isaac , that thar 's no help for it now . 
I had hoped it war to be otherwise ; but we must submit to God 's decrees ; '' and raising his hand to his eyes , the old woodsman hastily brushed away a tear , and turned aside to conceal his emotion ; while Ella , overcome by her feelings , at the thought of having parted , perhaps for the last time , from Algernon and her uncle , staggered forward and sunk powerless into the arms of Mrs. Younker , whose tears now mingled with her own . 
`` Yes , '' rejoined Isaac , with a sigh ; `` he and I war chasing that thar infernal renegade Girty , who war running away with Ella thar , and he 'd jest got up to him , and got him by the arm , when Girty shuk him off like it war n't nothing at all , and then shot him dead on the spot . 
Howsomever , it made him let go o ' Ella , and start up a new trail -- jest leaving his compliments for me in the shape of a bullet , which , ef it did n't do me no harm , it war n't 'cause he did n't intend it to . 
I jest stopped to look at poor Harry , and finding he war dead , I took Ella by the hand and come straight down here . '' 
Accordingly , after some further conversation , four of the party proceeded for the body of Millbanks -- with which they soon returned -- while Boone conducted the ladies away from the scene of horror , and down to where Ella informed him the canoes were hidden , leaving his younger companions to rifle and scalp the savages if they chose . 
`` But tell me , Simon Girty , as the only favor I 'll ever ask o ' ye -- war my wife and Ella rescued ? '' 
As his eye for a moment rested upon it , his mind instantly reverted to its cause -- recalled , with the rapidity of thought , which is the swiftest comparison we can make , the many and important events that had since transpired up to the present time , wherein the gentle Ella Barnwell held no second place -- and he sighed , half aloud : `` I would to God it had been mortal ! 
As he said this , one of the squaws , who had been observing it intently , struck him thereon a violent blow with her fist , which started it to bleeding afresh , and , in spite of himself , caused Algernon to utter a sharp cry of pain , at which all laughed heartily . 
Thinking doubtless this species of amusement as interesting as any , the old hag was on the point of repeating the blow , when Girty arrested it , by saying something to her in the Indian tongue , and all three turned aside , as if to consult together , leaving our hero standing alone , unbound . 
Within this fort , on their return from captivity , Mrs. Younker , Isaac and Ella had taken up their abode , to remain until another cabin should be erected , or it should be thought safe for them to live again in a more exposed manner . 
Immediately on the receipt of the alarming intelligence of Estill 's defeat , Isaac , his wife , and the family of his father-in-law , Wilson , repaired to Bryan 's Station , and joined Mrs. Younker and Ella , who had meantime remained there in security . 
It was toward night of a hot sultry day , in the month of August , that Ella Barnwell was seated by the door of a cabin , within the walls of Bryan 's Station , gazing forth , with what seemed a vacant stare , upon a group of individuals , who were standing near the center of the common before spoken o engaged in a very animated conversation . 
Her features perhaps were no paler than when we saw her last ; but there was a tender , melancholy expression on her sweet countenance , of deep abiding grief , and a look of mournfulness in her beautiful eyes , that touched involuntarily the hearts of all who met her gaze . 
Since we last beheld her , days of anxious solicitude , and sleepless nights , had been apportioned Ella ; for memory -- all potent memory -- had kept constantly before her mind 's eye the images of those who were gone , and mourned as forever lost to the living ; and her imagination had a thousand times traced them to the awful stake , seen their terrible tortures , heard their agonizing dying groans , and her heart had bled for them in secret , and tears of anguish , at their untimely fate , had often dimmed her eyes . 
Even now , as she apparently gazed upon that group of individuals , whom she saw not , and whose voices , sounding in her ear , she heard not , her mind was occupied with the probable fate of her uncle and Algernon , the still all absorbing theme of her soul . 
While seated thus , Mrs. Younker approached Ella from behind , unperceived by the latter , and now stood gazing upon her , with a sorrowful look . 
The countenance of the good dame had altered less , perhaps , than Ella 's , owing to her strong masculine spirit ; but still there was an expression of anxiety and sadness thereon , which , until of late , had never been visible , not even when on her march to what , as she then believed , was her final doom -- the excitement whereof , and the many events that occurred on the route , having been sufficient to occupy her mind in a different manner from what it had been in brooding over the fate of her husband for months in secret , and in a place of comparative safety . 
At length a remark , in a loud voice , of one of the individuals of the group before alluded to , arrested the attention of both Mrs. Younker and Ella . 
At these words , Ella started to her feet , and exclaiming wildly : `` Who are they -- who are Girty 's victims ? '' 
The quiet , modest , melancholy air of Ella , had , one time with another , since her first appearance in the Station , attracted the attention , and won the regard of its inmates , most of whom had made inquiries concerning her , and learned the cause of her sadness ; and now , as she gained the crowd , each gazed upon her with a look of respect ; and at once moving aside to let her pass , she presently stood the central attraction of an excited multitude of both sexes , all ages and sizes . 
cried she again , turning from one to the other , rapidly , with an anxious look : `` who are the victims of the renegade Girty ? '' 
At the mention of the name of Crawford , so different from the one she was expecting to hear , the momentary insanity , or delusion of Ella , vanished ; she saw her position at a glance , the hundred eyes that were upon her , and instantly her face became suffused with blushes , while she shrunk back , with a sense of maidenly shame and bashful timidity , almost overpowering to herself and really painful for others to behold . 
She now strove to speak -- to give an excuse for her singular conduct -- but her tongue failed her , and she would have sunk to the earth , only for the support of Mrs. Younker , who at this moment gained her side . 
said Mrs. Younker to Ella , as they moved away by themselves . 
added the good dame , consolingly , as Ella turned towards her a painful , imploring look ; `` we all knows your feelings , darling , and so never mind it . 
`` Mother , '' said Ella , feebly , `` I feel faint ; this shock , I fear , may be too much for my nervous system . '' 
As Mrs. Younker said this , she and Ella entered the cottage . 
said a voice among the crowd , as soon as Ella was out of hearing ; `` they do say as how she eats but little now , and scarcely takes any rest at all lately , on account of the trouble of her mind . 
`` Why , Ella , you know -- '' `` Yes , yes , Isaac -- what of her ? '' 
`` Now do n't be skeered , Mr. Reynolds -- thar ha n't nothing happened -- only I ` spect she 's bin a thinking o ' you , who every body thought war dead , and she 's kind o ' grown thin and pale o n't , and we war gitting afeared it might end badly ; but as you 've come now , I know as how it 'll all be right agin . '' 
At length he said , with a sigh : `` Well , Isaac , I have come to behold her once again , and then -- '' He paused , apparently overpowered by some latent feeling . 
But come , go in and see Ella -- she 'd be crazy ef she knew you war here . '' 
I dare not meet her suddenly , Isaac -- the shock might be too much for her nerves . 
I have sent for you to go first and communicate intelligence of my arrival , in a way to surprise her as little as possible . '' 
Ella , who was seated at a short distance , on the entrance of Algernon , rose to her feet , took a step forward , staggered back , and the next moment her insensible form was caught in the arms of the being she loved , but had long mourned as dead . 
It was late at night , but still Algernon Reynolds sat beside Ella Barnwell , relating the sad story of his many hair-breadth escapes , and almost intollerable sufferings . 
`` Surely , Algernon , '' exclaimed Ella , with pale features , `` you are not going to leave us again so soon ? '' 
`` Where duty calls , Ella , there is my place ; and if I fall in honorable action , in defence of my country and friends , perchance the atonement may suffice for matters whereof youare not ignorant . '' 
Ella buried her face in her hands , to conceal her emotion , and Algernon , with an effort at composure , again proceeded . 
`` Farewell , dearest Ella ; we may never meet again on earth . 
added he with energy and emotion , as his mind reverted to Ella , `` that they came as they did ; for an hour later , and they would have found the fort defenceless , when all within would have been food for the tomahawk and scalping knife . '' 
As for Algernon , we leave the task to lovers of imagining his feelings , when he saw the lovely Ella depart with the rest . 
Reynolds -- who , during the past two or three days , since the retreat of the enemy , had employed his leisure moments in the company of the being he loved , and who was now finely mounted on a superb charger which had been presented him by Colonel Boone -- turned upon his saddle , as he was leaving the station , and waved another adieu to Ella , who stood in the door of her cottage , gazing upon his noble form , with a pale cheek , tearful eye , and beating heart . 
She raised her lily hand , and , with a graceful motion , returned his parting salute ; and then , to conceal her emotion , retired into the house . 
Month upon month , as we said before , had rolled away , spring had come , and with it had departed many of those who had occupied Bryan 's Station during the siege of August ; but still , besides the regular garrison and their families , a few of the individuals who had sought refuge therein , yet remained ; among whom we may mention Mrs. Younker , Ella , Isaac and his wife , and so forth . 
Be that as it may , the extreme limit of time which he had set for remaining , was now nearly expired ; and he was , at the moment when we again present him to the reader , engaged in conversation with Ella on the painful subject . 
Turning upon Ella a look of agony , which seemed to say , `` I am an arrested fellon , '' he wheeled upon his heel , and followed the messenger in silence ; while she , knowing the cause of his agitation , and fearful of the worst , sank almost lifeless upon a seat . 
Oblige me , though , by showing yonder gentleman and his beast due hospitality , '' and wringing his hand , he sprang into the apartment where Ella was sitting alone , leaving Isaac staring after him with open mouth , and wondering whether he were in his right senses or not . 
`` Ella ! '' 
he exclaimed , wildly , as he suddenly appeared before her with a flushed countenance : `` Ella , God bless you ! 
These , Ella -- these ! '' 
Ella was alarmed ; and springing to him , she exclaimed : `` For God 's sake ! 
`` Read , '' answered he , faintly , placing the letters in her hand : `` Read , Ella -- read ! '' 
Ella hesitated a moment on the propriety of complying with his request , but a moment only ; and the next she turned to one of the epistles . 
cried Ella , as she concluded the letter , her eyes moist with tears , and her face beaming like the sun through a summer shower . 
`` God bless you , dearest Ella -- you did indeed ! '' 
exclaimed Reynolds , suddenly , bounding from his seat and clasping her in his arms . 
`` You did indeed tell me to hope -- and you told me truly ; '' and he pressed kiss after kiss , again and again , upon her sweet lips , with all the wild , trembling , rapturous feelings of a lover in his first ecstacy of bliss , when he has surmounted all obstacles and gained the heart of the being he loves . 
`` Now , dearest Ella , '' continued Algernon , when the excitement of the moment had been succeeded by a calmer , though not less blissful mood : `` Now , dearest Ella , I am free -- my sacred oath binds me no longer -- and now can I say , with propriety , that I deeply , solemnly , and devotedly love you , and you alone . 
Ella did not speak -- she could not ; but she looked up into his face , with a sweet , modest , affectionate smile ; and her dark , soft , beautiful eyes , suffused with tears , wherein a soul of love lay mirrored , gave answer , with a heartfelt eloquence surpassing words . 
`` I understand you , Ella , '' said Algernon , with emotion . 
and he strained her trembling form to his heart in silence -- a deep , joyful and holy silence -- that had in it more of Heaven than earth . 
Earth had donned her green mantle , and decorated it with flowers of every hue and variety . 
In the court of Bryan 's Station was a large concourse of people -- many of whom were from a distance -- and all assembled there to witness the solemn ceremony which was to unite Algernon Reynolds and Ella Barnwell forever ; for who shall say the holy marriage rite is not eternally binding in the great Hereafter . 
Never did Algernon appear more noble than now -- never did Ella look more beautiful ; as , pale and trembling , she seemed to cling to his arm for support . 
Among the party present was Colonel Boone ; and approaching Algernon and Ella -- who were now sealed where the solemn rite had taken place -- he took the hand of each , and said , in a voice of some emotion : `` My children -- for ye seem to me as such -- may you both live long and be happy . 
And my own Ella , too ; and the stranger as com 'd to my house all bleeding to death like ! 
As soon as the congratulations were over , Algernon and Ella were escorted into the cottage occupied by Mrs. Younker , where a sumptuous dinner was already prepared for them , their relatives , and a few select friends , among whom was Colonel Boone and Captain Patterson . 
Shortly after their marriage , Algernon and Ella bid farewell to their friends in the west , and returned to the east , where a long and happy career awaited them ; and where they lived to recount to their children and grandchildren the thrilling narratives of their captivity , and their wild and romantic adventures while pioneers on the borders of Kentucky . 
