I would ` nt have volunteered and left my work at this busy season but for Captain Warrington 's promise to let us have right at 'em , and be off again . 
Only think of Warrington ! 
He has spent more than half his time in this way for the last three years ; and all he has ever got by it has been to have a price set upon his head . ' 
I think I have heard Warrington speak of meeting one of his description in a hunting adventure in this quarter . ' 
` Well , he inquired for the captain , ' observed Smith . 
` Yes , ' rejoined the other , glancing round at the Indian , who stood demure and silent in the background , with his face partly averted from the company , ` and yet I know not , really , Captain Warrington , but you may have other fish to fry first . ' 
exclaimed Warrington , his eye now for the first time resting on the form of the Indian , and his countenance clearing up from the puzzled expression that had come over it for the instant at the enigmatical words of his friends ; ` a new recruit ! 
` Very nearly correct , I believe , Neshobee , ' observed Warrington , as the Indian closed his recital , the longest perhaps he ever made in his life , for unluckily , it may be , for the romance of our tale , Neshobee was no Logan or Red Jacket , either in length of speech , or that peculiar eloquence , which most of our writers seem to delight in attributing to the sons of the forest ; ` very nearly correct , but are you out on another hunt in this quarter , or does other business bring you here at this time ? ' 
` Missus Story talk um on paper for Cappen better nor Neshobee say , ' replied the Indian , handing Warrington a small dingy scrap of paper . 
The latter , after running hastily over the contents of the billet , which caused his eye to kindle with enthusiasm as he read , immediately turned to the company , and , with a cheerful , animated air , observed , ` It is from our friend , widow Story , of the Creek down here , and contains news of interest , my boys -- shall I read it to you ? ' 
` I am certainly aware , Mr. Munroe , of the importance of securing this Warrington , so great a disturber of the public peace , but -- ' ` Disturber ! 
` Yes , but your half of the reward for taking the fellows , for you say that there is at least one outlaw besides Warrington : you wo n't claim all that unless you help us through the whole affair , will you ? ' 
` Assertions , ' observed Selden , who , being Warrington 's only companion in the cave , now took up the discourse on the hint of his superior ; ` assertions , sir Sheriff , sometimes unfortunately are more easily made than proved . 
Rightly judging the character of the foe into whose hands he had fallen , and boiling with silent rage , he made the most desperate struggles to free himself from the vice like grasp of his captor , who , he at once concluded from his great strength , the effects of which he had before experienced , could be no other than Warrington . 
But wholly failing in this attempt , and finding himself still carried rapidly onward , he knew not to what destination , he next tried to disengage his dirk from its sheath , in which it was confined beneath the grappling arm of his opponent . 
Before succeeding in this , however , and while intent only on his murderous design , he was borne by his intended victim to the margin of the water , and , with a giant effort , hurled headlong over the bank . 
The loud splashing that succeeded told that he was now struggling in the embrace of a different , though not a much more comfortable , antagonist ; while three more heavy plunges , following in irregular succession along the bank , still further announced that the vanquished sheriff was not without the company of a good share of his friends to console him in the discomforts of the new element , into which they all had been so suddenly and unexpectedly translated . 
The shrill notes of Warrington 's signal whistle now sounded the preconcerted retreat . 
` The battle being over , ' observed Warrington , after the noise of their merriment and exultation had measurably subsided ; ` let us now turn our attention to the wounded and missing . ' 
` The Indian , ' resumed Warrington , ` after announcing the enemy for us by his admirable imitation of the owl , departed by himself , I presume . 
-- As near as I could gather from him , he did not wish to be known as acting against the Yorkers . 
-- He probably lives with some family in the vicinity who are trying to stand neutral in this warfare , and who have cautioned him to govern himself accordingly . 
His absence therefore does not surprise me . 
cried Warrington , in the varying tones of fear for the result and indignation for the attempt ; ` but if help be of any further use to him , he shall have it . 
As Warrington had predicted , the enemy on shore , on hearing the report of the pistol , immediately started for this new scene of action . 
` You need not be much alarmed I think , fellow : ' said Warrington , ` the sheriff 's pistols must be rather too wet to be very dangerous ; and as to the arms of the rest , which were all discharged at the catamount , we shall have but little to fear from them by the time they can be loaded . ' 
` Sherwood -- Sherwood , ' said Warrington musingly ; ` aha ! 
responded Warrington , with equal enthusiasm ; ` such scenes , one would think , were enough to enamor the whole world of a sylvan life . ' 
` If all this be so , ' rejoined Warrington , significantly glancing at the dress and comparatively delicate appearance of the prisoner ; ` I hope that such of this class , as are connected with a certain city to the west of us , will be less inclined to favor our settlement with their presence hereafter . 
asked Warrington , casting a look of withering contempt on the prisoner . 
This painful task being performed -- for painful it was to most of the band , while the stern necessity that required it was sincerely regretted by them all -- the prisoner was unbound , and with an earnest but kind admonition from Warrington to profit by the lesson he had received , set at liberty ; when , muttering many a bitter execration , and breathing vows of deadliest revenge on his captors , he sullenly departed from the camp , and soon disappeared along the border of the lake in a northern direction . 
It was nearly midnight when Warrington and his companion reached the log tenement of this fearless daughter of the wilds . 
What means this sudden desertion of the family , ' observed Warrington musingly ; ` and whither can they have fled ? ' 
not in the least ; for you must know that we are patriots here , -- rebels , or whatever we were , on the lake to-night , ' jocosely replied Warrington . 
But let us drop this exciting subject for to-night , that we may obtain a little rest to prepare us for the duties of to-morrow , ' replied Warrington , now rising to make such scanty preparations as might be required for their repose . 
It was thus with Warrington : While the images of the past and future , which fancy had called up , were operating in his bosom , he vainly sought the arms of ` tired nature 's sweet restorer . ' 
But after he had found a just cause for excitement , and experienced the utmost of its legitimate effects , that restorer came unbidden and instantly . 
-- Surely , Warrington , she must be the very Juno of your Green Mountains ! 
` But honestly , woman , have you seen nothing of Warrington and his band this way last night , or this morning ? ' 
` Warrington -- Warrington , ' said she musingly , as if attempting to recal the name of one of whom she might have perhaps heard ; ` not captain Warrington ? 
Yes , I have heard of him , I am sure . 
Is he in this section ? 
Where is he ? 
Why , he was the one that so handsomely beeeh-sealed one of the York authorities , down Bennington way last year -- now what was his name -- I will think in a minute ' -- ` O , no matter , no matter , ' hastily interrupted the sheriff , unwilling that the story of his own former discomfiture should be made known to his present followers ; ` come , boys , ' he continued , moving away from the house and calling to his men ; ` we sha n't be able to make any thing of this crabstick of a woman -- so we may as well be on the move again , and as we have lost our guide , instead of going back through the woods , we will up the creek to the ford , and then down the military road to Ticonderoga . ' 
The woodswoman , if the term be admissible , wary as she was fearless , immediately adopted one of the precautions anticipated by Warrington . 
` Now a thousand thanks to mistress Story , ' warmly exclaimed Warrington , after presenting his friend and exchanging the ordinary salutations ; ` a thousand thanks not only for yesterday 's timely notice , but for the shield which a woman 's tact only could have so successfully thrown over us this morning ! 
` When you was praying , `` lead us not into temptation , '' at this moment of your trial , ' said Warrington , laughingly , ` and thought of the next sentence , `` deliver us from evil , '' you concluded it best to take sides with the Green Mountain Boys , -- did you ? ' 
asked Warrington . 
asked Warrington , turning a puzzled look upon his hostess . 
` Let me attend you to witness the process of conjuration , ' said Warrington , who had more reasons for making the request than were known to either of his companions . 
The next moment the person of Warrington , like that of Gulliver among the Lilliputians , was almost literally covered by the little beings , two sitting on each knee shaking his imprisoned hands with all their might ; the little Julia standing between , turning up her pretty cheek invitingly for the expected kiss , which , for all her declaration , instinctive modesty forbade her to ask for ; one or two hold of each arm , and one , more daring and active than the rest , having clambered aloft , was sitting astride the neck , and crowing loud over the rest from his elevated situation ; while all were clinging , laughing and chattering like a bevy of monkies exhibiting on an elephant at the show of some travelling menagerie . 
Warrington , after a slight hesitation , imparted the desired information . 
` That settles the question with me , then , as to what I should now do , ' seriously observed the woman ; ` Captain Warrington , I clearly see that you have accidentally , and very singularly , hit upon a clue to matters which I thought most prudent to conceal , even from you , friend to the settlers and my family , as you are . 
Beside one of the walls of the larger room was a rude fire-place , constructed of flat stones and built up several feet high to receive fuel and give direction to the smoke , which , ascending through a sort of retreating flue cut into the bank , escaped through the cavity of the identical hollow stub that Warrington had discovered to be in some way connected with the mysterious melody heard by him the evening before . 
` This , Captain Warrington , ' said the dame , after showing her admiring guest every part of her subterraneous establishment , which she had lit up on entering by throwing a few light combustibles on the fire still remaining on the hearth ; ` this is my city of refuge -- my strong hold , or my ` T'other World , ' as I have accustomed myself and children to call it , fancying , in my wish to keep the secret of its existence to ourselves , that some such name would lessen the chances of a discovery , which might accidentally be made , perhaps , by referring to it before others by a proper designation . 
` Surely not , ' replied Warrington , struck not less by the forcible language of the woman , than by her prudent forecast ; ` you are right in believing that the storm of a new war is gathering over us ; and if you think of remaining here , these precautions are but the part of wisdom , as we know not when , or where , the storm may burst . 
` No , but I have once heard the performances of another , whese voice is not easily to be forgotten , ' replied Warrington , turning a keen , searching gaze on the slightly confused face of the widow . 
` Warrington , Warrington ! ' 
From what I have gathered from you and others , I have for some time secretly suspected the identity of persons yet supposed to be different , and that I have long known those whose present residence you have little dreamed of : Captain Warrington , there is indeed a rose bud in this wilderness , which I should not have been displeased to see placed in your bosom . 
` Where is she ? 
But come , let us leave for the upper world , ' she added , rapidly leading the way out , and allowing the other no further chance to resume his importunities till they had gained the top of the bank . 
said Warrington , in an expostulating tone , as he perceived that the other seemed to expect that he would now depart . 
And for this , among other objects , Warrington and his companions were now on their way to the spot . 
asked Warrington with a look of interest . 
` It is not always , ' said Warrington , ` nor often , I think , that we find cause to repent of the mercies we have shown ; but this fellow -- let him beware ! ' 
In pursuance of this plan , Warrington , taking Selden and two of the men with him , started off for the purpose of carrying the last part of the arrangement into execution , leaving the rest of the force under the command of Jones , whose genius , it was thought , was calculatad to conduct the other part of the enterprise now intrusted to his charge , with orders to advance through the open grounds towards the house , and adopt such measures on the way as circumstances might suggest for bringing about the desired results . 
Keeping within the border of the woods , Warrington and his attendants soon made the circuit round the clearing , and arrived at the bank of the creek , in the rear of the buildings , before the attack was made on the other detachment . 
On reaching the enclosure round the house , Warrington , leaving his men in the rear , went round to the front side , and , after a moment spent in reconnoitering , from behind a wood-pile , the parties in the field , crept up and made an attempt to open the gate . 
-- But to his disappointment , he soon discovered that it was securely barred on the inside ; while the noise of some slight movement within apprised him that the place had not been left wholly unguarded . 
On making these discoveries , he immediately retreated to the rear , without being seen by the enemy . 
There , standing beside the wall of the enclosure and eagerly gazing through a small crevice between the timbers , he found Selden , who , now turning with an expressive look , silently beckoned him to approach . 
Obeying the sign , Warrington carefully stepped up to the spot and put his eye to the aperture , which the other , now yielding the place , pointed out with his finger ; when all that part of the arena within , which was in front of the house , was opened to his view . 
And the object that there met his eye struck him with scarce less surprise than what had been just manifested by his more romantic companion . 
From the dress and appearance of the latter , Warrington was but at little loss in tracing between these two females the relation of mistress and maid . 
And now , with a rapid survey of the situation of the whole interior , as far as could be seen , he hastily quitted his stand at the crevice and turned to Selden . 
eagerly whispered the latter , his fine dark eyes sparkling with animation ; ` what , in the way of feminine wonders , will you show us next , Warrington ? 
` Not of the Green Mountains , I suspect , ' rejoined Warrington ; ` but be she sylph , or satan in heavenly guise , we must pay her a visit , and have possession of the works , within ten minutes -- the enemy are on the retreat for the gate , and there is no time to lose -- advance , boys , and lend me your shoulders for a stepping stone to scale this wall . ' 
` Well , Selden , ' said Warrington , with a humorous look ; ` in what manner shall we proceed with this formidable garrison -- by storm or parley ? ' 
lady , ' exclaimed Warrington , leaping forward to her side , and placing his hands firmly upon the bars ; ` this we can not suffer now , though we intend youno harm , ' he continued , in a gentler tone ; ` but you had better retire -- this is no place for one of your sex . 
` Your ladies are all safe in the house , my honest friend , ' cried out Warrington in reply , ` but your quarters are now in possession of other hands . 
The astonishment and dismay of the simple minded Scotchman at the discovery , that his foes had obtained a lodgment within his strong hold , was unbounded ; for having perceived nothing wrong about his works at the time his attention was arrested by the report of the musket within them , and soon after seeing the man left outside by Warrington running out into the field , he supposed the gun was fired by the bold and wayward girl who had volunteered for the service , only to apprise him that some one was round the outside of the works . 
And he and his men , having given a merry hurra ! 
he ejaculated , looking hurriedly around him while his countenance exhibited the very picture of perplexity and distress ; ` Gude guide us ! 
Warrington now sternly repeated his demand for an immediate surrender ; but the obstinate Highlander , knowing no way of obeying the military instruction of his Colonel , ` to fight and defend , ' but to fight on at whatever odds , or whatever the consequences to him and his men , deigned no other answer to this repetition of the summons than by urging his men to despatch in loading their pieces . 
shouted Warrington , ` do neither -- knock up their guns ! 
And the victory had perhaps , been even doubtful , had not Warrington now thrown open the gate , and come , with a fresh force , to the rescue . 
` What conditions would you have , brave Scot , ' asked Warrington , with great show of respect , as soon as he could be heard amidst the shouts of laughter that followed this ludicrous declaration of the vanquished leader . 
rejoined Warrington , evidently disposed to humor the fallen warrior in his laughable demand . 
` We will let the man have his way for the bravery he has shown , ' said Warrington , turning to his men . 
Warrington , from his knowledge of the national character of his prisoners , entertaining no doubts of their fidelity in strictly observing all the stipulations of their leader , now cordially invited them to remain at the post through the night . 
And Warrington , after safely establishing his friends in their possessions at the Lower Falls , and despatching a small band of his forces in pursuit of the York Surveyor , repaired , with the remainder of his men , to the western brow of this mountain , as a rendezvous to which his whole party were to assemble when the surveyor was secured , proposing to employ the interim in making observations preparatory to some contemplated operations in the neighborhood of the place . 
Much did Warrington wonder who could be the enterprising occupant , who had accomplished all this in so short a time , and still more , that it could have been done without more particular intelligence reaching him respecting it . 
But whoever he might be , it was not probable that he would part with such fair possessions without a struggle ; and as a garrison was near , the troops of which were understood to be in the York interest , and stood ready , doubtless , to protect the intruder , Warrington at once saw that a considerable force might be necessary to dispossess him , and even should the attempt be successfully made , the same force might be required to be permanently stationed there to defend it . 
After revolving this subject in his mind awhile , he concluded to defer it for further consideration , and perhaps for a consultation with his companions ; and now dismissing the matter from his mind , he again gave his attention to the inviting prospect around him . 
While Warrington , who was an enthusiastic admirer of nature , with whom he particularly loved to commune in the solitudes of the forest where her empire was undisturbed by the works of art , was giving his soul to the magnificent prospect before him , he was recalled from his reverie by the light plashing of oars in the waters below . 
And turning his eyes in the direction of the sound , he indistinctly discerned through the trees a small skiff approaching the shore of the lake , rowed by a single person , who , on reaching his landing , drew up his boat , and , after taking out of it a gun , ascended the bank . 
As he emerged from the thick underwood that skirted the shore into the more open forest , and advanced into the higher grounds , Warrington soon discovered , from his uniform , that he was a soldier , or some subaltern , from the fort , who had come over , he concluded , in search of the partridge , or other light game , with which the woods here very plentifully abounded . 
Grasping his rifle , and plunging into the thicket , Warrington bounded down the hill with the speed of a wild deer towards the scene ; and in another instant the parties were revealed to his sight -- a young lady of the most interesting exterior , with her hair loosened and falling in disorder over her neck and shoulders , and her flushed countenance eloquent with indignation and alarm , as with half averted face she struggled to free herself from the fellow , who , by a grasp of one hand on her garment , was endeavoring to detain her in her attempted flight . 
One glance at the victim of this rude assault sufficed to tell the unexpecting and astonished Warrington that the fair original of that picture , which had been so long engraven on his heart , was before him , requiring his instant aid and protection . 
exclaimed he , as with levelled piece he rushed upon the soldier , who stood mute and confounded before so unlooked for an apparition ; ` back ! 
Quailing beneath the stern and withering glances of the other , the abashed aggressor immediately relinquished his hold on the girl , and muttering a denial of any intentional wrong and a few curses at the interference of Warrington , shrunk away and disappeared in the woods . 
` Miss Hendee ' -- said Warrington , hesitatingly , after an awkward silence of a moment ; ` do I not behold my former acquaintance , Miss Alma Hendee ? ' 
` To the opening , at least , ' responded Warrington , obeying the motions of his fair companion . 
And in the first place , from what cloud so opportunely dropped my gallant deliverer , just at the particular moment he was wanted ? ' 
` Certainly not , if it is your wish -- that is , I would not , if I were to see him , ' replied Warrington , pausing , as they now came into the open field . 
Why , did you know that a band of these men have , for several days past , been ravaging the settlement along Otter Creek , headed by that terrible fellow , Captain Warrington ? ' 
` I heard , ' replied the other , confused and stammering at this unexpected question , and the commentary on his own character which he perceived it involved in the mind of his fair companion , ` I heard -- that is , I was aware that the person you mention had come into this part of the country . 
But your father need be under no apprehensions on that account ; ' he continued , regaining his composure , ` for I think I can very safely answer for Warrington , that neither he , nor any of his followers , shall ever disturb the father of Alma Hendee . ' 
` Not now -- another time -- perhaps to-morrow , I may visit you -- that is if ' -- and Warrington paused and hesitated , as if doubtful whether to proceed , while , with a waiting and wondering expression , the girl stood earnestly looking him in the face . 
` Miss Hendee , ' he at length resumed , somewhat pensively , ` you left the place , which afforded me the pleasure of your acquaintance , unexpectedly , -- quite so to me . 
` Am I to understand , ' resumed Warrington , ` that Miss Hendee has pledged her hand irrevocably ? 
It was therefore determined that an emissary should be sent into the part of New York lying contiguous to the Grants , who , travelling in disguise , or with disguised objects , should endeavor to ascertain the true sentiments and feelings of the people on this subject ; and Warrington was the person selected for this delicate , though important enterprise . 
Accordingly setting out alone with his rifle , and travelling on foot under the assumed name of Howard , and in the character of a hunter and herbalist , he travelled all that section of the country into which he had been particularly sent , calling at almost every house in his course and mingling with all companies and classes in pursuing the objects of his secret mission . 
Springing forward to their aid , Warrington , after securing the horse with no little difficulty and danger , turned his attention to the travellers , who proved to be a father and daughter . 
It was at this interesting stage of the intimacy that Warrington returned one day , after a longer absence than usual , and found , to his great disappointment and regret , that Hendee and his daughter had departed the day before , without leaving any note or message , as he then could learn , explanatory of their unannounced , and , to him unexpected departure . 
Believing from this , that he might have been perhaps deceived in regard to the nature and extent of the interest , which he had flattered himself he had created in the bosom of Miss Hendee , and feeling a little piqued at this appearance of neglect on the part of both father and daughter , he soon ceased his unavailing enquiries concerning the family . 
When the discomfitted soldier retreated from the presence of Warrington and the rescued maiden , he concealed himself in a thicket , from which he could espy the movements of the couple till they separated . 
And their leader , one Warrington , with part of his gang , has since moved off somewhere in this direction . 
But her late accidental interview with Warrington , whom she never expected again to see , had forced upon her mind a comparison between her two lovers , which made her more painfully sensible than ever how much she must sacrifice in becoming the wife of Sherwood , whose true character , as deeply veiled as he had endeavored to keep it with this family , she had in some measure penetrated , and she could not forego this opportunity of letting her father see how heavy upon her heart hung the chain , that she was wearing only out of regard to his happiness ; and yet scarcely more now than before , did she meditate on throwing off this chain , by which she had passively suffered herself to be bound . 
Why , I would put a rifle bullet through the first one who should attempt to enter , even if it should be Warrington himself . 
Not expecting to see Warrington here till he heard his voice at the door , and never dreaming till this moment but that the latter and his master 's family were entire strangers , the poor fellow , when he saw them meet as old acquaintances , and above all , when he heard Captain Hendee address the other by the name of Howard , looked perfectly confounded , and expressed as much unfeigned astonishment as an Indian countenance , perhaps , ever exhibited . 
The instinctive prudence of his race , howeverer , prevented him from betraying , by words , his surprise and perplexity , or exposing Warrington in the disguise which he supposed was for some good reasons assumed . 
` Some , in my situation , with these evidences around , might feel disposed to doubt that , Captain , ' smilingly observed Warrington motioning to the fire-arms , which had not been yet replaced . 
Even Warrington appeared to be a little discomposed at this close , though random shot of the old Captain ; but he did not forget to throw a glance of gratitude towards his fair friend for the confidence , which the Captain 's statement seemed to imply that she had placed in his assurances at their late interview . 
` Me guess um what I hear no Mountain Boys , ' said Neshobee , looking significantly at Warrington , as if he considered the latter to have the most interest in the information thus imparted . 
Neither the remark of the Indian , nor the meaning look that accompanied it , was lost on Warrington , as was evident from the expression of uneasiness , that , for an instant , became visible on his countenance ; but he remained silent . 
Warrington , catching a forbidding glance from Miss Hendee , was hesitating , on her account as well as his own , what answer he should frame to the embarrassing question , when he was suddenly relieved from his dilemma by a bold , heavy rap at the door . 
simultaneously burst from the lips of Hendee and Warrington . 
Now I must be off ; ` and I have some notion , ' he continued , looking at Warrington , ` of inviting your guest here to accompany me as a guide . ' 
The stranger gave a scrutinizing look at the father and the daughter , and ended by exchanging with Warrington looks of intelligence , which very clearly showed that the two were by no means strangers to each other . 
Seeming to satisfy himself , he was about to remark further , when the tramp of men , now heard approaching the door , arrested the attention of the company . 
Instantly rising , she hastily invited Warrington to take a seat in the other room ; and the latter complying , the lovers disappeared through one door , just as new comers entered another . 
The meeting between the soldiers , and the stout stranger before described , seemed to be mutually unexpected , and evidently but little relished by the latter : For , though they were all personally unknown to him ; yet he was aware that he might not be so to them : and , should the last supposition be true , as , from certain sly looks , which he saw exchanged between the soldiers , he thought highly probable , he was sensible that he had a part to play for himself , and Warrington , of whose co-operation he felt assured , that would require all his tact , and perhaps put to the severest test the powers of both to extricate them from the threatened difficulty . 
When Miss Hendee , on recognizing the voice of Darrow among those of others about to enter the house , so abruptly invited Warrington to take a seat with her in the other room , she did so from a sudden impulse , arising out of her secret dread of encountering one whose recent conduct had filled her with the deepest dislike , coupled with a sort of vague apprehension , that the visits of these soldiers with Darrow at their head , at this particular time , was in some way to affect the safety of her friend , whom she thought thus to shield from the impending danger . 
Warrington , however , comprehending the cause of her embarrassment at a glance , and anxious to relieve it , soon rallied and observed , ` Fear not , Miss Hendee , that I shall misinterpet this act of yours in inviting me to a seat with you here : I believe I can appreciate the motives that led to it ; and I certainly feel very grateful for the deed . ' 
` Miss Hendee , ' resumed Warrington , with considerable embarrassment at the effort , ` your question leads me to a declaration , which my painfully conflicting obligations , as a citizen , and as gentleman who has received much kindness from your family , will be some excuse , I hope , for withholding till now ; but which my feelings will allow me to withhold no longer . 
` I am so surprised at this strange and unexpected developement , ` at length observed Miss Hendee , though with mind and feelings still unsettled and balancing between the former high opinion she had entertained of her companion as Howard , and the preconceived picture of the ruffian-like character with which she had been accustomed to associate Warrington : ` so surprised that I hardly know what I should say , or how I should act towards you , Sir , in the new character in which you now stand before me . 
replied Warrington , eagerly , ` You have , Miss Hendee , my pledge already in this respect , given to you at our last interview -- can you doubt my will to redeem it ? 
His fair auditor signifying a willingness , at least , to listen to the explanation , Warrington , taking a comprehensive glance at the true grounds of the controversy between the settlers and their opponents , drew a vivid picture of the wrongs and consequent sufferings which the latter had endured , and which led to the part he had taken in their behalf -- explained the necessity of the disguise he had assumed , related his subsequent career , and the consequences to himself and all those who had taken a conspicuous part in attempting to defend the poor settlers against the rapacity of their oppressors . 
` Is this , Mr. Howard -- excuse me , Mr. Warrington , I should say , ' observed the other , evidently interested , and even touched by the recital she had just heard : ` is this , indeed , an impartial account of this hapless contest ? 
But had we now not better part : I feel anxious to be co-operating with my friend , ' said Warrington , rising and moving towards the door . 
` One moment longer -- that is , if you are not too anxious to go , ' observed Alma , motioning him to remain . 
` There may be those , ' she answered with evident reluctance and with severely conflicting feelings , ` who would look on your visits here with -- with suspicion ; and who , I fear -- who , perhaps , I would say , might have a disposition -- that is , he may ' -- ` I did not understand the name , ' said Warrington , with the appearance of wishing to relieve the embarrassment of the other , and assist her to proceed . 
` I did not name him , and I would gladly avoid doing so , ' replied she , still hesitating . 
said Warrington in utter surprise , ` Sherwood . 
rejoined Warrington with the air of tender reproach . 
When Warrington , at the close of the interview above described , entered the room of the revelers , he found them at the height of their boisterous carousals . 
But Warrington , he soon noticed , though mingling gaily with the rest at the board , seemed inclined , like himself , to drink but lightly , making the excuse , when urged to take more , that he wished to keep sober in order to take care of his brother hunter , who seemed in a fair way to require his assistance . 
His wit fast grew vapid ; and some of his remarks were so silly , that none but the very drunkest of the soldiers would join him in the maudlin roar of laughter , which he raised at each of his efforts to be witty . 
He began to sway to and fro , and his huge frame to totter at every step , like a sapped tower about to fall to the earth , -- all of which was observed by Darrow with a look of malicious satisfaction . 
Warrington now proposed that the company should break up , and all retire for the night . 
The sergeant immediately proposed , that Warrington and his drunken friend should take one of the beds , and himself , and one of his men , would occupy the other , while the rest should seek lodgings in the barn . 
` I think , Captain Hendee , ' remarked Warrington , now for the first time offering an opinion , ` that the man 's notions , as bad off as he appears to be , are correct . 
` I by no means intended to exclude you in my prohibition , Sir , ' said Alma , addressing Warrington . 
But I think I ought to go with him , ' rejoined Warrington . 
` And a bed of hay , ' he added gaily , ' ` is far better than has sometimes fallen to my lot . ' 
We will leave them in the house till morning , with your permission , ' observed Warrington , exchanging a significant glance with Miss Hendee . 
And Darrow and his men all declaring that they would by no means consent to quit their generous entertainer till they had seem him safely disposed of for the night , Warrington and the soberest soldiers to be found in the company , now assisted him in getting on his feet , and bracing out his legs so that he could be kept from dropping on the floor . 
When this , with considerable difficulty , and no little noise and merriment , had been effected , they planted themselves firmly under each arm , and at the word of command , sportively given by one of the company , trundled , or rather pushed his huge and staggering carcase , forward toward the barn , attended by the whole company , reeling , jostling and shouting along by his side . 
After they had arrived there , and succeeded in getting their charge over the threshold , they unceremoniously tumbled him on a pile of hay on the barn floor ; when , after exchanging mock ceremonies of parting politeness , Darrow and all his men , now feeling sure of an easy and safe capture as soon as their intended victims were asleep , departed for the house . 
said Warrington , while complying with the request just made , ` you would make no slouch of a juggler . 
Warrington then related to his companion all the circumstances connected with his acquaintance with the diffent members of the Hendee family , his late discovery relative to his ownership of the land , and the course which he had , and still intended to pursue in that respect , without revealing , however , the uncertain and somewhat peculiar attitude in which he stood with the daughter . 
exclaimed the other , who had listened with the appearance of much interest to the recital , and who seemed highly to appreciate the delicate generosity of Warrington , ` nobly , indeed , though with a higher touch of the chivalrous , I fear , my dear fellow , than you would often find reciprocated in this wooden age and country . 
` Really , Colonel , ' rejoined Warrington jocosely , ` you would make me jealous , if I had but a tithe of the title to the girl that you seem to suppose . 
`` All right , ' said Warrington , ` it is Neshobee , as I expected . ' 
` And I will try to continue so , ' said Warrington , thrusting another crown into the Indian 's ready hand ` But any thing more , Neshobee ? ' 
` Clear of the rascals at last , I believe , ' observed Warrington . 
The other made no reply , but stood as if debating some point in his mind , which he was unable to decide . 
Well , there we remained at that wild , romantic place , happy as larks ; by day rambling round the fields for flowers , skirting the woods for spruce gum , boxberries and birds ' nests , and at night , listening to the adventures of the men , or quizzing the honest old McIntosh , the commander of the post , as he calls himself -- there we remained , I say , till the fourth day after father had left us , when , who should make his appearance , but that plausible and oily tongued beau of yours , Jacob Sherwood , announcing that a band of Green Mountain Boys , headed by Warrington , the outlaw , was in full march to lay waste , burn and destroy our possessions , and murder every soul to be found on the premises , or at least to carry us off as captives to their dens in the mountains ! 
He proved to be the Lieutenant of Warrington , who now , with the other man , rushed forward from behind the house , when all stood confronting me . 
The treatment I received , and the explanations given me by Warrington -LRB- who by the way is a noble looking fellow ; Alma , I wish you could see him , -RRB- in regard to this war about titles , soon overset all my preconceived opinions of the Green Mountain Boys . 
It was the next morning after the adventure of Warrington and his friend , the stout stranger , at Captain Hendee 's ; and the dawning light was just beginning to appear in the dapple east . 
Well , as I was going to say , if they come on , Ethan Allen , Warrington and Member Baker , with all they can raise , will stand no fag at all with a regular York army . 
` Warrington ! ' 
gasped the squire with increasing trepidation , ` Warrington too ' ! 
As soon as the hearty , but variously expressed responses , by which the men testified their approbation of the remarks of their leader , were over , Baker , Warrington and Selden , who , during the discussion , had been engaged in a low conversation apart from the rest , beckoned Allen to approach them . 
Warrington , having performed the task allotted him as his share of this delicate , and some times difficult duty , set out , late in the afternoon , for the appointed rendezvous of the evening . 
After leaving the vicinity of the lake , to the borders of which his duties had been principally confined , he soon entered the woods , and , having decided on the course to be taken , proceeded onward with a rapid step several miles towards his destination , without pausing . 
But at length feeling somewhat wearied with the exertions of the day , he sat down to rest him , for a few moments , on the trunk of a fallen tree , and was dreamily running over in his mind the singular events of the few past days , when his attention was arrested by a clicking sound , resembling that which attends the cocking of a musket . 
While looking around him in doubt whether his senses had not deceived him , in respect to the impression they conveyed of the sound , he distinctly heard the snapping of a fire lock in a thicket at no great distance from the spot he occupied . 
Springing upon his feet , he brought his own rifle to his shoulder , and , stepping behind a tree , awaited in silence the result , which , he supposed , whatever the cause of the movement , would soon be disclosed . 
Warrington here paused to note the air of peculiar dreariness and gloom , which , even at this day , seems to brood over this paradise of eels and owls -- the former finding their Elysium in the stagnant , muddy , and root-tangled pools of the stream , and the latter on the decayed limbs of the long colonade of dead and leafless tress lining the banks , where they sit moping and gloating over their inexaustible storehouse of countless reptiles swarming in the dark and turbid waters beneath . 
And while standing upon the banks of this stream , with his mind thus engrossed , he was startled by the sharp report of a rifle , bursting from a fallen tree top on a knoll at the distance of some eight or ten rods behind him ; while at the same instant , a bullet , passing through his coat between his arm and body , struck and burried itself on the dry and barkless surface of a tree , standing a few yards before him . 
Whirling suddenly round towards the covert from which the shot issued , as now plainly indicated by a light cloud of diffusing smoke , he again quickly brought his rifle to his shoulder , and stood for a few seconds straining his vision for a sight of the invisible foe . 
But being unable to discover any object with such certainty as would justify his returning the fire , he suddenly changed his purpose , and leaped forward with all possible speed towards the place . 
In one moment he stood on the spot just occupied by his dastard assailant ; when he succeeded in catching a glimpse of a dark form rapidly retreating over another swell into a thick and tangled swamp . 
His first impulse was to recommence the pursuit ; but a second thought told him that it would probably be in vain , while it uselessly exposed him to the hazard of another shot of his enemy from some concealment , which he would have time to gain unperceived . 
He therefore reluctantly turned and retraced his steps to the stream he had just left . 
From the form and motions of the assassin , although in a disguised dress , Warrington was but little at loss in identifying him with Darrow , whom he had twice met and as often frustrated in his base , or , to say the least very questionable , designs . 
exclaimed Colonel Allen , breaking away , as soon as he noticed Warrington 's arrival , from a group of several of the most influential settlers in the vicinity , with whom he appeared to have been engaged in a low , confidential conversation , ` how is this , that you are the last man to come on the ground ? 
The dead silence , which was now for a few moments observed by the expectant assembly , was broked by Warrington , who , calmly rising , proceeded , after a few preliminary observations , to give a brief history of the commencement and progress of the quarrel between the colonies and mother country . 
He then enumerated the wrongs and aggressions which the former had suffered , while meekly and vainly petitioning for redress , and closed by a vivid picture of the recent massacre at Lexington , and with an eloquent appeal to the settlers to join the inhabitants of the sister colonies in avenging the death of their slaughtered countrymen . 
As he closed his harangue , which had been listend to with the most profound attention , a visible excitement ran through the assembly . 
With a few observations , for he was not a man of many words , going to confirm the statements , and fortify the positions of Warrington , he told them , that although he doubted not in the least , that principle alone with them would be sufficient to excite them to action in the coming contest , yet their policy , as settlers engaged in a controversy with New York for their homes and property , demanded that they should take a bold and decided stand against the British : for by doing this they would at once enlist the sympathies of the other colonies in regard to their wrongs , draw upon themselves the attention and respect of Congress , to which , if backed by the considerations of a meritorious service in the common cause of the country , they could successfully appeal for protection against the aggressions of New York , and thus place themselves in an attitude in which they could not only command justice , but finally secure the privilege of becoming an independent State . 
Although the argument of Baker was not probably without its effect on the minds of all , situated as the settlers were with respect to their controverted rights , and , when added to the manly appeal of Warrington to their patriotism and principles , had wrought up the assembly to a high pitch of feeling , yet Allen , conceiving that something more was needed to ripen them for action , and raise their minds , as he was desirous of doing , to a level with his own high-toned enthusiasm , now rose , and , after looking for a moment fearlessly and confidently around him , as he stood towering with his giant form , like Saul among the people , began , -- ` Men of the Green Mountains , In the struggle in which you have been for many years engaged , you have won among the people of these colonies a name for valor and patriotism . 
Captain Warrington and Lieutenant Selden will muster and take charge of you . 
When you said , Jessy , in that little parenthesis which you threw into your letter concerning Warrington , ` A noble looking fellow , I wish you could see him , ' you little thought that your wish had been granted ere expressed ; and far less did yor dream , when you added , ` I think you would like him , ' how much of a prophetess you was likely to become : for Charles Warrington I have seen , Warrington the Green Mountain Boy , Warrington the York outlaw , and Warrington the generous , high-minded , and , as you truly say , noble looking fellow ! 
And in what estimation I secretly hold him , you will better understand , when I inform you , that my old acquaintance Howard , of whom you have often heard me speak , and Warrington are one , and the same person ! 
I first encountered Warrington in the border of the woods adjoining our opening , where I wandered , a fatalist would think , but to be frightened by the questionable appearance of a sergeant from the fort , and to be relieved by the opportune arrival of my knight errant Green Mountain boy . 
But Warrington , and another of the leaders of the Green Mountan Boys , who happened here that evening , and who , by the way , was a most extraordinary man , fairly out-generaled their mercenary enemies , and , by a little favoring from a quarter which you are at liberty to guess at , both luckily made their escape . 
It seems this sagacious lover of mine , who had often heard my father recount the Samaritan kindness of Howard , and perhaps suspected my own secret partialities , had discovered , by worming himself into the confidence of the settlers , that Howard and Warrington were the same , but , for reasons of his own , had kept the discovery entirely to himself , though he had been for several months in possession of the secret . 
It appears also , that he had been apprised of each of my interviews with Warrington . 
And coming armed with all this annihilating array of facts , as he believed it , he , without saying a word to me , called my father aside , and poured the whole story into his ears , with such additions and embellishments as he conceived would best subserve his purpose , -- the amount of which was , as near as I could gather , that my father had been harboring a branded villain , who , in the guise of a gentleman , had been aiming at the seduction of his daughter , and the eventual seizure of his possessions . 
Why , this same Warrington and a party of his followers were up on Lake Dunmore the very day you were last here , and while you were here in the house playing with the children , I discovered , as I was out to the edge of the woods to get cedar boughs for a broom , a gang of Yorkers going in pursuit of them . 
` Well , ' she continued , ` it was for no other purpose than to despatch him to Warrington with a note that I scribbled in that closet . 
` It is true for all that , ' she rejoined ; ` Warrington once did him a service when they happened to meet on a hunt , and Neshobee , being made acquainted with the other 's situation , and knowing yours , has been as prudent as he is faithful . ' 
` The Green Mountain Boys threw them into the lake and returned to this neighborhood , ' she answered . 
` Why , nothing , ' she replied , smiling , ` only Warrington , who rambled out , after his friend fell asleep , heard your performance . ' 
` You astonish me , aunt Story , ' I replied ; ` but surely he could not have distinguished my voice in that under-ground abode ? ' 
` Not exactly , ' answered she , ` and yet he was strangely puzzled , and seemed , when telling me of the affair the next morning , to have some suspicions of the truth . ' 
` But did you tell him who it was ? ' 
` No , Alma , ' she said , ` I kept your secret for reasons which I have before named , and sent him off worse puzzled than before . 
But how did he introduce himself -- as Howard , or as Warrington ? 
And now , that you have again met with Warrington , I know where your heart is , or I should not venture to say so much . 
A long conversation then ensued between us , in which all the information possessed by either , relative to the York controversy , and the part taken in the same by Warrington , Sherwood , and others , was mutually imparted and received , and our opinions and feelings on these subjects freely exchanged . 
We had little time allowed us for preparation , however ; for scarce had the announcement been made , before Warrington entered the door attended by -- whom think you , Jessey ? 
In that case , to follow up that odd comparison of yours , the brisk little drummer in your heart would have found his match , I think , to keep up the accompaniment with the lively performer at work in my own : for Captain Warrington 's attendant was no other than your favored knight , the gay , witty , and handsome Selden . 
After dinner , Warrington , with his peculiar delicacy of manner , proposed a ramble . 
I know not but Mr. Warrington 's life may depend on it -- I did not mean to say this , but my fears and forebodings have compelled me . 
And the third grade was assigned to Warrington ; while Selden , in making the subordinate appointments , was raised to the post of captain to supply the place left vacant by the promotion of his superior . 
At this crisis of the affair , Warrington , fearing , in common with the other officers , that the altercation might prove ruinous to the enterprise , stepped forward and interposed . 
He first , respectfully , and in a manner calculated to soothe the irritated feelings of Arnold , set forth the doubtfulness of his right , even under the instructions and commission he had received , to assume the command of troops who had not been enlisted by him , but who had volunteered , without any knowledge of him or his instructions , and with the implied condition that they should be left to the choice of their own leaders . 
` Colonel Allen is right , ' observed Warrington : ` The falling of a green tree always produces a dull , heavy , lumbering sound , such as we just heard , occasioned by the air it gathers , or more properly , perhaps , disturbs in its course ; while the sound of a dry tree in falling is sharper , and comes with a single jar to the ear . 
` No , sir , ' replied Warrington ; ` the regular , and non-interfering sounds of those blows indicate but one axe-man . 
exclaimed Warrington , ` just begining upon his new pitch , which he mentioned to us . ' 
But if you are expecting to have pretty funny times of it over there , I do n't much care if I -- that is , I 'll think of it , after I have brought the top of this old hemlock a little lower ' -- ` Your most obedient , Captain Jones , ' gaily exclaimed Warrington , now riding up . 
While the latter part of this dialogue was going on , Warrington stood with his back to the company , with one foot on a log , busily engaged in writing with his pencil on a blank leaf , torn from his pocket book and placed on his knee . 
` I really wish you would mind your own business , Colonel , ' replied Warrington , with affected anger . 
` We will undertake the delivery of the letter , ' said Selden and Warrington , simultaneously . 
While this was in performance , a second detachment of Green Mountain Boys reached the shore , and , having eagerly hastened on to the fort to join their companions , now with Warrington at their head , came pouring into the arena . 
A single glance sufficed to tell the latter , that he was too late to participate in aught but the fruits of the victory . 
With a disappointed and mortified air he halted his men , and approached to the side of his leader . 
Though twice foiled in his attempts to procure the destruction of Warrington , under the sanction of a despotic law , of which advantage was taken mainly to cloak the true motives of the act , -- though signally defeated in this , and the bolder attempt at assassination , which was subsequently made at his instigation , yet still restless as the dark spirit of evil , this plotter of mischief , instead of relinquishing his object , was now only the more intently engaged in devising and putting in practice , new ways of accomplishing his nefarious designs . 
On the evening that Darrow had attempted the life of Warrington in the woods , Sherwood was sitting in his house , which was kept by a simple couple , wholly in the interests of their employer . 
This suspicion caused me to to obtain from the old Captain a minute description of the fellow , and having before had one of Warrington , it occurred to me that this favorite might be no other than the outlaw , himself . 
And being determined to ascertain whether my conjectures were correct , I made a secret journey to Bennington , where I got a sight at Warrington , and where , by professing great wrath against the Yorkers , I was let into secrets which confirmed me in my suspicions . 
There , also , I made arrangements for being apprised of Warrington 's future movements with one Willoughby , who sent the word , which enabled me to ferret out him and his band at Lake Dunmore . 
All this , however , I kept secret from the Hendees , but took especial pains to inspire the old man , and more particularly his daughter , with a horror of the character of Warrington . 
But I was thinking , and about to say , that besides these chances , Warrington 's communication with the girl will prove dangerous to my plans , and that they must be stopped . ' 
` Why , I have already taken one step to day , by informing Hendee , that his friend Howard was no less than the outlaw Warrington in disguise . 
This , was touching fire to his gun-powder temper ; and has pretty effectually blown the fellow up as regards any open communication with the girl . ' 
` That may be , but it has also blown up your best trap for taking him , you see , do n't you ? ' 
` Perhaps so , but I dare not risk his visits with the standing he evidently held in their minds . 
Warrington and most of these rascally settlers will be with the rebels . 
And these views going to confirm all the falsehoods and dark insinuations , by which that Iago in malice and subtlety had accompanied his disclosures concerning Warrington , the mind of the irritable old gentleman had been wrought up to a pitch of exasperation and bitterness , which he pretended neither to disguise nor control , and which he failed not to vent on all around him , but more particularly upon his unhappy daughter . 
To her , indeed , his whole demeanor became changed ; and his treatment was marked by a distrustful coldness , and continued austerity of manner , which she had never before , for so long a time , experienced from her passionate , but hitherto quickly relenting , parent . 
And yet she , who was happily the very reverse of her father in temper , had neither manifested , nor felt , the least wish to resent the unkindness ; but calm and aimiable in disposition , as she was fearless and spirited in action , she had borne all with the most forgiving patience , prudently awaiting the subsiding of the tempest of his passion , before she should attempt , as she was resolved to do , to exculpate Warrington , and gradually bring about a change in his views and feelings , in regard to the connection with Sherwood . 
` How proud I should now be of that same Warrington , outlaw though he be , but for this accursed business ! ' 
No , Warrington , be patient , trust in Heaven to expose guilt , and reward inocence , and rely on the constancy of her , who is resolved to bring about a state of things when her lover can be received in her father 's house with the kindness and respect to which he is entitled . 
`` As an alternative , in case I disapprove your first proposal , you request to be favored with secret , or stolen interviews , -- Warrington , Charles Warrington ! 
And were I to be wed to you to day , Mr. Warrington , it should be done openly , and , if permitted , in the presence of my natural protector . 
But if the ceremony were forbidden , I would then , after frankly apprising him of my intentions , as openly depart with you to a place where it would be allowed . 
And if force were employed to restrain me , I would then throw myself on the protection of him who would defend , or deserve to lose me . '' 
When Alma had finished her letter , she sought her trusty messenger , and confided it to his charge , with instructions to convey it to Warrington at the fort that night , or as soon as he could absent himself without exciting the observation of her father ; after which she again returned to her solitary apartment , and soon sought her pillow , to escape the perplexities of the present in the bright visions of the future . 
The earth was a variegated carpet of flowers beneath her feet ; and tempted by the beauty of the evening , she continued her course almost unconsciously , down the little vale towards the woods ; and before she was aware how far she had wandered , she had arrived at the border of the field , and was standing by the tree beneath which Warrington had first breathed to her the word ` love . ' 
It could not reasonably be supposed , in a country settlement where people , in the absence of other employment of their leisure , are usually so curious respecting the affairs of their neighbors , and where every kind of gossipping always finds so ready a circulation , that the visits of so distinguished a young gentleman as Warrington , at a house containing one so lovely and excellent as Alma Hendee , had been suffered to transpire without being generally known , and commented on , by the inhabitants of the vicinity . 
Nor could she perceive how it could arise from any ill opinion entertained against Warrington , who , as she had been told , was held in the highest estimation by the settlers generally , both for the signal services he had publicly rendered them , and for the many excellent traits of his private character . 
She recalled to mind some insinuations thrown out by Sherwood at his late visit , by which , she now , on reflection , supposed he intended she should believe , that Warrington was not only a libertine , but that he had , by a clandestine marriage , entered into with some of his victims for the purpose of accomplishing his designs , put it out of his own power to contract a legal marriage with another . 
` Major Warrington , Warrington , did you say ? ' 
` But I think you said you had kept up your acquaintance with Mr. Warrington , and you may know whether -- that is you ' -- and she paused , unable for the fluttering of her heart to proceed with an enquiry , the answer to which would probably involve her every hope of happiness for life : for she felt that this plain and apparently honest man , with his intimate knowledge of Warrington 's previous life and character , would be able to furnish her testimony , which would remove her apprehensions , or confirm them , and seal her doom forever . 
asked he , after waiting patiently awhile for her to proceed . 
And in pursuance of the course she had marked out for herself , it was her first object to dispatch such a notice to Warrington of her determination , as should effectually deter him from attempting any renewal of the intercourse . 
Sealing the note , she summoned Neshobee to her room , and with the same desperate sort of calmness which she had exhibited through the morning , though with a slight tremor in her voice , she said to him , ` Here , Neshobee , take this to Major Warrington without delay , if you can find him within twenty miles of this place . 
But I understand there was a vessel , with several boats filled with troops , arrived from the south last night ; and he probably came with them , as he has been absent from the fort , I am told , for the purpose of enlisting more men . 
Go , give it him ; and do not stay an instant for an answer , or to give him a chance to question you . ' 
The Indian , who perceived both in her words and manner , that some sudden change had taken place in the connection , which he was aware existed between her and his friend , Warrington , threw a keen enquiring glance upon the face of his mistress , and seemed to hesitate and linger , as if for an explanation of so unexpected an errand . 
Allen , Warrington and Arnold had arrived , as before intimated , the evening previous , with a schooner and a number of batteaux , filled with a considerable body of troops , collected for the contemplated expedition , all of whom were now on the point of embarking , -- Arnold in the schooner , with such Massachusetts ' troops as had arrived since the capture of Ticonderoga , and were now properly under his command , and Allen and Warrington with the remainder of the forces in the batteaux . 
As soon as the Indian reached the shore he sought out Warrington , and put the note into his hand . 
Receiving it as one who might be expecting a favor of the kind , the latter carefully put the supposed prize into his pocket , and informing the messenger , that he had one for him to take back to his mistress in return , he turned to finish the directions he was at the moment engaged in imparting to his men . 
When he had completed the business immediately on hand , he turned to look for Neshobee , that he might take him into the fort to receive the letter he intended to send back by him . 
But , after searching for him in vain among the men , he cast his eye on to the lake , and , to his surprise and vexation , he beheld the native rapidly pulling for the opposite shore , and already out of hailing distance . 
Still supposing , however , that the messenger had misunderstood his request , the impatient lover hastened to a solitary room in the fort for the purpose of reading the precious paper alone , and adding a postscript to the one he had written , that he might dispatch it by a special messenger before he embarked . 
As soon as he was alone , he eagerly broke the seal of Alma 's brief note , and read , with the most unmingled pain and astonishment , its unexpected contents . 
Hastily rising from the seat he had taken , he , for many minutes rapidly paced the room in silence , while the agitation visibly depicted on his manly countenance plainly bespoke the depth and bitterness of his emotions . 
` Yes , noble girl , ' he at length mournfully said , ` incapable of intrigue and meanness yourself , you have , in some way , unsuspectingly become a victim to the snares of a villain ! 
Before another hour had elapsed , Warrington had embarked with his troops , and , with the gallant and war-like array with which he was borne down the lake , had passed from the scene of his love and disappointment on his way to fields of blood and glory . 
It comes not within the scope of our design to accompany our Green Mountain Boys through the eventful campaign that followed their present embarcation , or to attempt to trace the varied fortunes of their gallant leaders , -- the daring , talented , and chivalrous Allen , who , in his heroic attempt on Montreal , was taken prisoner and carried to England in irons , and there kept through a long and doleful captivity , which deprived his country of the aid of one of her most energetic sons during the most trying period of the war , -- the skillful , cool and intrepid Warrington , whose conduct soon won for him the admiration of his country , -- the gay and gifted Selden , whose sword and pen were alike successfully wielded in the cause , -- and the jolly and fearless Jones , who became known as the most sagacious and trusty scout leader in the northern army . 
From the hour of her supposed discovery of the duplicity and base conduct of Warrington , life was but a joyless blank to Alma Hendee . 
After the rupture between Miss Hendee and Warrington , Sherwood became , for a while , unusually constant in his visits at Captain Hendee 's , and quite assiduous in his attentions to the listless girl , to whom they were offered . 
These addresses Alma rather suffered than received ; and the affair between them was , in this manner , allowed by her to fall into much the same train in which it was moving on Warrington 's appearance . 
` Now tell me , Alma , ' said the smaller girl , ` for , in spite of all the dogged silence you have shown in your letters on the subject , I determined I would know the first time I saw you -- tell me , I say , what was the true reason of your dismissing Warrington ? ' 
` I received intimations of it from various sources , which I disbelieved , when a man called here who was well acquainted with Warrington 's whole career , and he confirmed all that I had heard . ' 
` Warrington -- the high-minded , and brave Colonel Warrington , guilty of baseness like that ? 
Neither Colonel Warrington , nor Captain Selden , have the least idea that such were your reasons for the sudden , and , to them , unaccountable step you took . 
On turning round , Alma at once recognized him to be the tall woodsman , with whom she first became acquainted as the messenger of Warrington . 
But the latter , supposing it to be from Warrington , shook her head , and declined receiving it . 
Colonel Warrington and his regiment of Green Mountain Boys were to march this morning to reinforce St. Clair at Ticonderoga . 
As I was going from house to house , working at my trade there in your part of the settlement , I fell in with a plausible sort of a man , -- I do n't think I had best call him by name , -- and we after a while got to talking about Warrington , whom I had seen often enough , though I knew nothing about his private affairs . 
Well , he , in a smooth kind of way , said there was one thing that hurt his feelings ; and that was , that Warrington was doing the wrong thing by a relative of his , a very likely girl , that he pretended to be courting for the sake of getting her family on his side in the York quarrel , when to his certain knowledge , he had a young wife that he had deserted down country . 
He said it was a great pity to have the girl so deceived , and he would give two gold guineas to any one who would break up the courtship . 
But he said it would do no kinder good for her relations to try ; and they were very anxious some one else should undertake to do it . 
He then told me his plan was , that he and I , if I would agree to do it , should first kinder secretly tell folks this story about the deserted wife , so that it should get to her , and make her begin to believe it ; and then I should go there and pretend to come from where Warrington used to live , and let drop some how , before the girl , that I was knowing myself to that business about his being married . 
Well , he kinder drew me into this plan , and I being poor , consented for the money to do as I did . 
But I soon mistrusted that this man had some wrong design , which I found out to be the case , and I feel very sorry , and ask pardon for what happened ; and shall feel very bad if I done any mischief by it , as I think Colonel Warrington a very likely man . 
Aftera rapid journey by land , Sherwood arrived at his house in the Grants , inauspiciously for his present object , on the very evening on which his base and execrable manuvres to cause the dismissal of Warrington had been discovered by Miss Hendee , in the manner we have described . 
And deeply intent on carrying into execution his project of a union with her , whom he supposed to be still the dupe of his machinations , believing this now to be his only resource for securing the property , and being determined to accomplish it , if possible , before the provisions of his father 's will should be made known , to lessen his chances of success , he , early the next morning , repaired to her residence , for the purpose of urging an immediate fulfilment of the engagement , which he now chose to claim as having for several years existed between them . 
In the first place , he was not at all pleased to find , as he unexpectedly did , that Miss Reed had taken up her residence in the family , believing that she , from the connection which he suspected she sustained with Selden , the friend of Warrington , would naturally exercise her influence against one of whom she had doubtless received unfavorable impressions . 
Upon Alma 's return to the house , after the receipt of the communication exposing the baseness of Sherwood , she had sought an interview with her father , read him the letter , frankly confessed her own feelings , and disclosed all she knew , not only of the course and conduct of Sherwood , but that also of Warrington , for a part of which she was indebted to her fair companion , who in turn received it from her lover , Selden , the intimate of Warrington . 
About a dozen in all , they were now encamped , on the ground , formerly taken , as before mentioned , by Warrington and his companions , and were waiting in concealment , the approach of the British hordes , that were now pouring down upon the devoted settlement from the north . 
Tell Colonel Warrington , or Captain Selden , that father 's life is threatened -- that I -- O , heavens ! 
The Americans , however , kept some miles in advance of the enemy through the day ; and St. Clair , with the main body of his troops , pushed forward that night as far as Castleton , leaving the rear guard of the army , consisting of about a thousand men , under the command of Colonel Warrington , on the road some distance behind , where he encamped at a farm-house within three miles of the place which was the same night occupied by the lawless gang of Sherwood and their unfortunate captives , all parties being equally ignorant of their vicinity to each other . 
Our Captain has just returned from General Frazier 's quarters ; and he says they have had a sort of go between , by the name of Remington , who came directly from the Yankee camp , and brought word , that the main body of the rebels have got about ten miles ahead , while a regiment or two , under a Colonel Warrington , are encamped within a league of us on the road . 
And if the main body return to the rescue , why , we have General Reidesel , with a plenty of Hessians , a few miles behind , to back us : so very likely we may get a tolerable bush fight out of it , before it is over , particularly as this Warrington , they say , is a fellow of grit ; and his men are mostly Green Mountain Boys , who have more of the regular built bull dog about 'em than any thing the Yankees have got in their ragamuffin army . ' 
` Well , Captain Selden , ' said Warrington , as rousing himself from the reverie into which he had fallen after the council had broken up , he looked around and observed that his confidential friend now remained with him in the apartment , ` what do you think of the argument of Hale , and those who so strenuously opposed our proposition of making a stand against the enemy ? ' 
` Bring him here , instantly , ' said Warrington , with an expression of interest . 
` Neshobee , my good fellow , ' exclaimed Warrington , advancing to the native , and shaking him cordially by the hand , ` I hope they have not misused you ; but how came you here ? ' 
exclaimed Warrington with unusual bitterness , after a few questions and answers respecting the number and equipment of Sherwood 's gang had been rapidly exchanged between the excited officers and the native , ` execrable villain ! 
` St. Clair , with the bulk of them made shift to push on to Castleton by dark , -- Warrington with a regiment or two , now lies encamped at Seleck 's farm , right against us over on the military road . 
` To move upon Warrington at daylight ; and he told me to tell you to be on hand when the attack is made , -- flank the rebels in the woods , and keep on ahead of them to cut off their retreat . 
In beating about for help to rescue the family , he will learn Warrington 's position , which ten to one he has reached before this . 
Within an hour , a hundred of Warrington 's bull dogs may be upon us , with ambuscades in every direction around us . 
After scouts had been despatched to watch the movements of Warrington 's forces , and some time spent in inspecting their arms , and preparing them for instant service , the band , at the intimation of their leaders , proceeded to partake of a hasty repast , consisting mostly of bread and dried meats , which each produced from his own knapsack , with the exception of the officers and captives , for the supplying of whom one of Captain Hendee 's horses , loaded with provisions and tent-cloths , had followed in the rear . 
` Well , whether Warrington or another , ' observed the Captain , ` the officer in command there is winning glory for himself and his country . 
On arriving at the borders of the woods , our party entered the mouth of a ravine , which , while it protected them , by its screening banks , from the view of any spies whom Sherwood might have posted on the hill , luckily led up , and opened upon the plain , directly abreast of the position now occupied by Warrington 's regiment of Green Mountain Boys . 
I must immediately forward to Warrington . 
And by this craven act he has thrown all that important part of the field into the possession of the British , who are already sweeping past us , and securing the roads to the south , leaving our brave friend Warrington with his regiment of heroes , -LRB- scores of whom are stretched bleeding , or lifeless on the field , -RRB- and the gallant Colonel Francis with his battalion of Massachusetts troops , to contend with a fresh force of more than double their numbers . 
` And which way do you and Warrington propose for our flight , after reaching the forest ? ' 
` Warrington has fallen in battle , ' replied Selden , with an unsuccessful effort to speak without emotion . 
he added , throwing his cap thirty feet in the air , and leaping , in the extacy of his joyous emotions , a yard from the earth at each of his stentorian shouts ; in the last of which he was heartily joined by the whole band of his delighted comrades , as their beloved commander , the heroic Warrington , whom they had mourned as slain , now came dashing up to the spot , bowing low in token of acknowledgement of this flattering mark of their esteem . 
` Had you dropped down from the clouds before our eyes , Colonel Warrington , ' said Selden , after the noise and bustle of this enthusiastic reception had a little subsided , ` your presence could have scarcely more surprised us . ' 
But over the touching and tender scene that followed , marked as it was by the reuniting of long estranged hearts , like the rushing together of kindred waters , the surprising announcement of Selden 's recently discovered relationship , and the mad pranks of the excited old veteran , now clamouring for the curses of Warrington on his own head , for his blindness and folly , and now eagerly bestowing the hand of his daughter , as a compensation and reward , with many a sob-broken ejaculation for blessings on the happy couple -- over all this will we drop the curtain , not caring to trust the pen to vie with the reader 's outstripping fancy in filling up the picture . 
` Fairly a prisoner , sir ; you may as well surrender , Major , ' gaily observed Warrington to the laughing young officer , now enclosed on every side by beseiging friends . 
` Aye , aye , Colonel , ' blithely replied the latter ; ` but I shall be upon my parol in a moment , I think ; when I will pay my respects -- I have a glad secret for your ear , Warrington . ' 
cried Warrington , perceiving a knowing and mysterious smile upon the countenance of the other . 
rejoined Warrington , ` and let the Green Mountains rejoice ! ' 
asked Warrington , curiously . 
