Mr. Bedrick I know by reputation . 
I believe he is a highly respectable man ; and the gentlemen to whom he refers are individuals of the highest character . 
If any of you are inclined to accept of it , you will oblige me by giving me your names by to-morrow , as I wish to reply then to Mr. Bedrick 's letter ! ' 
Thus was this important business settled without trouble or delay ; and the same night the tutor despatched his reply to Mr. Jonathan Bedrick at Boston . 
You know if we are put in the papers it might injure you ; for Mr. Bedrick might suppose you were quite as -- as -- as -- -LRB- what word shall I use ? -RRB- 
At length the time arrived when Mr. Bedrick was to be in town , for he was absent when I reached Boston , and I sallied forth to the counting-room in India street , where I had been informed by Professor Haley he was to be found . 
All I knew of him was that he was an elderly man , that his name was Jonathan Bedrick , and that he had ` very respectable ' recommendations . 
My heart fluttered , and I dare say I was paler than usual as I entered the street door and asked of a young man , with a quill on his ear-top , for Mr. Bedrick . 
Before replying he eyed me sharply , and then asked me , in a sort of confidential tone , if I was one of the young men whom he had engaged to go out with him to South America . 
Upon my frankly replying in the affirmative , he looked very grave , then smiled meaningly , then shook his head with a sympathizing air . 
I confess I was not a little startled , so was about to ask the meaning of these signs when he said : ` From the country , I dare say ? ' 
I paused , and surveyed them , and came to the conclusion that the elderly man at the table must be Mr. Bedrick . 
With this idea I surveyed him for a moment with close attention . 
He was about fifty one or two years of age , with a very high bald forehead , arched wrinkled brows , and a prominent aquiline nose , beaked like an eagle 's . 
His eyes were black , deep set , and restless , and one of them was kept nearly half shut , while over the other the corner of the thick eye-brow was knitted sharply . 
His mouth was large and heavily-lipped . 
His whole face had an aspect of shrewd intelligence combined with low cunning . 
I do n't know how it was that I pitched , upon him as the only man in the counting-room likely to be Mr. Bedrick , unless it was that before him on the table lay a hat , and stick , and a pair of gloves , as if he had just laid them down , as a temporary visiter would be likely to do ; and I knew that he only had that counting-room as his head-quarters until he should set sail . 
After I had surveyed his face and let my eyes wander over his snuffcolored coat and white snuff-stained waistcoat , and the ruffled bosom of his shirt , I mustered courage and advanced towards him hat in hand . 
` I have called to see Mr. Bedrick , ' I said as firmly as I could manage to articulate at such an important moment , my heart all the while going like an engine worked by steam . 
Without replying at the instant he raised his head and keenly surveyed me , first dropping his spectacles which had been thrust above his forehead . 
` I am that person , ' he at length answered in a nasal tone , and with an effort to appear amiably condescending ; for doubtless he suspected what my business was with him , and for reasons obvious enough now , was desirous of making a good first impression upon me . 
With this counsel Mr. Bedrick slightly bowed and resumed his occupation of transferring an account from a slip of paper to a small sheepskin-covered memorandum-book that lay before him . 
I hastened to him , and after the congratulations of our meeting were over , I informed him that I had seen Mr. Bedrick and that he had desired me to be ready by the fifteenth . 
We all agreed that Mr. Bedrick was a shrewd-looking old fellow , and on comparing notes generally we found that our opinions nearly coincided respecting him ; Hewitt , however , felt disposed to regard him with more favor than either of us ; but he was an easy , quiet young man , who took every thing smoothly , and possessed the most immovable sang froid ; and no disappointment could have the effect of disturbing his equanimity . 
The next forenoon my father came in informing me that he had seen Mr. Bedrick , and was very much pleased with him . 
He said that he was every way worthy of his confidence , and that in surrendering me to his charge he felt that he was paving the way for my ultimate prosperity . 
He concluded a short chapter of advice to me touching my deportment when I should be solely under his care , by saying that Mr. Bedrick would call at one o'clock and dine with him , when he would like not only to see me but the rest of the young gentlemen together . 
We found with him Mr. Bedrick , who bowed and spoke civilly to each of us as we entered and took our seats . 
` Mr. Bedrick , Paul , wishes to explain to you and your friends more clearly his intention respecting you , ' said my father . 
` Certainly , young gentlemen , that is my intention , ' answered Mr. Bedrick in his shrill nasal tone , one of his black , restless eyes shining out from beneath his contracted eyebrow , while the other was closely shut , like a man looking through a telescope . 
I remember that mine was given with a final flourish of unusual dimensions and expressions ; for in my mind 's eye I was already as rich as an Inca of Peru ; Mr. Bedrick 's plausible and eloquent account of his ` intentions ' and our ` prospects , ' having quite captivated my imagination and wholly removed from my mind the prejudice which I had in the outset conceived against him . 
He also , affixed his name to the paper beneath ours , and my father appended his on the left margin as ` Witness . ' 
Mr. Bedrick dined with my father who seemed much taken with him . 
Atthe suggestion of Mr. Bedrick we had each of us purchased a Spanish Grammar , he having informed us that his eldest son , who had been in Cambridge , though whether he had graduated or not we never knew , was a good Spanish scholar , and would teach us as much of the language as we could learn in the two month 's voyage before us . 
I represented to my father the expediency of taking more summer clothing , but he remarked that as Mr. Bedrick had pledged himself to clothe us he did not feel called upon to go te such an expense , which ought in justice to fall upon the merchant himself . 
Yet my wardrobe was by no means ample , and would not have sufficed for me to start with on so long a voyage but for the faith both my father and myself had in the liberal promises of Mr. Bedrick . 
At length the carriage came for me and my trunk , and my father getting into it with me , we were soon at the end of Long wharf , where we found Mr. Bedrick , his two sons , -LRB- as I afterwards learned they were -RRB- and my three fellow adventurers already in the boat which was to take us on board . 
We got on board one after the other , Mr. Bedrick remaining in the boat to see that his baggage was safely got out ; for I saw in the passage to the brig that he had quite a nervous solicitude for its safety . 
At length , Mr. Bedrick got on board with his baggage , and coming aft , was asked by Captain Pright if ` all was aboard ? ' 
` Good bye , and do all you can to gain the good will of Mr. Bedrick , also while on board the brig of Captain Pright , and your voyage will be much pleasanter . 
He goes out with Mr. Bedrick . 
He is young and new to the world . 
Such kindness as he may receive at your hands will be gratefully acknowledged by me ! ' 
Mr. Bedrick is the man for you to speak to ! ' 
One after the other the boxes , bales , ank barrels disappeared below ; yet leaving all our baggage with Mr. Bedrick 's ` stores ' still in the gangway . 
` Come , young men , ' said Mr. Bedrick , who had been ` fussing ' about his things to see if any thing had received damage by water or were broken , ` you must take hold and get your trunks below and then come up and help me stow away mine and my stores . 
You have got ` dunder ' enough there , Mr. Bedrick , to freight a line of battle ship ! ' 
` My affairs wo n't interfere with yours , Captain Pright , ' retorted Mr. Bedrick sharply . 
My trunk being near the steerage stairs I had promptly taken hold of it when Mr. Bedrick called upon us , for I was desirous of securing a good place for it , so that I could easily come at it when I wished to open it . 
repeated Fairfax with indignation ; ` I 'd like to see Mr. Bedrick or the Captain putting us in here ! ' 
` Come boys , ' called out Mr. Bedrick from the deck . 
We went to work as he directed , though we thought that the duty of stowing his stores belonged rather to the hands of the ship than to ` young gentlemen passengers ' as we were . 
Before they went below the Captain and Mr. Bedrick had quite a sharp skirmish of words , the former declaring very positively that they should go into the hold with the freight , and the latter insisting on taking them into the steerage . 
We did not then know the value of these oblong copper vessels to Mr. Bedrick , or we should have ceased to be surprised at his tender care of them . 
He gained the victory , however , the Captain finally yielding with a muttering oath . 
This little circumstance showed us that our employer and the Captain had not much respect for each other ; and we could not but express to each other our wonder that Mr. Bedrick ` who owned a part of the brig and had freighted her with his own merchandize , ' should have engaged a Captain who had so little regard for his wishes . 
We were , indeed , surprised at Mr. Bedrick 's patience under such autocratic treatment from a man who , though Captain of the brig , was in truth , but an agent in his employ ; for Mr. Bedrick had told my father that he had purchased half the brig and employed her expressly to take him and his goods and clerks to Buenos Ayres . 
I told Mr. Bedrick , who was near to me tying up a package , that I would like to go to my berth if he would be so kind as to inform me which I was to take . 
As he spoke he pointed to the steerage . 
I followed the direction in which Mr. Bedrick 's hand pointed , and the next moment was stretched in one of the births . 
-- ` When I came down he was talking to Mr. Bedrick and saying he did not come aboard to be a steerage passenger , and he 'd have the rights of a cabin passenger . ' 
` What did Mr. Bedrick say to that ? ' 
` He said he should do as he said , that he was his clerk and must submit to his regulations . 
Fairfax turned to me and said that he would have a birth in the cabin or make a row ; and as a row was already began to be kicked up in my stomach I retreated down here glad to find any place to lay in . ' 
Bedrick , himself , is to live in the cabin and also his two sons who are no better than we are . 
Bedrick says we are to eat in the cabin ; but that is not enough . 
I do n't like this beginning of things at all ; and if I had known that we were to occupy the steerage I would have seen him in Guinea before I would have come with him . 
There is his eldest son , too . 
He took the liberty to speak to me because I chose to address his father in plain words . 
I do n't like him nor the other one . 
We can be more by ourselves here in the steerage than we could be in the cabin under Mr. Bedrick 's eye ; and I dare say we shall like this better than the cabin . ' 
` Did you insult Mr. Bedrick ? ' 
I merely told him in a firm tone what I believed to be our rights . 
I spoke civilly , though his son with the light hair and spectacles , he who is to teach us Spanish , and looks like a jackass , said that I was impudent and told me to mind how I spoke to his father . 
It is my private opinion , boys , that we shall have a ` muss ' before we get to Buenos Ayres ; for I do n't think nature ever intend ed that those Bedrick 's and ourselves should ever pull together kindly . ' 
` Is old Bedrick sea-sick yet ? ' 
dryly inquired Hewitt with a peculiar shuffle of his nose which was habitual to him . 
` He was looking white about the gills when I came down . 
His oldest son Edwin is already feeding the whales with his last shore dinner . ' 
We found Mr. Bedrick , who got well the last of all , disposed to be pleasant ; and as we had our meals in the cabin and lived pretty well , we said nothing more about the steerage . 
The character of Mr. Bedrick I shall leave for future notice . 
Radsworth was ambitious , spirited , adventurous ; and being just about to enter upon some pursuit when Mr. Bedrick 's letter came , at once resolved to embrace the opportunity of embarking upon the theatre of active business presented to him under the novel coloring of a foreign clerk-ship . 
His imagination , as my own had been , was fired by the pictures of life which rose up to his mind from the pages of travellers ' books which he had read , and without more reflection he gave himself to the expedition . 
He was a little over eighteen , of a manly height , fair complexion , full blue eyes , rather too wide open to be handsome , and square cheeks and chin . 
He was light , active , and in vigorous health , as indeed we all were , In character he was without reproach , being truly upright and moral . 
The eldest son of Mr. Bedrick , Ned , or Edwin , had been in Harvard , and left to accompany his father . 
Radsworth read and studied Spanish and talked literature with the elder son of Mr. Bedrick . 
` Old Bedrick , ' as we had got to denominate ` the Foreign Merchant , ' passed his time mostly in the cabin writing and looking over old accounts . 
At length one day old Bedrick , whom we liked less and less the more his character displayed itself before us and to us , called Hewitt into the cabin and told him that he wished him to make his berth up every morning and take care of hir state-room . 
Mr. Bedrick I am on board this brig as a cabin passenger , and you put me into the steerage . 
I hold your reputation in too high consideration to have it said that Mr. Bedrick 's clerks were nothing more than servants . 
I took the handle with old Mr. Bedrick and Hewitt . 
Fairfax worked a brake with Spanish Bedrick , as we called the eldest son , and this contiguity of labor with the mutual danger did wonders towards removing the illfeeling which had sprung up between us . 
We varied our monotonous life as well as we could , though before we had been five days becalmed we had nearly exhausted all our resources , except quarrelling , which at sea on such occasions , is a never failing resource for the listless and self-wearied , But Mr. Bedrick seemed disposed to keep the peace , and conciliate us , and his sons , finding we were not to be bullied or intimidated , treated us with that degree of consideration to which we thought ourselves entitled , clerks though we were to their father . 
Then he comes aboard of them and demands toll , ' said Fairfax ; while Mr. Bedrick , the Captain and mate , and the tars were seated or standing near by , loitering and enjoying the joke . 
` What kind o ' toll does he take ? 
The representation was perfect , and startled even Mr. Bedrick and the Captain , who had never before seen him . 
The Captain , as the wind was light , came on board of us , gave us some English newspapers , took some of our American papers in exchange , had a glass of wine in the cabin with the Captain and Mr. Bedrick , and then returned to his own clumsy , slow sailing ship , the sails of which were old and brown , and looking anything but tidy . 
Mr. Bedrick was cross , and we were one and all very much vexed with the wind for dying away , instead of being thankful and happy that we had got in sight of land . 
We had , however , discovered our Mr. Bedrick to be a man of violent temper , and supremely selfish , and disposed to be arrogant in the exercise of his authority over us four young men . 
His eldest son , too , we had found vain , conceited , assuming , and with great pretentions to universal knowledge , withal extremely ignorant . 
At length , as I have said , about ten days before we entered the river , a violent quarrel took place in the cabin between Captain Pright and Mr. Bedrick . 
The Bedrick in spectacles had run down into the cabin as soon as the Captain came on deck ; but Bill , who was stretched upon the larboard hen-coop reading a novel , paid no attention to what was passing . 
We had discovered that , as he grew cold towards Mr. Bedrick and his sons , he warmed kindly towards ourselves . 
But he turned away without speaking , glancing at the younger Bedrick as if he did not care he should hear what he had to communicate . 
Bedrick acted as if he wished to give vent to his displeasure upon him , but was prevented by that discretion which is known by the name of ` fear . ' 
A man of the highest respectability , sir , ' cried Bedrick . 
At length Captain Pright interposed his authority , and told Bedrick if he did not be quiet he would ` put him in irons ! ' 
This threat silenced him , and he went grumbling below to talk over the affair with his father . 
Bedrick and the boys will be turned in . 
We promised to obey him ; and then went forward and began to discuss the matter and try to guess the subject upon which he was to speak with us . 
` I would n't have Bedrick know that I tell you this for all the world ! 
He might make something of it to get me into trouble . 
-- From your words I learned that you had been engaged by Mr. Bedrick to go out to Buenos Ayres to be clerks in a Mercantile House that he was to establish there and at Monte Video . ' 
When I found from what I heard that you were laboring under a deception practiced upon you by Bedrick , I came very near blowing the whole affair at once and letting you know just what you were going out to South America for ! 
When I first found who and what you were , after the first week at sea , I confess I was surprised that young men of your education and appearance should have taken up with Mr. Bedrick , and consent to go with him on his expedition ! ' 
What does he want of us ? ' 
Mr. Bedrick has nothing higher in view on his arrival at Buenos Ayres than to open a soda-shop ! ' 
The announcement , however , was so unexpected and so strange , that after a moment 's reflection , recollecting the Captain 's quarrel with Mr. Bedrick , it occurred to me that he might only desire to injure him . 
I , therefore , remarked to the Captain when our excitement had a little subsided , that I thought he must be laboring under a mistake , for the cargo in the brig was certainly Mr. Bedrick 's . 
` Not a dollar of it , ' he answered . 
` Did he tell you so ? ' 
He said that he had freighted the brig with his goods for South America , ' was our reply . 
All the freight he has on board are four copper soda fountains which you have seen . 
These are what he means by his goods for his Commercial House . 
I tell you truly he has no interest in the brig or her cargo . 
He has only these soda fountains and some jars of lemon syrup , which are all his ` stock in trade ! ' 
I had taken him and you out by a previous contract , made not with him , but with the owners , who are related to him , and who are glad to get rid of him at any rate whatever . 
The fact is , he has been a merchant somewhere in the North , and failed in business some years ago . 
Since then he has been fiddling round and doing little or nothing , and rather a burden upon some rich relatives , one of whom owns this brig. A few weeks before we sailed , Bedrick heard that there were no soda-shops in Buenos Ayres , but that one had been set up by an English adventurer in Rio Janeiro , which took amazingly with the Brazilians , who paid twenty-five cents a glass for their soda , and that the adventurer was making a fortune . 
So , starting on this idea , Mr. Bedrick proposed to the owner of the brig , who was his relation , that if he would purchase him four soda fountains , secure him a passage out to Buenos Ayres , with his sons and three or four ` clerks , ' -LRB- yourselves , young gentlemen ! -RRB- 
Where or how Mr. Bedrick got his ` clerks ' I never knew until subsequent to your coming on board . 
What motive he had in deceiving you I ca n't imagine , unless it was that he believed -LRB- what is true -RRB- that it would be impossible for him to obtain four respectable , trustworthy young men to embark ten thousand miles to a foreign country to ` tend soda-shops . ' 
He , therefore , disguised the truth that he might get young men he could confide his ` commercial affairs to , ' knowing you could not help yourself after he had got you there ! ' 
` But we will show him that we can help ourselves , ' was our resolute reply . 
We were not diffident in expressing our opinion of Mr. Bedrick , who had thus inveigled us into a scheme which had fraud for its basis . 
In the presence of Mr. Bedrick we were respectful , more so than we had ever been , for we wished to prevent any suspicion of our knowledge of the true character of his mercantile establishment . 
I had in my trunk a letter of introduction from my father to Colonel Forbes , the American charge d' affairesat Buenos Ayres , and on the strength of this we made up our minds to wait upon Mr. Forbes and day before him our grievances in full , declare our abjuration of Mr. Bedrick 's authority , and place ourselves at his disposal and advice as to our future movements . 
` Let Mr. Bedrick try him , ' said Fairfax . 
` He is a Spanish scholar ? ' 
The man did not understand him , and Bedrick declared that the fellow did not know a word of Spanish , as he had asked him in good grammatical Spanish . 
We , however , questioned whether he himself did not know less ; for our progress in the language had showed us that he had but a mere smattering of the tongue he professed to understand , as he said , like his mother-dialect . 
Emboldened by the failure of Bedrick , our teacher , we all four went desperately the Spanish at the latter boatman , whom we succeeded in making comprehend our horrible ` Castillian , ' by means of a few English words judiciously thrown in , and some aid from expressive signs . 
cried old Mr. Bedrick , coming hurriedly up on deck , for he had been shaving below all the while ; ` what is it the English Captain says ? ' 
` But if they catch us trying to run the blockade , ' said Bedrick , ` they will capture the brig and take her into Monte Video as a prize , and condemn her , and make us prisoners . ' 
We four voted in favor of keeping on , and also the younger Bedrick ; but the old man and his elder born , proposed that we should stop at Monte Video ! ' 
cried Mr. Bedrick as white as a sheet . 
repeated his elder born , looking whiter than his parent , if possible . 
cried Mr. Bedrick . 
Mr. Bedrick raved and seemed beside himself as we proceeded towards the harbor . 
We saw that Don Pedro had very conclusively terminated our contract with Mr. Bedrick without the necessity of any open quarrel with him ; for if we could not get to Buenos Ayres , we could not of course be ` clerks ' in Buenos Ayres ; the affair , therefore , dropped to the ground of itself . 
We have declared ourselves independent of Bedrick , and the world is all before us where to choose ! 
Our hopes with reference to Buenos Ayres had been wrecked already by the discovery of Mr. Bedrick 's treachery towards us , and all the objections that we really had to the change was , that we did not like to patronize a city that was fighting against patriots . 
At length we were called to dinner in the cabin , our last dinner on board the brig. At the table we discussed the city and the circumstances which had brought us , and with such cheerfulness that Mr. Bedrick even smiled and remarked , in an under tone to the Captain , that perhaps he might open an establishment there , as the city was full of soldiers and foreigners , and that it might do as well if not better than Buenos Ayres ! ' 
We will stick to old Bedrick and sell soda for him , but we 'll not stay one day longer than we please . 
But he must not know any thing of our dissatisfaction . 
Aftera very interesting traverse of the streets of the town , we at length came in sight of the domicil which Mr. Bedrick had hired . 
I have already spoken for a carpenter to come , ' said Mr. Bedrick bustling about . 
I asked him . 
Young Bedrick placed at the window a red and yellow curtain -LRB- second-handed -RRB- he had bought at a stall on the quay , and Bill occupied himself in drawing nails and hanging some pictures the old man had brought for the purpose of ornamenting his soda-shops . 
-- Old Bedrick was in raptures at this wonderful success . 
The sweat poured down his cheeks with excitement . 
Bedrick having commissioned William , his son , to cater , and look after these matters . 
We saw that we were sacrificing our ` respectability , ' as the world calls it , by remaining with Mr. Bedrick . 
We 'll get the weather side of old Bedrick yet ! ' 
And rubbing his hands he chuckled and snuffled his nose at the idea . 
` If we leave Bedrick we leave him to join Llavelleja . 
` I am here , and must make the best of it , ' I answered , feeling that I would give every cent of my little stock of money , to be safely behind old Bedrick 's counter drawing soda-water . 
He handed me the heavy pistol and I half cocked it and set my teeth for desperate adventure . 
` I will repeat it again if you desire , Mr. Bedrick . 
` Do n't interfere , sir , between Fairfax and Mr. Bedrick , ' said I laying my hand gently upon our ` tutor 's ' arm , and drawing him back . 
He looked round at me as if he would very gladly knock me over ; but he saw something in my eye that doubtless restrained his rage within discreet bounds ; for he was a contemptible fellow , and I most cordially despised him , as also did the rest of us , not exceptlng even his own brother . 
He ran to the door , when Radsworth placed himself before it and said quietly , ` If you know when you are well off , Ned , you will keep quiet and let Fairfax and your father have their talk out . ' 
Hear me , Mr. Bedrick , for I am resolved to speak . 
` By old Bedrick ? ' 
Young Bedrick joined us in a moment or twoafter our arrival . 
As to your agreement with Mr. Bedrick that is of no force . 
He has shamefully deceived you -LRB- we had told the Captain the history of the affair of our coming out to South America , while in the boat -RRB- and you have nothing to reflect upon yourselves for leaving him . 
Fairfax took the helm ; Radsworth and Bedrick the two oars , and I stationed myself in the sharp bows to look out ahead . 
` Pull away , then , ' he added ; and pushing from the side , we noiselessly let fall the oars and began to move on . 
After remaining a few moments under the friendlyshelter of the frigate 's stern we were satisfied that all was safe yet , and once more pulled on , Fairfax and I now taking an oar and giving our places to the others , Bedrick at the helm . 
Once we were startled by the barking of a dog on board an armed schooner , and laying on our oars waited till he was silent ; though he was probably barking from some other cause than consciousness of our vicinity . 
` We shall be likely to fetch up here all told , ' observed Bedrick with the sort of devil-me-care air characteristic of him . 
` We have accomplished more than this , ' ` But these fellows in the boats at the booms , ' said Bedrick looking with the glass ; ` I think if we get by it 'll be with the shaving of our eye-brows ! ' 
A the suggestion of Bedrick , the locker was opened , and a bottle of champagne opened by knocking off the neck against the side of the boat . 
` We must risk all these dangers , sir , ' said Bedrick resolutely . 
Radsworth and Bedrick took a position forward to look out . 
Bedrick , with great presence of mind unstepped the mast and threw it into the bottom of the boat , nearly breaking my head with it as it fell . 
Silently we drove on , eagerly intent upon the discovery of the first vessel , when Bedrick electrified us by calling out , ` A light , a light ! ' 
Scarcely had he got the words out of his lips , when I discovered another , and Radsworth repeated the cry from his side of the look-out . 
` Then it is time we douse sail and mast and take to our oars , fellows , ' said Bedrick . 
Fairfax kept the helm , it being his hour to steer , for we took turns at each duty . 
I took the starboard oar , and Radsworth the larboard , while Bedrick took the lookout ; but for that matter we all looked out , for it was a critical time with us ; for if we could pass the fleet in safety we had the river all before us with no danger to apprehend save from the videttesthat might be cruising above to watch the movements , or rather the preparations of the patriot squadron ; for it had just reached Admiral Lobo 's ears that Commodore Brown of the Buenos Ayrean navy had sworn he would break through the blockading squadron before thirty days had passed . 
` I am not particular , ' said Bedrick . 
` Now if we had cigars , ' said Bedrick , as we carefully put away the remains of the breakfast into the locker ; ` we should feel like aldermen ! ' 
` They are skinning cattlet , ' said Bedrick ; ` it is a gun-boat that has run in there for fresh provisions . 
` She will be sure to tack before she runs on another hour , ' said Bedrick ; ` and then we shall run a chance of falling in with her . 
` Do n't be too sauguine , ' said Bedrick ; ` we may find two for this one before we go far up the river . ' 
I had slept about three hours when I was awakend by Bedrick calling , in a hushed tone , -- ` Fellows , up quickly ! ' 
` And not now , ' chimed in Bedrick , ` but we have been listening the last quarter of an hour to the most infernal howls from the shore that mortal ever heard . 
` That is more than I know , ' answered Bedrick . 
Then came the dashing noise of swimming , as if some huge animal was making his way towards us . 
The report of five pistols -LRB- for Bedrick blazed away with two , -RRB- and the smoke for a moment confused us . 
No cry or sound of pain followed the furious volley , and not seeing him when we looked we believed we had finished the monster , and that he had sunk lifeless without a struggle . 
He had dived at the flash of our pistols , and risen on the other side of the boat , and within six feet of it . 
Before we could recover fully from our astonishment , he had floundered towards the boat and flung his huge paw over the gunwale . 
The weight of his huge bulk at once caused the boat to begin to take in water , while we shouted to each other to keep on the upper side . 
He opened his tremendous jaws , showing double rows of glittering sharp teeth , and from the cavernous depths of his throat there issued a sound that has no likeness on earth save to itself , -- a compound of a locomotive whistle , the bellowing of a mad bull , and the letting off steam from the escape-pipe of a high-pressure engine . 
The paw was pulled back bleeding and dangling by the tendrons , and the panther , thinking he had enough of our quality , turned away and began paddling for the shore , every two or three seconds on his retreat uttering a sharp cry of pain . 
We did not fire after him , for we felt no disposition to goad a discomfited foe , and were glad enough to get rid of him on his own terms . 
` Then let us risk the panthers , ' said Bedrick . 
-- As I was leaving the tree , Bedrick called to know if any Anacondas or Panthers were in sight . 
` It wo n't do to go too near Colonia , ' said Bedrick . 
Radsworth was of my opinion and Bedrick was with Fairfax . 
Bedrick and Radsworth watched till twelve o'clock , but without any thing to interrupt the quiet of the night . 
` Yes , we have not shown either wisdom or prudence in coming from the United States with Mr. Bedrick , ' said I. ` But we have put our hand to the plough and we must make the furrow . ' 
We now really enjoyed ourselves , and laughed and told jokes , and talked about ` old Bedrick 's consternation and wrath when the information of our departure was communicated to him . 
Bedrick lay upon his back with his hands clasped over the top of his head , and stretched out with the most comfortable ease of posture , his eyes half-closed . 
cried Bedrick ; ` in a few moments we will get out of their reach . ' 
` I was pretty sure one of us was booked that time for the land of Nod , ' said Bedrick . 
` I believe , ' remarked Radsworth , instinctively flinching as he spoke , ` that if I had n't stooped as I did , one of the bullets would have gone through my head -- it seemed to singe my ear-locks as it was . ' 
and he exhibited the ball which had come on board . 
` It is my opinion , ' said Bedrick , ` that these fellows were Patriots . ' 
We perfectly agreed with him , and were quite satisfied at our escape , whatever they might be . 
Bedrick was strongly of the opinion that we could not too soon get away from this shore , for he firmly believed that some of the three horsemen wounded would go back to Colonia and have a gun-boat sent out to intercept us . 
Bedrick had suggested the idea that she might be just from Montevideo with knowledge of our escape , and perhaps with orders to look us up . 
She brings it only with herself , ' said Bedrick . 
` In a few minutes we may be sunk , ' said Bedrick . 
Fairfax and Bedrick thought of trying to get a clerkship , and if unable to join Brown 's squadron . 
As we talked over our affairs , and about two in the morning , while we were about preparing to look out ahead for the Buenos Ayrean shore , Bedrick suddenly cried out , ` Land ho ! ' 
` We shall know where we are by daylight , ' said Bedrick . 
We anchored and unshipped the mast , and Bedrick and Fairfax went to sleep ; but I was too watchful and also too anxious to get the first sight of the shore by dawn to lay down . 
Bedrick and Fairfax were for leaving the boat at Ensenaca and taking it on horseback across to the city , as the mate said they could hire a horse for a dollar each , and a guide to show them the way and bring the horses back . 
Finally , completely tired of the skiff , Bedrick and Fairfax resolved to quit it and try the land route . 
Fairfax mounted one of them , though with some misgivings , and Bedrick the other . 
After breakfast we were delighted with the appearance of Fairfax and Bedrick . 
That night we discussed the matter , and Bedrick was the only one who resolved to join the navy . 
The next day he entered it and went on board . 
Bedrick had gone into the navy which in a few days afterwards weighed and stood down the river to fight the Brazilian squadron . 
When the merchants who had been referred to were called upon , they denied all knowledge of Bedrick 's intentions , supposing that he really meant to do what he professed to . 
From him we learned the rage and fury of Bedrick at our departure , and how he informed the Captain-general where we had gone , who sent a gun-boat with twelve soldiers in it after us . 
Bedrick , I have heard , had his leg shot off in an engagement under Brown . 
