It appears from tradition , as well as some parish registers still extant , that the lands of Dalcastle -LRB- or Dalchastel , as it is often spelled -RRB- were possessed by a family of the name of Colwan , about one hundred and fifty years ago , and for at least a century previous to that period . 
I find , that in the year 1687 , George Colwan succeeded his uncle of the same name , in the lands of Dalchastel and Balgrennan ; and this being all I can gather of the family from history , to tradition I must appeal for the remainder of the motley adventures of that house . 
This George was a rich man , or supposed to be so , and was married , when considerably advanced in life , to the sole heiress and reputed daughter of a Baillie Orde , of Glasgow . 
Her maid asked to see her ; but George did not choose that any body should see her but himself : he paid her several visits , and always turned the key as he came out . 
Remonstrance was of no avail : George laughed at them who tried such a course , and retained his house-keeper , while the lady gave herself up to utter despair ; for though she would not consort with her husband herself , she could not endure that any other should do so . 
George was brought up with his father , and educated partly at the parish-school , and partly at home , by a tutor hired for the purpose . 
He was a generous and kind-hearted youth ; always ready to oblige , and hardly ever dissatisfied with any body . 
George was much behind him in scholastic acquirements , but greatly his superior in personal prowess , form , feature , and all that constitutes gentility in deportment and appearance . 
The laird had often manifested to Miss Logan an earnest wish that the two young men should never meet , or at all events that they should be as little conversant as possible ; and Miss Logan , who was as much attached to George as if he had been her own son , took every precaution , while he was a boy , that he should never meet with his brother ; but as they advanced towards manhood , this became impracticable . 
George could not help perceiving him , not only on account of his impertinent remarks , but he , moreover , stood so near him that he several times impeded him in his rapid evolutions , and of course got himself shoved aside in no very ceremonious way . 
Instead of making him keep his distance , these rude shocks and pushes , accompanied sometimes with hasty curses , only made him cling the closer to this king of the game . 
He seemed determined to maintain his right to his place as an onlooker , as well as any of those engaged in the game , and if they had tried him at an argument , he would have carried his point : or perhaps he wished to quarrel with this spark of his jealousy and aversion , and draw the attention of the gay crowd to himself by these means ; for , like his guardian , he knew no other pleasure but what consisted in opposition . 
George took him for some impertinent student of divinity , rather set upon a joke than any thing else . 
He perceived a lad with black clothes , and a methodistical face , whose countenance and eye he disliked exceedingly , several times in his way , and that was all the notice he took of him the first time they two met . 
But the next day , and every succeeding one , the same devilish-looking youth attended him as constantly as his shadow ; was always in his way as with intention to impede him , and ever and anon his deep and malignant eye met those of his elder brother with a glance so fierce that it sometimes startled him . 
The very next time that George was engaged at tennis , he had not struck the ball above twice till the same intrusive being was again in his way . 
The party played for considerable stakes that day , namely , a dinner and wine at the Black Bull tavern ; and George , as the hero and head of his party , was much interested in its honour ; consequently , the sight of this moody and hellish-looking student affected him in no very pleasant manner . 
`` If there is not , they are here that shall compel you , '' returned George : `` so , friend , I rede you to be on your guard . '' 
As he said this , a flush of anger glowed in his handsome face , and flashed from his sparkling blue eye ; but it was a stranger to both , and momently took its departure . 
The black-coated youth set up his cap before , brought his heavy brows over his deep dark eyes , put his hands in the pockets of his black plush breeches , and stepped a little farther into the semi-circle , immediately on his brother 's right hand , than he had ever ventured to do before . 
There he set himself firm on his legs , and , with a face as demure as death , seemed determined to keep his ground . 
He pretended to be following the ball with his eyes ; but every moment they were glancing aside at George . 
One of the competitors chanced to say rashly , in the moment of exultation , `` That 's a d -- d fine blow , George ! '' 
George , in flying backward to gain the point at which the ball was going to light , came inadvertently so rudely in contact with this obstreperous interloper , that he not only overthrew him , but also got a grievous fall over his legs ; and , as he arose , the other made a spurn at him with his foot , which , if it had hit to its aim , would undoubtedly have finished the course of the young laird of Dalcastle and Balgrennan . 
George , being irritated beyond measure , as may well be conceived , especially at the deadly stroke aimed at him , struck the assailant with his racket , rather slightly , but so that his mouth and nose gushed out blood ; and , at the same time , he said , turning to his cronies , -- `` Does any of you know who the infernal puppy is ? '' 
said one of the onlookers , a stranger : `` The gentleman is your own brother , Sir -- Mr. Robert Wringhim Colwan ! '' 
`` No , not Colwan , Sir , '' said Robert , putting his hands in his pockets , and setting himself still farther forward than before , -- `` not a Colwan , Sir ; henceforth I disclaim the name . '' 
`` No , certainly not , '' repeated George : `` My mother 's son you may be , -- but not a Colwan ! 
Then turning round to his informer , he said , `` Mercy be about us , Sir ! 
He felt the reproof , and felt it deeply ; seeming anxious for some opportunity to make an acknowledgment , or some reparation . 
He was such a rueful-looking object , covered with blood , that none of them had the heart to kick him , although it appeared the only thing he wanted ; and as for George , he said not another word to him , either in anger or reproof . 
George , at length , came forward abashedly toward him , and said , -- `` I have been greatly to blame , Robert , and am very sorry for what I have done . 
As he said this , he held out his hand toward his polluted brother ; but the froward predestinarian took not his from his breeches pocket , but lifting his foot , he gave his brother 's hand a kick . 
`` I 'll give you what will suit such a hand better than mine , '' said he , with a sneer . 
And then , turning lightly about , he added , -- `` Are there to be no more of these d -- d fine blows , gentlemen ? 
`` This is too bad , '' said George . 
And , having made this general remark , he took no more note of the uncouth aggressor . 
But the persecution of the latter terminated not on the play-ground : he ranked up among them , bloody and disgusting as he was , and , keeping close by his brother 's side , he marched along with the party all the way to the Black Bull . 
He did all that he could to inflame both judges and populace against the young Cavaliers , especially against the young Laird of Dalcastle , whom he represented as an incendiary , set on by an unnatural parent to slander his mother , and make away with a hapless and only brother ; and , in truth , that declaimer against all human merit had that sort of powerful , homely , and bitter eloquence , which seldom missed affecting his hearers : the consequence at that time was , that he made the unfortunate affair between the two brothers appear in extremely bad colours , and the populace retired to their homes impressed with no very favourable opinion of either the Laird of Dalcastle or his son George , neither of whom were there present to speak for themselves . 
The next day George and his companions met as usual , -- all who were not seriously wounded of them . 
`` By no means , '' cried George : `` it is evident he wants nothing else . 
Then turning to a friend , he said in a whisper , `` Speak to him , Gordon ; he surely will not refuse to let us have the ground to ourselves , if you request it of him . '' 
But the unpopularity of the Younger George Colwan could no longer be concealed from his associates . 
It was manifested wherever the populace were assembled ; and his young and intimate friend , Adam Gordon , was obliged to warn him of the circumstance , that he might not be surprised at the gentlemen of their acquaintance withdrawing themselves from his society , as they could not be seen with him without being insulted . 
George thanked him ; and it was agreed between them , that the former should keep himself retired during the daytime while he remained in Edinburgh , and that at night they should always meet together , along with such of their companions as were disengaged . 
George found it every day more and more necessary to adhere to this system of seclusion ; for it was not alone the hisses of the boys and populace that pursued him , -- a fiend of more malignant aspect was ever at his elbow , in the form of his brother . 
George became utterly confounded ; not only at the import of this persecution , but how in the world it came to pass that this unaccountable being knew all his motions , and every intention of his heart , as it were intuitively . 
On consulting his own previous feelings and resolutions , he found that the circumstances of his going to such and such a place were often the most casual incidents in nature -- the caprice of a moment had carried him there , and yet he had never sat or stood many minutes till there was the self-same being , always in the same position with regard to himself , as regularly as the shadow is cast from the substance , or the ray of light from the opposing denser medium . 
For instance , he remembered one day of setting out with the intention of going to attend divine worship in the High Church , and when within a short space of its door , he was overtaken by young Kilpatrick of Closeburn , who was bound to the Grey-Friars to see his sweetheart , as he said ; `` and if you will go with me , Colwan , '' said he , `` I will let you see her too , and then you will be just as far forward as I am . '' 
George assented at once , and went ; and after taking his seat , he leaned his head forward on the pew to repeat over to himself a short ejaculatory prayer , as had always been his custom on entering the house of God . 
When he had done , he lifted his eyes naturally toward that point on his right hand where the fierce apparition of his brother had been wont to meet his view : there he was , in the same habit , form , demeanour , and precise point of distance , as usual ! 
George again laid down his head , and his mind was so astounded , that he had nearly fallen into a swoon . 
He tried shortly after to muster up courage to look at the speaker , at the congregation , and at Captain Kilpatrick 's sweetheart in particular ; but the fiendish glances of the young man in the black clothes were too appalling to be withstood , -- his eye caught them whether he was looking that way or not : at length his courage was fairly mastered , and he was obliged to look down during the remainder of the service . 
In the gallery of the Parliament House , in the boxes of the play-house , in the church , in the assembly , in the streets , suburbs , and the fields ; and every day , and every hour , from the first rencounter of the two , the attendance became more and more constant , more inexplicable , and altogether more alarming and insufferable , until at last George was fairly driven from society , and forced to spend his days in his own and his father 's lodgings with closed doors . 
Even there , he was constantly harassed with the idea , that the next time he lifted his eyes , he would to a certainty see that face , the most repulsive to all his feelings of aught the earth contained . 
It was seldom that he saw him either following him in the streets , or entering any house or church after him ; he only appeared in his place , George wist not how , or whence ; and , having sped so ill in his first friendly approaches , he had never spoken to his equivocal attendant a second time . 
It came at length into George 's head , as he was pondering , by himself , on the circumstances of this extraordinary attendance , that perhaps his brother had relented , and , though of so sullen and unaccommodating a temper that he would not acknowledge it , or beg a reconciliation , it might be for that very purpose that he followed his steps night and day in that extraordinary manner . 
`` I can not for my life see for what other purpose it can be , '' thought he . 
After this generous resolution , it was a good while before his gratuitous attendant appeared at his side again ; and George began to think that his visits were discontinued . 
The hope was a relief that could not be calculated ; but still George had a feeling that it was too supreme to last . 
His enemy had been too pertinacious to abandon his design , whatever it was . 
He , however , began to indulge in a little more liberty , and for several days he enjoyed it with impunity . 
George was , from infancy , of a stirring active disposition , and could not endure confinement ; and , having been of late much restrained in his youthful exercises by this singular persecutor , he grew uneasy under such restraint , and , one morning , chancing to awaken very early , he arose to make an excursion to the top of Arthur 's Seat , to breathe the breeze of the dawning , and see the sun arise out of the eastern ocean . 
The morning was calm and serene ; and as he walked down the south back of the Canongate , toward the Palace , the haze was so close around him that he could not see the houses on the opposite side of the way . 
As he passed the lord-commissioner 's house , the guards were in attendance , who cautioned him not to go by the Palace , as all the gates would be shut and guarded for an hour to come , on which he went by the back of St. Anthony 's gardens , and found his way into that little romantic glade adjoining to the Saint 's chapel and well . 
George did admire this halo of glory , which still grew wider , and less defined , as he approached the surface of the cloud . 
But , to his utter amazement and supreme delight , he found , on reaching the top of Arthur 's Seat , that this sublunary rainbow , this terrestrial glory , was spread in its most vivid hues beneath his feet . 
Still he could not perceive the body of the sun , although the light behind him was dazzling ; but the cloud of haze lying dense in that deep dell that separates the hill from the rocks of Salisbury , and the dull shadow of the hill mingling with that cloud , made the dell a pit of darkness . 
Such was the description of the morning , and the wild shades of the hill , that George gave to his father and Mr. Adam Gordon that same day on which he had witnessed them ; and it is necessary that the reader should comprehend something of their nature , to understand what follows . 
George started , and his hair stood up in bristles as he gazed on this horrible monster . 
He saw every feature , and every line of the face , distinctly , as it gazed on him with an intensity that was hardly brookable . 
Its eyes were fixed on him , in the same manner as those of some carnivorous animal fixed on its prey ; and yet there was fear and trembling , in these unearthly features , as plainly depicted as murderous malice . 
George conceived it to be a spirit . 
He could conceive it to be nothing else ; and he took it for some horrid demon by which he was haunted , that had assumed the features of his brother in every lineament , but in taking on itself the human form , had miscalculated dreadfully on the size , and presented itself thus to him in a blown-up , dilated frame of embodied air , exhaled from the caverns of death or the regions of devouring fire . 
He was farther confirmed in the belief that it was a malignant spirit , on perceiving that it approached him across the front of a precipice , where there was not footing for thing of mortal frame . 
Still , what with terror and astonishment , he continued rivetted to the spot , till it approached , as he deemed , to within two yards of him ; and then , perceiving that it was setting itself to make a violent spring on him , he started to his feet and fled distractedly in the opposite direction , keeping his eye cast behind him lest he had been seized in that dangerous place . 
But the very first bolt that he made in his flight he came in contact with a real body of flesh and blood , and that with such violence that both went down among some scragged rocks , and George rolled over the other . 
George then perceived that it was his brother ; and , being confounded between the shadow and the substance , he knew not what he was doing or what he had done ; and there being only one natural way of retreat from the brink of the rock , he likewise arose and pursued the affrighted culprit with all his speed towards the top of the hill . 
at which George being disgusted , and his spirits all in a ferment from some hurried idea of intended harm , the moment he came up with the craven he seized him rudely by the shoulder , and clapped his hand on his mouth . 
said he ; `` what do you mean by roaring out murder in that way ? 
& c. George had felt resolute to put down this shocking alarm , lest some one might hear it and fly to the spot , or draw inferences widely different from the truth ; and , perceiving the terror of this elect youth to be so great that expostulation was vain , he seized him by the mouth and nose with his left hand , so strenuously , that he sunk his fingers into his cheeks . 
But the poltroon still attempting to bray out , George gave him such a stunning blow with his fist on the left temple , that he crumbled , as it were , to the ground , but more from the effects of terror than those of the blow . 
His nose , however , again gushed out blood , a system of defence which seemed as natural to him as that resorted to by the race of stinkards . 
He then raised himself on his knees and hams , and raising up his ghastly face , while the blood streamed over both ears , he besought his life of his brother , in the most abject whining manner , gaping and blubbering most piteously . 
`` Tell me then , Sir , '' said George , resolved to make the most of the wretch 's terror -- `` tell me for what purpose it is that you thus haunt my steps ? 
George continued : `` And now , once for all , I request that we may exchange forgiveness , and that we may part and remain friends . '' 
As he said this , he strode indignantly away . 
From the moment that he heard his life was safe , he assumed his former insolence and revengeful looks -- and never were they more dreadful than on parting with his brother that morning on the top of the hill . 
`` Well , go thy ways , '' said George ; `` some would despise , but I pity thee . 
The sun had now dispelled the vapours ; and the morning being lovely beyond description , George sat himself down on the top of the hill , and pondered deeply on the unaccountable incident that had befallen to him that morning . 
He could in nowise comprehend it ; but , taking it with other previous circumstances , he could not get quit of a conviction that he was haunted by some evil genius in the shape of his brother , as well as by that dark and mysterious wretch himself . 
In no other way could he account for the apparition he saw that morning on the face of the rock , nor for several sudden appearances of the same being , in places where there was no possibility of any foreknowledge that he himself was to be there , and as little that the same being , if he were flesh and blood like other men , could always start up in the same position with regard to him . 
He determined , therefore , on reaching home , to relate all that had happened , from beginning to end , to his father , asking his counsel and his assistance , although he knew full well that his father was not the fittest man in the world to solve such a problem . 
He was now involved in party politics , over head and ears ; and , moreover , he could never hear the names of either of the Wringhims mentioned without getting into a quandary of disgust and anger ; and all that he would deign to say of them was , to call them by all the opprobrious names he could invent . 
George complained that his brother harassed him with his presence at all times , and in all places . 
Old Dal asked why he did not kick the dog out of his presence , whenever he felt him disagreeable ? 
George said , he seemed to have some demon for a familiar . 
Dal answered , that he did not wonder a bit at that , for the young spark was the third in a direct line who had all been children of adultery ; and it was well known that all such were born half deils themselves , and nothing was more likely than that they should hold intercourse with their fellows . 
In the same style did he sympathise with all his son 's late sufferings and perplexities . 
In Mr. Adam Gordon , however , George found a friend who entered into all his feelings , and had seen and knew every thing about the matter . 
He tried to convince him , that at all events there could be nothing supernatural in the circumstances ; and that the vision he had seen on the rock , among the thick mist , was the shadow of his brother approaching behind him . 
George could not swallow this , for he had seen his own shadow on the cloud , and , instead of approaching to aught like his own figure , he perceived nothing but a halo of glory round a point of the cloud , that was whiter and purer than the rest . 
This statement excited George 's curiosity exceedingly ; and , being disgusted with some things about Edinburgh , and glad to get out of the way , he consented to go with Gordon to the Highlands for a space . 
Suffice it , that , before evening , George was apprehended , and lodged in jail , on a criminal charge of an assault and battery , to the shedding of blood , with the intent of committing fratricide . 
His son 's case looked exceedingly ill , owing to the former assault before witnesses , and the unbecoming expressions made use of by him on that occasion , as well as from the present assault , which George did not deny , and for which no moving cause or motive could be made to appear . 
On his first declaration before the sheriff , matters looked no better : but then the sheriff was a Whig . 
But as to the story of the apparition in fair day-light -- the flying from the face of it -- the running foul of his brother -- pursuing him , and knocking him down , why the judge smiled at the relation ; and saying , `` It was a very extraordinary story , '' he remanded George to prison , leaving the matter to the High Court of Justiciary . 
Finally it turned out , that George was honourably acquitted , and young Wringhim bound over to keep the peace , with heavy penalties and securities . 
That was a day of high exultation to George and his youthful associates , all of whom abhorred Wringhim ; and the evening being spent in great glee , it was agreed between Mr. Adam Gordon and George , that their visit to the Highlands , though thus long delayed , was not to be abandoned ; and though they had , through the machinations of an incendiary , lost the season of delight , they would still find plenty of sport in deer-shooting . 
Accordingly , the day was set a second time for their departure ; and , on the day preceding that , all the party were invited by George to dine with him once more at the sign of the Black Bull of Norway . 
George was never seen so brilliant , or so full of spirits ; and exulting to see so many gallant young chiefs and gentlemen about him , who all gloried in the same principles of loyalty , -LRB- perhaps this word should have been written disloyalty , -RRB- he made speeches , gave toasts , and sung songs , all leaning slily to the same side , until a very late hour . 
By that time he had pushed the bottle so long and so freely , that its fumes had taken possession of every brain to such a degree , that they held Dame Reason rather at the staff 's end , overbearing all her counsels and expostulations ; and it was imprudently proposed by a wild inebriated spark , and carried by a majority of voices , that the whole party should adjourn to a bagnio for the remainder of the night . 
They had not been an hour in that house , till some altercation chanced to arise between George Colwan and a Mr. Drummond , the younger son of a nobleman of distinction . 
The woman delivered the message before all the party , among whom there were then sundry courteous ladies of notable distinction , and George , on receiving it , instantly rose from the side of one of them , and said , in the hearing of them all , `` I will bet a hundred merks that is Drummond . '' 
-- `` Do n't go to quarrel with him , George , '' said one . 
-- `` Bring him in with you , '' said another . 
George stepped out ; the door was again bolted , the chain drawn across , and the inadvertent party , left within , thought no more of the circumstance till the next morning , that the report had spread over the city , that a young gentleman had been slain , on a little washing-green at the side of the North Loch , and at the very bottom of the close where this thoughtless party had been assembled . 
Several of them , on first hearing the report , hasted to the dead-room in the old Guard-house , where the corpse had been deposited , and soon discovered the body to be that of their friend and late entertainer , George Colwan . 
Great were the consternation and grief of all concerned , and , in particular , of his old father and Miss Logan ; for George had always been the sole hope and darling of both , and the news of the event paralysed them so as to render them incapable of all thought or exertion . 
The case was remitted to the Court of Justiciary ; but Mrs. Logan had heard enough to convince her that the culprits first met at the very spot , and the very hour , on which George Colwan was slain ; and she had no doubt that they were incendiaries set on by his mother , to forward her own and her darling son 's way to opulence . 
`` Now I know , Mrs. Logan , that you are expecting a detail of the circumstances relating to the death of Mr George Colwan ; and in gratitude for your unbounded generosity , and disinterestedness , I will tell you all that I know , although , for causes that will appear obvious to you , I had determined never in life to divulge one circumstance of it . 
When he had done , the tall young man in the tartans drew his sword , and his face being straight to us , we heard him say distinctly , ` No more words about it , George , if you please ; but if you be a man , as I take you to be , draw your sword , and let us settle it here . ' 
`` Dalcastle drew his sword , without changing his attitude ; but he spoke with more warmth , for we heard his words , ` Think you that I fear you , Tom ? 
At length they fought close up to the mouth of the dark entry , where the fellow in black stood all this while concealed , and then the combatant in tartans closed with his antagonist , or pretended to do so ; but the moment they began to grapple , he wheeled about , turning Colwan 's back towards the entry , and then cried out , ` Ah , hell has it ! 
`` The murderer of the accomplished George Colwan has been his own brother , set on , there is little doubt , by her who bare them both , and her directing angel , the self-justified bigot . 
And what was worse , his evidence would have overborne mine , for he would have sworn , that the man who called out and fought Colwan , was the same he met leaving my apartment , and there was an end of it . 
Mrs. Calvert averred that the young man who passed next to the window , was the very man who stabbed George Colwan in the back , and she said she was willing to take her oath on it at any time when required , and was certain if the wretch Ridsley saw him , that he would make oath to the same purport , for that his walk was so peculiar , no one of common discernment could mistake it . 
Do you recollect aught of the appearance of my young master , George Colwan ? '' 
`` It is he , I believe , '' said she , uttering the words as it were inwardly . 
`` It can be none other but he . 
I saw him stabbed through and through the heart ; I saw him roll backward on the green in his own blood , utter his last words , and groan away his soul . 
Yet , if it is not he , who can it be ? '' 
`` It is he ! '' 
`` Yes , yes , it is he ! '' 
Accordingly the two women went to Sir Thomas Wallace of Craigie , the Lord Justice Clerk , -LRB- who was , I think , either uncle or grandfather to young Drummond , who was outlawed , and obliged to fly his country on account of Colwan 's death , -RRB- and to that gentleman they related every circumstance of what they had seen and heard . 
The lady , as well as myself , tried several times to interrupt the loquacity of Linkum , but in vain : he only raised his hand with a quick flourish , and went on : -- `` Here it is : -- ' James , by the grace of God , King of Great Britain , France , and Ireland , to his right trust cousin , sendeth greeting : ' And whereas his right leal and trust-worthy cousin , George Colwan , of Dalcastle and Balgrennan , hath suffered great losses , and undergone much hardship , on behalf of his Majesty 's rights and titles ; he therefore , for himself , and as prince and steward of Scotland , and by the consent of his right trusty cousins and councillors , hereby grants to the said George Colwan , his heirs and assignees whatsomever , heritably and irrevocably , all and haill the lands and others underwritten : To wit , All and haill , the five merk land of Kipplerig ; the five pound land of Easter Knockward , with all the towers , fortalices , manor-places , houses , biggings , yards , orchards , tofts , crofts , mills , woods , fishings , mosses , muirs , meadows , commonties , pasturages , coals , coal-heughs , tenants , tenantries , services of free tenants , annexes , connexes , dependencies , parts , pendicles , and pertinents of the same whatsomever ; to be peaceably brooked , joysed , set , used , and disposed of by him and his aboves , as specified , heritably and irrevocably , in all time coming : And , in testimony thereof , His Majesty , for himself , and as prince and steward of Scotland , with the advice and consent of his foresaids , knowledge , proper motive , and kingly power , makes , erects , creates , unites , annexes , and incorporates , the whole lands above mentioned in an haill and free barony , by all the rights , miethes , and marches thereof , old and divided , as the same lies , in length and breadth , in houses , biggings , mills , multures , hawking , hunting , fishing ; with court , plaint , herezeld , fock , fork , sack , sock , thole , thame , vert , wraik , waith , wair , venison , outfang thief , infang thief , pit and gallows , and all and sundry other commodities . 
At the extremity of the Colwan wood , I perceived a figure approaching me with slow and dignified motion . 
Not Colwan , I hope ? '' 
`` No : Cowan is my sirname , '' said I. `` But why not Colwan , there being so little difference in the sound ? '' 
