`` Sit down Swiveller . '' 
said Mr. Swiveller in an under tone . 
`` Sit down , '' repeated his companion . 
Mr. Swiveller complied , and looking about him with a propitiatory smile , observed that last week was a fine week for the ducks , and this week was a fine week for the dust ; he also observed that while standing by the post at the street corner , he had observed a pig with a straw in his mouth issuing out of the tobacco-shop , from which appearance he augured that another fine week for the ducks was approaching , and that rain would certainly ensue . 
He further-more took occasion to apologize for any negligence that might be perceptible in his dress , on the ground that last night he had had `` the sun very strong in his eyes ; '' by which expression he was understood to convey to his hearers in the most delicate manner possible , the information that he had been extremely drunk . 
`` But what , '' said Mr. Swiveller with a sigh , `` what is the odds so long as the fire of soul is kindled at the taper of conwiviality , and the wing of friendship never moults a feather ! 
`` You need n't act the chairman here , '' said his friend , half aside . 
cried Mr. Swiveller , tapping his nose , `` a word to the wise is sufficient for them -- we may be good and happy without riches , Fred . 
`` Never you mind , '' replied his friend . 
`` Right again , quite right , '' said Mr. Swiveller , `` caution is the word , and caution is the act . '' 
With that , he winked as if in preservation of some deep secret , and folding his arms and leaning back in his chair , looked up at the ceiling with profound gravity . 
It was perhaps not very unreasonable to suspect from what had already passed , that Mr. Swiveller was not quite recovered from the effects of the powerful sunlight to which he had made allusion ; but if no such suspicion had been awakened by his speech , his wiry hair , dull eyes , and sallow face , would still have been strong witnesses against him . 
His attire was not , as he had himself hinted , remarkable for the nicest arrangement , but was in a state of disorder which strongly induced the idea that he had gone to bed in it . 
The breast of his coat was ornamented with an outside pocket from which there peeped forth the cleanest end of a very large and very ill-favoured handkerchief ; his dirty wristbands were pulled down as far as possible and ostentatiously folded back over his cuffs ; he displayed no gloves , and carried a yellow cane having at the top a bone hand with the semblance of a ring on its little finger and a black ball in its grasp . 
With all these personal advantages -LRB- to which may be added a strong savour of tobacco-smoke , and a prevailing greasiness of appearance -RRB- Mr. Swiveller leant back in his chair with his eyes fixed on the ceiling , and occasionally pitching his voice to the needful key , obliged the company with a few bars of an intensely dismal air , and then , in the middle of a note , relapsed into his former silence . 
N2515004 The old man sat himself down in a chair , and , with folded hands , looked sometimes at his grandson and sometimes at his strange companion , as if he were utterly powerless and had no resource but to leave them to do as they pleased . 
The silence was not of long duration , for Mr. Swiveller , after favouring us with several melodious assurances that his heart was in the highlands , and that he wanted but his Arab steed as a preliminary to the achievement of great feats of valour and loyalty , removed his eyes from the ceiling and subsided into prose again . 
`` Fred , '' said Mr. Swiveller stopping short as if the idea had suddenly occurred to him , and speaking in the same audible whisper as before , `` is the old min friendly ? '' 
returned his friend peevishly . 
Emboldened as it seemed by this reply to enter into a more general conversation , Mr. Swiveller plainly laid himself out to captivate our attention . 
He began by remarking that soda water , though a good thing in the abstract , was apt to lie cold upon the stomach unless qualified with ginger , or a small infusion of brandy , which latter article he held to be preferable in all cases , saving for the one consideration of expense . 
Nobody venturing to dispute these positions , he proceeded to observe that the human hair was a great retainer of tobacco-smoke , and that the young gentlemen of Westminster and Eton , after cating vast quantities of apples to conceal any scent of cigars from their anxious friends , were usually detected in consequence of their heads possessing this remarkable property ; whence he concluded that if the Royal Society would turn their attention to the circumstance , and endeavour to find in the resources of science a means of preventing such untoward revelations , they might indeed be looked upon as benefactors to mankind . 
These opinions being equally incontrovertible with those he had already pronounced , he went on to inform us that Jamaica rum , though unquestionably an agreeable spirit of great richness and flavour , had the drawback of remaining constantly present to the taste next day ; and nobody being venturous enough to argue this point either , he increased in confidence and became yet more companionable and communicative . 
`` It 's a devil of a thing gentlemen , '' said Mr. Swiveller , `` when relations fall out and disagree . 
`` Hold your tongue , '' said his friend . 
`` Sir , '' replied Mr. Swiveller , `` do n't you interrupt the chair . 
Having delivered this oration with a great many waves and flourishes of the hand , Mr. Swiveller abruptly thrust the head of his cane into his mouth as if to prevent himself from impairing the effect of his speech by adding one other word . 
Mr. Swiveller appeared to think that they implied some mental struggle consequent upon the powerful effect of his address , for he poked his friend with his cane and whispered his conviction that he had administered `` a clincher , '' and that he expected a commission on the profits . 
Discovering his mistake after a while , he appeared to grow rather sleepy and discontented , and had more than once suggested the propriety of an immediate departure , when the door opened , and the child herself appeared . 
cried Mr. Swiveller , as his companion turned towards the door . 
`` Before I leave the gay and festive scene , and halls of dazzling light Sir , '' said Mr. Swiveller , `` I will , with you permission , attempt a slight remark . 
Without waiting for the permission he sought , Mr. Swiveller stepped up to the dwarf , and leaning on his shoulder and stooping down to get at his ear , said in a voice which was perfectly audible to all present , `` The watch-word to the old min is -- fork . '' 
`` Is fork sir , fork , '' replied Mr. Swiveller slapping his pocket , `` You are awake sir ? '' 
Mr. Swiveller drew back and nodded likewise , then drew a little further back and nodded again , and so on . 
By these means he in time reached the door , where he gave a great cough to attract the dwarf 's attention and gain an opportunity of expressing in dumb show , the closest confidence and most inviolable secrecy . 
Having performed the serious pantomime that was necessary for the due conveyance of these ideas , he cast himself upon his friend 's track , and vanished . 
`` Fred , '' said Mr. Swiveller , `` remember the once popular melody of ` Begone dull care ; ' fan the sinking flame of hilarity with the wing of friendship ; and pass the rosy wine . '' 
Mr. Richard Swiveller 's apartments were in the neighbourhood of Drury Lane , and in addition to this conveniency of situation had the advantage of being over a tobacconist 's shop , so that he was enabled to procure a refreshing sneeze at any time by merely stepping out upon the staircase , and was saved the trouble and expense of maintaining a snuff-box . 
It was in these apartments that Mr. Swiveller made use of the expressions above recorded for the consolation and encouragement of his desponding friend ; and it may not be uninteresting or improper to remark that even these brief observations partook in a double sense of the figurative and poetical character of Mr. Swiveller 's mind , as the rosy wine was in fact represented by one glass of cold gin-and-water which was replenished as occasion required from a bottle and jug upon the table , and was passed from one to another in a scarcity of tumblers which , as Mr. Swiveller 's was a bachelor 's establishment , may be acknowledged without a blush . 
By a like pleasant fiction his single chamber was always mentioned in the plural number . 
In its disengaged times , the tobacconist had announced it in his window as `` apartments '' for a single gentleman , and Mr. Swiveller , following up the hint , never failed to speak of it as his rooms , his lodgings , or his chambers , conveying to his hearers a notion of indefinite space , and leaving their imaginations to wander through long suites of lofty halls , at pleasure . 
In this flight of fancy , Mr. Swiveller was assisted by a deceptive piece of furniture , in reality a bedstead , but in semblance a bookcase , which occupied a prominent situation in his chamber and seemed to defy suspicion and challenge inquiry . 
There is no doubt that by day Mr. Swiveller firmly believed this secret convenience to be a bookcase and nothing more , that he closed his eyes to the bed , resolutely denied the existence of the blankets , and spurned the bolster from his thoughts . 
No word of its real use , no hint of its nightly service , no allusion to its peculiar properties , had ever passed between him and his most intimate friends . 
Implicit faith in the deception was the first article of his creed . 
To be the friend of Swiveller you must reject all circumstantial evidence , all reason , observation , and experience , and repose a blind belief in the bookcase . 
It was his pet weakness and he cherished it . 
said Mr. Swiveller , finding that his former adjuration had been productive of no effect . 
`` With all my heart , '' said Mr. Swiveller . 
Adding to this retort an observation to the effect that his friend appeared to be rather `` cranky '' in point of temper , Richard Swiveller finished the rosy and applied himself to the composition of another glassful , in which , after tasting it with great relish , he proposed a toast to an imaginary company . 
`` Gentlemen , I 'll give you if you please Success to the ancient family of the Swivellers , and good luck to Mr. Richard in particular -- Mr. Richard , gentlemen '' said Dick with great emphasis , `` who spends all his money on his friends and is Bah ! 
'd for his pains . 
`` Fine girl of her age , but small '' observed Richard Swiveller parenthetically . 
Richard Swiveller , who had been looking over the rim of the tumbler while his companion addressed the foregoing remarks to him with great energy and earnestness of manner , no sooner heard these words than he evinced the utmost consternation , and with difficulty ejaculated the monosyllable , `` What ! '' 
`` A family and an annual income of nothing , to keep 'em on , '' said Richard Swiveller after some reflection . 
`` I tell you '' returned the other with an increased earnestness , which , whether it were real or assumed , had the same effect on his companion , `` that he lives for her , that his whole energies and thoughts are bound up in her , that he would no more disinherit her for an act of disobedience than he would take me into his favor again for any act of obedience or virtue that I could possibly be guilty of . 
It would be tedious to pursue the conversation through all its artful windings , or to develope the gradual approaches by which the heart of Richard Swiveller was gained . 
It is sufficient to know that vanity , interest , poverty , and every spendthrift consideration urged him to look upon the proposal with favor , and that where all other inducements were wanting , the habitual carelessness of his disposition stepped in and still weighed down the scale on the same side . 
To these impulses must be added the complete ascendancy which his friend had long been accustomed to exercise over him -- an ascendancy exerted in the beginning sorely at the expense of the unfortunate Dick 's purse and prospects , but still maintained without the slightest relaxation , notwithstanding that Dick suffered for all his friend 's vices , and was in nine cases out of ten looked upon as his designing tempter when he was indeed nothing but his thoughtless light-headed tool . 
The motives on the other side were something deeper than any which Richard Swiveller entertained or understood , but these being left to their own developement , require no present elucidation . 
The negotiation was concluded very pleasantly , and Mr. Swiveller was in the act of stating in flowery terms that he had no insurmountable objection to marrying anybody plentifully endowed with money or moveables , who could be induced to take him , when he was interrupted in his observations by a knock at the door , and the consequent necessity of crying `` Come in . '' 
`` She 's all my fancy painted her , Sir , that 's what she is , '' said Mr. Swiveller , taking a long pull at `` the rosy '' and looking gravely at his friend . 
`` I remember , '' said his companion carelessly . 
To solve this question , Mr. Swiveller summoned the handmaid and ascertained that Miss Sophy Wackles had indeed left the letter with her own hands ; that she had come accompanied , for decorum 's sake no doubt , by a younger Miss Wackles ; and that on learning that Mr. Swiveller was at home and being requested to walk up stairs , she was extremely shocked and professed that she would rather die . 
Mr. Swiveller heard this account with a degree of admiration not altogether consistent with the project in which he had just concurred , but his friend attached very little importance to his behaviour in this respect , probably because he knew that he had influence sufficient to controul Richard Swiveller 's proceedings in this or any other matter , whenever he deemed it necessary , for the advancement of his own purposes , to exert it . 
Business disposed of , Mr. Swiveller was inwardly reminded of its being nigh dinner-time , and to the intent that his health might not be endangered by longer abstinence , despatched a message to the nearest eating-house requiring an immediate supply of boiled beef and greens for two . 
With this demand , however , the eating-house -LRB- having experience of its customer -RRB- declined to comply , churlishly sending back for answer that if Mr. Swiveller stood in need of beef perhaps he would be so obliging as to come there and eat it , bringing with him , as grace before meat , the amount of a certain small account which had been long outstanding . 
Not at all intimidated by this rebuff , but rather sharpened in wits and appetite , Mr. Swiveller forwarded the same message to another and more distant eating-house , adding to it by way of rider that the gentleman was induced to send so far , not only by the great fame and popularity its beef had acquired , but in consequence of the extreme toughness of the beef retailed at the obdurate cook 's shop , which rendered it quite unfit not merely for gentlemanly food but for any human consumption . 
The good effect of this politic course was demonstrated by the speedy arrival of a small pewter pyramid curiously constructed of platters and covers , whereof the boiled-beef-plates formed the base , and a foaming quart-pot the apex ; the structure being resolved into its component parts afforded all things requisite and necessary for a hearty meal , to which Mr. Swiveller and his friend applied themselves with great keenness and enjoyment . 
In point of fact , it would seem that the waiter felt this wholesome truth , for when he returned for the empty plates and dishes and was informed by Mr. Swiveller with dignified carelessness that he would call and settle when he should be passing presently , he displayed some perturbation of spirit , and muttered a few remarks about `` payment on delivery , '' and `` no trust , '' and other unpleasant subjects , but was fain to content himself with inquiring at what hour it was likely the gentleman would call , in order that being personally responsible for the beef , greens , and sundries , he might take care to be in the way at the time . 
Mr. Swiveller , after mentally calculating his engagements to a nicety , replied that he should look in at from two minutes before six to seven minutes past ; and the man disappearing with this feeble consolation , Richard Swiveller took a greasy memorandum-book from his pocket and made an entry therein . 
`` Not exactly , Fred , '' replied the imperturbable Richard , continuing to write with a business-like air , `` I enter in this little book the names of the streets that I ca n't go down while the shops are open . 
`` Why , I hope not , '' returned Mr. Swiveller , `` but the average number of letters it takes to soften her is six , and this time we have got as far as eight without any effect at all . 
By this time Mr. Swiveller had finished his entry , and he now replaced his pencil in its little sheath and closed the book , in a perfectly grave and serious frame of mind . 
His friend discovered that it was time for him to fulfil some other engagement , and Richard Swiveller was accordingly left alone , in company with the rosy wine and his own meditations touching Miss Sophy Wackles . 
This undeveloped consideration was the possibility , which Richard Swiveller sought to conceal even from himself , of his not being proof against the charms of Miss Wackles , and in some unguarded moment , by linking his fortunes to hers for ever , of putting it out of his own power to further the notable scheme to which he had so readily become a party . 
For all these reasons , he decided to pick a quarrel with Miss Wackles without delay , and casting about for a pretext determined in favour of groundless jealousy . 
Having made up his mind on this important point , he circulated the glass -LRB- from his right hand to his left , and back again -RRB- pretty freely , to enable him to act his part with the greater discretion , and then , after making some slight improvements in his toilet , bent his steps towards the spot hallowed by the fair object of his meditations . 
To this Ladies ' Seminary then , Richard Swiveller hied , with designs obnoxious to the peace of the fair Sophia , who , arrayed in virgin white , embellished by no ornament but one blushing rose , received him on his arrival , in the midst of very elegant not to say brilliant preparations ; such as the embellishment of the room with the little flower-pots which always stood on the window-sill outside save in windy weather when they blew into the area , the choice attire of the day-scholars who were allowed to grace the festival , the unwonted curls of Miss Jane Wackles who had kept her head during the whole of the preceding day screwed up tight in a yellow play-bill , and the solemn gentility and stately learning of the old lady and her eldest daughter , which struck Mr. Swiveller as being uncommon but made no further impression upon him . 
The truth is -- and as there is no accounting for tastes , even a taste so strange as this may be recorded without being looked upon as a wilful and malicious invention -- the truth is that neither Mrs. Wackles nor her eldest daughter had at any time greatly favoured the pretensions of Mr. Swiveller , being accustomed to make slight mention of him as `` a gay young man '' and to sigh and shake their heads ominously whenever his name was mentioned . 
Mr. Swiveller 's conduct in respect to Miss Sophy having been of that vague and dilatory kind which is usually looked upon as betokening no fixed matrimonial intentions , the young lady herself began in course of time to deem it highly desirable , that it should be brought to an issue one way or other . 
Hence she had at last consented to play off against Richard Swiveller a stricken market-gardener known to be ready with his offer on the smallest encouragement , and hence -- as this occasion had been specially assigned for the purpose -- that great anxiety on her part for Richard Swiveller 's presence which had occasioned her to leave the note he has been seen to receive . 
But all these sayings and doings and thinkings being unknown to Mr. Swiveller , affected him not in the least ; he was debating in his mind how he could best turn jealous , and wishing that Sophy were for that occasion only far less pretty than she was , or that she were her own sister , which would have served his turn as well , when the company came , and among them the market-gardener , whose name was Cheggs . 
Hereupon Miss Sophy blushed , and Mr. Cheggs -LRB- who was bashful before ladies -RRB- blushed too , and Miss Sophy 's mother and sisters , to prevent Mr. Cheggs from blushing more , lavished civilities and attentions upon him , and left Richard Swiveller to take care of himself . 
Here was the very thing he wanted , here was good cause reason and foundation for pretending to be angry ; but having this cause reason and foundation which he had come expressly to seek , not expecting to find , Richard Swiveller was angry in sound earnest , and wondered what the devil Cheggs meant by his impudence . 
However , Mr. Swiveller had Miss Sophy 's hand for the first quadrille -LRB- country-dances being low , were utterly proscribed -RRB- and so gained an advantage over his rival , who sat despondingly in a corner and contemplated the glorious figure of the young lady as she moved through the mazy dance . 
Nor was this the only start Mr. Swiveller had of the market-gardener , for determining to show the family what quality of man they trifled with , and influenced perhaps by his late libations , he performed such feats of agility and such spins and twirls as filled the company with astonishment , and in particular caused a very long gentleman who was dancing with a very short scholar , to stand quite transfixed by wonder and admiration . 
N2515011 At this momentous crisis , Miss Cheggs proved herself a vigorous and useful ally , for not confining herself to expressing by scornful smiles a contempt for Mr. Swiveller 's accomplishments , she took every opportunity of whispering into Miss Sophy 's ear expressions of condolence and sympathy on her being worried by such a ridiculous creature , declaring that she was frightened to death lest Alick should fall upon , and beat him , in the fulness of his wrath , and entreating Miss Sophy to observe how the eyes of the said Alick gleamed with love and fury ; passions , it may be observed , which being too much for his eyes rushed into his nose also , and suffused it with a crimson glow . 
said Richard Swiveller . 
`` His impudence Mr. Swiveller ! '' 
`` Take care he do n't hear you Sir , or you may be sorry for it . '' 
Though this was a concerted plot between Miss Sophy and her sister , originating in humane intentions and having for its object the inducing Mr. Swiveller to declare himself in time , it failed in its effect ; for Miss Jane being one of those young ladies who are prematurely shrill and shrewish , gave such undue importance to her part that Mr. Swiveller retired in dudgeon , resigning his mistress to Mr. Cheggs and conveying a defiance into his looks which that gentleman indignantly returned . 
Mr. Swiveller looked with a supercilious smile at Mr. Cheggs 's toes , then raised his eyes from them to his ancle , from that to his shin , from that to his knee , and so on very gradually , keeping up his right leg , until he reached his waistcoat , when he raised his eyes from button to button until he reached his chin , and travelling straight up the middle of his nose came at last to his eyes , when he said abruptly , `` No Sir , I did n't . '' 
At these words Richard Swiveller withdrew his eyes from Mr. Cheggs 's face , and travelling down the middle of his nose and down his waistcoat and down his right leg reached his toes again , and carefully surveyed them ; this done , he crossed over , and coming up the other leg and thence approaching by the waistcoat as before , said when he had got to his eyes `` No Sir , I have n't . '' 
Mr. Cheggs hastened to tender his hand to Miss Sophy , and Mr. Swiveller sat himself down in a corner in a very moody state . 
Hard by this corner , Mrs. Wackles and Miss Wackles were seated , looking on at the dance ; and unto Mrs. and Miss Wackles , Miss Cheggs occasionally darted when her partner was occupied with his share of the figure , and made some remark or other which was gall and wormwood to Richard Swiveller 's soul . 
Richard Swiveller considered it advisable to hear no more , but taking advantage of a pause in the dancing , and the approach of Mr. Cheggs to pay his court to the old lady , swaggered with an extremely careful assumption of extreme carelessness towards the door , passing on the way Miss Jane Wackles , who in all the glory of her curls was holding a flirtation -LRB- as good practice when no better was to be had -RRB- with a feeble old gentleman who lodged in the parlour . 
Near the door sat Miss Sophy , still fluttered and confused by the attentions of Mr. Cheggs , and by her side Richard Swiveller lingered for a moment to exchange a few parting words . 
`` I am sure I do n't know what you mean , Mr. Swiveller , '' said Miss Sophy with downcast eyes . 
`` There 's one good thing springs out of all this , '' said Richard Swiveller to himself when he had reached home and was hanging over the candle with the extinguisher in his hand , `` which is , that I now go heart and soul , neck and heels , with Fred in all his scheme about little Nelly , and right glad he 'll be to find me so strong upon it . 
In a very few minutes Mr. Swiveller was fast asleep , dreaming that he had married Nelly Trent and come into the property , and that his first act of power was to lay waste the market-garden of Mr. Cheggs and turn it into a brick-field . 
Then , and not until then , Daniel Quilp found himself , all flushed and dishevelled , in the middle of the street , with Mr. Richard Swiveller performing a kind of dance round him and requiring to know `` whether he wanted any more . '' 
N2515016 There 's plenty more of it at the same shop , '' said Mr. Swiveller , by turns advancing and retreating in a threatening attitude , `` a large and extensive assortment always on hand -- country orders executed with promptitude and despatch -- will you have a little more , sir -- do n't say no , if you 'd rather not . '' 
`` I thought it was somebody else , '' said Quilp rubbing his shoulders , `` why did n't you say who you were ? '' 
`` I want to know how the old gentleman is , '' rejoined Mr. Swiveller , `` and to hear from Nell herself , with whom I should like to have a little talk . 
Mr. Swiveller who was not in the secret was a little surprised to hear a suppressed scream , and , looking round , to see Mrs. Quilp following him with a sudden jerk , but he did not remark on these appearances , and soon forgot them . 
Quilp looked frowningly at him , and frowningly at his wife , and frowningly at Richard Swiveller ; but receiving no enlightenment from any of them hurried up stairs , whence he soon hurried down again , confirming the report which had been already made . 
`` It 's a strange way of going , '' he said , glancing at Swiveller , `` very strange not to communicate with me who am such a close and intimate friend of his . 
Mr. Swiveller looked , as he was , all open-mouthed astonishment . 
Still glancing furtively at him , Quilp turned to Mr. Brass and observed with assumed carelessness that this need not interfere with the removal of the goods . 
Richard Swiveller was utterly aghast at this unexpected alteration of circumstances , which threatened the complete overthrow of the project in which he bore so conspicuous a part , and seemed to nip his prospects in the bud . 
In this frame of mind , it was some consolation to him to find that Richard Swiveller , was , for different reasons , evidently irritated and disappointed by the same cause . 
`` And say , '' added Mr. Swiveller , `` say , Sir , that I was wafted here upon the pinions of concord , that I came to remove , with the rake of friendship , the seeds of mutual wiolence and heart-burning , and to sow in their place , the germs of social harmony . 
And as the voice made this inquiry , Daniel Quilp walked in with Richard Swiveller at his heels . 
Richard Swiveller took an easy observation of the family over Mr. Quilp 's head , and Quilp himself with his hands in his pockets , smiled in an exquisite enjoyment of the commotion he occasioned . 
Quilp glanced at Richard Swiveller , and observed that having met him on the threshold , he assumed that he had come in search of some intelligence of the fugitives . 
He supposed he was right ? 
The dwarf eyed Richard with a sarcastic smile , but Richard , who had been taking a rather strong lunch with a friend , observed him not , and continued to deplore his fate with mournful and despondent looks . 
He had no sooner adopted this resolution , than he conveyed as much honesty into his face as it was capable of expressing , and sympathised with Mr. Swiveller exceedingly . 
There 's a little summer-house overlooking the river , where we might take a glass of this delicious liquor with a whiff of the best tobacco -- it 's in this case , and of the rarest quality , to my certain knowledge -- and be perfectly snug and happy , could we possibly contrive it ; or is there any very particular engagement that peremptorily takes you another way , Mr. Swiveller , eh ? '' 
To this inviting spot , entreating him to observe its beauties as they passed along , Mr. Quilp led Richard Swiveller , and on the table of the summer-house , scored deep with many a gallows and initial letter , there soon appeared a wooden keg , full of the vaunted liquor . 
Drawing it off into the glasses with the skill of a practised hand , and mixing it with about a third part of water , Mr. Quilp assigned to Richard Swiveller his portion , and lighting his pipe from an end of candle in a very old and battered lantern , drew himself together upon a seat and puffed away . 
said Quilp , as Richard Swiveller smacked his lips , `` is it strong and fiery ? 
cried Dick , throwing away a part of the contents of his glass , and filling it up with water , `` why , man , you do n't mean to tell me that you drink such fire as this ? '' 
As he spoke , Daniel Quilp drew off and drank three small glass-fulls of the raw spirit , and then with a horrible grimace took a great many pulls at his pipe , and swallowing the smoke , discharged it in a heavy cloud from his nose . 
`` Sophy Wackles , '' screamed the dwarf , `` Miss Sophy Wackles that is -- Mrs. Richard Swiveller that shall be -- that shall be -- ha ha ha ! '' 
Her name is Swiveller or nothing . 
`` Well , '' said Richard Swiveller , stopping short in the act of raising the glass to his lips and looking at the dwarf in a species of stupor as he flourished his arms and legs about : `` you 're a jolly fellow , but of all the jolly fellows I ever saw or heard of , you have the queerest and most extraordinary way with you , upon my life you have . '' 
This candid declaration tended rather to increase than restrain Mr. Quilp 's eccentricities , and Richard Swiveller , astonished to see him in such a roystering vein , and drinking not a little himself , for company , -- began imperceptibly to become more companionable and confiding , so that , being judiciously led on by Mr. Quilp , he grew at last very confiding indeed . 
Sophy Wackles may become a Cheggs or anything else she likes , but not a Swiveller . 
Mr. Richard Swiveller wending homewards from the Wilderness -LRB- for such was the appropriate name of Quilp 's choice retreat -RRB- , after a sinuous and corkscrew fashion , with many checks and stumbles ; after stopping suddenly and staring about him , then as suddenly running forward for a few paces , and as suddenly halting again and shaking his head ; doing everything with a jerk and nothing by premeditation ; -- Mr. Richard Swiveller wending his way homewards after this fashion , which is considered by evil-minded men to be symbolical of intoxication , and is not held by such persons to denote that state of deep wisdom and reflection in which the actor knows himself to be , began to think that possibly he had misplaced his confidence and that the dwarf might not be precisely the sort of person to whom to entrust a secret of such delicacy and importance . 
And being led and tempted on by this remorseful thought into a condition which the evil-minded class before referred to would term the maudlin state or stage of drunkenness , it occurred to Mr. Swiveller to cast his hat upon the ground , and moan , crying aloud that he was an unhappy orphan , and that if he had not been an unhappy orphan things had never come to this . 
`` Left an infant by my parents , at an early age , '' said Mr. Swiveller , bewailing his hard lot , `` cast upon the world in my tenderest period , and thrown upon the mercies of a deluding dwarf , who can wonder at my weakness ! 
Here , '' said Mr. Swiveller raising his voice to a high pitch , and looking sleepily round , `` is a miserable orphan ! '' 
Mr. Swiveller swayed himself to and fro to preserve his balance , and , looking into a kind of haze which seemed to surround him , at last perceived two eyes dimly twinkling through the mist , which he observed after a short time were in the neighbourhood of a nose and mouth . 
Casting his eyes down towards that quarter in which , with reference to a man 's face , his legs are usually to be found , he observed that the face had a body attached ; and when he looked more intently he was satisfied that the person was Mr. Quilp , who indeed had been in his company all the time but whom he had some vague idea of having left a mile or two behind . 
`` You have deceived an orphan sir , '' said Mr. Swiveller solemnly . 
N2515027 The dwarf taking no heed of this adjuration , Mr. Swiveller advanced with the view of inflicting upon him condign chastisement . 
But forgetting his purpose or changing his mind before he came close to him , he seized his hand and vowed eternal friendship , declaring with an agreeable frankness that from that time forth they were brothers in everything but personal appearance . 
Then he told his secret all over again , with the addition of being pathetic on the subject of Miss Wackles , who , he gave Mr. Quilp to understand , was the occasion of any slight incoherency he might observe in his speech at that moment , which was attributable solely to the strength of his affection and not to rosy wine or other fermented liquor . 
With that they parted ; Mr. Swiveller to make the best of his way home and sleep himself sober ; and Quilp to cogitate upon the discovery he had made , and exult in the prospect of the rich field of enjoyment and reprisal it opened to him . 
It was not without great reluctance and misgiving that Mr. Swiveller , next morning , his head racked by the fumes of the renowned Schiedam , repaired to the lodging of his friend Trent -LRB- which was in the roof of an old house in an old ghostly inn -RRB- , and recounted by very slow degrees what had yesterday taken place between him and Quilp . 
`` I do n't defend myself , Fred , '' said the penitent Richard ; `` but the fellow has such a queer way with him and is such an artful dog , that first of all he set me upon thinking whether there was any harm in telling him , and while I was thinking , screwed it out of me . 
Without inquiring whether Salamanders were of necessity good confidentia ' agents , or whether a fire-proof man was as a matter of course trustworthy Frederick Trent threw himself into a chair , and , burying his head in his hands , endeavoured to fathom the motives which had led Quilp to insinuate himself into Richard Swiveller 's confidence ; -- for that the disclosure was of his seeking and had not been spontaneously revealed by Dick , was sufficiently plain from Quilp 's seeking his company and enticing him away . 
Having revolved these things in his mind and arrived at this conclusion , he communicated to Mr. Swiveller as much of his meditations as he thought proper -LRB- Dick would have been perfectly satisfied with less -RRB- , and giving him the day to recover himself from his late salamandering , accompanied him at evening to Mr. Quilp 's house . 
After a moment 's hesitation , the young man stretched out his to meet it ; Quilp clutched his fingers in a grip that for the moment stopped the current of the blood within them , and pressing his other hand upon his lip and frowning towards the unsuspicious Richard , released them and sat down . 
This action was not lost upon Trent , who , knowing that Richard Swiveller was a mere tool in his hands and knew no more of his designs than he thought proper to communicate , saw that the dwarf perfectly understood their relative position , and fully entered into the character of his friend . 
It being now Mr. Quilp 's cue to change the subject with all convenient expedition , lest Richard Swiveller in his heedlessness should reveal anything which it was inexpedient for the women to know , he proposed a game at fourhanded cribbage ; and partners being cut for , Mrs. Quilp fell to Frederick Trent , and Dick himself to Quilp . 
Among his various eccentric habits he had a humorous one of always cheating at cards , which rendered necessary on his part , not only a close observance of the game , and a sleight-of-hand in counting and scoring , but also involved the constant correction , by looks , and frowns , and kicks under the table , of Richard Swiveller , who being bewildered by the rapidity with which his cards were told , and the rate at which the pegs travelled down the board , could not be prevented from sometimes expressing his surprise and incredulity . 
At length , when they had played a great many rubbers and drawn pretty freely upon the case-bottle , Mr. Quilp warned his lady to retire to rest , and that submissive wife complying , and being followed by her indignant mother , Mr. Swiveller fell asleep . 
The dwarf beckoning his remaining companion to the other end of the room , held a short conference with him in whispers . 
He would visit the old man , or even Richard Swiveller might visit him , and by affecting a deep concern in his behalf and imploring him to settle in some worthy home , lead to the child 's remembering him with gratitude and favour . 
Once impressed to this extent , it would be easy , he said , to win her in a year or two , for she supposed the old man to be poor , as it was a part of his jealous policy -LRB- in common with many other misers -RRB- to feign to be so , to those about him . 
After a few more whispered words , they returned to the table , and the young man rousing Richard Swiveller informed him that he was waiting to depart . 
It is probable that the loss of the phoenix of clerks , even to a rival practitioner , would not have broken Mr. Brass 's heart ; but , pretending great alacrity , he rose from his seat , and going to the door , returned , introducing his client , who led by the hand no less a person than Mr. Richard Swiveller . 
`` There she is , '' said Quilp , stopping short at the door , and wrinkling up his eyebrows as he looked towards Miss Sally ; `` there is the woman I ought to have married -- there is the beautiful Sarah -- there is the female who has all the charms of her sex and none of their weaknesses . 
This is Mr. Swiveller , my intimate friend -- a gentleman of good family and great expectations , but who , having rather involved himself by youthful indiscretion , is content for a time to fill the humble station of a clerk -- humble , but here most enviable . 
Perhaps some doubts of its pure delight presented themselves to Mr. Swiveller , as he gave vent to one or two short abrupt sniffs , and looked incredulously at the grinning dwarf . 
`` Mr. Swiveller , '' said Quilp , `` being pretty well accustomed to the agricultural pursuits of sowing wild oats , Miss Sally , prudently considers that half a loaf is better than no bread . 
To be out of harm 's way he prudently thinks is something too , and therefore he accepts your brother 's offer . 
Brass , Mr. Swiveller is yours . '' 
Mr. Swiveller , sir , is fortunate to have your friendship . 
`` I suppose , '' said the dwarf , turning briskly to his legal friend , `` that Mr. Swiveller enters upon his duties at once ? 
`` Miss Sally will teach him law , the delightful study of the law , '' said Quilp ; `` She 'll be his guide , his friend , his companion , his Blackstone , his Coke upon Littleton , his Young Lawyer 's Best Companion . '' 
`` He is exceedingly eloquent , '' said Brass , like a man abstracted , and looking at the roofs of the opposite houses , with his hands in his pockets ; `` he has an extraordinary flow of language . 
`` With Miss Sally , '' Quilp went on , `` and the beautiful fictions of the law , his days will pass like minutes . 
Those charming creations of the poet , John Doe and Richard Roe , when they first dawn upon him , will open a new world for the enlargement of his mind and the improvement of his heart . '' 
`` Where will Mr. Swiveller sit ? '' 
In the meantime , if Mr. Swiveller will take my seat , and try his hand at a fair copy of this ejectment , as I shall be out pretty well all the morning -- '' `` Walk with me , '' said Quilp . 
Mr. Swiveller pulled off his coat , and folded it up with great elaboration , staring at Miss Sally all the time ; then put on a blue jacket with a double row of gilt buttons , which he had originally ordered for aquatic expeditions , but had brought with him that morning for office purposes ; and , still keeping his eye upon her , suffered himself to drop down silently upon Mr. Brass 's stool . 
This happened so often , that Mr. Swiveller by degrees began to feel strange influences creeping over him -- horrible desires to annihilate this Sally Brass -- mysterious promptings to knock her head-dress off and try how she looked without it . 
Mr. Swiveller took it up and began to rub his nose with it . 
From rubbing his nose with the ruler , to poising it in his hand and giving it an occasional flourish after the tomahawk manner , the transition was easy and natural . 
It was a good thing to write doggedly and obstinately until he was desperate , and then snatch up the ruler and whirl it about the brown head-dress with the consciousness that he could have it off if he liked . 
It was a good thing to draw it back , and rub his nose very hard with it , if he thought Miss Sally was going to look up , and to recompense himself with more hardy flourishes when he found she was still absorbed . 
By these means Mr. Swiveller calmed the agitation of his feelings , until his applications to the ruler became less fierce and frequent , and he could even write as many as half-a-dozen consecutive lines without having recourse to it , -- which was a great victory . 
Mr. Swiveller had scarcely sprung off his seat and commenced the performance of a maniac hornpipe , when he was interrupted , in the fulness of his joy at being again alone , by the opening of the door , and the reappearance of Miss Sally 's head . 
Uttering these expressions of good-will with extreme gravity , Mr. Swiveller sat down in the client 's chair and pondered ; then took a few turns up and down the room and fell into the chair again . 
As he was entirely alone , it may be presumed that , in these remarks , Mr. Swiveller addressed himself to his fate or destiny , whom , as we learn by the precedents , it is the custom of heroes to taunt in a very bitter and ironical manner when they find themselves in situations of an unpleasant nature . 
This is the more probable from the circumstance of Mr. Swiveller directing his observations to the ceiling which these bodiless personages are usually supposed to inhabit -- except in theatrical cases , when they live in the heart of the great chandelier . 
So go on , my buck , '' said Mr. Swiveller , taking his leave of the ceiling with a significant nod , `` and let us see which of us will be tired first . '' 
Dismissing the subject of his downfall with these reflections , which were no doubt very profound , and are indeed not altogether unknown in certain systems of moral philosophy , Mr. Swiveller shook off his despondency and assumed the cheerful ease of an irresponsible clerk . 
As a means towards his composure and self-possession , he entered into a more minute examination of the office than he had yet had time to make ; looked into the wig-box , the books , and ink-bottle ; untied and inspected all the papers ; carved a few devices on the table with the sharp blade of Mr. Brass 's penknife ; and wrote his name on the inside of the wooden coal-scuttle . 
Then three or four little boys dropped in on legal errands from three or four attorneys of the Brass grade , whom Mr. Swiveller received and dismissed with about as professional a manner , and as correct and comprehensive an understanding of their business , as would have been shown by a clown in a pantomime under similar circumstances . 
As this was no business of Mr. Swiveller 's , the person not ringing the office bell , he pursued his diversion with perfect composure , notwithstanding that he rather thought there was nobody else in the house . 
In this , however , he was mistaken ; for after the knock had been repeated with increased impatience , the door was opened , and somebody with a very heavy tread went up the stairs and into the room above . 
Mr. Swiveller was wondering whether this might be another Miss Brass , twin sister to the Dragon , when there came a rapping of knuckles at the office door . 
Richard Swiveller , therefore , sticking a pen behind each ear , and carrying another in his mouth as a token of his great importance and devotion to business , hurried out to meet and treat with the single gentleman . 
But there they were , crushing each other , and pushing and pulling with all their might , and getting the trunk tight and fast in all kinds of impossible angles , and to pass them was out of the question ; for which sufficient reason , Mr. Swiveller followed slowly behind , entering a new protest on every stair against the house of Mr. Sampson Brass being thus taken by storm . 
`` I believe , sir , '' said Richard Swiveller , taking his pen out of his mouth , `` that you desire to look at these apartments . 
Mr. Swiveller was so much confounded by the single gentleman riding roughshod over him at this rate , that he stood looking at him almost as hard as he had looked at Miss Sally . 
said Mr. Swiveller , as he walked into the office with the bill in his hand . 
Indeed he so overflowed with liberality and condescension , that in the fullness of his heart he invited Mr. Swiveller to partake of a bowl of punch with him at that remote and indefinite period which is currently denominated `` one of these days , '' and paid him many handsome compliments on the uncommon aptitude for business which his conduct on the first day of his devotion to it had so plainly evinced . 
While Mr. Brass by turns overwhelmed his clerk with compliments , and inspected the ten-pound note , Miss Sally showed little emotion and that of no pleasurable kind , for as the tendency of her legal practice had been to fix her thoughts on small gains and gripings , and to whet and sharpen her natural wisdom , she was not a little disappointed that the single gentleman had obtained the lodgings at such an easy rate , arguing that when he was seen to have set his mind upon them , he should have been at the least charged double or treble the usual terms , and that , in exact proportion as he pressed forward , Mr. Swiveller should have hung back . 
`` Good morning , Mr. Richard , '' said Brass , on the second day of Mr. Swiveller 's clerkship . 
She 's a rare fellow at a bargain , I can tell you , Mr. Richard . 
Miss Brass , Mr. Richard is the -- '' `` Will you keep quiet ? '' 
And do n't take him , '' Miss Sally pointed with the feather of her pen to Richard , `` off his business . 
They went on writing for a long time in silence after this -- in such a dull silence that Mr. Swiveller -LRB- who required excitement -RRB- had several times fallen asleep , and written divers strange words in an unknown character with his eyes shut , when Miss Sally at length broke in upon the monotony of the office by pulling out the little tin box , taking a noisy pinch of snuff , and then expressing her opinion that Mr. Richard Swiveller had `` done it . '' 
said Richard . 
Mr. Richard , you 'll remember , if this gentleman should be found to have hung himself to the bed-post , or any unpleasant accident of that kind should happen -- you 'll remember , Mr. Richard , that this ten-pound note was given to you in part payment of two years ' rent ? 
You 'll bear that in mind , Mr. Richard ; you had better make a note of it , sir , in case you should ever be called upon to give evidence . '' 
Mr. Swiveller took a large sheet of foolscap , and with a countenance of profound gravity , began to make a very small note in one corner . 
Now , Mr. Richard , did the gentleman say anything else ? '' 
`` Are you sure , Mr. Richard , '' said Brass , solemnly , `` that the gentleman said nothing else ! '' 
Deuce take it , Mr. Richard , how dull you are ! '' 
`` Did he say anything about his property ? 
`` Did he say , for instance , '' added Brass , in a kind of comfortable , cozy tone -- `` I do n't assert that he did say so , mind ; I only ask you , to refresh your memory -- did he say , for instance , that he was a stranger in London -- that it was not his humour or within his ability to give any references -- that he felt we had a right to require them -- and that , in case anything should happen to him , at any time , he particularly desired that whatever property he had upon the premises should be considered mine , as some alight recompense for the trouble and annoyance I should sustain -- and were you , in short , '' added Brass , still more comfortably and cozily than before , `` were you induced to accept him on my behalf , as a tenant , upon those conditions ? '' 
`` Why then , Mr. Richard , '' said Brass , darting at him a supercilious and reproachful look , `` it 's my opinion that you 've mistaken your calling , and will never make a lawyer . '' 
Nothing further passed up to Mr. Swiveller 's dinner-time , which was at three o'clock , and seemed about three weeks in coming . 
At the last stroke of five , he reappeared , and the office , as if by magic , became fragrant with the smell of gin and water and lemon-peel . 
`` Mr. Richard , '' said Brass , `` this man 's not up yet , Nothing will wake him sir . 
`` I should let him have his sleep out , '' returned Dick . 
cried Brass ; `` why he has been asleep now , six-and-twenty hours . 
We have been moving chests of drawers over his head , we have knocked double knocks at the street-door , we have made the servant-girl fall down stairs several times , -LRB- she 's a light weight , and it do n't hurt her much , -RRB- but nothing wakes him . '' 
`` That would be an excellent plan , '' said Brass , `` if anybody would be -- '' and here he looked very hard at Mr. Swiveller -- `` would be kind , and friendly , and generous enough , to undertake it . 
As he said nothing further , and declined taking the hint , Mr. Brass was fain to propose that they should go up stairs together , and make a last effort to awakon the sleeper by some less violent means , which , if they failed on this last trial , must positively be succeeded by stronger measures , Mr. Swiveller , assenting , armed himself with his stool and the large ruler , and repaired with his employer to the scene of action , where Miss Brass was already ringing a hand-bell with all her might , and yet without producing the smallest effect upon their mysterious lodger . 
`` There are his boots , Mr. Richard , '' said Brass . 
`` Very obstinate-looking articles they are too , '' quoth Richard Swiveller . 
`` Is he a strong man , Mr. Richard ? '' 
`` It would be an extremely unpleasant circumstance if he was to bounce out suddenly , '' said Brass . 
I should be more than a match for him of course , but I 'm the master of the house , and the laws of hospitality must be respected . 
While Mr. Brass , with his eye curiously twisted into the keyhole , uttered these sounds as a means of attracting the lodger 's attention , and while Miss Brass plied the hand-bell , Mr. Swiveller put his stool close against the wall by the side of the door , and mounting on the top and standing bolt upright , so that if the lodger did make a rush , he would most probably pass him in its onward fury , began a violent battery with the ruler upon the upper panels of the door . 
Captivated with his own ingenuity , and confident in the strength of his position , which he had taken up after the method of those hardy individuals who open the pit and gallery doors of theatres on crowded nights , Mr. Swiveller rained down such a shower of blows that the noise of the bell was drowned ; and the small servant , who lingered on the stairs below , ready to fly at a moment 's notice , was obliged to hold her ears lest she should be rendered deaf for life . 
Meanwhile Mr. Swiveller , on the top of the stool , drew himself into as flat a shape as possible against the wall and looked , not unconcernedly , down upon the single gentleman , who appeared at the door growling and cursing in a very awful manner , and , with the boots in his hand , seemed to have an intention of hurling them down stairs on speculation . 
This idea , however , he abandoned , and he was turning into his room again , still growling vengefully , when his eyes met those of the watchful Richard . 
Instead of being thrown into a greater passion by these remarks , the lodger lapsed into a broad grin and looked at Mr. Swiveller with twinkling eyes . 
He was a brown-faced sun-burnt man , and appeared browner and more sun-burnt from having a white nightcap on . 
As it was clear that he was a choleric follow in some respects , Mr. Swiveller was relieved to find him in such good humour , and , to encourage him in it , smiled himself . 
The lodger , in the testiness of being so rudely roused , had pushed his nightcap very much on one side of his bald head . 
This gave him a rakish eccentric air which , now that he had leisure to observe it , charmed Mr. Swiveller exceedingly ; therefore , by way of propitiation , he expressed his hope that the gentleman was going to get up , and further that he would never do so any more . 
Mr. Swiveller followed him in , leaving the stool outside , but reserving the ruler in case of a surprise . 
He rather congratulated himself upon his prudence when the single gentleman , without notice or explanation of any kind , double-locked the door . 
was his next inquiry . 
Mr. Swiveller replied that he had very recently been assuaging the pangs of thirst , but that he was still open to `` a modest quencher , '' if the materials were at hand . 
Without another word spoken on either side , the lodger took from his great trunk a kind of temple , shining as of polished silver , and placed it carefully on the table . 
Greatly interested in his proceedings , Mr. Swiveller observed him closely . 
Into one little chamber of this temple he dropped an egg , into another some coffee , into a third a compact piece of raw steak from a neat tin case , into a fourth he poured some water . 
Then , with the aid of a phosphorus-box and some matches , he procured a light and applied it to a spirit-lamp which had a place of its own below the temple ; then he shut down the lids of all the little chambers , then he opened them ; and then , by some wonderful and unseen agency , the steak was done , the egg was boiled , the coffee was accurately prepared , and his breakfast was ready . 
`` Hot water -- '' said the lodger , handing it to Mr. Swiveller with as much coolness as if he had a kitchen fire before him -- `` extraordinary rum -- sugar -- and a travelling glass . 
Mr. Brass and Miss Sally were lurking hard by , having been , indeed , only routed from the keyhole by Mr. Swiveller 's abrupt exit . 
As their utmost exertions had not enabled them to overhear a word of the interview , however , in consequence of a quarrel for precedence , which , though limited of necessity to pushes and pinches and such quiet pantomime , had lasted the whole time , they hurried him down to the office to hear his account of the conversation . 
This , Mr. Swiveller gave them -- faithfully as regarded the wishes and character of the single gentleman , and poetically as concerned the great trunk , of which he gave a description more remarkable for brilliancy of imagination than a strict adherence to truth ; declaring , with many strong asseverations , that it contained a specimen of every kind of rich food and wine , known in these times , and in particular that it was of a self-acting kind and served up whatever was required , as he supposed by clock-work . 
He also gave them to understand that the cooking apparatus roasted a fine piece of sirloin of beef weighing about six pounds avoirdupoise , in two minutes and a quarter , as he had himself witnessed , and proved by his sense of taste ; and further that , however the effect was produced , he had distinctly seen water boil and bubble up when the single gentleman winked ; from which facts he -LRB- Mr. Swiveller -RRB- was led to infer that the lodger was some great conjuror or chemist , or both , whose residence under that roof could not fail at some future day to shed a great credit and distinction upon the name of Brass , and add a new interest to the history of Bevis Marks . 
There was one point which Mr. Swiveller deemed it unnecessary to enlarge upon , and that was the fact of the modest quencher , which , by reason of its intrinsic strength and its coming close upon the heels of the temperate beverage he had discussed at dinner , awakened a slight degree of fever , and rendered necessary two or three other modest quenchers at the public-house in the course of the evening . 
As the single gentleman , after some weeks ' occupation of his lodgings , still declined to correspond by word or gesture either with Mr. Brass or his sister Sally , but invariably chose Richard Swiveller as his channel of communication ; and as he proved himself in all respects a highly desirable inmate , paying for everything beforehand , giving very little trouble , making no noise , and keeping early hours ; Mr. Richard imperceptibly rose to an important position in the family , as one who had influence over this mysterious lodger , and could negotiate with him , for good or evil , when nobody else durst approach his person . 
If the truth must be told , even Mr. Swiveller 's approaches to the single gentleman were of a very distant kind , and met with small encouragement ; but as he never returned from a monosyllabic conference with the unknown , without quoting such expressions as `` Swiveller , I know I can rely upon you , '' -- `` I have no hesitation in saying , Swiveller , that I entertain a regard for you , '' -- `` Swiveller , you are my friend , and will stand by me I am sure , '' with many other short speeches of the same familiar and confiding kind , purporting to have been addressed by the single gentleman to himself , and to form the staple of their ordinary discourse , neither Mr. Brass nor Miss Sally for a moment questioned the extent of his influence , but accorded to him their fullest and most unqualified belief . 
But quite apart from and independent of this source of popularity , Mr. Swiveller had another , which promised to be equally enduring , and to lighten his position considerably . 
He found favour in the eyes of Miss Sally Brass . 
It was upon this lady , then , that Mr. Swiveller burst in full freshness as something new and hitherto undreamed of , lighting up the office with scraps of song and merriment , conjuring with inkstands and boxes of wafers , catching three oranges in one hand , balancing stools upon his chin and penknives on his nose , and constantly performing a hundred other feats of equal ingenuity ; for with such unbendings did Richard , in Mr. Brass 's absence , relieve the tedium of his confinement . 
These social qualities , which Miss Sally first discovered by accident , gradually made such an impression upon her , that she would entreat Mr. Swiveller to relax as though she were not by , which Mr. Swiveller , nothing loth , would readily consent to do . 
Mr. Swiveller gradually came to look upon her as her brother Sampson did , and as he would have looked upon any other clerk . 
One circumstance troubled Mr. Swiveller 's mind very much , and that was that the small servant always remained somewhere in the bowels of the earth under Bevis Marks , and never came to the surface unless the single gentleman rang his bell , when she would answer it and immediately disappear again . 
Mr. Brass had said once , that he believed she was `` a love-child , '' -LRB- which means anything but a child of love , -RRB- and that was all the information Richard Swiveller could obtain . 
`` It 's of no use asking the dragon , '' thought Dick one day , as he sat contemplating the features of Miss Sally Brass . 
My feelings I smother , but thou hast been the cause of this anguish my -- upon my word , '' said Mr. Swiveller , cheeking himself and falling thoughtfully into the client 's chair , `` I should like to know how they use her ! '' 
After running on in this way for some time , Mr. Swiveller softly opened the office door with the intention of darting across the street for a glass of the mild porter . 
But Mr. Swiveller was not a little surprised to see his fellow-clerk , after walking slowly backwards towards the door as if she were trying to withdraw herself from the room but could not accomplish it , dart , suddenly forward , and falling on the small servant give her some hard blows with her clenched hand . 
The victim cried , but in a subdued manner as if she feared to raise her voice , and Miss Sally , comforting herself with a pinch of snuff , ascended the stairs , just as Richard had safely reached the office . 
Is it no harm to be blinded and choked up , and have the king 's highway stopped , with a set of screamers and roarers whose throats must be made of -- of -- '' `` Brass , '' suggested Mr. Swiveller . 
of brass , '' said the lawyer , glancing at his clerk , to assure himself that he had suggested the word in good faith and without any sinister intention . 
As Mr. Swiveller was decidedly favourable to these performances , upon the ground that looking at a Punch , or indeed looking at anything out of window , was better than working , and as he had been for this reason at some pains to awaken in his fellow clerk a sense of their beauties and manifold deserts , both he and Miss Sally rose as with one accord and took up their positions at the window : upon the sill whereof , as in a post of honour , sundry young ladies and gentlemen who were employed in the dry nurture of babies , and who made a point of being present , with their young charges , on such occasions , had already established themselves as comfortably ' as the circumstances would allow . 
The glass being dim , Mr. Swiveller , agreeably to a friendly custom which he had established between them , hitched off the brown head-dress from Miss Sally 's head , and dusted it carefully therewith . 
By the time he had handed it back and its beautiful wearer had put it on again -LRB- which she did with perfect composure and indifference -RRB- , the lodger returned with the show and showmen at his heels , and a strong addition to the body of spectators . 
The exhibitor disappeared with all speed behind the drapery , and his partner , stationing himself by the side of the Theatre , surveyed the audience with a remarkable expression of melancholy ; which became more remarkable still when he breathed a hornpipe tune into that sweet musical instrument which is popularly termed a mouth-organ , without at all changing the mournful expression of the upper part of his face , though his mouth and chin were , of necessity , in lively spasms . 
`` Both of you , '' he called from the window ; for only the actual exhibitor -- a little fat man -- prepared to obey the summons . 
The address was given , the two men departed , the crowd went with them , and the single gentleman for two mortal hours walked in uncommon agitation up and down his room , over the wondering heads of Mr. Swiveller and Miss Sally Brass . 
N2515043 KIT -- for it happens at this juncture , not only that we have breathing time to follow his fortunes , but that the necessities of these adventures so adapt themselves to our ease and inclination as to call upon us imperatively to pursue the track we most desire to take -- Kit , while the matters treated of in the last fifteen chapters were yet in progress , was , as the reader may suppose , gradually familiarising himself more and more , with Mr. and Mrs. Garland , Mr. Abel , the pony , and Barbara , and gradually coming to consider them one and all as his particular private friends , and Abel Cottage Finchley as his own proper home . 
Now , it happened that the gentleman , in his anxiety to impress upon Kit that he was not to tell anybody what had passed between them , followed him out to the door to repeat his caution , and it further happened that at that moment the eyes of Mr. Richard Swiveller were turned in that direction , and beheld his mysterious friend and Kit together . 
Mr. Chuckster being a gentleman of a cultivated taste and refined spirit , was one of that Lodge of Glorious Apollos whereof Mr. Swiveller was Perpetual Grand . 
Mr. Swiveller passing through the street in the execution of some Brazen errand , and beholding one of his Glorious Brotherhood intently gazing on a pony , crossed over to give him that fraternal greeting with which Perpetual Grands are by the very constitution of their office bound to cheer and encourage their disciples . 
He had scarcely bestowed upon him his blessing , and followed it with a general remark touching the present state and prospects of the weather , when lifting up his eyes , he beheld the single gentleman of Bevis Marks in earnest conversation with Christopher Nubbles . 
While they were thus discoursing , the subject of their conversation -LRB- who had not appeared to recognise Mr. Richard Swiveller -RRB- re-entered the house , and Kit came down the steps and joined them ; to whom Mr. Swiveller again propounded his inquiry with no better success . 
Without expressing his concurrence in this sentiment , Mr. Swiveller after a few moments of abstraction inquired which way Kit was driving , and being informed , declared it was his way , and that he would trespass on him for a lift . 
Kit would gladly have declined the proffered honour , but as Mr. Swiveller was already established in the seat beside him , he had no means of doing so otherwise than by a forcible ejectment , and therefore drove briskly off -- so briskly indeed as to cut short the leave-taking between Mr. Chuckster and his Grand Master , and to occasion the former gentleman some inconvenience from having his corns squeezed by the impatient pony . 
As Whisker was tired of standing , and Mr. Swiveller was kind enough to stimulate him still further by shrill whistles , and various sporting cries , they rattled off at too sharp a pace to admit of much conversation , especially as the pony , incensed by Mr. Swiveller 's admonitions , took a particular fancy for the lamp-posts and cart wheels , and evinced a strong desire to run on the pavement and rasp himself against brick walls . 
It was not , therefore , until they had arrived at the stable , and the chaise had been extricated from a very small doorway into which the pony dragged it under the impression that he could take it along with him into his usual stall , that Mr. Swiveller found time to talk . 
`` It 's hard work , '' said Richard . 
`` An excellent woman that mother of yours , Christopher , '' said Mr. Swiveller . 
Kit shook his head , and glancing slyly at his questioner , thanked him , and made off before he could say another word . 
said Mr. Swiveller pondering , `` this is queer . 
After pondering deeply and with a face of exceeding wisdom for some time , Mr. Swiveller drank some more of the beer , and summoning a small boy who had been watching his proceedings , poured forth the few remaining drops as a libation upon the gravel , and bade him carry the empty vessel to the bar with his compliments , and above all things to lead a sober and temperate life , and abstain from all intoxicating and exciting liquors . 
Having given him this piece of moral advice for his trouble -LRB- which as he wisely observed was far better than half-pence -RRB- the Perpetual Grand Master of the Glorious Apollos thrust his hands into his pockets and sauntered away ; still pondering as he went . 
With that , he walked softly out of his pew and into his mother 's , and as Mr. Swiveller would have observed if he had been present , `` collared '' the baby without speaking a word . 
Dropping in at Mr. Sampson Brass 's office on the previous evening , in the absence of that gentleman and his learned sister , he had lighted upon Mr. Swiveller , who chanced at the moment to be sprinkling a glass of warm gin and water on the dust of the law , and to be moistening his clay , as the pharse goes , rather copiously . 
But as clay in the abstract , when too much moistened , becomes of a weak and uncertain consistency , breaking down in unexpected places , retaining impressions but faintly , and preserving no strength or steadiness of character , so Mr. Swiveller 's clay , having imbibed a considerable quantity of moisture , was in a very loose and slippery state , insomuch that the various ideas impressed upon it were fast losing their distinctive character , and running into each other . 
It is not uncommon for human clay in this condition to value itself above all things upon its great prudence and sagacity ; and Mr. Swiveller , especially prizing himself upon these qualities , took occasion to remark that he had made strange discoveries in connexion with the single gentleman who lodged above , which he had determined to keep within his own boson , and which neither tortures nor cajolery should ever induce him to reveal . 
Of this determination Mr. Quilp expressed his high approval , and setting himself in the same breath to goad Mr. Swiveller on to further hints , soon made out that the single gentleman had been seen in communication with Kit , and that this was the secret which was never to be disclosed . 
Burning with curiosity to know what proceedings were afoot , he resolved to pounce upon Kit 's mother as the person least able to resist his arts , and consequently the most likely to be entrapped into such revelations as he sought ; so taking an abrupt leave of Mr. Swiveller , he hurried to her house . 
The good woman being from home , he made inquiries of a neigbour , as Kit himself did soon afterwards , and being directed to the chapel betook himself there , in order to waylay her , at the conclusion of the service . 
He had not sat in the chapel more than a quarter of an hour , and with his eyes piously fixed upon the ceiling was chuckling inwardly over the joke of his being there at all , when Kit himself appeared . 
Enjoining Tom Scott to await his return , and not to stand upon his head , or throw a summerset , or so much as walk upon his hands meanwhile , on pain of lingering torments , the dwarf threw himself into a boat , and crossing to the other side of the river , and then speeding away on foot , reached Mr. Swiveller 's usual house of entertainment in Bevis Marks , just as that gentleman sat down alone to dinner in its dusky parlour . 
returned Mr. Swiveller , `` how are you ? '' 
`` Why , rather sour , Sir , '' replied Mr. Swiveller . 
`` Certainly not , '' replied Mr. Swiveller , eating his dinner with great gravity , `` none like her . 
`` I do n't know '' returned Mr. Swiveller . 
Perhaps the bells might strike up ` Turn again Swiveller , Lord Mayor of London . ' 
Quilp looked at his companion with his eyes screwed up into a comical expression of curiosity , and patiently awaited his further explanation ; upon which , however , Mr. Swiveller appeared in no hurry to enter , as he ate a very long dinner in profound silence , and finally pushed away his plate , threw himself back into his chair , folded his arms , and stared ruefully at the fire , in which some ends of cigars were smoking on their own account , and sending up a fragrant odour . 
Mr. Swiveller replied by taking from his pocket a small and very greasy parcel , slowly unfolding it , and displaying a little slab of plum cake , extremely indigestible in appearance , and bordered with a paste of white sugar an inch and a half deep . 
demanded Mr. Swiveller . 
inquired Mr. Swiveller , rubbing the pastry against his nose with a dreadful calmness . 
With this extemporary adaptation of a popular ballad to the distressing circumstances of his own case , Mr. Swiveller folded up the parcel again , beat it very flat between the palms of his hands , thrust it into his breast , buttoned his coat over it , and folded his arms upon the whole . 
Disguising his secret joy in Mr. Swiveller 's defeat , Daniel Quilp adopted the surest means of soothing him , by ringing the bell , and ordering in a supply of rosy wine -LRB- that is to say of its usual representative -RRB- , which he put about with great alacrity , calling upon Mr. Swiveller to pledge him in various toasts derisive of Cheggs , and eulogistic of the happiness of single men . 
Such was their impression on Mr. Swiveller , coupled with the reflection that no man could oppose his destiny , that in a very short space of time his spirits rose surprisingly , and he was enabled to give the dwarf an account of the receipt of the cake , which , it appeared , had been brought to Bevis Marks by the two surviving Miss Wackleses in person , and delivered at the office door with much giggling and joyfulness . 
Mr. Swiveller explained that his respectable friend had recently accepted a responsible situation in a locomotive gaming-house , and was at that time absent on a professional tour among the adventurous spirits of Great Britain . 
`` No he do n't , '' said Mr. Swiveller , shaking his head . 
`` Why , the fact is , you see , '' said Mr. Swiveller , `` that they have been brought together . '' 
cried the dwarf , looking suspiciously at his companion . 
Quilp was plainly staggered by this intelligence , over which he brooded for some time in moody silence , often raising his eyes to Mr. Swiveller 's face , and sharply scanning its expression . 
As he could read in it , however , no additional information or anything to lead him to believe he had spoken falsely ; and as Mr. Swiveller , left to his own meditations , sighed deeply , and was evidently growing maudlin on the subject of Mrs. Cheggs ; the dwarf soon broke up the conference and took his departure , leaving the bereaved one to his melancholy ruminations . 
This visit was not intended for Mr. Swiveller , but for his friend and employer Mr. Sampson Brass . 
The fact of their joint desertion of the office was made known to all comers by a scrap of paper in the hand-writing of Mr. Swiveller , which was attached to the bell-handle , and which , giving the reader no clue to the time of day when it was first posted , furnished him with the rather vague and unsatisfactory information that that gentleman would `` return in an hour . '' 
To this , the child , conducting her conversation as upon the occasion of her first interview with Mr. Swiveller , again replied , `` Oh please will you leave a card or message ? '' 
Richard Evans his name is , sir . 
N2515063 A DAY or two after the Quilp tea-party at the Wilderness , Mr. Swiveller walked into Sampson Brass 's office at the usual hour , and being alone in that Temple of Probity , placed his hat upon the desk , and taking from his pocket a small parcel of black crape , applied himself to folding and pinning the same upon it , after the manner of a hatband . 
Having completed the construction of this appendage , he surveyed his work with great complacency , and put his hat on again -- very much over one eye , to increase the mournfulness of the effect . 
These arrangements perfected to his entire satisfaction , he thrust his hands into his pockets , and walked up and down the office with measured steps . 
`` It has always been the same with me , '' said Mr. Swiveller , `` always . 
Overpowered by these reflections , Mr. Swiveller stopped short at the clients ' chair , and flung himself into its open arms . 
`` And this , '' said Mr. Swiveller , with a kind of bantering composure , `` is life , I believe . 
I shall wear , '' added Richard , taking off his hat again and looking hard at it , as if he were only deterred by pecuniary considerations from spurning it with his foot , `` I shall wear this emblem of woman 's perfidy , in remembrance of her with whom I shall never again thread the windings of the mazy ; whom I shall never more pledge in the rosy ; who , during the short remainder of my existence , will murder the balmy . 
It may be necessary to observe , lest there should appear any incongruity in the close of this soliloquy , that Mr. Swiveller did not wind up with a cheerful hilarious laugh , which would have been undoubtedly at variance with his solemn reflections , but that , being in a theatrical mood , he merely achieved that performance which is designated in melo-dramas `` laughing like a fiend , '' -- for it seems that your fiends always laugh in syllables , and always in three syllables , never more nor less , which is a remarkable property in such gentry , and one worthy of remembrance . 
The baleful sounds had hardly died away , and Mr. Swiveller was still sitting in a very grim state in the clients ' chair , when there came a ring -- or , if we may adapt the sound to his then humour , a knell -- at the office bell . 
Opening the door with all speed , he beheld the expressive countenance of Mr. Chuckster , between whom and himself a fraternal greeting ensued . 
Swiveller solus . 
Mr. Swiveller expressed his acknowledgments ; and it appearing on further conversation that he was in good health , and that Mr. Chuckster was in the like enviable condition , both gentlemen , in compliance with a solemn custom of the ancient Brotherhood to which they belonged , joined in a fragment of the popular duet of `` All 's Well , '' with a long shake at the end . 
said Richard . 
-- `` No , no , '' interposed Mr. Swiveller . 
Mr. Chuckster paused , rapped the fox 's head exactly on the nose with the knuckle of the fore-finger , took a pinch of snuff , and looked steadily at Mr. Swiveller , as much as to say that if he thought he was going to sneeze , he would find himself mistaken . 
Mr. Swiveller , who sat on another stool opposite to his friend , stirred the fire in an excess of sympathy , but said nothing . 
Mr. Swiveller , hearing the same sound , caused his stool to revolve rapidly on one leg until it brought him to his desk , into which , having forgotten in the sudden flurry of his spirits to part with the poker , he thrust it as he cried `` Come in ! '' 
Mr. Swiveller stared at him for a moment , and then leaping from his stool , and drawing out the poker from its place of concealment , performed the broad-sword exercise with all the cuts and guards complete , in a species of frenzy . 
Before Mr. Swiveller could make any reply , Mr. Chuckster took occasion to enter his indignant protest against this form of inquiry ; which he held to be of a disrespectful and snobbish tendency , inasmuch as the inquirer , seeing two gentlemen then and there present , should have spoken of the other gentleman ; or rather -LRB- for it was not impossible that the object of his search might be of inferior quality -RRB- should have mentioned his name , leaving it to his hearers to determine his degree as they thought proper . 
`` I mean the gentleman up-stairs , '' said Kit , turning to Richard Swiveller . 
Mr. Swiveller , without being quite so hot upon the matter , was rather shamed by his friend 's excitement , and not a little puzzled how to act -LRB- Kit being quite cool and good-humoured -RRB- , when the single gentleman was heard to call violently down the stairs . 
`` He 's here , sir , '' rejoined Mr. Swiveller . 
Kit did not appear to think it worth his while to enter into any further altercation but hurried off and left the Glorious Apollos gazing at each other in silence . 
Mr. Swiveller being in the main a good-natured fellow , and not perceiving in the conduct of Kit any villany of enormous magnitude , scarcely knew what answer to return . 
He was relieved from his perplexity , however , by the entrance of Mr. Sampson and his sister , Sally , at sight of whom Mr. Chuckster precipitately retired . 
`` Well , Mr. Richard , '' said Brass . 
Are we pretty fresh and cheerful sir -- eh , Mr. Richard ? '' 
We should be gay as larks Mr. Richard -- why not ? 
There are bad people in it Mr. Richard , but if there were no bad people , there would be no good lawyers . 
Any letters by the post this morning , Mr. Richard ? '' 
Mr. Swiveller answered in the negative . 
A contented spirit , Mr. Richard , is the sweetness of existence . 
A very good song , Mr. Richard , very good . 
Your friend 's the young man from Witherden 's office I think -- yes -- May we ne'er want a -- Nobody else at all , been , Mr. Richard ? '' 
`` Only somebody to the lodger , '' replied Mr. Swiveller . 
May we ne'er want a friend , or a -- Somebody to the lodger , eh Mr. Richard ! '' 
`` With him now . '' 
`` With him now ! '' 
Eh , Mr. Richard ? 
`` And who , '' said Brass , shuffling among his papers , `` who is the lodger 's visitor -- not a lady visitor I hope , eh Mr. Richard ? 
The morals of the Marks you know sir -- ` when lovely woman stoops to folly ' -- and all that -- eh Mr. Richard ? '' 
`` Another young man , who belongs to Witherden 's too , or half belongs there , '' returned Richard . 
`` Kit , they call him . '' 
`` Strange name -- name of a dancing-master 's fiddle , eh Mr. Richard ? 
Kit 's there , is he ? 
`` Will you have the goodness , Mr. Richard , '' said Brass , taking a letter from his desk , `` just to step over to Peckham Rye with that ? 
Charge the office with your coach-hire back , you know ; do n't spare the office ; get as much out of it as you can -- clerk 's motto -- Eh Mr. Richard ? 
Mr. Swiveller solemnly doffed the aquatic jacket , put on his coat , took down his hat from its peg , pocketed the letter , and departed . 
Directly he was gone , uprose Miss Sally Brass , and smiling sweetly at her brother -LRB- who nodded and smote his nose in return -RRB- withdrew also . 
Most remarkable pony , extremely docile , eh Mr. Richard , eh sir ? '' 
he would exclaim , `` a very prepossessing old gentleman , Mr. Richard -- charming countenance sir -- extremely calm -- benevolence in every feature , sir . 
He quite realises my idea of King Lear , as he appeared when in possession of his kingdom , Mr. Richard -- the same good-humour , the same white hair and partial baldness , the same liability to be imposed upon . 
He literally looks as if he had been varnished all over . '' 
Then Mr. Brass and his sister -LRB- who has joined him at the door -RRB- exchange an odd kind of smile -- not at all a pleasant one in its expression -- and return to the society of Mr. Richard Swiveller , who during their absence has been regaling himself with various feats of pantomime , and is discovered at his desk , in a very flushed and heated condition , violently scratching out nothing with half a penknife . 
Whenever Kit came alone , and without the chaise , it always happened that Sampson Brass was reminded of some mission , calling Mr. Swiveller , if not to Peckham Rye again , at all events to some pretty distant place from which he could not be expected to return for two or three hours , or in all probability a much longer period , as that gentleman was not , to say the truth , renowned for using great expedition on such occasions , but rather for protracting and spinning out the time to the very utmost limit of possibility . 
Mr. Swiveller out of sight , Miss Sally immediately withdrew . 
While these acts and deeds were in progress in and out of the office of Sampson Brass , Richard Swiveller , being often left alone therein , began to find the time hang heavy on his hands . 
As these games were very silently conducted , notwithstanding the magnitude of the interests involved , Mr. Swiveller began to think that on those evenings when Mr. and Miss Brass were out -LRB- and they often went out now -RRB- he heard a kind of snorting or hard-breathing sound in the direction of the door , which it occurred to him , after some reflection , must proceed from the small servant , who always had a cold from damp living . 
Vague recollections of several fantastic exercises with which he had refreshed himself after the fatigues of business , and to all of which , no doubt , the small servant was a party , rather disconcerted Mr. Swiveller ; but he was not very sensitive on such points , and recovered himself speedily . 
`` Well , -- come in '' -- he said , after a little consideration . 
`` Miss Sally could n't kill me if she know 'd I went down there , so I 'll come , '' said Richard , putting the cards into his pocket . 
cried Mr. Swiveller , raising his eyes to the ceiling . 
`` I do n't know '' Mr. Swiveller opened his eyes very wide , and appeared thoughtful for a moment ; then bidding the child mind the door until he came back , vanished straightway . 
Presently he returned , followed by the boy from the public-house , who bore in one hand a plate of bread and beef , and in the other a great pot , filled with some very fragrant compound , which sent forth a grateful steam , and was indeed choice purl , made after a particular recipe which Mr. Swiveller had imparted to the landlord at a period when he was deep in his books and desirous to conciliate his friendship . 
Relieving the boy of his burden at the door , and charging his little companion to fasten it to prevent surprise , Mr. Swiveller followed her into the kitchen . 
said Richard , putting the plate before her . 
Mr. Swiveller appeared gratified beyond all expression by this reply , and took a long draught himself , steadfastly regarding his companion while he did so . 
These preliminaries disposed of , he applied himself to teaching her the game , which she soon learnt tolerably well , being both sharp-witted and cunning . 
`` Now , '' said Mr. Swiveller , putting two sixpences into a saucer , and trimming the wretched candle , when the cards had been cut and dealt , `` those are the stakes . 
`` Then , Marchioness , '' said Mr. Swiveller , `` fire away ! '' 
The Marchioness , holding her cards very tight in both hands , considered which to play , and Mr. Swiveller , assuming the gay and fashionable air which such society required , took another pull at the tankard , and waited for her lead . 
Mr. Swiveller and his partner played several rubbers with varying success , until the loss of three sixpences , the gradual sinking of the purl , and the striking of ten o'clock , combined to render that gentleman mindful of the flight of Time , and the expediency of withdrawing before Mr. Sampson and Miss Sally Brass returned . 
`` With which object in view , Marchioness , '' said Mr. Swiveller gravely , `` I shall ask your ladyship 's permission to put the board in my pocket , and to retire from the presence when I have finished this tankard ; merely observing , Marchioness , that since life like a river is flowing , I care not how fast it rolls on , ma'am , on , while such purl on the bank still is growing , and such eyes light the waves as they run . 
As a precaution against this latter inconvenience , Mr. Swiveller had been sitting for some time with his feet on the hob , in which attitude he now gave utterance to these apologetic observations , and slowly sipped the last choice drops of nectar . 
said Mr. Swiveller , leaning his left arm heavily upon the table , and raising his voice and his right leg after the manner of a theatrical bandit . 
said Mr. Swiveller , with a portentous frown . '' 
The small servant , who was not so well acquainted with theatrical conventionalities as Mr. Swiveller -LRB- having indeed never seen a play , or heard one spoken of , except by chance through chinks of doors and in other forbidden places -RRB- , was rather alarmed by demonstrations so novel in their nature , and showed her concern so plainly in her looks , that Mr. Swiveller felt it necessary to discharge his brigand manner for one more suitable to private life , as he asked , `` Do they often go where glory waits 'em , and leave you here ? '' 
After a moment 's reflection , Mr. Swiveller determined to forego his responsible duty of setting her right , and to suffer her to talk on ; as it was evident that her tongue was loosened by the purl , and her opportunities for conversation were not so frequent as to render a momentary check of little consequence . 
said Mr. Swiveller . 
`` Well , Marchioness , '' said Mr. Swiveller , `` that 's not uncomplimentary . 
`` But she says , '' pursued his companion , `` that you a n't to be trusted . '' 
`` Why , really Marchioness , '' said Mr. Swiveller , thoughtfully ; `` several ladies and gentlemen -- not exactly professional persons , but tradespeople , ma'am , tradespeople -- have made the same remark . 
His friend nodded again , with a cunning look which seemed to hint that Mr. Brass held stronger opinions on the subject than his sister ; and seeming to recollect herself , added imploringly , `` But do n't you ever tell upon me , or I shall be beat to death . '' 
`` Marchioness , '' said Mr. Swiveller , rising , `` the word of a gentleman is as good as his bond -- sometimes better ; as in the present case , where his bond might prove but a doubtful sort of security . 
But , Marchioness , '' added Richard , stopping in his way to the door , and wheeling slowly round upon the small servant , who was following with the candle ; `` it occurs to me that you must be in the constant habit of airing your eye at keyholes , to know all this . '' 
With this parting injunction , Mr. Swiveller emerged from the house ; and feeling that he had by this time taken quite as much to drink as promised to be good for his constitution -LRB- purl being a rather strong and heady compound -RRB- , wisely resolved to betake himself to his lodgings , and to bed at once . 
Homeward he went therefore ; and his apartments -LRB- for he still retained the plural fiction -RRB- being at no great distance from the office , he was soon seated in his own bed-chamber , where , having pulled off one boot and forgotten the other , he fell into deep cogitation . 
`` This Marchioness , '' said Mr. Swiveller , folding his arms , `` is a very extraordinary person -- surrounded by mysteries , ignorant of the taste of beer , unacquainted with her own name -LRB- which is less remarkable -RRB- , and taking a limited view of society through the keyholes of doors -- can these things be her destiny , or has some unknown person started an opposition to the decrees of fate ? 
When his meditations had attained this satisfactory point , he became aware of his remaining boot , of which , with unimpaired solemnity , he proceeded to divest himself ; shaking his head with exceeding gravity all the time , and sighing deeply . 
`` These rubbers , '' said Mr. Swiveller , putting on his nightcap in exactly the same style as he wore his hat , `` remind me of the matrimonial fireside . 
By this time , I should say , '' added Richard , getting his left cheek into profile , and looking complacently at the reflection of a very little scrap of whisker in the looking-glass ; `` by this time , I should say , the iron has entered into her soul . 
Melting from this stern and obdurate , into the tender and pathetic mood , Mr. Swiveller groaned a little , walked wildly up and down , and even made a show of tearing his hair , which however he thought better of , and wrenched the tassel from his nightcap instead . 
At last , undressing himself with a gloomy resolution , he got into bed . 
Some men in his blighted position would have taken to drinking ; but as Mr. Swiveller had taken to that before , he only took , on receiving the news that Sophy Wackles was lost to him for ever , to playing the flute ; thinking after mature consideration that it was a good , sound , dismal occupation , not only in unison with his own sad thoughts , but calculated to awaken a fellow-feeling in the bosoms of his neighbours . 
In pursuance of this resolution , he now drew a little table to his bedside , and arranging the light and a small oblong music-book to the best advantage , took his flute from its box , and began to play most mournfully . 
Yet for half the night , or more , Mr. Swiveller , lying sometimes on his back with his eyes upon the ceiling , and sometimes half out of bed to correct himself by the book , played this unhappy tune over and over again ; never leaving off , save for a minute or two at a time to take breath and soliloquize about the Marchioness , and then beginning again with renewed vigour . 
It was not until he had quite exhausted his several subjects of meditation , and had breathed into the flute the whole sentiment of the purl down to its very dregs , and had nearly maddened the people of the house , and at both the next doors , and over the way , -- that he shut up the music-book , extinguished the candle , and finding himself greatly lightened and relieved in his mind , turned round and fell asleep . 
N2515066 He awoke in the morning , much refreshed ; and having taken half an hour 's exercise at the flute , and graciously received a notice to quit from his landlady , who had been in waiting on the stairs for that purpose since the dawn of day , repaired to Bevis Marks ; where the beautiful Sally was already at her post , bearing in her looks a radiance mild as that which beameth from the virgin moon . 
Mr. Swiveller acknowledged her presence by a nod , and exchanged his coat for the aquatic jacket ; which usually took some time fitting on , for in consequence of a tightness in the sleeves , it was only to be got into by a series of struggles . 
This difficulty overcome , he took his seat at the desk . 
`` I did n't meet many in the street , '' rejoined Mr. Swiveller . 
`` What a dull dog you must be to ask me such a question seriously , '' said Mr. Swiveller . 
thought Richard , `` I hope the Marchioness has n't been at work here . '' 
Mr. Swiveller involuntarily clapped his hands to the jacket to be quite sure that it was a jacket and not a skirted coat ; and having satisfied himself of the safety of this , his only moveable in Bevis Marks , made answer in the negative . 
`` Then by Jove , '' thought Richard , laying down his pen , `` I am afraid the Marchioness is done for ! '' 
The more he discussed the subject in his thoughts , the more probable it appeared to Dick that the miserable little servant was the culprit . 
`` Mr. Richard sir , good morning . 
Here we are , Mr. Richard , rising with the sun to run our little course -- our course of duty sir -- and like him get through our day 's work with credit to ourselves and advantage to our fellow creatures . 
Mr. Richard not receiving his remarks with anything like enthusiasm , his employer turned his eyes to his face , and observed that it wore a troubled expression . 
`` Mr. Richard sir , we should fall to work cheerfully , and not in a despondent state . 
It becomes us , Mr. Richard sir , to -- '' Here the chaste Sarah heaved a loud sigh . 
Mr. Richard sir -- '' Dick , glancing at Miss Sally , saw that she was making signals to him , to acquaint her brother with the subject of their recent conversation . 
Instead of passionately bewailing the loss of his money , as Miss Sally had expected , he walked on tiptoe to the door , opened it , looked outside , shut it softly , returned on tiptoe , and said in a whisper , `` This is a most extraordinary and painful circumstance -- Mr. Richard sir , a most painful circumstance . 
Sally -- Mr. Richard sir -- this is a particularly distressing affair ! '' 
Richard Swiveller pointed to it , and admonished him to take it up . 
`` No , Mr. Richard sir , '' rejoined Brass with emotion , `` I will not take it up . 
To take it up , Mr. Richard sir , would imply a doubt of you ; and in you sir , I have unlimited confidence . 
Although at another time Mr. Swiveller might have looked upon this as a doubtful compliment , he felt it , under the then-existing circumstances , a great relief to be assured that he was not wrongfully suspected . 
When he had made a suitable reply , Mr. Brass wrung him by the hand , and fell into a brown study , as did Miss Sally likewise . 
Richard too remained in a thoughtful state ; fearing every moment to hear the Marchioness impeached , and unable to resist the conviction that she must be guilty . 
`` Why , '' replied his sister with an air of triumph , `` has n't there been somebody always coming in and out of this office for the last three or four weeks ; has n't that somebody been left alone in it sometimes -- thanks to you ; and do you mean to tell me that that somebody is n't the thief ! '' 
Mr. Richard sir , have the goodness to step directly to Wrasp and Co. 's in Broad Street , and inquire if they have had intructions to appear in Carkem and Painter . 
But dear me '' said Brass , `` what a time Mr. Richard is gone ! 
Mr. Swiveller came back almost at the same instant ; and as Kit was leaving the room hastily to make up for lost time , Miss Brass herself encountered him in the doorway . 
sneered Sally , looking after him as she entered . 
There he goes '' replied Brass . 
An honest fellow , Mr. Richard sir -- a worthy fellow indeed ! '' 
`` I tell you , you aggravating vagabond '' said the angry Sampson , `` that I 'd stake my life upon his honesty . 
`` She drives me wild , Mr. Richard sir '' said Brass , `` she exasperates me beyond all bearing . 
`` Why do n't you leave him alone ? '' 
inquired Mr. Swiveller . 
said Brass , slapping all his pockets one after another , and looking into his desk , and under it , and upon it , and wildly tossing the papers about , `` the note , Mr. Richard sir , the five-pound note -- what can have become of it ? 
`` Upon my word , Mr. Richard sir , '' replied the lawyer , feeling in all his pockets with looks of the greatest agitation , `` I fear this is a black business . 
`` Do n't run after him , '' said Miss Sally , taking more snuff . 
`` Do n't run after him on any account . 
Give him time to get rid of it , you know . 
It would be cruel to find him out ! '' 
Mr. Swiveller and Sampson Brass looked from Miss Sally to each other in a state of utter bewilderment , and then , as by one impulse , caught up their hats and rushed out into the street -- darting along in the middle of the road , and dashing aside all obstructions as though they were running for their lives . 
cried Sampson , laying his hand on one shoulder , while Mr. Swiveller pounced upon the other . 
Mr. Richard -- have the goodness sir to take that arm . 
While they were on the way back , Mr. Swiveller , upon whom his present functions sat very irksomely , took an opportunity of whispering in his ear that if he would confess his guilt , even by so much as a nod , and promise not to do so any more , he would connive at his kicking Sampson Brass on the shins and escaping up a court ; but Kit indignantly rejecting this proposal , Mr. Richard had nothing for it , but to hold him tight until they reached Bevis Marks , and ushered him into the presence of the charming Sarah , who immediately took the precaution of locking the door . 
Nothing here , Mr. Richard , sir , all perfectly satisfactory . 
Nor in the waistcoat , Mr. Richard , nor in the coat tails . 
Richard Swiveller , holding Kit 's hat in his hand , was watching the proceedings with great interest , and bore upon his face the slightest possible indication of a smile , as Brass , shutting one of his eyes , looked with the other up the inside of one of the poor fellow 's sleeves as if it were a telescope , when Sampson turning hastily to him , bade him search the hat . 
The faculty do n't consider it a healthy custom , I believe , Mr. Richard , to carry one 's handkerchief in one 's hat -- I have heard that it keeps the head too warm -- but in every other point of view , it 's being there , is extremely satisfactory -- extremely so . '' 
An exclamation , at once from Richard Swiveller , Miss Sally , and Kit himself , cut the lawyer short . 
Mr. Richard sir , have the goodness to run and fetch a constable . 
Between the brother and sister he remained in this posture , quite unresisting and passive , until Mr. Swiveller returned with a police constable at his heels . 
This functionary , being of course well used to such scenes , looking upon all kinds of robbery from petty larceny up to housebreaking or ventures on the highway as matters in the regular course of business , and regarding the perpetrators in the light of so many customers coming to be served at the wholesale and retail shop of criminal law where he stood behind the counter , received Mr. Brass 's statement of facts with about as much interest and surprise , as an undertaker might evince if required to listen to a circumstantial account of the last illness of a person whom he was called in to wait upon professionally ; and took Kit into custody with a decent indifference . 
`` Mr. Richard , sir , '' said Brass in a mournful voice . 
I give you my oath , constable , that down to a few minutes ago , when this fatal discovery was made , I had such confidence in that lad , that I 'd have trusted him with -- a hackney-coach , Mr. Richard sir ; you 're very slow , sir . '' 
`` And he can hardly believe it , either , '' said Sampson , when he returned , `` nor nobody will . 
Mr. Richard Swiveller having arrived inside the coach , and still remaining immoveable in the most commodious corner with his face to the horses , Mr. Brass instructed the officer to remove his prisoner , and declared himself quite ready . 
Miss Sally complying , he desired Mr. Swiveller to accompany them . 
So , into the office they went ; Mr. Sampson and his sister arm-in-arm ; and Mr. Swiveller following , alone . 
Mr. Richard sir , have the goodness to come forward if you please -- No really '' said Brass , stepping between the notary and his private office -LRB- towards which he had begun to retreat -RRB- , and speaking in the tone of an injured man , `` really sir , I must , under favour , request a word or two with you , indeed . '' 
Mr. Swiveller , though an unwilling witness , could not help proving to demonstration , from the position in which it was found , that it must have been designedly secreted . 
`` It must be Mr. Richard Swiveller . 
Well , it 's very kind of him , and I thank him heartily ! '' 
He informed Mr. Richard sir , that he could n't bear the house after what had taken place ; that he was wretched in it ; and that he looked upon himself as being in a certain kind of way the cause of the occurrence . 
`` Discharge Mr. Richard sir ? '' 
How often am I to tell you that I brought him to you that I might always have my eye in him and know where he was -- and that I had a plot , a scheme , a little quiet piece of enjoyment afoot , of which the very cream and essence was , that this old man and grandchild -LRB- who have sunk underground I think -RRB- should be , while he and his precious friend believed them rich , in reality as poor as frozen rats ? '' 
Is there any other order , sir , that I can take a note of , besides this little matter of Mr. Richard ? '' 
Then Mr. Brass 's gentleman calls Richard Swiveller , and Richard Swiveller appears accordingly . 
`` Mr. Swiveller , '' says this gentleman to Dick , when he has told his tale with evident reluctance and a desire to make the best of it : `` pray sir , where did you dine yesterday ? '' 
-- `` I beg your pardon , '' says Mr. Swiveller , who has not caught the question -- '' Alone sir ? '' 
-- `` Oh yes to be sure -- yes , I did , '' says Mr. Swiveller with a smile . 
`` Have the goodness to banish a levity , sir , which is very ill-suited to the place in which you stand -LRB- though perhaps you have reason to be thankful that it 's only that place -RRB- , '' says Mr. Brass 's gentleman , with a nod of the head insinuating that the dock is Mr. Swiveller 's legitimate sphere of action ; `` and attend to me . 
-- Mr. Swiveller is proceeding to explain -- `` Yes or No sir , '' cries Mr. Brass 's gentleman -- `` But will you allow me -- '' -- `` Yes or No sir '' -- `` Yes it was , but -- '' -- `` Yes it was , '' cries the gentleman , taking him up short -- `` And a very pretty witness you are ! '' 
Richard Swiveller retires abashed . 
Judge , jury , and spectators , have visions of his lounging about with an ill-looking , large-whiskered , dissolute young fellow of six feet high . 
Richard Swiveller comes hastily up , elbows the bystanders out of the way , takes her -LRB- after some trouble -RRB- in one arm after the manner of theatrical ravishers , and nodding to Kit , and commanding Barbara 's mother to follow , for he has a coach waiting , bears her swiftly off . 
N2515070 Well ; Richard took her home . 
And what astonishing absurdities in the way of quotation from song and poem , he perpetrated on the road , no man knows . 
`` Mr. Richard sir , '' said Brass cheerfully , `` Good evening . '' 
Monstrous as Kit 's tale had appeared at first , Mr. Richard did , that night , half suspect his affable employer of some deep villany . 
Perhaps it was but the misery he had just witnessed which gave his careless nature this impulse ; but be that as it may , it was very strong upon him , and he said in as few words as possible , what he wanted . 
cried Brass , taking out his purse . 
To be sure Mr. Richard , to be sure sir . 
-- Mr. Richard sir -- '' Dick , who had by this time reached the door , turned round . 
`` You see , Mr. Richard , '' said Brass , thrusting his hands in his pockets and rocking himself to and fro upon his stool , `` the fact is , that a man of your abilities is lost sir , quite lost , in our dry and mouldy line . 
I should say now that the stage , or the -- or the army Mr. Richard , or something very superior in the licensed victualling way , was the kind of thing that would call out the genius of such a man as you . 
She 's extremely sorry to lose you Mr. Richard , but a sense of her duty to society reconciles her . 
Whenever we part with friends Mr. Richard , let us part liberally . 
To all these rambling observations , Mr. Swiveller answered not one word , but returning for the aquatic jacket , rolled it into a tight round ball , looking steadily at Brass meanshile as if he had some intention of bowling him down with it . 
He only took it under his arm , however , and marched out of the office in profound silence . 
Directly he had closed the door , he opened it ; started in again for a few moments with the same portentous gravity ; and nodding his head once , in a slow and ghost-like manner , vanished . 
He paid the coachman and turned his back on Bevis Marks , big with great designs for the comforting of Kit 's mother and the aid of Kit himself . 
But the lives of gentlemen devoted to such pleasures as Richard Swiveller , are extremely precarious . 
The spiritual excitement of the last fortnight , working upon a system affected in no slight degree by the spirituous excitement of some years , proved a little too much for him . 
That very night , Mr. Richard was seized with an alarming illness , and in twenty-four hours was stricken with a raging fever . 
TOSSING to and fro upon his hot , uneasy bed ; tormented by a fierce thirst which nothing could appease ; unable to find , in any change of posture , a moment 's peace or ease ; and rambling for ever through deserts of thought where there was no resting-place , no sight or sound suggestive of refreshment or repose , nothing but a dull eternal weariness , with no change but the restless shiftings of his miserable body , and the weary wanderings of his mind , constant still to one ever-present anxiety -- to a sense of something left undone , of some fearful obstacle to be surmounted , of some carking care that would not be driven away , and haunted the distempered brain , now in this form , now in that -- always shadowy and dim , but recognizable for the same phantom in every shape it took , darkening every vision like an evil conscience , and making slumber horrible ; in these slow tortures of his dread disease , the unfortunate Richard lay wasting and consuming inch by inch , until at last , when he seemed to fight and struggle to rise up , and to be held down by devils , he sunk into a deep sleep , and dreamed no more . 
He awoke ; and , with a sensation of most blissful rest , better than sleep itself , began gradually to remember something of these sufferings , and to think what a long night it had been , and whether he had not been delirious twice or thrice . 
Happening in the midst of these cogitations to raise his hand , he was astonished to find how heavy it seemed , and yet how thin and light it really was . 
Still he felt indifferent and happy ; and having no curiosity to pursue the subject , remained in the same waking slumber until his attention was attracted by a cough . 
This made him doubt whether he had locked his door last night , and feel a little surprised at having a companion in the room . 
Still , he lacked energy to follow up this train of thought ; and unconsciously fell , in a luxury of repose , to staring at some green stripes upon the bed-furniture , and associating them strangely with patches of fresh turf , while the yellow ground between made gravel-walks , and so helped out a long perspective of trim gardens . 
He was rambling in imagination upon these terraces , and had quite lost himself among them indeed , when he heard the cough once more . 
The walks shrunk into stripes again at the sound ; and raising himself a little in the bed , and holding the curtain open with one hand , he looked out . 
The same room certainly , and still by candle-light ; but with what unbounded astonishment did he see all those bottles , and basins , and articles of linen airing by the fire , and such-like furniture of a sick chamber -- all very clean and neat , but all quite different from anything he had left there , when he went to bed ! 
There she sat , intent upon her game , coughing now and then in a subdued manner as if she feared to disturb him -- shuffling the cards , cutting , dealing , playing , counting , pegging ; going through all the mysteries of cribbage as though she had been in full practice from her cradle ! 
N2515072 Mr. Swiveller contemplated these things for a short time , and suffering the curtain to fall into its former position , laid his head upon the pillow again . 
`` I 'm dreaming , '' thought Richard , `` that 's clear . 
thought Mr. Swiveller . 
For the purpose of testing his real condition , Mr. Swiveller , after some reflection , pinched himself in the arm . 
he thought . 
The result of this further inspection was , to convince Mr. Swiveller that the objects by which he was surrounded were real , and that he saw them , beyond all question , with his waking eyes . 
`` It 's an Arabian Night , that 's what it is , '' said Richard . 
Perhaps , '' said Mr. Swiveller , turning languidly round upon his pillow , and looking on that side of his bed which was next the wall , `` the Princess may be still -- No , she 's gone . '' 
Not feeling quite satisfied with this explanation , as , even taking it to be the correct one , it still involved a little mystery and doubt , Mr. Swiveller raised the curtain again , determined to take the first favourable opportunity of addressing his companion . 
The Marchioness dealt , turned up a knave , and omitted to take the usual advantage ; upon which Mr. Swiveller called out as loud as he could -- `` Two for his heels . '' 
`` Arabian Night , certainly , '' thought Mr. Swiveller ; `` they always clap their hands instead of ringing the bell . 
`` Marchioness , '' said Mr. Swiveller , thoughtfully , `` be pleased to draw nearer . 
The Marchioness only shook her head mournfully , and cried again ; where-upon Mr. Swiveller -LRB- being very weak -RRB- felt his own eyes affected likewise . 
`` I begin to infer , from your manner and these appearances , Marchioness , '' -- said Richard after a pause , and smiling with a trembling lip , `` that I have been ill . '' 
Mr. Swiveller was silent for a long while . 
Bye and bye , he began to talk again -- inquiring how long he had been there . 
The bare thought of having been in such extremity , caused Richard to fall into another silence , and to lie flat down again at his full length . 
The Marchioness , having arranged the bed-clothes more comfortably , and felt that his hands and forehead were quite cool -- a discovery that filled her with delight -- cried a little more , and then applied herself to getting tea ready , and making some thin dry toast . 
While she was thus engaged , Mr. Swiveller looked on with a grateful heart , very much astonished to see how thoroughly at home she made herself , and attributing this attention , in its origin , to Sally Brass , whom , in his own mind , he could not thank enough . 
When the Marchioness had finished her toasting , she spread a clean cloth on a tray , and brought him some crisp slices and a great basin of weak tea , with which -LRB- she said -RRB- the doctor had left word he might refresh himself when he awoke . 
`` Marchioness , '' said Mr. Swiveller , `` how 's Sally ? '' 
Mr. Swiveller immediately laid himself down again quite flat , and so remained for about five minutes . 
By slow degrees he resumed his sitting posture after that lapse of times , and inquired : `` And where do you live , Marchioness ? '' 
said Mr. Swiveller . 
And with that he fell down flat again , as suddenly as if he had been shot . 
Thus he remained , motionless and bereft of speech , until she had finished her meals , put everything in its place , and swept the hearth ; when he motioned her to bring a chair to the bedside , and being propped up again , opened a farther conversation . 
suggested Mr. Swiveller , observing that she faltered . 
At this point , Mr. Swiveller took the small servant 's hand in his again , and being , as we have seen , but poorly , might in struggling to express his thanks have made his eyes as red as hers , but that she quickly changed the theme by making him lie down , and urging him to keep very quiet . 
`` The doctor , '' she told him , `` said you was to be kept quite still , and there was to be no noise nor nothing . 
Richard Swiveller , being indeed fatigued , fell into a slumber , and waking in about half an hour , inquired what time it was . 
`` Just gone half after six , '' replied his small friend , helping him to sit up again . 
`` Marchioness , '' said Richard , passing his hand over his forehead and turning suddenly round , as though the subject but that moment flashed upon him , `` what has become of Kit ? '' 
He had been sentenced to transportation for a great many years , she said . 
Richard Swiviller thrust his lank arm out of bed , and griping her by the wrist and drawing her close to him , bade her out with it , and freely too , or he would not answer for the consequences ; being wholly unable to endure that state of excitement and expectation . 
Unable to resist these fervent adjurations , which Richard Swiveller poured out as passionately as if they had been of the most solemn and tremendous nature , his companion spoke thus : `` Well ! 
Here Mr. Swiveller made a violent demonstration with his legs . 
Mr. Swiveller replied that he had never tasted that ardent liquor ; and once more urged his friend to resume the thread of her narrative . 
Mr. Swiveller gathered up his knees so as to make a great cone of the bed-clothes , and conveyed into his countenance an expression of the utmost concern . 
While he 's up stairs , you 'll get out of the way , and I 'll clear off Mr. Richard . 
Having Kit alone , I 'll hold him in conversation , and put this property in his hat . 
I 'll manage so , besides , ' he says , ` that Mr. Richard shall find it there , and be the evidence . 
The small servant had gradually worked herself into as much agitation as Mr. Swiveller , and therefore made no effort to restrain him when he sat up in bed and hastily demanded whether this story had been told to anybody . 
replied his nurse . 
`` Marchioness , '' said Mr. Swiveller , plucking off his nightcap and flinging it to the other end of the room ; `` if you 'll do me the favour to retire for a few minutes and see what sort of a night it is , I 'll get up . '' 
`` You must n't think of such a thing , '' cried his nurse . 
said Mr. Swiveller , in great astonishment . 
But do n't take on about that , '' urged the Marchioness , as Dick fell back upon his pillow . 
`` I am afraid , '' said Richard dolefully , `` that you 're right . 
It naturally occurred to him upon very little reflection , that the first step to take would be to communicate with one of the Mr. Garlands instantly . 
`` It 's embarrassing , '' said Mr. Swiveller , `` in case of fire -- even an umbrella would be something -- but you did quite right , dear Marchioness . 
The pony , impelled by some secret sympathy or some new caprice , burst into a great pace , and neither slackened it , nor indulged in any eccentric performances , until they arrived at the door of Mr. Swiveller 's lodging , where , marvellous to relate , he consented to stop when Mr. Abel checked him . 
As she did so , the sleeper started up , and he recognised in the wasted face the features of Richard Swiveller . 
You might have chanced to hear of your Richard on his bier , but for the friend I sent to fetch you . 
Richard Swiveller kept his eyes fixed on his visitor during its narration , and directly it was concluded , took the word again . 
Having eaten and drunk to Mr. Swiveller 's extreme contentment , given him his drink , and put everything in neat order , she wrapped herself in an old coverlet and lay down upon the rug before the fire . 
Mr. Swiveller was by that time murmuring in his sleep . 
On awaking in the morning , Richard Swiveller became conscious by slow degrees of whispering voices in his room . 
Looking out between the curtains , he espied Mr. Garland , Mr. Abel , the notary , and the single gentleman , gathered round the Marchioness , and talking to her with great earnestness but in very subdued tones -- fearing , no doubt , to disturb him . 
Mr. Swiveller , who was perfectly ravenous , and had had , all night , amazingly distinct and consistent dreams of mutton chops , double stout , and similar delicacies , felt even the weak tea and dry toast such irresistible temptations , that he consented to eat and drink upon one condition . 
The manner of his meal was this : - Mr. Swiveller , holding the slice of toast or cup of tea in his left hand , and taking a bite or drink as the case might be , constantly kept , in his right , one palm of the Marchioness tight locked ; and to shake , or even to kiss this imprisoned hand , he would stop every now and them , in the very act of swallowing , with perfect seriousness of intention , and the utmost gravity . 
As often as he put anything into his mouth , whether for eating or drinking , the face of the Marchioness lighted up beyond all description ; but whenever he gave her one or other of these tokens of recognition , her countenance became overshadowed , and she began to sob . 
Now , whether she was in her laughing joy , or in her crying one , the Marchioness could not help turning to the visitors with an appealing look , which seemed to say , `` You see this fellow -- can I help this ? '' 
At length -- and to say the truth before very long -- Mr. Swiveller had despatched as much toast and tea as in that stage of his recovery it was discreet to let him have . 
But the cares of the Marchioness did not stop here ; for disappearing for an instant and presently returning with a basin of fair water , she laved his face and hands , brushed his hair , and in short made him as spruce and smart as anybody under such circumstances could be made ; and all this in as brisk and business-like a manner , as if he were a very little boy , and she his grown-up nurse . 
To these various attentions , Mr. Swiveller submitted in a kind of grateful astonishment beyond the reach of language . 
When they were at last brought to an end , and the Marchioness had withdrawn into a distant corner to take her own poor breakfast -LRB- cold enough by that time -RRB- , he turned his face away for some few moments , and shook hands heartily with the air . 
The single gentleman smiled as if the light in which Mr. Swiveller had put the question were not the clearest in the world , and proceeded to explain that they contemplated proceeding by stratagem in the first instance ; and that their design was to endeavour to extort a confession from the gentle Sarah . 
`` When she finds how much we know , and how we know it , '' he said , `` and that she is clearly compromised already , we are not without strong hopes that we may be enabled through her means to punish the other two effectually . 
So , after telling Mr. Swiveller how they had not lost sight of Kit 's mother and the children ; how they had never once even lost sight of Kit himself , but had been unremitting in their endeavours to procure a mitigation of his sentence ; how they had been perfectly distracted between the strong proofs of his guilt , and their own fading hopes of his innocence ; and how he , Richard Swiveller , might keep his mind at rest , for everything should be happily adjusted between that time and night ; -- after telling him all this , and adding a great many kind and cordial expressions , personal to himself , which it is unnecessary to recite , Mr. Garland , the notary , and the single gentleman , took their leaves at a very critical time , or Richard Swiveller must assuredly have been driven into another fever , whereof the results might have been fatal . 
Mr. Abel remained behind , very often looking at his watch and at the room door , until Mr. Swiveller was roused from a short nap , by the setting-down on the landing-place outside , as from the shoulders of a porter , of some giant load , which seemed to shake the house , and made the little physic bottles on the mantel-shelf ring again . 
The whole of which appearances were so unexpected and bewildering , that Mr. Swiveller , when he had taken two oranges and a little jelly , and had seen the strong man walk off with the empty basket , plainly leaving all that abundance for his use and benefit , was fain to lie down and fall asleep again , from sheer inability to entertain such wonders in his mind . 
Their business ended , the three gentlemen hastened back to the lodgings of Mr. Swiveller , whom they found progressing so favourably in his recovery as to have been able to sit up for half an hour , and to have conversed with cheerfulness . 
The idea of any professional intelligence from a gentleman connected with legal matters , appeared to afford Richard anything but a pleasing anticipation . 
Perhaps he connected it in his own mind with one or two outstanding accounts , in reference to which he had already received divers threatening letters . 
His countenance fell as he replied , `` Certainly , sir . 
You are the nephew of Rebecca Swiveller , spinster , deceased , of Cheselbourne in Dorsetshire . '' 
Mr. Swiveller , recovering very slowly from his illness , and entering into the receipt of his annuity , bought for the Marchioness a handsome stock of clothes , and put her to school forthwith , in redemption of the vow he had made upon his fevered bed . 
After casting about for some time for a name which should be worthy of her , he decided in favour of Sophronia Sphynx , as being cuphonious and genteel , and furthermore indicative of mystery . 
Under this title the Marchioness repaired , in tears , to the school of his selection , from which , as she soon distanced all competitors , she was removed before the lapse of many quarters to one of a higher grade . 
It is but bare justice to Mr. Swiveller to say , that , although the expenses of her education kept him in straitened circumstances for half a dozen years , he never slackened in his zeal , and always held himself sufficiently repaid by the accounts he heard -LRB- with great gravity -RRB- of her advancement , on his monthly visits to the governess , who looked upon him as a literary gentleman of eccentric habits , and of a most prodigious talent in quotation . 
In a word , Mr. Swiveller kept the Marchioness at this establishment until she was , at a moderate guess , full nineteen years of age -- good-looking clever , and good-humoured ; when he began to consider seriously what was to be done next . 
On one of his periodical visits , while he was revolving this question in his mind , the Marchioness came down to him , alone , looking more smiling and more fresh than ever . 
Then it occurred to him , but not for the first time , that if she would marry him , how comfortable they might be ! 
So Richard asked her ; whatever she said , it was n't No ; and they were married in good earnest that day week , which gave Mr. Swiveller frequent occasion to remark at divers subsequent periods that there had been a young lady saving up for him after all . 
Mr. Swiveller , having always been in some measure of a philosophic and reflective turn , grew immensely contemplative , at times , in the smoking-box , and was accustomed at such periods to debate in his own mind the mysterious question of Sophronia 's parentage . 
Sophronia herself supposed she was an orphan ; but Mr. Swiveller , putting various slight circumstances together , often thought Miss Brass must know better than that ; and , having heard from his wife of her strange interview with Quilp , entertained sundry misgivings whether that person , in his lifetime , might not also have been able to solve the riddle , had he chosen . 
These speculations , however , gave him no uneasiness ; for Sophronia was ever a most cheerful , affectionate , and provident wife to him ; and Dick -LRB- excepting for an occasional outbreak with Mr. Chuckster , which she had the good sense rather to encourage than oppose -RRB- was to her an attached and domesticated husband . 
Of course there was an Abel , own godson to the Mr. Garland of that name ; and there was a Dick , whom Mr. Swiveller did especially favour . 
The little group would often gather round him of a night and beg him to tell again that story of good Miss Nell who died . 
This , Kit would do ; and when they cried to hear it , wishing it longer too , he would teach them how she had gone to Heaven , as all good people did ; and how , if they were good like her , they might hope to be there too one day , and to see and know her as he had done when he was quite a boy . 
Then he would relate to them how needy he used to be , and how she had taught him what he was otherwise too poor to learn , and how the old man had been used to say `` she always laughs at Kit ; '' at which they would brush away their tears , and laugh themselves to think that she had done so , and be again quite merry . 
