How superior are the claims of such a gentleman to the empty pretensions of your Captain Ludlow ! '' 
`` He has truly a very good and an improving estate ! '' 
Does it not seem to you particularly offensive that this Captain Ludlow should command the only royal cruiser on the station ? '' 
Should this Captain Ludlow actually marry your niece , the family would altogether change its character -- I have the worst memory -- thy mother , Myndert , was a -- a -- '' `` The pious woman was a Van Busser . '' 
The Ludlow connexion would destroy the leaven of the race ! 
`` If Captain Ludlow prefer a cruise in the Indies , to duty on this coast , I hope he may obtain his wish , '' was the cautious answer . 
`` If the news in the creek be true , '' rejoined the unoffended owner of the periagua , `` there will be other business for Captain Ludlow and the Coquette , before many days ! '' 
having eaten all his meat and bread , the man will be obliged to victual his ship anew ! 
A lazy war and a distant enemy make you seamen the lords of the land , Captain Ludlow . '' 
`` Duty has taken me into the Italian seas , more than once , '' answered Ludlow , half disposed to resent this familiarity , though too anxious to keep the periagua near , to quarrel with him who so evidently had produced the unexpected pleasure . 
`` I fear the berth I wish is filled , '' returned the other , curling his lip : `` let draw the fore-sheet , lad ; we will take our departure , leaving the fly of the pennant well under our lee . 
Ludlow bit his lip , and though his fine face reddened to the temples , he met the arch glance of Alida , and laughed . 
But he who had so hardily braved the resentment of a man , powerful as the commander of a royal cruiser in a British colony , appeared to understand the hazard of his situation . 
`` That Captain Ludlow would gladly take some of us out of this boat , by fair means or by foul , is a fact clear as a bright star in a cloudless night ; and , well knowing a seaman 's duty to his superiors , I shall leave him to his choice . '' 
Now is the time to show this Captain Ludlow , how a Frenchman can wind him round his finger , on terra-firma . 
`` In which case , little , but good , will be uttered from the mouth of Alderman Van Beverout , '' said Ludlow , appearing so suddenly from behind the root of the tree , as effectually to shut the mouth of the burgher . 
`` I am bound to a comfortable and very private abode , called the Lust in Rust , Captain Cornelius Van Cuyler Ludlow . '' 
`` Older I may not pretend to be , '' said Ludlow , coloring ; '' but Mr. Van Beverout will see no pretension in believing myself as good a judge of wind and tide , as even he himself can be . '' 
`` You are said to command Her Majesty 's sloop with skill , Captain Ludlow , and it is creditable to the colony , that it has produced so good an officer ; though I believe your grandfather came into the province , so lately as on the restoration of King Charles the Second ? '' 
`` I had hoped for a different answer from la belle Barbérie , '' repeated Ludlow , in a lower voice , but with even a still more emphatic tone than before . 
`` Captain Ludlow , it is now a month since I am your debtor , by promise , for a volume of Corneille , and I here acquit myself of the obligation . 
Captain Ludlow , we thank you for your politeness , but here is one of my fellows to tell us that my own periagua is arrived ; and , wishing you a happy and a long cruise , as we say of lives , I bid you , adieu . '' 
He read and re-read ; struck his brow with his hand ; gazed about him at the land and at the water ; re-perused the note ; examined the superscription , which was simply to ` Capt. Ludlow , of Her Majesty 's ship Coquette : ' smiled ; muttered between his teeth ; seemed vexed , and yet delighted ; read the note again , word by word , and finally thrust it into his pocket , with the air of a man who had found reason for both regret and satisfaction in its contents . 
`` Theface of man is the log-book of his thoughts , and Captain Ludlow 's seems agreeable , '' observed a voice , that came from one , who was not far from the commander of the Coquette , while the latter was still enacting the pantomime described in the close of the preceding chapter . 
As for looking into your movements , Captain Ludlow , I have watched too many big ships in my time , to turn aside at each light cruiser that happens to cross my course . 
Ludlow could scarce believe his senses , when , on turning to face the intruder , he saw himself confronted by the audacious eye and calm mien of the mariner who had , once before that morning , braved his resentment . 
Curbing his indignation , however , the young man endeavored to emulate the coolness which , notwithstanding his inferior condition , imparted to the air of the other something that was imposing , if it were not absolutely authoritative . 
Swallowing his resentment , the young commander answered -- `` He that knows how to face his enemies with spirit , may be accounted sufficiently bold ; but he who braves the anger of his friends , is foolhardy . '' 
`` And he who does neither , is wiser than both , '' rejoined the reckless hero of the sash . 
`` Captain Ludlow , we meet on equal terms , at present , and the parley may be managed with some freedom . '' 
But Captain Ludlow , backed by the broadside of the Coquette and the cross-fire of his marines , is not Captain Ludlow alone , on a sea-bluff , with a crutch no better than his own arm , and a stout heart . 
As the first , he is like a spar supported by backstays and forestays , braces and standing rigging ; while , as the latter , he is the stick , which keeps its head aloft by the soundness and quality of its timber . 
said Ludlow , suddenly losing all other interest in the appearance of the periagua which held Alida and her friends , and which , at that instant , shot out from beneath the cover of the hill into the broad opening of Raritan bay . 
`` Women and winds are only understood , when fairly in motion , '' returned he of the sash ; `` now , any mortal who consulted comfort and the skies , would have preferred a passage in Her Majesty 's ship Coquette , to one in yonder dancing periagua ; and yet the fluttering silk we see , in the boat , tells us there is one who has thought otherwise . '' 
`` You are a man of singular intelligence , '' cried Ludlow , again facing the intruder ; `` as well as one of singular -- '' `` Effrontery , '' rejoined the other , observing that the commander hesitated . 
muttered Ludlow , pacing backward and forward beneath the shadow of the tree . 
demanded Ludlow , with a little of the pretension that , when speaking of its privileges , is apt to distinguish the manner of one who has been accustomed to regard royalty with reverence . 
When our affairs call us the same way , no one can be readier than I , to keep Her Majesty 's company ; but -- '' `` This is presuming too far , on the trifling of a moment , '' interrupted Ludlow ; `` you know , sirrah , that I have the right to command your services , without entering into a parley for them ; and which , notwithstanding your gay appearance , may , after all , be little worth the trouble . '' 
`` There is no need to push matters to extremity , between us , Captain Ludlow , '' resumed the stranger , who had appeared to muse for a moment , `` If I have baffled your pursuit once to-day , it was perhaps to make my merit in entering the ship freely , less undeniable . 
A seaman of your station , Captain Ludlow , is not now to learn , that a man speaks differently , while his name is his own , and after he has given it away to the crown ; and therefore I hope my present freedom will not be long remembered . '' 
`` It may be either , '' observed the audacious mariner , turning his eye leisurely towards the open ocean , `` for we have a wide look-out from this windy bluff . 
These fly-aways , Captain Ludlow , give us seamen many sleepless nights and idle chases . 
`` I 'll hear the circumstance , '' said Ludlow , withdrawing his gaze from the distant ocean , like one who was satisfied his senses had been deceived . 
said Ludlow , interested in spite of his assumed air of indifference . 
`` Having rarely troubled churches , I know not why a church should trouble me , '' said the mariner of the sash , while he turned his back on the ocean , as if indisposed to regard the waste of water longer . 
`` Your tale of the burning cross and looming church , Master Tiller , had almost caused me to forget to watch the movements of yon periagua , '' returned Ludlow , who still continued to face the bay . 
I am not , altogether , what I seem , Captain Ludlow ; and when further acquaintance and hard service shall have brought me more before the eyes of my commander , he may not repent having induced a thorough seaman to enter his ship , by a little condescension and good-nature shown while the man was still his own master . 
Ludlow riveted his eyes on the unmoved and manly countenance of his companion . 
Rather amused than offended by the freedom of the request , he turned upon his heel , and as they descended the bluff , on their way towards the place of landing , he continued the dialogue . 
said Captain Ludlow , who perhaps remembered , that the freedom of their intercourse had been carried as far as comported with prudence . 
`` Mine was a proper man , and one that need not have been ashamed to show his countenance among his fellows , '' said he of the sash . 
Captain Ludlow , you are a man of honor , and will not deceive a sailor who puts trust in your word . '' 
`` Fellow , '' said Ludlow , `` this impudence almost surpasseth patience ! '' 
`` Now , Captain Ludlow of the Coquette would gladly tie himself , for better for worse , to a fair lady who is lately gone on the water , and yet there are thousands who might be had with less difficulty . '' 
`` Why , Master Tiller , '' cried Ludlow , laughing , `` you trust too much to these stunted oaks , if you believe it exceeds my power to hunt you out of their cover , at pleasure . 
`` I follow in your Honor 's wake , without more words , '' returned he of the sash , for the first time respectfully raising his canvas cap to the young commander . 
`` The loyal Captain Ludlow has quickly ended his cruise ! '' 
`` He who serves one mistress , faithfully , has no light task , '' returned a voice from among the shrubbery that grew beneath and nearly veiled the window ; `` but he , who is devoted to two , may well despair of success with both ! '' 
`` I have heard that Captain Ludlow gained much of his renown by gallantry in boarding , '' she said , in a voice whose meaning admitted of no misconception ; `` but I had hoped his ambition was satisfied with laurels so fairly won from the enemies of his country ! '' 
`` Reason , Captain Ludlow , has limited female propriety within narrow limits , '' she said . 
said Ludlow , endeavoring to swallow his discontent . 
The customs of the age , the profession of her suitor , and the hour , induced her to look steadily into his face , to see whether the man stood before her in all the decency of his reason . 
But Ludlow had the reputation of being exempt from a vice that was then but too common among seamen , and there was nothing in his ingenuous and really handsome features , to cause her to distrust his present discretion . 
`` Francois , '' said his mistress , when the old valet , but half awake , entered the apartment , `` fais moi le plaisir de m ` apporter de cette eau de la fontaine du bosquet , et du vin -- le Capitaine Ludlow a soif ; et rapelle-toi , bon Francois , il ne faut pas déranger mon oncle á cette heure ; il doit être bien fatigué de son voyage . '' 
When her respectful and respectable servitor had received his commission and departed , Alida took a seat herself , in the confidence of having deprived the visit of Ludlow of its clandestine character , and at the same time having employed the valet on an errand that would leave her sufficient leisure , to investigate the inexplicable meaning of her companion . 
`` You have my word , Captain Ludlow , that this unseasonable appearance in the pavilion , is indiscreet , not to call it cruel , '' she said , so soon as they were again alone ; `` but that you have it , in any manner , to justify your imprudence , I must continue to doubt , until confronted by proof . '' 
`` I had thought to have made a very different use of this , '' returned Ludlow , drawing a letter , -- we admit it with some reluctance in one so simple and so manly , -- from his bosom : `` and even now , I take shame in producing it , though at your own orders . '' 
`` And this indelicate and unfeminine rhapsody , Captain Ludlow has seen proper to ascribe to me ! '' 
`` I thank Capt. Ludlow for his attention in affording me an opportunity of reading a narrative of the cruel deeds of the buccaneers . 
No one can be more sensible of this truth than the friends of Captain Ludlow , '' the voice of Alida fell a little , as she came to this sentence , `` who has not now to earn a reputation for mercy . 
Again thanking Capt. Ludlow for this instance of his repeated attentions , I beg he will keep the volume , until he shall return from his intended cruise . '' 
Under the influence of this commendable and healthful feeling , Ludlow , while he was in some respects mortified at the turn affairs had taken , felt sensibly relieved from a load of doubt , to which the extraordinary language of the letter , he believed his mistress to have written , had given birth . 
His companion read the state of his mind , in a countenance that was frank as face of sailor could be ; and though secretly pleased to gain her former place in his respect , she was also vexed and wounded that he had ever presumed to distrust her reserve . 
A sudden thought seemed to strike her mind , and returning the paper , she said coldly -- `` Captain Ludlow should know his correspondent better ; I much mistake if this be the first of her communications . '' 
Ludlow ! 
Ludlow ! 
`` It is of no consequence , good François , '' said Ludlow , slipping a guinea into the hands of the valet . 
It was too late , however , for she had heard Ludlow take his leave , and had listened , in breathless silence , to his footstep , as he passed the shrubbery of her little lawn . 
She wondered at the expedition of Ludlow , who was not accustomed to show such haste in quitting her presence , and leaned over the railing to catch a glimpse of his departing boat . 
Alida again looked for the boat of Ludlow ; but her eye ran over the whole distance of the bright and broad streak , between her and the cruiser , in vain . 
In another minute , Ludlow was in the room . 
It is not necessary to repeat the description of the stranger 's person , in order to render the change , which instantly occurred in the countenance of Ludlow , intelligible to the reader . 
`` I had believed -- nay , there was reason to be certain , that one whom all of proper loyalty execrate , was to be found here ; '' stammered the still-confused Ludlow . 
The manner , rather than the words , of the speaker , induced Ludlow to rivet another look on his countenance . 
There was a mixed expression of doubt , admiration , and possibly of uneasiness , if not of actual jealousy , in the eye , which slowly read all his lineaments , though the former seemed the stronger sensation of the three . 
cried Ludlow , when the organ began to grow dim , with the length and steadiness of its gaze . 
`` Never , I am not one to bind myself to the servitude of any woman that lives , '' returned the free-trader , while a mild smile played about his lip , `` though she wore a thousand diadems ! 
`` Look at that brigantine , whose delicate spars are almost confounded with the back-ground of trees , '' said the other , approaching the window , and directing the attention of his companion to the Cove : `` 'T is the bark that has so often foiled the efforts of all thy cruisers , and which transports me and my wealth whither I will , without the fetters of arbitrary laws , and the meddling inquiries of venal hirelings . 
She is a thing to be loved , Ludlow ; trust me , I never yet set affections on woman , with the warmth I feel for the faithful and beautiful machine ! '' 
`` This is little more than any mariner could say , in praise of a vessel that he admired . '' 
but this is language that might become one who was at liberty to act his pleasure , '' returned the stranger , tauntingly imitating the tone , in which his angry companion had spoken . 
The brown cheek of Ludlow reddened , and he turned toward the lighter and far less vigorous frame of his companion , as if about to strike him to the earth , when a door opened , and Alida appeared in the saloon . 
`` I know not whether to approve , or to condemn , the boldness that has prompted Captain Ludlow to enter my pavilion , at this unseasonable hour , and in so unceremonious a manner , '' she said , `` for I am still ignorant of his motive . 
When he shall please to let me hear it , I may judge better of the merit of the excuse . '' 
`` True , we will hear his explanation before condemnation , '' added the stranger , offering a seat to Alida , which she coldly declined . 
But as the lady seemed indifferent to the last remark , Ludlow prepared to enter on his vindication . 
`` I shall not attempt to conceal that an artifice has been practised , '' he said , `` which is accompanied by consequences that I find awkward . 
`` In other words , Captain Ludlow is not as sagacious as he had reason to believe , '' said an ironical voice , at his elbow . 
`` It is not necessary to say why I landed , '' continued Ludlow ; `` but I was weak enough to allow that unknown mariner to quit my ship , in my company ; and when I would return , he found means to disarm my men , and make me a prisoner . '' 
`` Thou wouldst also say , and his niece , Ludlow ? '' 
`` We may then resume our commerce , '' said the trader , coolly seating himself before the open bale , while Ludlow and the maiden stood regarding each other in mute surprise . 
Do I justice to the faith of the craft , Captain Ludlow ? 
Throughout the interview with Ludlow , the air of the free-trader had been mild , though , at times , it was playful ; and not for an instant had he seemed to return the resentment which the other had so plainly manifested . 
It now became perplexed , and , by the workings of his features , it would seem that he vacillated in his opinions . 
Alida and Ludlow listened in admiration to the capricious and fanciful language of the unaccountable trader , and both were equally at a loss to estimate his character . 
When questioned as to her determination concerning his goods , she again regarded Ludlow , doubtingly , ere she answered . 
Captain Ludlow , are we to part in friendship , or does your duty to the Queen proscribe the word . '' 
`` If what you seem , '' said Ludlow , `` you are a being inexplicable ! 
`` You are not the first who has refused credit to his senses , in a manner wherein the Water-Witch and her commander have been concerned . 
Friend , or not , Captain Ludlow need not be told he is my prisoner . '' 
repeated Ludlow , with an expression of eye and lip that might have offended one more disposed to take offence than him he addressed , `` The fellow who so well succeeded in his artifice , is one much more likely to command than to obey . 
-- Captain Ludlow , I leave it to your discretion to meet him , or not . '' 
Ludlow hesitated ; cast a reproachful look at his mistress ; and then he instantly quitted the apartment , by the place through which he had entered . 
A noise in the shrubbery sufficiently proved that his return was expected , and that he was closely watched . 
exclaimed Myndert , appearing at the door with a face red with his exertions . 
responded the free-trader , whose tone and manner seemed to change , at will , in order to suit the humor of whomsoever he was brought to speak with . 
That Ludlow is a simpleton , niece of mine , and he is not yet fit to deal with men of mature years . 
You 'll think better of his qualities , one day , and bid him be gone like an unwelcome dun . '' 
This Captain Ludlow is no laggard , when he thinks his duty actually concerned . '' 
`` We shall endeavor to keep him quiet . 
The cover of the trees , and the berth of the boat , make all snug , as respects his people . 
Captain Ludlow -- well , sirrah ! 
`` He 'm waiting to see Masser , '' returned the gaping Erasmus , who stood with the door in his hand , admiring the secret intelligence of his master , who had so readily anticipated his errand . 
`` It has become my office , '' continued Ludlow , after the preliminaries had been observed , to express the surprise I feel , that a vessel of the exceedingly equivocal appearance of the brigantine , that is anchored in the Cove , should be found in a situation to create unpleasant suspicions concerning the commercial propriety of a merchant so well known as Mr. Alderman Van Beverout . '' 
`` I shall not conceal any of the facts ; for I feel that this is a case , in which a gentleman of your station has the fullest right to the benefit of explanations -- '' `` Hem -- '' interrupted the burgher , who disliked the manner in which his companion had opened the interview , and who thought he saw the commencement of a forced compromise in the turn it was taking ; -- `` Hem -- I commend your moderation , Captain Ludlow . 
`` Captain Ludlow is not about to accuse Alderman Van Beverout of a connexion with such a man ! '' 
`` Whence I took away -- '' Ludlow hesitated , as if anxious to select his words -- `` Alida Barbérie . '' 
Ludlow smiled , like one not to be deceived , as he continued . 
Observing that Ludlow paused , and watched his countenance with a cool and steady eye , he recovered his self-command , and affected a mere ordinary curiosity , while he signed to him to proceed . 
Ludlow seemed relieved , when he saw , by the undisguised amazement of his companion , that the latter was , in truth , ignorant of the matter in which he had been detained . 
`` It might not have been , Sir , had our watch been as vigilant as their artifice was deep , '' he continued . 
`` But I was little guarded , and having no means to reach my ship , I -- '' `` Ay , ay , Captain Ludlow ; it is not necessary to be so circumstantial ; you proceeded to the wharf , and -- '' `` Perhaps , Sir , I obeyed my feelings , rather than my duty , '' observed Ludlow , coloring high , when he perceived that the burgher paused to clear his throat . 
I will merely surmise that terms should be moderate , between friends ; -- perhaps I should say , between connexions , Captain Ludlow . '' 
demanded Ludlow , in a surprise too natural to be feigned . 
If the men of Captain Ludlow were at first imprisoned , I presume they were set at liberty at the proper time . '' 
`` Am I to understand , Captain Ludlow , that Alida Barbérie has not fled my house , during the past night , to seek a refuge in your ship ? '' 
`` Captain Ludlow , this is not acting . 
`` I shall not deny , Captain Ludlow , that I believed you had prevailed on my niece to fly aboard the Coquette ; for , though a man who has always kept his feelings in his own command , as the safest manner of managing particular interests , yet I am not to learn that rash youth is often guilty of folly . 
eagerly interrupted Ludlow . 
exclaimed the young sailor , actually groaning under his mental agony . 
But while the distress of the lover was thus violent , and caused him to be so little measured in his terms of reproach , the uncle of the fair offender appeared to be lost in surprise . 
The laws of the colonies offered few obstacles to the legality of their union ; and when Ludlow appeared that morning , he firmly believed that he beheld one , who , if he were not so already , was inevitably soon to become his nephew . 
But the suffering of the disappointed youth could not be counterfeited ; and , prevented from adhering to his first opinion , the perplexed Alderman seemed utterly at a loss to conjecture what could have become of his niece . 
The burgher cast a quick suspicious glance at Ludlow , and shook his head , to express his belief that the young man was true . 
`` Hold , '' cried Ludlow , motioning to the valet to withdraw . 
Ludlow reddened to his forehead , and he struggled powerfully with his pride and his regrets . 
`` It is useless to attempt concealing the step which Alida Barbérie has been pleased to take , '' he said , a smile so bitter passing over his features , as to lend them the expression of severe mockery ; `` she has chosen more worthily than either of us could have believed ; she has found a companion more suited to her station , her character , and her sex , than Van Staats of Kinderhook , or a poor commander of a Queen 's ship ! '' 
These were reflections that now began to pass through the thoughts of the Alderman , as they had already planted stings in the bosom of Ludlow . 
Captain Ludlow , your assistance will be needed in this affair ; and , as it may not be too late , since there are few priests in the brigantine -- always supposing her character to be what you affirm -- my niece may yet see her error , and be disposed to reward so much assiduity and attachment . '' 
the black hath had communications with the free-trader -- always supposing the opinion of Mr. Ludlow concerning the character of the vessel to be just -- and he is quitting the brigantine . '' 
`` Here comes one that seems disposed to bring us to a parley , '' observed Ludlow , whose practised eye had first detected a boat quitting the side of the brigantine , as well as the direction it was about to steer . 
`` She has little left that can turn to profit , unless she parts with her beauty . '' 
Ludlow nearly bit through his lip , in endeavoring to repress his anger , at the cool confidence of one who had already treated him with so little ceremony , and then momentarily forgetting his object , in professional pride , and perhaps we might add in the habits of his rank , he interrupted the dialogue -- `` If you see the livery of the royal authority , '' he said , haughtily , `` you must be sensible it is worn by one who is commissioned to cause its rights to be respected . 
`` It takes no scholar to read our documents , Captain Ludlow ; for they are written by a light keel on the rolling waters , and he who follows in our wake may guess at their authority . 
You are a seaman , Captain Ludlow , and have an eye for comeliness in a craft , as well as in a woman . 
said Ludlow , finding that the other paused . 
`` You deserve to be one of the sisterhood yourself , Captain Ludlow , for this readiness in divination ! '' 
Captain Ludlow , we must speak the man fair , or he will leave us to get over the inlet , and back to the Lust in Rust , as we may ; and that , too , as empty-handed as we came . 
Ludlow bit his lip , and continued silent . 
It will , therefore , create no astonishment when we say , that Ludlow and the Patroon drew near to the light and graceful fabric , with an interest that deepened at each stroke of the oars . 
Still the eye of Ludlow ran curiously along the whole extent of the two strawcolored lines , seeking in vain some evidence of the weight and force of her armament . 
If she had ports at all , they were so ingeniously concealed as to escape the keenest of his glances . 
As the boat drew near her side , a change of the air caused the buoyant bark to turn , like a vane , in its current ; and as the long and pointed proportions of her head-gear came into view , Ludlow saw beneath the bowsprit an image that might be supposed to make , by means of allegory , some obvious allusions to the character of the vessel . 
But it was Ludlow who gathered most from this brief opportunity , and whose understanding glances so rapidly and eagerly ran over all that a seaman could wish to examine . 
Thus much Ludlow had been enabled to ascertain , ere they were rejoined by Tiller . 
`` There must be an end to this audacious trifling with the law , '' said Ludlow ; `` and the time may be nearer than you suppose . '' 
'T is hard to overtake the driving mist , Captain Ludlow , and he must hold good way with the wind itself , who wishes to stay long in our company . '' 
`` Such is the object of our visit , '' returned Ludlow , whose heart beat violently at the name of the redoubtable rover . 
He quitted the hatchway , and led his companions toward the accommodations in the stern of the vessel . 
There were two small cabins beneath the main-deck , one on each side of , and immediately adjoining , the limited space that was destined to receive her light but valuable cargoes . 
Ludlow and Van Staats of Kinderhook manifested equal amazement , though their wonder was exhibited in a less characteristic manner . 
The former turned short to demand the meaning of this masquerade , when he perceived that the hero of the India-shawl had disappeared . 
They were then alone with the fantastic page , and it became necessary to trust to his intelligence for directions how to proceed . 
demanded Ludlow . 
returned the child , looking timidly , and yet curiously , up into the face of Ludlow . 
rejoined Ludlow , who heeded not the by-play of the Alderman ; `` Your master has a name ? '' 
Ludlow took the bit of paper first offered , and read , written in a child 's hand , the following extract : `` I pray thee Remember , I have done thee worthy service ; Told thee no lies , made no mistakings , serv 'd Without or grudge or grumblings . '' 
Ludlow signed for silence . 
Ludlow would have gladly listened longer ; but the boy opened a door , and , pointing the way to those he conducted , he silently vanished himself , behind a curtain . 
The place , as was indeed the whole vessel , so far as the keen eye of Ludlow could detect , was entirely destitute of arms , not even a pistol , or a sword , being suspended in those places where weapons of that description are usually seen , in all vessels employed either in war or in a trade that might oblige those who sail them to deal in violence . 
His dress was much the same , in fashion and material , as when last seen ; still , it had been changed ; for on the breast of the silken frock was painted an image of the sea-green lady , done with exquisite skill , and in a manner to preserve the whole of the wild and unearthly character of the expression . 
The deep anxiety with which both Ludlow and the Patroon had undertaken to board the notorious smuggler , had given place to an amazement and a curiosity that caused them nearly to forget their errand ; while Alderman Van Beverout appeared shy and suspicious , manifestly thinking less of his niece , than of the consequences of so remarkable an interview . 
`` As we have but one mistress , '' said Ludlow , `` it is our common duty to wish to do her pleasure . '' 
Forbear , I pray you , '' he added quickly , observing that Ludlow was about to answer . 
`` When confronted to the twelve disinterested Daniels , I shall be fain to submit to their judgment , '' rejoined the other , still suffering the wilful smile to linger round his lips . 
`` We have come to aid a wronged and distressed relative and guardian , in searching for his misguided ward , '' Ludlow answered . 
The free-trader turned his eyes on the Patroon , who signified his assent by a silent bow . 
`` You are still in possession of your senses , Captain Ludlow , and may freely use them . 
demanded Ludlow . 
Not so Ludlow . 
Of a more ardent temperament , though equally sensible of the temptation which had caused Alida to err , and as keenly alive to all the consequences to herself , as well as to others , there was something of professional rivalry , and of an official right to investigate , which still mingled with his feelings . 
He had found time to examine more closely the articles that the cabin contained , and when their singular host put his question , he pointed , with an ironical but mournful smile , to a footstool richly wrought in flowers of tints and shades so just as to seem natural . 
Captain Ludlow , I excuse some harshness of construction , that your language might imply ; for it becomes a commissioned servant of the crown , to use freedom with one who , like the lawless companion of the princely Hal , is but too apt to propose to ` rob me the King 's Exchequer . ' 
The character of Mr. Van Beverout , Captain Ludlow , will protect us both from the suspicion of any designs on the revenue ! '' 
Duringthe time past in the secret conference of the cabin , Ludlow and the Patroon were held in discourse on the quarter-deck , by the hero of the India-shawl . 
Ludlow looked at the cloud above the mouth of the Raritan , and his lip curled in a haughty smile . 
It was but a moment , before there arose sounds from some secret though not distant quarter of the brigantine , that caused , in some measure , both surprise and pleasure to Ludlow and the Patroon . 
But here is Captain Ludlow , who has matters of the Queen on his hands , and the gentleman will find it disloyal to waste the moments in this juggling . '' 
Even Ludlow , himself , felt more affected than he would have willing owned , by the extraordinary situation in which he was placed . 
Ludlow had seen , on entering the vessel , that her crew was composed of men of different countries . 
These two men had come and placed themselves near the group on the quarter-deck , when the last music was heard ; and Ludlow had ascribed the circumstance to a sensibility to melody , when the child Zephyr stole to their side , in a manner to show that more was meant by the movement than was apparent in the action itself . 
The curiosity of Ludlow was lively , fearless , and a little mingled with an interest that might be termed professional ; while that of his two companions was not without some inward reverence for the mysterious power of the sorceress . 
Still Ludlow thought there lingered a forced but sad smile about his handsome mouth ; and the Patroon gazed at his fine features , with the admiration that one might feel for the most favored of those who were believed to administer at some supernatural shrine . 
`` Her Majesty 's enemies have never reproached me with their want , '' returned Ludlow , smiling incredulously . 
The curtain rose to a low air on the same wind-instrument ; and even Ludlow felt an emotion more powerful than interest , as he gazed on the object that was revealed to view . 
`` I would then know , '' said Ludlow , drawing a heavy breath , like one recovering from some sudden and powerful sensation , `` if she I seek be within the brigantine ? '' 
He who acted the part of mediator in this extraordinary ceremony , bowed and advanced to the book , which , with an air of deep reverence , he consulted , reading , or appearing to read , from its pages . 
Ludlow reddened ; the manliness of the profession to which he belonged , however , overcame the reluctance natural to self-esteem ; and he answered , firmly -- `` She is . '' 
After a moment of pause , like that of self-examination , he said -- `` As much so , as may become a man . '' 
A cloud crossed the brow of his interrogator , who advanced and again consulted the pages of the book . 
The Alderman turned to regard the Patroon , as if he believed the sigh was his ; while the startled Ludlow looked curiously around him , at a loss to know who acknowledged , with so much sensibility , the truth of his reply . 
`` Few who wear that livery have ever before seen the lady of our brigantine , '' continued the free-trader , addressing himself to Ludlow ; `` and it is proof that she has less aversion to your cruiser , than she in common feels to most of the long pennants that are abroad on the water . '' 
Enough has been betrayed , in the course of the narrative , perhaps , to show that Ludlow distrusted , though he could not avoid wondering at , what he had seen . 
He was not entirely free from the superstition that was then so common among seamen ; but his education and native good sense enabled him , in a great measure , to extricate his imagination from that love of the marvellous , which is more or less common to all . 
He had fifty conjectures concerning the meaning of what had passed , and not one of them was true ; though each , at the instant , seemed to appease his curiosity , while it quickened his resolution to pry further into the affair . 
He had all the gratification which strong excitement can produce in slow natures ; and he neither wished a solution of his doubts , nor contemplated any investigation that might destroy so agreeable an illusion . 
His fancy was full of the dark countenance of the sorceress ; and when it did not dwell on a subject so unnatural , it saw the handsome features , ambiguous smile , and attractive air , of her scarcely less admirable minister . 
As the boat got to a little distance from the vessel , Tiller stood erect , and ran his eye complacently over the perfection of her hull and rigging . 
-- Captain Ludlow , there has been some double-dealing between us ; but that which is to follow , shall depend on our skill , seamanship , and the merits of the two crafts . 
Let each be true to his mistress , and Heaven preserve the deserving ! 
Ludlow intimated his assent , and the boat approached the figure-head . 
`` The first question was yours , and yours must be the first answer , '' said Tiller , motioning for Ludlow to consult the page which was open . 
said Ludlow , hastily -- `` She , Claudio , that you wrong 'd , look , you restore . 
Truth will come in her book , and he that reads must expect to see it -- Captain Ludlow , you are master of your movements , again ; for the inlet is no longer between you and your cruiser . 
Tell one t ` ing , Phyllis , and that be dis ; vy ' e ship of Captain Ludlow no lif ' ' e anchor , an ' come take dis rogue in ' e Cove ? 
A boat was now seen to pull out from among the bushes that lined the shore ; and Bonnie was enabled to distinguish , in its stern-sheets , the persons of his master , Ludlow , and the Patroon . 
Ludlow himself paced the deck , with all his usual composure , so far as might be seen by external signs ; though , in reality , his mind was agitated by feelings that were foreign to the duties of his station . 
He too had thrown occasional glances at the approaching squall , but his eye was far oftener riveted on the motionless brigantine , which was now distinctly to be seen from the deck of the Coquette , still riding at her anchor . 
`` Give him notice , Sir , that he has to do with one who hears the royal commission , '' returned Ludlow , speaking from habit , and half-unconscious of what he said . 
The report of the cannon startled the absent man , and caused him to remember the order . 
he asked , in a tone that sounded like rebuke . 
We are no dealers in dumb show , in the Coquette , Captain Ludlow . '' 
Be careful , that nothing strikes her , without an order . '' 
Ludlow took the glass , and it was not without curiosity that he turned it toward the colors the hardy smuggler dared to exhibit , in presence of a cruiser . 
Captain Ludlow , the brigantine under our lee , here , in Spermaceti , is the well-known Skimmer of the Seas ! '' 
`` I 'll swear to his character before any Admiralty Judge in England , or even in France , should there be occasion to go into an outlandish court -- but no need of an oath , when here is a written account I took , with my own hands , having the chase in plain view , at noon-day . '' 
In obedience to an order given by Ludlow , all the light canvas of the ship was taken in , and the vessel was left under her three topsails and gib . 
The pilot shrunk from a responsibility which did not properly belong to his office , since the ordinary navigation had no concern with that secluded place ; and even Ludlow , stimulated as he was by so many powerful motives , hesitated to incur a risk which greatly exceeded his duty . 
A yawl was therefore lowered into the water , the main-topsail of the ship was thrown to the mast ; and Ludlow himself , accompanied by the pilot and the master , proceeded to ascertain the best approach to the smuggler . 
A flash of lightning , with one of those thunder-claps that are wont to be more terrific on this continent than in the other hemisphere , warned the young mariner of the necessity of haste , if he would regain his ship , before the cloud , which still threatened them , should reach the spot where she lay . 
`` This will do ; '' said Ludlow , when they had ascertained that they could enter . 
half-whispered Trysail , perhaps afraid to trust his voice , within hearing of a creature that seemed almost endowed with the faculties of life . 
asked Ludlow , struck with the plausible character of the proposal . 
Ludlow did not reply , for a heavy crash of thunder succeeded the vivid glow of a flash of lightning , and glared so suddenly across the swarthy lineaments as to draw the involuntary exclamation from Trysail . 
cried the excited Ludlow . 
The foot of Ludlow touched the deck of the Coquette , at the instant the weight of the squall fell upon her sails . 
He no longer thought of any interest but that of the moment ; for , with all the feelings of a seaman , his mind was now full of his ship . 
Ludlow glanced his eye to leeward . 
The opening of the Cove was favorably situated , and he caught a glimpse of the spars of the brigantine , rocking violently in the squall . 
He spoke to demand if the anchors were clear , and then he was heard , shouting again from his station in the weather gangway -- `` Hard a-weather ! 
-- '' The first efforts of the cruiser to obey her helm , stripped as she was of canvas , were labored and slow . 
But when her head began to fall off , the driving scud was scarce swifter than her motion . 
bellowed Trysail , from a cat-head , where he stood resembling some venerable sea-god , dripping with his native element . 
`` Ready , Sir , ready -- '' Ludlow motioned to the men at the wheel , to bring the ship to the wind ; and when her way was sufficiently deadened , two ponderous anchors dropped , at another signal , into the water . 
But the first-lieutenant and Trysail were no novices in their duty , and , in less than a minute , they had secured the vessel steadily at her anchors . 
There was still a dense mass of falling water moving seaward ; but the curious and anxious eyes of Ludlow made fruitless efforts to penetrate its secrets . 
Once indeed , more than an hour after the gust had reached his own ship , and when the ocean in the offing was clear and calm , he thought he could distinguish , far to seaward , the delicate tracery of a vessel 's spars , drawn against the horizon , without any canvas set . 
But a second look did not assure him of the truth of the conjecture . 
There were many extraordinary tales related that night , on board Her Britannic Majesty 's ship Coquette . 
The boatswain affirmed that , while piping below in order to overhaul the cables , he had heard a screaming in the air , that sounded as if a hundred devils were mocking him , and which he told the gunner , in confidence , he believed was no more than the winding of a call on board the brigantine , who had taken occasion , when other vessels were glad to anchor , to get under way , in her own fashion . 
Should my niece , after all , prefer Captain Ludlow for a partner in her worldly affairs , why it should not weaken friendship between the son of old Stephanus Van Staats and Myndert Van Beverout . 
But here is Captain Ludlow looking at the ocean , as if he expected to see my niece rise out of the water , in the shape of a mermaid . '' 
`` Here ; '' said Ludlow , pointing in a line that would have struck the water some two or three leagues in the offing . 
`` You might not give it to that effect , in safety ; said Ludlow . 
`` Come then , faithful François , '' said Ludlow . 
Ludlow felt for his distress , and encouraged him by a look of approbation . 
A little predilection for salt water must raise the girl in your estimation , Captain Ludlow ! '' 
Ludlow walked into the lee-gangway of his ship , and , leaning with his elbow on the empty hammock-cloths , he gazed long and in silence at the object of his pursuit . 
The twilight , which still fell out of the heavens , was without glare in that direction ; and for the first time that day , he saw her in her true proportions . 
The head , having come to the wind , was turned towards her pursuer ; and as the bows rose on some swell that was heavier than common , Ludlow saw , or fancied he saw , the mysterious image still perched on her cut-water , holding the book to the curious , and ever pointing with its finger across the waste of water . 
Ludlow had a great respect for the professional attainments that his inferior unquestionably possessed ; and he was not without some consideration for the chances of a fortune , which had not done much to reward the privations and the services of a seaman old enough to be his father . 
I am but a subordinate , Captain Ludlow , and I know my duty too well not to be silent in a squall , and I hope too well not to know how to speak when my commander wishes the opinions of his officers at a council ; and therefore mine , just now , is perhaps different from that of some others in this ship , that I will not name , who are good men , too , though none of the oldest . '' 
A pretty affair might be made out of such a mistake , Captain Ludlow ; whereas running after yonder brigantine , is flapping out the Queen 's canvas for nothing . 
The vessel 's bottom will want new sheathing , in my poor opinion , before you catch him . '' 
I make no doubt , Captain Ludlow , that the brigantine went through the inlet , while we were handing our topsails yesterday ; for I am none of those who are in a hurry to give credit to any will-o ' - the-wisp tale ; besides which , I sounded the passage with my own hands , and know the thing to be possible , with the wind blowing heavy over the taffrail ; still , Sir , human nature is human nature , and what is the oldest seaman , after all , but a man ? 
`` I have heard of this accident before ; '' returned Ludlow , who had sailed as a midshipman in the same vessel with , and indeed as a subordinate to , his present inferior . 
Ludlow , whose eye did not often turn from the brigantine , nodded assent ; and the master , having satisfied himself , by actual inspection , that every sail in the Coquette did its duty , continued -- `` The night is coming on thick , and we shall have occasion for all our eyes to keep the rogue in view , when he begins to change his bearings -- but , as I was saying , if the commander of yonder half-rig is too vain of her good looks , he may yet wreck her , in his pride ! 
I have known a flag-officer look the other way , Captain Ludlow , when his own effects were passing duty-free ; and as to your admiral 's lady , she is a great patroness of the contraband . 
`` These are heretodox opinions for a Queen 's servant ; '' said Ludlow , as much inclined to smile as to frown . 
`` Which is just the difference between retail and wholesale , -- and that is no trifle , I admit , Captain Ludlow , in a commercial country , especially in genteel life . 
We must be masters , here , Captain Ludlow , will-ye-nill-ye , and look to the main chances of trade and manufactures ! '' 
`` Though a poor man 's son , Captain Ludlow , I am a free-born Briton , and my education has not been entirely overlooked . 
While the two vessels were thus situated , Ludlow joined his guests on the quarter-deck . 
`` I do not pretend to be much of a mariner , Captain Ludlow , though I once spent a week in London , and I have crossed the ocean seven times to Rotterdam . 
`` You saw that the brigantine was opening his canvas , when last seen ; and he that would move fast , must have recourse to his sails . '' 
Ludlow stationed himself in the mizen channels , to cun the ship ; and his directions were repeated to the quarter-master , in a loud whisper . 
As this order was given , Ludlow passed swiftly forward . 
He found the boarders ready for a spring , and he rapidly gave his orders . 
Ludlow looked , in vain , for the spars , in order to ascertain in which direction the head of the brigantine lay ; but , trusting to luck , he saw that the decisive moment was come . 
If Captain Ludlow thought differently , he saw no sufficient reason to enter into an explanation with those who were bound silently to obey . 
He paced the quarter-deck , for many minutes ; and then issued his orders to the equally-disappointed lieutenants . 
`` Captain Ludlow has other desires than the mere capture of the brigantine ; '' returned the laconic and sententious Patroon . 
While others slept , Ludlow passed most of the night on deck . 
He laid himself down in the hammock-cloths , for an hour or two , towards morning ; though the wind did not sigh through the rigging louder than common , without arousing him from his slumbers . 
At each low call of the officer of the watch to the crew , his head was raised to glance around the narrow horizon ; and the ship never rolled heavily , without causing him to awake . 
He believed that the brigantine was near , and , for the first watch , he was not without expectation that the two vessels might unexpectedly meet in the obscurity . 
Officers , on whom Ludlow could rely , were put in command of the three smallest , while he took charge of the fourth in person . 
When all were ready , and each inferior had received his especial instructions , they quitted the side of the vessel , pulling off , in diverging lines , into the gloom of the ocean . 
The boat of Ludlow had not gone fifty fathoms , before he was perfectly conscious of the inutility of a chase ; for the obscurity of the night was so great , as to render the spars of his own ship nearly indistinct , even at that short distance . 
After pulling by compass some ten or fifteen minutes , in a direction that carried him to windward of the Coquette , the young man commanded the crew to cease rowing , and prepared himself to await , patiently , for the result of his undertaking . 
It was one of those sounds which would have been inexplicable to any but a seaman , but which conveyed a meaning to the ears of Ludlow , as plain as that which could be imparted by speech to a landsman . 
exclaimed Ludlow , a little above a whisper . 
continued Ludlow , with the eagerness of one engaged in chase . 
cried Ludlow . 
In the midst of this scene of sudden awakening from the most profound quiet , Ludlow began to look about him , in order to secure the principal objects of the capture . 
He had repeated his orders about entering the cabins , and concerning the person of the ` Skimmer of the Seas , ' among the other instructions given to the crews of the different boats ; and the instant they found themselves in quiet possession of the prize , the young man dashed into the private recesses of the vessel , with a heart that throbbed even more violently than during the ardor of boarding . 
The blood , which had been rushing through the arteries and veins of Ludlow so tumultuously , now crept into his cheeks , and was felt tingling at his fingers ' - ends . 
He gave a hurried order to his men to re-enter their boat , leaving every thing as they found it . 
A short conference between the commander of Her Majesty 's ship Coquette , and the seaman of the state-room , succeeded ; and then the former hastened on deck , whence his passage into the barge occupied but a moment . 
If Captain Ludlow ever gave any further account of the transaction than what was stated in the log-book of his ship , the bienséance , observed by the Lords of the Admiralty , prevented it from becoming public . 
Ludlow sought his rest , and although there is reason to think that his slumbers were a little disturbed by dreams , he remained tolerably quiet in the hammock-cloths , the place in which it has already been said he saw fit to take his repose , until the morning watch had been called . 
The instant the vigilant officer , who commanded the morning watch , caught the first glimpses of the returning brightness , Ludlow was awakened . 
A finger laid on his arm , was sufficient to arouse one who slept with the responsibility of his station ever present to his mind . 
Whatever may have been the fact as regards that ill-fated prize , it is certain that Ludlow was perfectly aware of the hazards that sometimes accompany the first blasts of a north-west wind on his native coast , and that he never forgot to be prepared for the danger . 
When Ludlow first descried the object which he believed to be the chase , it seemed a motionless speck on the margin of the sea . 
said Ludlow , who had long been seated on a night-head , attentively watching the progress of the chase . 
`` And there he will lie , Captain Ludlow , while the light lasts . 
`` I should have lived to little purpose , Captain Ludlow , not to know that what was philosophy in my young days , is not philosophy now . 
`` The sun touches his side -- and yet , Captain Ludlow , you may be right -- for here is a man in his foretop , plainly enough to be seen . 
Ludlow affected not to hear ; but the first-lieutenant having come on the forecastle , seconded this opinion , by remarking that their position would indeed enable them to use the chase-gun , without losing any distance . 
As Trysail sustained his former assertion by truths that were too obvious to be refuted , the commander of the cruiser reluctantly issued an order to clear away the forward gun , and to shift it into the bridle-port . 
Ludlow then descended from his post on the night-head , and pointed the cannon himself . 
`` Knock away the quoin , entirely ; '' he said to the captain of the gun , when he had got the range ; `` now mind her when she lifts , forward ; keep the ship steady , Sir -- fire ! '' 
Ludlow had a reputation , among his crew , for some skill in the direction of a gun . 
`` There is little use in wasting our powder , at this distance , and with so heavy a sea , '' said Ludlow , quitting the cannon , after a fifth and fruitless essay . 
`` It is something gained , to force him off the land into rougher water ; '' Ludlow mildly answered . 
`` I am certain that we are closing ; '' thoughtfully returned Ludlow . 
Trysail watched the countenance of his young commander , as he examined the chase with the aid of the instrument ; and he thought he read strong discontent in his features , when the other laid it aside . 
cried Ludlow , interrupting the discursive discourse of the master . 
You have sailed in the southern seas , Captain Ludlow , I know ; for we were shipmates among the islands , years that are past : but I never heard whether you have run the Gibralter passage , and seen the blue water that lies among the Italy mountains ? '' 
`` I said many a good ship , Captain Ludlow , and not good navigator . 
cried Ludlow . 
Ludlow observed the gesture , and , turning his head , he was at no loss to read its meaning . 
`` We will look to our own spars ; '' said Ludlow , turning to the lieutenant of the watch . 
The order was succeeded by the customary hoarse summons of the boatswain , who prefaced the effort of his lungs by a long , shrill winding of his call , above the hatchways of the ship . 
This explanation will enable the otherwise uninitiated reader to understand the reason why Ludlow had hoped the coming squall would aid his designs on the chase . 
Ragged streaks of vapor were whirling about in the air , within a fearful proximity to the lofty and light sails , and the foam on the water had got so near the ship , as already to efface her wake ; when Ludlow , who had watched the progress of the cloud with singular coolness , made a sign to his subordinate that the proper instant had arrived . 
Ludlow was no sooner certain that the cruiser felt the force of the wind , and to gain this assurance needed but a few moments , than he turned his eager look on the brigantine . 
said Ludlow , in an under tone , the excitement of the chase growing with the hopes of success . 
said Ludlow , when the last breath of wind had been felt on the ship , and quitting the gun where he had long stood , watching the movements of the chase . 
`` There is no alternative , '' continued Ludlow , as he laid the glass , which so often that morning had been at his eye , on the table , and threw himself into a chair . 
Captain Ludlow has two mistresses , Queen Anne and the daughter of old Etienne de Barbérie . 
`` You mistake my meaning , Sir ; '' said Ludlow , proudly . 
I will go forth as your turtle-dove , Captain Ludlow ; but not one foot will I proceed as your Goliath . '' 
continued Ludlow , turning his look on the Patroon of Kinderhook . 
`` I will trust you , Sir ; '' said Ludlow , taking his rival by the arm , and leading him into his own state-room . 
Ludlow then proceeded to the deck , where he made the final dispositions for the attack . 
Van Staats of Kinderhook was provided with the yawl , manned only by its customary crew ; while Ludlow entered his own barge , which contained its usual complement , though the arms that lay in the stern-sheets sufficiently showed that they were prepared for service . 
Ludlow took a more circuitous course , apparently with an intention of causing such a diversion as might distract the attention of the crew of the smuggler , and with the view of reaching the point of attack at the same moment with the boat that contained his principal force . 
The launch was within pistol-shot of the brigantine , and directly on her beam ; the yawl had gained her head where Van Staats of Kinderhook was studying the malign expression of the image , with an interest that seemed to increase as his sluggish nature became excited ; and Ludlow , on the quarter opposite to the launch , was examining the condition of the chase by the aid of a glass . 
Trysail profited by the pause , to address his followers : `` This is an expedition in boats , '' commenced the accurate and circumstantial master , `` made in smooth water , with little , or one may say no wind , in the month of June , and on the coast of North America . 
I shall say no more , than just to add , that Captain Ludlow desires there may be no indecent language , nor , for that matter , any rough treatment of the people of the brigantine , over and above the knocking on the head , and cutting of throats , that may be necessary to take her . 
In this particular you will take example by me , who , being older , have more experience than most of you , and who , in all reason , should better know when and where to show his manhood . 
This deep quiet was undisturbed by the approach of the boats ; and if the desperate individual , who was known to command the free-trader , had any intentions of resistance , they had been entirely hid from the long and anxious gaze of Ludlow . 
There needed no second look to assure Ludlow of the inefficacy of further pursuit , since the sea was already ruffled by the breeze which had so opportunely come to aid the smuggler . 
When Ludlow had caused his boats to assemble on the spot which the chase had so lately occupied , he saw that the fruitless expedition had been attended by no other casualty than the involuntary abduction of the Patroon of Kinderhook . 
The properties of a vessel , like those of an individual , may have their influence on her good or evil fortune ; still , something is due to the accidents of life , in both . 
Although the breeze , which came so opportunely to the aid of the Water-Witch , soon filled the sails of the Coquette , it caused no change in the opinions of her crew concerning the fortunes of that ship ; while it served to heighten the reputation which the ` Skimmer of the Seas ' had already obtained , as a mariner who was more than favored by happy chances , in the thousand emergencies of his hazardous profession . 
Trysail , himself , shook his head , in a manner that expressed volumes , when Ludlow vented his humor on what the young man termed the luck of the smuggler ; and the crews of the boats gazed after the retiring brigantine , as the inhabitants of Japan would now most probably regard the passage of some vessel propelled by steam . 
Ludlow , however , gave his orders to pursue , the moment the ship was ready ; and he hastened to conceal his disappointment in his own cabin . 
There are Frenchmen enough , Captain Ludlow to keep a brave officer in good-humor ; and the less reason to fret about a trifling mischance in overhauling a smuggler . '' 
Happily you are not her uncle , Captain Ludlow , and therefore the less reason to be uneasy . 
Ludlow then explained the manner in which the Patroon had disappeared . 
When perfectly assured that no bodily harm had befallen his friend , the satisfaction of the Alderman was quite as vivid , as his consternation had been apparent but the moment before . 
-- demanded Ludlow , perceiving that the Alderman had paused . 
Ludlow arose with a bitter smile on his face , though with no ill feeling towards the man whose exultation was so natural . 
`` Mr. Van Staats may have reason to congratulate himself on his good fortune , '' he said , `` though I much mistake if even his enterprise will succeed , against the wiles of one so artful , and of an appearance so gay , as the man whose guest he has now become . 
With this menace on his lips , Ludlow quitted the cabin , to resume his station on the deck , and to renew his unwearied watching of the movements of the chase . 
Consequently , when Ludlow reached his post , he saw that the swift and light craft had trimmed every thing close upon the wind , and that she was already so far ahead , as to render the chances of bringing her again within range of his guns almost desperate ; unless , indeed , some of the many vicissitudes , so common on the ocean , should interfere in his behalf . 
But before the sun had fallen to the level of the water , the hull of the Water-Witch had disappeared ; and when the day closed , no part of her airy outline was visible , but that which was known to belong to her upper and lighter spars . 
How far the Coquette had run during the night does not appear , but when her commander made his appearance on the following morning , his long and anxious gaze met no other reward than a naked horizon . 
Ludlow and the Alderman then descended the side , and proceeded towards the mouth of the Shrewsbury . 
Although it was nearly dark before they had reached the shore , there remained light enough to enable the former to discover an object of unusual appearance floating in the bay , and at no great distance from the direction of his barge . 
Ludlow shifted the helm of the boat , and resumed his course towards the river . 
He required no explanation , to tell him more of the nature of the artifice , by which he had been duped . 
The nicely-balanced tub , the upright spar , and the extinguished lantern , with the features of the female of the malign smile traced on its horn faces , reminded him , at once , of the false light by which the Coquette had been lured from her course , on the night she sailed in pursuit of the brigantine . 
WhenAlderman Van Beverout and Ludlow drew near to the Lust in Rust , it was already dark . 
Ludlow stopped suddenly , leaving the uncle to infer what he would wish to add . 
`` This is generous , and manly , and like a loyal -- lover , Captain Ludlow , '' returned the Alderman ; `` though it is not exactly what I intended to suggest . 
His language had drawn the look of his companion towards la Cour des Fées ; and Ludlow had , at the same moment as the uncle , caught an unequivocal view of la belle Barbérie , as she moved before the open window of her apartment . 
I have sometimes been deluded in an unaccountable manner , Captain Ludlow , when my mind has been thoroughly set on the bargain , in the quality of the goods ; for the most liberal of us all are subject to mental weakness of this nature , when hope is alive ! '' 
Captain Ludlow , we will now join my dutiful niece , with as little fracas as possible . '' 
Ludlow eagerly accepted the invitation , and instantly followed the dogmatical and seemingly unmoved Alderman towards the dwelling . 
`` This is the picture I have loved to draw , '' half-whispered Ludlow , `` when gales and storms have kept me on the deck , throughout many a dreary and tempestuous night ! 
She laid aside her book , with a calmness that might have been expected had they parted but an hour before , and which sufficiently assured both Ludlow and her uncle that their return was known and their presence expected . 
The composure of his niece had the effect to throw the Alderman into a brown study , while the young sailor scarcely knew which to admire the most , the exceeding loveliness of a woman who was always so beautiful , or her admirable self-possession in a scene that most others would have found sufficiently embarrassing . 
Swallowing the contents of the tiny cup he held , at a gulp , the eager merchant seized the packet that Alida now offered ; and , muttering a few words of apology to Ludlow , he left the pavilion . 
`` Fear , or prudence , or perhaps I might say conscience , has made them wary ; '' returned Ludlow , pointedly emphasizing the latter word . 
`` It would be a sign of extraordinary complaisance , were Captain Ludlow to apply to the girls of the colony for instruction in his duty ! 
Again Alida smiled , and Ludlow thought it was triumphantly . 
`` It will never be filled by me , Ludlow ; '' was the answer , uttered solemnly , and with a decision that denoted a resolution fixed . 
she continued , motioning to Ludlow to repress his feelings . 
The disappointed and yet admiring young man was silent , though he watched her singularly interesting air , and lovely features , with all the intenseness that seemed to characterize her own deportment . 
`` Captain Ludlow , you have once before been an unexpected witness of an interview in la Cour des Fées , that has , I fear , subjected me to unfavorable surmises . 
We have met before , Captain Ludlow . '' 
`` We trust to the sea-green lady 's care ; '' returned the extraordinary smuggler , pointing , with a species of reverence , real or affected , to the image that was beautifully worked , in rich colors , on the velvet of his cap . 
We must admit , Captain Ludlow , that Master Seadrift understands a woman 's heart , when he tempts her with stores of tissues gay as these ! '' 
Ludlow had watched the speakers in silence . 
The manner of Alida was far less embarrassed , than when he had before seen her in the smuggler 's company ; and his blood fired , when he saw that their eyes met with a secret and friendly intelligence . 
Conquering the expression of his feelings by a great effort , he answered with an exterior of composure , though not without some of that bitterness in his emphasis , which he felt at his heart . 
Then , with a melancholy smile , he soon continued . 
`` Though many years are gone , '' he said , `` I can recall the beauties of that scene , as vividly as if they still stood before the eye . 
`` One who has had such schooling , should know better how to turn it to a good account ; '' said Ludlow , sternly , when the excited smuggler ceased to speak . 
`` That your Manhattan and Raritan waters are broad and pleasant , none can deny , and that lovely beings dwell on their banks , lady , '' returned Seadrift , gallantly lifting his cap , `` my own senses have witnessed . 
`` It is ever the common fault of old communities to overvalue themselves , and to undervalue new actors in the great drama of nations , as men long successful disregard the efforts of new aspirants for favor ; '' said Seadrift , while he looked with amazement at the pettish eye of the frowning beauty . 
La belle Barbérie smiled on the dealer in contraband , with an interest that sickened Ludlow ; and she was about to reply , in better humor , when the voice of her uncle announced his near approach . 
`` Captain Ludlow , the chaser is chased ! '' 
Myndert was quite as much astonished , by this language , and the subdued manner of the smuggler , as Ludlow himself . 
When he expected the heaviest demand on his address , in order to check the usual forward and reckless familiarity of Seadrift , in order that his connexion with the ` Skimmer of the Seas ' might be as much as possible involved in ambiguity , to his own amazement , he found his purpose more than aided by the sudden and extraordinary respect with which he was treated . 
Emboldened , and perhaps a little elevated in his own esteem , by this unexpected deference , which the worthy Alderman , shrewd as he was in common , did not fail , like other men , to impute to some inherent quality of his own , he answered with a greater depth of voice , and a more protecting air , than he might otherwise have deemed it prudent to assume to one who had so frequently given him proofs of his own fearless manner of viewing things . 
`` We must overlook the mistake , Captain Ludlow ; since , as the young man truly observes in his defence , gain acquired in honest traffic is a commendable and wholesome pursuit . 
`` There are many ingenious men who entertain the same opinions ; '' observed Ludlow , steady in his resolution to be merely a quiet observer of all that passed . 
`` But to quit these similies , '' continued Ludlow , `` if trade be but an exchange of equivalents -- '' `` Beggary and stoppages ! '' 
`` These opinions favor but little the occupation of the -- the gentleman -- who now honors us with his company , '' said Ludlow , regarding the gay-looking smuggler with an eye that showed how much he was embarrassed to find a suitable appellation for one whose appearance was so much at variance with his pursuits . 
`` I as much admire your discretion in practice , as the justice of your sentiments in theory , Captain Ludlow ; '' returned the Alderman . 
The circumstances show the awful uncertainty of things in this transitory life , Captain Ludlow , and forewarn the most vigorous and youthful , that the strong of arm may be cut down , in his pride , like the tender plant of the fields ! 
All this Ludlow plainly saw , though the burgher had been too much engrossed with the ideas he had so complacently dealt out , to note the fact . 
The hesitation of the latter , however , was far the most visible , since Ludlow had coolly determined to maintain his neutral character , until a proper moment to act , as a faithful servitor of his royal mistress , should arrive . 
He knew , or firmly believed , that the Water-Witch again lay in the Cove , concealed by the shadows of the surrounding wood ; and as he had once before suffered by the superior address of the smugglers , he was now resolved to act with so much caution , as to enable him to return to his ship in time to proceed against her with decision , and , as he hoped , with effect . 
`` We have met on neutral ground , Master Scadrift , '' said Ludlow to his gay companion , as they quitted the saloon of la Cour des Fées ; `` and though bent on different objects , we may discourse amicably of the past . 
retorted Seadrift , whose former , and we may say natural , spirit seemed to return , as he left the presence of the burgher . 
`` We follow the pursuit , Captain Ludlow , in which accident has cast our fortunes . 
The free-trader permitted his handsome mouth to relax in a smile . 
`` We have our mistress , too , '' he said ; `` but she exacts no tribute . 
You were pleased , Captain Ludlow , to name the mystifications of the Water-Witch ; but you seem indifferent to those that are hourly practised near you in the world , and which , without the pleasantry of this of ours , have not half its innocence . '' 
`` These are points on which our difference of opinion is likely to be lasting ; '' said Ludlow , assuming the severe air of one who had the world on his side . 
gaily cried the other , observing that Ludlow was about to quit the room -- `` Let the time of our uncertainty be short , I pray thee . 
`` For this generous counsel , in my mistress 's name , I thank thee ; '' the gay mariner replied , bowing with a gravity that rather heightened than concealed his irony -- `` Your Coquette is broad in the reach of her booms , and swift on the water , Captain Ludlow ; but let her be capricious , wilful , deceitful , nay powerful , as she may , she shall find a woman in the brigantine equal to all her arts , and far superior to all her threats ! '' 
The gay young seaman of the brigantine had continued his studies for some time after the disappearance of Ludlow , and he now evidently a waited an intimation that his presence was required in la Cour des Fées . 
During these moments of anxiety , the air of the free-trader was sorrowful rather than impatient ; and when a footstep was heard at the door of the room , he betrayed symptoms of strong and uncontrollable agitation . 
The eager expectant read the following words , hastily written in pencil : -- `` I have evaded all his questions , and he is more than half-disposed to believe in necromancy . 
This is not the moment to confess the truth , for he is not in a condition to hear it , being already much disturbed by the uncertainty of what may follow the appearance of the brigantine on the coast , and so near his own villa . 
But , be assured , he shall and will acknowledge claims that I know how to support , and which , should I fail of establishing , he would not dare to refuse to the redoubtable ` Skimmer of the Seas . ' 
Come hither , the moment you hear his foot in the passage . '' 
-- Ay -- and here are more perplexities , by the return of the Skimmer and his brig , and the notions that young Ludlow has of his duty . 
To avail himself of this advantage , or to retire and leave him in possession of his mistress and his liberty , was the point mooted in his thoughts Though direct and simple in his habits , like most of the seamen of that age , Ludlow had all the loftier sentiments that become a gentleman . 
He felt keenly for Alida , and he shrunk , with sensitive pride , from incurring the imputation of having acted under the impulses of disappointment . 
Ludlow gazed about him , and then held his way reluctantly towards the water . 
In endeavoring to conceal the interior of her apartment from the eyes of those without , Alida had suffered a corner of the drapery to remain open . 
When Ludlow reached the gate that led to the landing , he turned to take a last look at the villa ; and , favored by his new position , he caught a glimpse , through the opening , of the person of her who was still uppermost in his thoughts . 
It is probable that the idea quickened his drooping hopes ; for Ludlow believed it might not yet be too late to rescue the woman , he so sincerely loved , from the precipice over which she was suspended . 
The gate was swung violently open , and Ludlow had reached the margin of the river before he again paused . 
As the unknown person passed , Ludlow recognized the agile form of the free-trader . 
The latter advanced to the margin of the river , and gazed warily about him for several minutes . 
As the skiff passed the spot where he stood , Ludlow saw that it was pulled by a single seaman ; and , as his own boat was manned by six lusty rowers , he felt that the person of the man whom he so much envied was at length fairly and honorably in his power . 
As the course to be taken by the barge was diagonal rather than direct , a few powerful strokes of the oars brought it so near the skiff , that Ludlow , by placing his hand on the gunwale of the latter , could arrest its progress . 
`` Though so lightly equipped , fortune favors you less in boats than in larger craft , Master Seadrift ; '' said Ludlow , when , by virtue of a strong arm , he had drawn his prize so near , as to find himself seated within a few feet of his prisoner . 
`` I am your prisoner , Captain Ludlow ; and I would now wish to know your intentions in disposing of my person . '' 
`` A gaol , '' said Ludlow , observing that the other spoke more like one who mused than like one who asked a question . 
Your man must be your companion in the Coquette , Master Seadrift , though ; '' and Ludlow spoke in melancholy , `` if there be any on the land , who take so near an interest in your welfare as to find more sorrow in uncertainty than in the truth , one of my own crew , in any of whom confidence may be placed , shall do your errand . '' 
`` Let it be so ; '' returned the free-trader , as if satisfied that he could , in reason , expect no more . 
`` Take this ring to the lady of yonder dwelling , '' he continued , when Ludlow had selected the messenger , `` and say that he who sends it is about to visit the cruiser of Queen Anne in company with her commander . 
`` And , mark me , fellow -- '' added his captain ; `` that duty done , look to the idlers on the shore , and see that no boat quits the river , to apprize the smugglers of their loss . '' 
The man , who was armed in the fashion of a seaman on boat duty , received these orders with the customary deference ; and the barge having drawn to the shore for that purpose , he landed . 
As the captain spoke , he reached forth an arm , partly in natural complaisance , and partly with a carelessness that denoted some consciousness of the difference in their rank , both to aid the other to comply with his request , and , at need , to enforce it . 
But the free-trader seemed to repel the familiarity ; for he drew back , at first , like one who shrunk sensitively from the contact , and then , without touching the arm that was extended with a purpose so equivocal , he passed lightly from the skiff into the barge , declining assistance . 
The movement was scarcely made , before Ludlow quitted the latter , and occupied the place which Seadrift had just vacated . 
He commanded one of his men to exchange with the seaman of the brigantine ; and , having made these preparations , he again addressed his prisoner . 
Ludlow then whispered his orders to his cockswain , and they separated . 
The precaution of the dealer in contraband had provided his little boat with muffled sculls ; and Ludlow , when he was enabled to discover the fine tracery of the lofty and light spars of the Water-Witch , as they rose above the tops of the dwarf trees that lined the shore , had no reason to think his approach was known . 
Ludlow now regretted he had not entered the Cove with his barge ; for , so profound and unsuspecting was the quiet of the vessel , that he doubted not of his ability to have carried her by a coup-de-main . 
Vexed by his oversight , and incited by the prospects of success , he began to devise those expedients which would naturally suggest themselves to a seaman in his situation . 
The distance from the land was not fifty fathoms , and Ludlow did not fail to perceive that the vessel rode by a kedge , and that her anchors , of which there was a good provision , were all snugly stowed . 
These facts induced the hope that he might separate the hawser that alone held the brigantine , which , in the event of his succeeding , he had every reason to believe would drift ashore , before the alarm could be given to her crew , sail set , or an anchor let go . 
Although neither he nor his companion possessed any other implement to effect this object , than the large seaman 's knife of the latter , the temptation was too great not to make the trial . 
The project was flattering ; for , though the vessel in that situation would receive no serious injury , the unavoidable delay of heaving her off the sands would enable his boats , and perhaps the ship herself , to reach the place in time to secure their prize . 
The bargeman was asked for his knife , and Ludlow himself made the first cut upon the solid and difficult mass . 
The steel had no sooner touched the compact yarns , than a dazzling glare of light shot into the face of him who held it . 
Recovering from the shock , and rubbing his eyes , our startled adventurer gazed upwards , with that consciousness of wrong which assails us when detected in any covert act , however laudable may be its motive ; -- a sort of homage that nature , under every circumstance , pays to loyal dealings . 
Though Ludlow felt , at the instant of this interruption , that he stood in jeopardy of his life , the concern it awakened was momentarily lost in the spectacle before him . 
The bronzed and unearthly features of the image were brightly illuminated ; and , while her eyes looked on him steadily , as if watching his smallest movement , her malign and speaking smile appeared to turn his futile effort into scorn ! 
Though Ludlow , at each moment , expected a shot , even the imminence of the danger did not prevent him from gazing , in absorbed attention , at the image . 
muttered Ludlow , when the skiff had reached a distance that assured him of safety . 
That night the messmates of the fore-top-man endeavored , in vain , to extract from him the particulars of his excursion with the captain ; though the direct answers to their home questions were only evaded by allusions so dark and ambiguous , as to give to that superstitious feeling of the crew , which Ludlow had wished to lull , twice its original force . 
Ludlow had reason to see that the incredulity of his top-man had extended to most on board ; and , as he could not conquer his tenderness on the subject of Alida and all that concerned her , while on the other hand there existed no motive for immediately declaring the truth , he rather favored the general impression by his silence . 
First giving some orders of the last importance at that moment , he passed into the cabin , and sought a private interview with his captive . 
`` That vacant state-room is at your service , Master Seadrift , '' he observed , pointing to the little apartment opposite to the one he occupied himself . 
Ludlow hesitated , cast an eye behind him , to be certain they were alone , and drew nearer to his captive . 
The mariner of the brigantine drew back with dignity ; and then , instantly recovering his ease , as if fearful he might forget himself , he said with warmth , `` This trifling with woman 's weakness is the besetting sin of man ! 
None may speak of her inclinations , Captain Ludlow , but herself . 
The face of the dealer in contraband had lost some of its usual brightness and animation ; the color of the cheek was not as rich , and the eye was less at ease , than in his former interviews with Ludlow . 
But a smile of security crossed his fine features , when the other spoke of the fate of the brigantine . 
`` The keel of the ship that is to capture the Water-Witch is not yet laid , '' he said , firmly ; `` nor is the canvas that is to drive her through the water , wove ! 
The free-trader heard him without exhibiting alarm , though he listened with an attention that rendered his breathing audible . 
`` You found my people vigilant ? '' 
Ludlow shrunk from the piercing look , and reddened to the brow , -- whether with his recollections , or not , it is unnecessary to explain . 
exclaimed the other , gathering confirmation in the consciousness of his companion . 
Light shone on that mysterious countenance -- my words are true , Ludlow ; thy tongue is silent , but that honest countenance confesses all ! '' 
Both Ludlow and his prisoner started at this intelligence , and it was not difficult to fancy both believed that a message from the Water-Witch might be expected . 
The former hastened on deck ; while the latter , notwithstanding a self-possession that was so much practised , could not remain entirely at his ease . 
He passed into the state-room , and it is more than probable that he availed himself of the window of its quarter-gallery , to reconnoitre those who were so unexpectedly coming to the ship . 
But after the usual hail and reply , Ludlow no longer anticipated any proposal from the brigantine . 
`` Master Cornelius Ludlow , one might as well put on the Queen 's livery at once , as to be steering in this uncertain manner , between the Coquette and the land , like a protested note sent from endorser to endorser , to be paid , '' commenced Alderman Van Beverout , uncasing himself in the great cabin with the coolest deliberation , while his niece sunk into a chair unbidden , her two attendants standing near in submissive silence . 
Ludlow needed no other explanation than a knowledge of the persons of his guests , to understand the motive of their visit . 
Ludlow had no sooner given his orders to the officer in charge of the deck , than the whistle of the boatswain was heard summoning all hands to their duty . 
Ludlow appeared among his people , while they were thus employed . 
Ere he had made one hasty turn on the quarter-deck , he was met by the busy first-lieutenant . 
This sententious and characteristic communication between Ludlow and his second in command , was sufficient for all the purposes of that moment . 
The one was accustomed to issue his orders without explanation , and the other never hesitated to obey , and rarely presumed to inquire into their motive . 
Ludlow then seemed to arouse himself from a deep reverie . 
He had hitherto spoken mechanically , rather than as one conscious of what he uttered , or whose feelings had any connexion with his words . 
But it was now necessary to mingle with his officers , and to issue mandates that , as they were less in routine , required both thought and discretion . 
Ludlow knew , though ships of a heavy draught were obliged to pass close to the cape , in order to gain the open sea , that a light brigantine , like the Water-Witch , could find a sufficient depth of water for her purposes further north . 
If the reader retains a distinct recollection of the scene described in one of the earlier pages of this work , he will understand the grounds on which Ludlow based his hopes of success . 
By sending the launch into the inlet , he believed he should inclose the brigantine on every side ; since her escape through either of the ordinary channels would become impossible , while he kept the Coquette in the offing . 
The service he expected from the three boats sent to the northward , was to trace the movement of the smuggler , and , should a suitable opportunity offer , to attempt to carry him by surprise . 
-- I think the fore-top-gallant-mast has a better set , Captain Ludlow , since we gave the last pull at the rigging ? '' 
`` I hope the match was agreeable to the family ; '' said Ludlow , relieving one elbow by resting the weight of his head on the other . 
There has been a little dispute between me and the first-lieutenant , Captain Ludlow , concerning the trim of the ship . 
He maintains that we have got too much in forward of what he calls the centre of gravity ; and he is of opinion that had we been less by the head , the smuggler would never have had the heels of us , in the chase ; whereas I invite any man to lay a craft on her water-line -- '' `` Show our light ! '' 
interrupted Ludlow . 
Trysail ceased speaking , and , stepping on a gun , he also began to gaze in the direction of the Cove . 
`` This is still well ; '' continued Ludlow . 
Once Ludlow and Trysail thought the cheers of seamen came on the thick air of the night ; and once , again , either fancy or their senses told them they heard the menacing hail which commanded the outlaws to submit . 
The whole of the hammock-cloths on the side of the ship nearest to the land were lined with curious faces , though respect left Ludlow to the sole occupation of the short and light deck which covered the accommodations ; whither he had ascended , to command a more perfect view of the horizon . 
Ludlow spoke with deep vexation in his tones , but always with the authority of a superior and the promptitude of a seaman . 
`` You look upon this exploit of your brigantine , Master Seadrift , as a thing of course ; '' Ludlow observed , when his own ship was steering towards the extremity of the cape , again . 
Encouraged by this certainty , Ludlow endeavored to forget all motives of personal feeling , in the discharge of a duty that was getting to be more and more interesting , as the prospect of its successful accomplishment grew brighter . 
Here the ship was again brought to the wind , and men were sent upon the yards and all her more lofty spars , in order to overlook , by the dim and deceitful light , as much of the inner water as the eye could reach ; while Ludlow , assisted by the master , was engaged in the same employment on the deck . 
Ludlow raised his own glass , and swept the water in the direction named . 
After one or two unsuccessful trials , his eye caught the object ; and as the moon had now some power , he was at no loss to distinguish its character . 
Ludlow saw instantly , by the construction , that the boat was not one of those sent from the ship ; that it approached in a direction which enabled it to avoid the Coquette , by keeping in a part of the bay where the water was not sufficiently deep to admit of her passage ; and that its movements were so guarded as to denote great caution , while there was an evident wish to draw as near to the cruiser as prudence might render advisable . 
Taking a trumpet , he hailed in the well-known and customary manner . 
Trysail was directed to keep the ship stationary , and after giving to his subordinate private instructions of importance in the event of treachery , Ludlow went into the boat in person . 
In the admirable steadiness of the figure , the folded arms , the fine and manly proportions , and the attire , Ludlow recognized the mariner of the India-shawl . 
A wave of the hand induced him to venture nearer . 
-- `` Come nearer , Captain Ludlow ; I am here with naked hands ! 
Now listen , Captain Ludlow , to what I offer . 
You have seen her , at many times , Captain Ludlow -- in squalls and calms ; with her wings abroad , and her pinions shut ; by day and night ; near and far ; fair and foul ; -- and I ask you , with a seaman 's frankness , is she not a toy to fill a seaman 's heart ? '' 
`` His redoubted name of ` Skimmer of the Seas ' were warranty to force him from a sanctuary , '' returned Ludlow , smiling . 
Touch my hand , Captain Ludlow , as one brave man should salute another , though the next minute they are to grapple at the throat . '' 
Ludlow hesitated . 
The proposal was made with so frank and manly a mien , and the air of the free-trader , as he leaned beyond the gunwale of his boat , was so superior to his pursuit , that , unwilling to seem churlish , or to be outdone in courtesy , he reluctantly consented , and laid his palm within that the other offered . 
`` Deal with me frankly , Captain Ludlow : -- is your prisoner left to brood on his melancholy , or does he feel the consolation of knowing that others take an interest in his welfare ? '' 
-- Captain Ludlow , let what will follow , we part as friends . 
Squeezing the hand of Ludlow , he passed back into his own barge , with the ease and steadiness of one who made the ocean his home . 
`` Adieu ! '' 
he repeated , signing to his men to pull in the direction of the shoals , where it was certain the ship could not follow . 
When once his mind is settled , it is no trifle that will amuse this Mr. Ludlow . 
I do not know a more literal construer of his orders in the fleet ; -- a man , Sir , who thinks words have but a single set of meanings , and who knows as little as can be imagined of the difference between a sentiment and a practice . '' 
`` He is a seaman , my lord , and he reads his instructions with a seaman 's simplicity . 
I think none the worse of him , that he can not be tempted from his duty ; for , let us understand the right as we will , our service once taken , it becomes us all to do it faithfully . '' 
`` I owe it to your frankness -- but will Mr. Ludlow content himself with the possession of an inferior , when the principal is so near ? 
-- When the movement grew suspicious , we had our means of frightening this Mr. Ludlow from his enterprise , without recourse to violence . '' 
`` I had not thought him one to be scared from following up a business like this . '' 
`` You judged him rightly -- I may say we judged him rightly . 
But when his boats sought us at our anchorage , the bird had flown . '' 
`` This Mr. Ludlow is disposed to kill two birds with the same stone , '' coolly observed the Skimmer , not even bending his head aside , to note the position of the ship . 
`` He wakes the burghers of the town with his noise , while he menaces our boat with his bullets . 
Ludlow saw his advantage , and made his preparations accordingly . 
Ludlow made a signal for his own boats to close the passages of the Kilns and the Narrows , and then , as has been seen , he steered directly into the harbor . 
When Ludlow found himself in the position just described , he turned all his attention to the double object of preserving his own vessel , and arresting that of the free-trader . 
Though there was still a possibility of damaging the spars of the brigantine by firing across the land , the feebleness of his own crew , reduced as it was by more than half its numbers , the danger of doing injury to the farm-houses that were here and there placed along the low cliffs , and the necessity of preparation to meet the critical pass ahead , united to prevent the attempt . 
The Gate begins at yonder bend in the land , Captain Ludlow ! '' 
Ludlow saw , at a glance , that the place was entirely empty . 
For an instant he yielded to the heavy responsibility -- a responsibility before which a seaman sooner shrinks than before any other -- that of charging himself with the duty of the pilot ; and he thought of running into the anchorage for shelter . 
`` The rogue sails his vessel without the Queen 's permission , Captain Ludlow . 
We are passing the Cove , Captain Ludlow ! '' 
returned Ludlow , breathing heavily . 
Trysail had ventured to remonstrate , while there was a possibility of avoiding the danger ; but , like his commander , he now saw that all depended on their own coolness and care . 
He passed busily among the crew ; saw that each brace and bowline was manned ; cautioned the few young officers who continued on board to vigilance , and then awaited the orders of his superior , with the composure that is so necessary to a seaman in the moment of trial . 
Ludlow himself , while he felt the load of responsibility he had assumed , succeeded equally well in maintaining an outward calm . 
Notwithstanding the increasing velocity and the critical condition of his own vessel , Ludlow cast a glance , in order to ascertain the determination of the ` Skimmer of the Seas . ' 
Ludlow was too courteous not to return the salutation , and then all his senses were engrossed by the care of his ship . 
said Ludlow , in the calm tones that denote a forced tranquillity . 
called out the Skimmer , so quickly as to show that he took the movements of the cruiser for his guide . 
shouted Ludlow , in the strong voice of authority . 
The intensity of the brief exertion kept Trysail fully employed ; but no sooner had he leisure to look ahead , than he again called aloud -- `` Here is another roarer under her bows ; -- luff , Sir , luff , or we are upon it ! '' 
once again came in deep tones from Ludlow -- `` Let fly your sheets -- throw all aback , forward and aft -- away with the yards , with a will , men ! '' 
Ludlow looked around him , for a single moment , in indecision . 
The waters were whirling and roaring on every side , and the sails began to lose their power , as the ship drew near the bluff which forms the second angle in this critical pass . 
He saw , by objects on the land , that he still approached the shore , and he had recourse to the seaman 's last expedient . 
Certain however that his ship was now checked , the thoughts of Ludlow returned to their other duties with the quickness of lightning . 
`` Clear away the grapnels ! '' 
`` Many thanks for your pilotage , Captain Ludlow ! '' 
One thought succeeded another with the tumult of a torrent , in the mind of Ludlow . 
`` Tell me , '' demanded Ludlow eagerly , `` has yonder brigantine taken a pilot ? '' 
The slow-moving pilot , who in truth had just awoke from a refreshing sleep , opened his eyes , and seemed to gather a new impulse from the promise . 
When his questions were asked and answered , he began deliberately to count on his fingers all the chances that still existed of a vessel , whose crew was ignorant of the navigation , falling into their hands . 
`` Admitting that , by keeping mid-channel , she goes clear of White Stone and Frogs , '' he said , giving to Throgmorton 's its vulgar name , `` he must be a wizard , to know that the Stepping-Stones lie directly across his course , and that a vessel must steer away northerly , or bring up on rocks that will as surely hold him as if he were built there . 
Notwithstanding the hidden perils by which she was environed , the Water-Witch continued her course , with a speed that increased as the wind rose with the sun , and with an impunity from harm that amazed all who were in the secret of her situation . 
Still , sail was crowded on the royal cruiser ; and , long ere the period when Ludlow threw himself in his clothes between the ridge-ropes of the quarter-deck , the vessel had gained the broadest part of the Sound , and was already approaching the islands that form the ` Race . ' 
Ludlow remembered the promise of the Skimmer to meet him at that spot , and , notwithstanding the motives which the latter might be supposed to have for avoiding the interview , so great was the influence of the free-trader 's manner and character , that the young captain entertained secret expectations the promise would be kept . 
I suppose that one of your rectors , who is snugly anchored for life in a good warm living , would call this conscience ; but , for my own part , Captain Ludlow , though no great logician in matters of this sort , I have always believed that it was natural concern of mind lest the articles should be seized . 
The look of Ludlow through the glass was long , attentive , and grave . 
`` We are weak-handed to deal with a stranger ; '' he said , when he returned the instrument to Trysail . 
Whatever might have been the secret hesitation of Ludlow when the character and force of his enemy were clearly established , he betrayed no signs of irresolution from the moment when his decision appeared to be taken . 
During the time occupied in preparation on board the Coquette , his hull had risen as it were from out of the water ; and Ludlow and his companion had not studied his appearance long , from the poop , before the streak of white paint , dotted with ports , which marks a vessel of war , became visible to the naked eye . 
The straner then came to the wind , and made his preparations for combat . 
`` The fellow shows a stout heart , and a warm battery , '' observed the master , when the broadside of their enemy became visible , by this change in his position . 
A prettily turned boat , Captain Ludlow , and one nimble enough in her movements . 
But look at his toenails ! 
Just like his character , Sir , all hoist ; and with little or no head to them . 
`` They get along , Master Trysail , notwithstanding , '' returned the captain , who , though a sufficiently loyal subject , could not forget his birth-place ; `` and many is the time this ship , one of the finest models of Plymouth , has been bothered to overhaul the coasters of these seas . 
`` One can not say where that brigantine was built , Captain Ludlow . 
It may be here , it may be there ; for I look upon her as a nondescript , as old Admiral Top used to call the galliots of the north seas -- but , concerning these new American fashions , of what use are they , I would ask , Captain Ludlow ? 
The eye of Ludlow had never quitted the stranger . 
He saw that the moment for serious action was not distant ; and , bidding Trysail keep the vessel on her course , he descended to the quarter-deck . 
The Coquette was built after a fashion much in vogue a century since , and which , by a fickleness that influences marine architecture as well as less important things , is again coming into use , for vessels of her force . 
When Ludlow entered his cabin , therefore , he found a crew stationed around the gun which was placed on the side next the enemy , and all the customary arrangements made which precede a combat . 
Glancing his eye about him , and observing the carpenters in readiness , he made a signal for them to knock away the bulk-heads , and lay the whole of the fighting part of the ship in common . 
While this duty was going on , he entered the after-cabin . 
Passing coolly by the former , Ludlow approached his niece , and , taking her hand , he led her to the quarter-deck , making a sign for her female attendant to follow . 
`` Notwithstanding your generous interpretation of my character , Ludlow , I am but woman after all . '' 
I shall not conceal that the odds -- perhaps I may say that the chances , are against us ; and yet the enemy must pay for my ship , ere he has her ! 
Ludlow , I would not have you part with me , at such a time as this , with that cold and reproachful eye ! '' 
`` Take it , Ludlow ; and when thy present duty shall be performed , return it , as a gage that I have promised thee that no explanation which you may have a right to ask shall be withheld . '' 
`` Although his shot fell short , it is too much to let a Frenchman have the credit of the first word . '' 
`` He has merely given the weather gun , the signal of defiance . 
Let him come down , and he will not find us in a hurry to leave him ! '' 
`` I do not pretend to inquire into the nature of the tie which unites you with some in this ship , '' Ludlow commenced , addressing his words to Seadrift , though he kept his gaze on the recent gift of Alida ; `` but , that it must be strong , is evident by the interest they have taken in your fate . 
Ludlow listened in amazement . 
Surprise , incredulity , and scorn , were each , in turn , expressed in his frowning countenance . 
`` This is unbecoming language for one of your calling , '' he said , scarce deeming it necessary to conceal the contempt he felt . 
Ludlow listened in wonder . 
He had raised an arm to arrest the retreat of the young mariner , and by a natural movement his hand slid along the limb it had grasped , until it held that of Seadrift . 
The instant he touched the soft and ungloved palm , an idea , as novel as it was sudden , crossed his brain . 
Retreating a step or two , he examined the light and agile form of the other , from head to feet . 
The frown of displeasure , which had clouded his brow , changed to a look of unfeigned surprise ; and for the first time , the tones of the voice came over his recollection as being softer and more melodious than is wont in man . 
`` I should little merit her gratitude , were the request refused , '' returned Ludlow . 
Seadrift colored to the temples , crossed his arms meekly on his bosom , sunk in an attitude of leave-taking , that was so equivocal as to cause the attentive and critical young captain to smile , and then glided past him and disappeared through a hatchway . 
The eye of Ludlow followed the active and graceful form , while it continued in sight ; and when it was no longer visible , he faced the Alderman with a look which seemed to inquire how far he might be acquainted with the true character of the individual who had been the cause of so much pain to himself . 
`` Have I done well , Sir , in permitting a subject of Queen Anne to quit us at this emergency ? '' 
he demanded , observing that either the phlegm or the self-command of Myndert rendered him proof to scrutiny . 
said the clear , deep , manly voice of Ludlow , who , as he passed among the people of the Coquette , spoke to them in that steady unwavering tone which , in moments of danger , goes to the heart . 
Ludlow , who closely watched each change of position , and every rise and fall of the breeze , went on the poop , and swept the horizon with his glass , for the last time before his ship should be enveloped in smoke . 
To his surprise , he discovered a pyramid of canvas rising above the sea , in the direction of the wind . 
`` It may be a light ship , under her top-gallant and studding-sails , or it may be , that we see only the lofty duck of some heavier vessel , Captain Ludlow ; -- ha ! 
said Ludlow , in a low but firm voice , retaining his elevated post on the poop , while he motioned to his companion to return to the main-deck . 
Ludlow smiled , in a seaman 's scorn . 
Raising his own trumpet , with a quiet gesture to his attentive and ready crew , the whole discharge of their artillery broke out of the dark side of the ship , as if it had been by the volition of the fabric . 
Giving a glance at his enemy , who still stood on , Ludlow leaned from the poop , and , with all a sailor 's anxiety , he endeavored to scan the gear aloft . 
`` What is gone , Sir ? '' 
Ludlow saw , with pain , that blood discolored the deck at his feet , and that a seaman lay dead within reach of his arm . 
Compressing his lips like a man resolved , the commander of the Coquette bent further forward , and glanced at the wheel . 
The quarter-master , who held the spokes , was erect , steady , and kept his eye on the leech of the head-sail , as unerringly as the needle points to the pole . 
Ludlow now saw , through the smoke , the ponderous yard of la Fontange swinging heavily against the breeze , and the main-topsail come flapping against her mast . 
Swinging off from the poop by a backstay that had been shot away a moment before , he alighted on the quarter-deck by the side of the master . 
`` Touch all the braces ! '' 
At the moment when Ludlow was standing alone on the poop , watching with vigilant eyes the progress of his own vessel , and the position of his enemy , indicating merely by a look or a gesture to the attentive Trysail beneath , what he wished done , there was actually a wordy discussion on the quarter-deck of the latter , between the mariner of Boulogne-sur-Mer , and the gay favorite of the salons . 
Standing gallantly on , she was soon out of the range of her adversary 's fire ; and , before the Boulognois had succeeded in convincing his superior of his error , their antagonist was on the other tack , and luffing across the wake of la Fontange . 
The topsail was then tardily filled , but before the latter ship had recovered her motion , the sails of her enemy overshadowed her deck . 
Perceiving the important fact at a glance , Ludlow made sure of its continuance by throwing his grapnels . 
But Ludlow , with his weakened crew , had not decided on so hazardous an evolution as that which brought him in absolute contact with his enemy , without foreseeing the means of avoiding all the consequences . 
Ludlow watched every movement , with a calmness that neither personal responsibility , nor the uproar and rapid incidents of the terrible scene , could discompose . 
`` Now is our time to bring the matter hand to hand ! '' 
he cried , making a gesture to Trysail to descend from the ladder , in order that he might pass . 
One glance told Ludlow that his subordinate was right ; another sufficed to show what was now necessary . 
was shouted , through his trumpet , in a voice that rose commanding and clear amid the roar of the combat . 
Notwithstanding the absence of so many of his people , success would now have been certain , had not the presence of the stranger compelled Ludlow to abandon his advantage . 
But the consequences to his own vessel were too sure , to allow of more than a natural and manly regret that so favorable an occasion should escape him . 
It was now time for Ludlow to come to a speedy determination on his future course . 
Descending to the quarter-deck , he approached the master , who was seated in a chair , while the surgeon dressed a severe hurt in one of his legs . 
Captain Ludlow ; '' returned the old sailor , dashing his hand equivocally across his weatherbeaten brow . 
-- A lively youth , Captain Ludlow , and one who only wants a little reflection , with some more experience , and a small dash of modesty , together with the seamanship he will naturally get in time , to make a very tolerable officer . '' 
said Ludlow , affecting an indecision he did not feel , in order to soothe the feelings of his wounded companion . 
`` The soundings on this coast are as regular as the roof of an out-house , '' said the master , after a moment of thought , `` and it is my advice , if it is your pleasure to ask it , Captain Ludlow , that we shoal our water as much as possible , while the wind lasts . 
Ludlow applauded the advice of his subordinate , for it was precisely what he had determined on doing ; and after again complimenting him on his coolness and skill , he issued the necessary orders . 
Ludlow , with the delicacy of a generous and chivalrous enemy , had with his own hands spread the stainless ensign of his country over the remains of the inexperienced but gallant young Frenchman . 
Hither Ludlow had led Alida and her companions , after the duties of the day were over , in order that they might breathe an air fresher than that of the interior of the vessel . 
The negress nodded near her young mistress ; the tired Alderman sate with his back supported against the mizen-mast , giving audible evidence of his situation ; and Ludlow stood erect , occasionally throwing an earnest look on the surrounding and unruffled waters , and then lending his attention to the discourse of his companions . 
`` Perhaps he has a mother , Ludlow ! 
`` He may have had one , or all ! 
The smile which , spite of the train of his thoughts , rose on the lips of Ludlow , had scarcely passed away , when the hoarse tones of Trysail , rendered still hoarser by his sleep , were plainly heard in a stifled cry , saying , `` Bear a hand , there , with your stoppers ! 
Ludlow turned , quick as the flag fluttering on its vane , and through the darkness he recognized , in the motionless but manly form that stood near him on the poop , the fine person of the ` Skimmer of the Seas . ' 
-- interrupted Tiller , stopping the hurried order which involuntarily broke from the lips of Ludlow . 
You have done well , Captain Ludlow , to be on the alert , though I have known sharper eyes than those of some of your look-outs . '' 
echoed Ludlow , gazing about him at the narrow and empty view . 
`` The error into which I had fallen exists no longer ; '' returned Ludlow , looking for an instant towards the shrinking form of Seadrift . 
Ludlow hesitated , for he had not yet recovered from the surprise of finding the redoubtable free-trader so unexpectedly on the deck of his ship . 
When Ludlow found himself alone with Tiller , he demanded an explanation . 
-- `` You have had a close brush with one of Louis 's rovers , Captain Ludlow , and prettily was the ship of Queen Anne handled ! 
`` Captain Ludlow -- but circumstances warrant thy suspicions ! '' 
From the eastern hill , I witnessed your spirit this day , Captain Ludlow , and though condemned in person , I felt that the heart could never be outlawed . 
Captain Ludlow , there is danger brooding in that dark void which lies to seaward ! '' 
said the Skimmer , arresting a forward movement of his companion , with his hand . 
`` Thy language and manner are those of one who deals honestly ; '' returned Ludlow , struck by the apparent sincerity of the free-trader 's communication . 
`` Both can be explained , '' returned the Skimmer , motioning to his companion to follow to the taffrail . 
Here he pointed to a small and nearly imperceptible skiff , which floated at the bottom of a stern-ladder , and continued -- `` One who so often pays secret visits to the land , can never be in want of the means . 
Ludlow hesitated . 
A strong desire to put Alida in a place of safety , was met by his distrust of the smuggler 's faith . 
He reflected a moment , ere he answered . 
said the Skimmer , grasping his hand . 
Ludlow watched his movements , with an intense and possibly with a distrustful curiosity . 
Ludlow regarded him a moment , and then lifting a lighted battle-lantern to his face , he saw that he slept . 
As Ludlow brushed within a few inches of his eyes , it was easy to be seen that they opened and shut involuntarily , and without consciousness of what lay before them . 
Stepping lightly up the ladder , Ludlow saw that it was the veteran seaman who was rated as the captain of the forecastle . 
`` Nothing ; '' said Ludlow , after intently listening for half a minute . 
Ludlow was silent . 
`` That lantern went into a boat , Captain Ludlow , though a lubber carried it ! '' 
said the positive old forecastle-man , shaking his head and beginning to pace across the deck , with the air of a man who needed no further confirmation of his suspicions . 
Ludlow returned towards the quarter-deck , thoughtful but calm . 
He passed among his sleeping crew , without awaking a man , and even forbearing to touch the still motionless midshipman , he entered his cabin without speaking . 
`` The wounded spar can not be trusted like a sound stick , Captain Ludlow ; but as I am no foot-soldier on a march , the duty of the ship may go on without my calling for a horse . '' 
Ludlow joined the little group of officers that was by this time assembled near the capstan . 
Here , in a few words , he explained the reason why he had summoned them from their sleep . 
When each of the youths understood his orders , and the nature of the new danger that threatened the ship , they separated , and began to enter with activity , but in guarded silence , on the necessary preparations . 
At the end of that time , Ludlow deemed his ship ready . 
Ludlow stood on the forecastle , accompanied by the master . 
Here he lent all his senses to the appearance of the elements , and to the signs of the moment . 
`` I am one of those , Captain Ludlow , who think more than half the virtue is out of a ship when her anchor is down ! '' 
`` This is much like telling the hawk he can fight the better with a clipped wing , since he has not the trouble of flying ! 
What is your opinion , Captain Ludlow , concerning an after life , and of all those matters one occasionally hears of if he happens to drift in the way of a church ? '' 
'T is a gloomy night , Captain Ludlow , and one that is sparing of its stars . 
`` This world , in which we live , Captain Ludlow , is one of extraordinary uses ; but that , to which we are steering , is still more unaccountable . 
Ludlow continued on the forecastle , alone . 
The head-gear lay in the way of the dim view , and Ludlow walked out on the bowsprit , in order that nothing should lie between him and the part of the ocean he wished to study . 
Here he had not stood a minute , when he caught , first a confused and then a more distinct glimpse of a line of dark objects , advancing slowly towards the ship . 
Assured of the position of his enemy , he returned in-board , and descended among his people . 
In another moment he was again on the forecastle , across which he paced leisurely , and , to all appearance , with the calmness of one who enjoyed the refreshing coolness of the night . 
The ship swung still further , and Ludlow stamped on the deck . 
Ludlow had not spoken . 
Still alone on his elevated and exposed post , he watched the effects of both fires , with a commander 's coolness . 
The smile that struggled about his compressed mouth , when the momentary confusion among the boats betrayed the success of his own attack , had been wild and exulting ; but when he heard the rending of the plank beneath him , the heavy groans that succeeded , and the rattling of lighter objects that were scattered by the shot , as it passed with lessened force along the deck of his ship , it became fierce and resentful . 
`` Let them have it ! '' 
he shouted , in a clear animating voice , that assured the people of his presence and his care . 
The Boulognese mariner was foremost among his countrymen , and at that desperate emergency Ludlow and Trysail fought in the common herd . 
The men obeyed , and Ludlow saw that he could still muster a force capable of resistance . 
The crowd thickened in the rear of the French , and one of their number no sooner fell than another filled his place . 
The English receded , and Ludlow , extricating himself from the mass , retired to the quarter-deck . 
`` Give way , men ! '' 
At that moment Ludlow made his most desperate effort . 
Aided by the gunner , he applied matches to the two swivels , which had been placed in readiness for a last resort . 
brought back the defendants , and Ludlow headed a charge upon the top-gallant-forecastle , again , in person . 
Ludlow saw the danger , and he endeavored to urge his people on to regain the bow-guns , one of which was known to be loaded . 
But the explosion of a grenade on deck , and in his rear , was followed by a shock in the hold , that threatened to force the bottom out of the vessel . 
The alarmed and weakened crew began to waver , and as a fresh attack of grenades was followed by a fierce rally , in which the assailants brought up fifty men in a body from their boats , Ludlow found himself compelled to retire amid the retreating mass of his own crew . 
Ludlow cast an eye behind him , and began to think of selling his life as dearly as possible in the cabins . 
A dozen dark forms leaped upon the poop , and then arose a voice that sent every tone it uttered to his heart . 
The mysterious image glided along the deck , and Ludlow knew the athletic frame that brushed through the throng at its side . 
Ludlow , as often happens with the bravest and most exposed , had escaped without a scratch ; but he saw by the drooping forms around him , which were no longer sustained by the excitement of battle , that his triumph was dearly purchased . 
`` Send Mr. Trysail to me ; '' he said , in a tone that had little of a victor 's exultation . 
The weatherbeaten master was in the agony ; and his medical attendant had just risen from a fruitless examination of his wounds , as Ludlow approached . 
hurriedly whispered the alarmed young sailor to the surgeon , who was coolly collecting his implements , in order to administer to some more promising subject . 
`` The case is desperate , Captain Ludlow , '' returned the phlegmatic surgeon ; `` but if you have a taste for such things , there is as beautiful a case for amputation promised in the fore-topman whom I have had sent below , as offers once in a whole life of active practice ! '' 
`` Go , go -- '' interrupted Ludlow , half pushing the unmoved man of blood away , as he spoke ; `` go , then , where your services are needed . '' 
The other cast a glance around him , reproved his attendant , in a sharp tone , for unnecessarily exposing the blade of some ferocious-looking instrument to the dew , and departed . 
Ludlow thought he strove to speak again , and he bent his ear to his mouth . 
The body was removed to the poop , and Ludlow , with a saddened heart , turned to duties that this accident rendered still more imperative . 
`` Captain Ludlow , are we friends ? '' 
The ardor of the men abated as hope lessened , and after half an hour of fruitless exertion , Ludlow saw , with pain , that his assistants began to yield to the inextinguishable principle of nature . 
The appearance of the Skimmer on deck , followed by all his people , destroyed hope , and every effort ceased as suddenly as it had commenced . 
The grenade has fallen near some combustibles , and , painful as it is to part with a ship so loved , Ludlow , thou wilt meet the loss like a man ! 
Ludlow reluctantly , but firmly , gave the order to bear the wounded to the boats . 
Ludlow stood at one ladder and the free-trader at the other , in order to be certain that none proved recreant in so trying a moment . 
said Ludlow , turning to the spot occupied by the silent heiress . 
`` Duty demands that I should be the last -- A sharp explosion beneath , and fragments of fire flying upwards through a hatch , interrupted his words . 
In vain did Ludlow call on his men to be cool , and to wait for those who were still above . 
Throwing himself on a ladder , he glided into the bows of one of the boats , and , holding by the ropes with a vigorous arm , he resisted the efforts of all the oars and boat-hooks , while he denounced destruction on him who dared to quit the ship . 
-- Boat-hooks were already pointed at his breast , and the horrors of the fearful moment were about to be increased by the violence of a mutinous contention , when a second explosion nerved the arms of the rowers to madness . 
Ludlow had early thought of the expedient of stranding the vessel , as the means of saving her people ; but his better knowledge of their position , soon showed him the utter futility of the attempt . 
The Skimmer glanced his eye about him , on regaining the poop , and appeared to scan the amount and quality of the physical force that was still at their disposal . 
he whispered to Ludlow . 
Ludlow looked as if he despaired of the means ; but , concealing the discouraging fear , he answered cheerfully in the affirmative . 
Under such circumstances , the ` Skimmer of the Seas ' took the lead ; and though Ludlow caught his ideas with professional quickness , it was the mind of the free-trader that controlled , throughout , the succeeding exertions of that fearful night . 
In the mean time , Ludlow , assisted by the Alderman and François , had not been idle below . 
shouted Ludlow . 
The Skimmer leaped upon the firm rope , followed by all aloft , and , gliding downwards , he was instantly in the hammock-cloths . 
Even the free-trader recoiled before the horrible din ; but when he stood near Seadrift and the heiress again , there was cheerfulness in his tones , and a look of high , and even of gay resolution , in his firm countenance . 
`` The deck has failed forwards , '' he said , `` and our artillery is beginning to utter fearful signal-guns ! 
The Skimmer caught a rope , and still holding it in his hand , he descended to the quarter-deck , on which he at first trusted his weight with jealous caution . 
Then looking up , he smiled encouragingly , and said , -- `` Where a gun still stands , there is no danger for the weight of a man ! '' 
`` It is our only resource ; '' cried Ludlow , imitating his example . 
said Ludlow to the Skimmer , who pointed one gun , while he did the same office at the other . 
Ludlow followed with Alida , and the others intimated their example in the best manner they could . 
All reached the head of the ship in safety ; though Ludlow had been driven by the flames into the fore-channels , and thence nearly into the sea . 
`` This heat can no longer be borne , '' said Ludlow ; `` we must to our raft , for breath . '' 
The skilful and active seamen , directed and aided by Ludlow and the Skimmer , had made a simple but happy disposition of those boyant materials on which their all now depended . 
said Ludlow , involuntarily starting at several explosions in the interior , which followed each other in quick succession , and which were succeeded by one which sent fragments of burning wood into the air . 
`` 'T is the end of a lovely craft ! '' 
Then he appeared in the air , and sunk into the sea -- `` The last signal was from the ward-room , '' added the dauntless and dexterous mariner , as he rose from the water , and , shaking the brine from his head , he took his place on the stage -- `` Would to God the wind would blow , for we have need of greater distance ! '' 
Even the Skimmer and Ludlow watched , in speechless interest , the tardy movements of the ship . 
Ludlow gazed at it in melancholy , and for a time he ceased to think of his ship , while memory dwelt , in sadness , on those scenes of boyish happiness , and of professional pleasures , in which his ancient shipmate had so largely participated . 
The roar of a gun , whose stream of fire flashed nearly to their faces , and the sullen whistling of its shot , which crossed the raft , failed to awaken him from his trance . 
half-whispered the Skimmer , motioning to his companions to place themselves in attitudes to support the weaker of their party , while , with sedulous care , he braced his own athletic person in a manner to throw all of its weight and strength against the seat . 
Ludlow complied , though his eye scarce changed its direction . 
He saw the bright flame that was rising above the arm-chest , and he fancied that it came from the funeral pile of the young Dumont , whose fate , at that moment , he was almost disposed to envy . 
A sullen plunge of a gun followed , and proclaimed the tremendous power of the explosion ; while a ponderous yard fell athwart a part of the raft , sweeping away the four petty officers of Ludlow , as if they had been dust driving before a gale . 
said the ` Skimmer of the Seas , ' raising himself from the attitude of great muscular exertion , which he had assumed in order to support the mess-chest , and walking out along the single mast , towards the spot whence the four seamen of Ludlow had just been swept . 
Captain Ludlow , I do not despair ; for , see , the lady of the brigantine has still a smile for her servitors ! '' 
Ludlow , who had followed the steady and daring free-trader to the place where the spar had fallen , turned and cast a look in the direction that the other stretched his arm . 
Within a hundred feet of him , he saw the image of the sea-green lady , rocking in the agitated water , and turned towards the raft , with its usual expression of wild and malicious intelligence . 
During the conflagration , this object had more than once met the eye of Ludlow ; and now it appeared floating quietly by him , in a manner almost to shake even his contempt for the ordinary superstitions of seamen . 
While he hesitated in what manner he should reply to his companion 's remark , the latter plunged into the sea , and swam towards the light . 
He was soon by the side of the raft again , bearing aloft the symbol of his brigantine . 
The voice of the free-trader was more cheerful , and his step more sure and elastic , as he crossed the stage and struck the armed end of the staff into that part of the top-rim of the Coquette , which floated uppermost . 
`` Courage ! '' 
But the agent of so many pleasant masquerades , and the instrument of so much of his artifice , had not a fortitude equal to the buoyant temper of the smuggler . 
The counterfeit bowed his head by the side of the silent Alida , without reply . 
The ` Skimmer of the Seas ' regarded the group , a moment , with manly interest ; and then touching the arm of Ludlow , he walked , with a balancing step , along the spars , until they had reached a spot where they might confer without causing unnecessary alarm to their companions . 
`` We are in no condition for a long or an active cruise , Captain Ludlow , '' said the Skimmer , when he and his companion were out of hearing . 
`` We can not conceal from ourselves the frightful hazards we run , '' returned Ludlow , `` however much we may wish them to be a secret to some among us . '' 
`` You paint in gloomy colors , Captain Ludlow , '' said the free-trader , drawing a heavy breath , in spite of all his resolution . 
-- Captain Ludlow , you are a seaman and a man , and I shall not attempt to trifle with your knowledge . 
Surely , you are not a seaman , Captain Ludlow , without a secret dependence on some unseen and potent agency ! '' 
`` You are fortunate in purchasing consolation so cheaply ; '' returned the commander of Queen Anne , who felt a latent hope in his companion 's confidence that he would have hesitated to acknowledge . 
As the seamen on the raft were reduced to the two people of the brigantine , Ludlow and his companion were obliged to assist in the performance of the duty . 
The Skimmer , accompanied by his two silent but obedient seamen , ventured along the attenuated and submerged spars to the extremity of the tapering masts , and after toiling , with the dexterity of men accustomed to deal with the complicated machinery of a ship in the darkest nights , they succeeded in releasing the two smaller masts with their respective yards , and in floating them down to the body of the wreck , or the part around the top . 
But when these alterations were made , and additional lashings had been applied to keep the topmast and the larger yards in their places , Ludlow , by joining those who were around the mast-head , tacitly admitted that little more could be done to avert the chances of the elements . 
Ludlow was therefore more than rewarded by the sound of Alida 's voice , speaking to him cheerfully , as she thanked him for what he had done , when he admitted that he could now do no more . 
Even Ludlow cast an uneasy look at the heavens , when they came upon his ear , as if they conveyed a secret notice of the whole extremity of the danger by which they were environed . 
`` It may be so , for our fate can be no secret to him ; '' was the answer of Ludlow . 
asked Alida , searching in the countenance of Ludlow a clue to their fate . 
Neither Ludlow nor the Skimmer replied . 
observed the Skimmer to the silent and attentive Ludlow . 
He was joined by the seamen , and even Ludlow lent his aid , until all were hoarse with the fruitless efforts . 
The instant Ludlow saw the filling-off of the frigate 's bows , he cried -- `` Now , raise your voices together ; -- this is the final chance ! '' 
`` 'T is the beeeze freshening ; '' answered Ludlow , in sadness , at her side . 
whispered Ludlow , directing his companion 's eyes to the dark and pointed fins of three or four sharks , that were gliding above the surface of the water , and in so fearful a proximity to their persons , as to render their situation on the low spars , over which the water was washing and retiring at each rise and fall of the waves , doubly dangerous . 
calling to one of his followers ; -- `` thy pockets are rarely wanting in a fisherman 's tackle . 
The shock was so sudden and violent , that the hapless mariner was drawn from his slippery and precarious footing , into the sea . 
said Ludlow . 
The direction too was unfavorable , as it was to leeward ; but both Ludlow and the free-trader assured their companions , that the vessel was endeavoring to beat in with the land . 
`` It will be happy ; '' returned Ludlow -- `` Alida and Eudora will instruct him in the opinions of this simple and fortunate country , and he seemeth one likely to do early credit to his schooling . '' 
-- Captain Ludlow , there is yet a duty to perform , which , as a man of more feeling than you may be disposed to acknowledge , I can not neglect . 
cried the admiring Ludlow , raising the hand of the blushing girl to his lips . 
`` You have happily put aside the curtain which concealed a mystery that no longer gave me uneasiness ; '' interrupted Ludlow , addressing the free-trader . 
Eudora was lifted from the ground as if her weight had been that of a feather ; and , spite of a sudden and impetuous movement of Ludlow and the Patroon , she was borne to the boat . 
The day had begun to decline , before Alida and Ludlow quitted the lawn of the Lust in Rust . 
The nuptials of Ludlow and Alida were touched with a shade of melancholy . 
