Both the boy and the box he confided to me -- but the poor child -- poor Ned -- was dragged away by Mr. Job Mallex , and put into the house of refuge -- '' `` Where he died ! 
`` Another reason was my affection for poor Ned . 
I could not bear to part with him . 
Another reason was the fear , that if his existence were known , Mr. Job Mallex would again take possession of him . 
I know not why I should fear him so ; but I have never suffered him to see little Ned -- who is not so small now , either , being ten years old -- and have always avoided meeting him . 
iterated the aged lawyer `` Ned and I have been reading them . '' 
And Ned was scarcely a pace behind me . 
He says Ned will make a great scholar , and has already commenced giving him lessons in Latin . '' 
exclaimed the old man ; `` I must see master Ned Parke -- '' `` Not Parke , sir ; we are afraid to call him by that name . 
We call him simply Ned Lorn . '' 
`` Lorn was my mother 's name . 
Alice is about the same age as Ned ; and it was always at her express desire that Ned accompanied me to the mansion . '' 
Keep Ned out of sight as much as possible . 
And Tim had as great an affection for Ned as herself . 
It could not be forgetfulness : Tim never forgot his appointments with his foster sister and protectress , and never neglected an opportunity of being with poor little Ned Lorn , as he called him . 
In truth he was Ned 's pupil , and had learned to read the city papers under his instruction . 
Master Ned , then , was left alone : not entirely alone either , for Bob was with him -- Bob , the playful black tom-cat who turned summersets on the floor , and performed all sorts of antics for his amusement . 
Ned had his books in readiness . 
Every time the door was shaken by a gust of wind , he looked up in the expectation of greeting the smiling face of his friend Tim . 
He sprang upon the table ; upon Ned 's shoulder ; then upon the mantle-piece ; and when dislodged from thence , capered round the room at a rapid rate , making his feet sound upon the floor like the beating of a muffled drum . 
`` Bob , you must be expecting to receive some fine present this Christmas , '' said Ned , standing before the small grate , and looking down at his sprightly companion . 
said Ned , distinctly hearing footsteps in the alley . 
he continued , seeing the cat humping his back , with his tail elevated and prodigiously enlarged . 
Ned was almost frightened . 
He had never before seen the cat assume so ferocious an aspect . 
`` If this Susan Meek , who was with Parke during his last moments , has possession of the letters , we must endeavor to obtain them at all hazards , and at any cost . 
Oneof them , and , perhaps , two , which I wrote under the cursed influence of weakness , or fear -- for he had sworn to be terribly revenged , if I ruined him -- might play the deuce with me -- with both of us -- if they should fall into the hands of any one disposed to demand an investigation . '' 
cried Ned . 
The intruders did not pause until they stood in the centre of the room , which was but dimly illuminated by the rays of a very small camphine lamp on the table , in the midst of Ned 's books . 
cried Ned , who had retreated in terror to an obscure corner , but now summoned sufficient courage to intercede for his pet , which he snatched up in his arms . 
`` My little fellow , '' he continued , turning to Ned , and regarding his beautiful pale face and expressive eyes with an involuntary interest , `` we are not robbers ; we do not intend to injure a hair of your head , or of your cat 's head either . 
`` Ned Lorn . '' 
`` Lorn ? 
Ned ? 
`` They call me Ned , sir , since my mother died . '' 
`` Well , Ned , '' he continued , `` we are Susan 's friends , and we have brought her a Christmas gift . 
`` Here is the present , Ned , '' said Bainton , handing the boy a purse . 
Ned , finding himself the object of so intense a scrutiny , hung down his head and petted his cat , which still growled at the dog that whined between his master 's feet . 
he asked , turning to Ned . 
Ned was silent . 
He recollected that Susan had warned him never to mention that she had any letters in her possession . 
He felt sorry for what he had already divulged in relation to them . 
said Ned , in mingled alarm and vexation . 
She said this boy was very intimate with the widow 's little daughter -- that there was a sort of childish affection subsisting between them -- and by pretending to be the friends of Alice , we would certainly obtain the confidence of Ned . 
Mallex then approached Ned with a smiling countenance , which , however , could hardly be observed through the exuberance of yellow hair which almost covered his face . 
`` Ned , '' said Mallex , `` we came near forgetting to deliver you a message from little Alice Dimple . 
`` And you , Ned , '' said Mallex , `` will be back yourself before ten o ' clock . 
`` But that wo n't do , '' said Ned ; `` I never conceal anything from Susan ! '' 
`` Come , Ned ! '' 
Ned was led out . 
There were some lingering misgivings , or symptoms of reluctance , manifested in his doubtful looks and hesitating steps . 
Alice expressed her admiration of Ned in very emphatic terms ; Betty , simple by nature , as well as by name , was thoughtless and excessively voluble . 
From him they learned that he was to spend the evening at his foster-sister 's house , and was to be the companion and protector of Ned during Susan 's absence . 
He would have expended a dollar cheerfully , rather than disappoint Ned ; but his legs could accomplish more than his purse , and he did not spare them . 
He determined to get Ned to read it for him , just to find out what it was that seemed to occupy so much of Mr. Fawner 's precious time . 
Ned 's waiting ; Alice is waiting ; Susan 'll be mad ! 
If , on the other hand , anything should happen to frighten Ned , or to cause him any injury or unhappiness , how could he ever forgive himself for not having rushed to his rescue at the earliest moment in his power ? 
exclaimed he , `` I wish I could be split in two , if it would n't hurt me , and a half of me could run to each place at the same time ! 
Poor Ned ! 
And after losing no inconsiderable time , and precious moments , too , in solving this difficult problem , he set forward again . 
AfterJob Mallex and Ned Lorn had departed from the house in the alley , Eugene Bainton threw down the volume -LRB- Robinson Crusoe -RRB- which he had apparently been reading , and rose from the chair . 
They were presents he had purchased for his deceased sister , the mother of Ned . 
`` And poor Ned ! 
I wonder what he has been thinking about all this time , when all alone ! '' 
I 'll buy him a watch out of my wages , if he has been a good boy . '' 
`` Ned has been a bad boy to-night ! '' 
`` I do n't believe Ned done that ! '' 
`` I do n't think he was strong enough , or wicked enough to do any such thing ! '' 
Come down to me , Ned Lorn ! '' 
At that moment , Bob , the large black tom-cat , sprang down from the summit of the cupboard , where he had taken refuge when relinquished by Ned . 
His hair still stood erect upon his back , and his tail resembled a mourning plume . 
`` Bob , why are you not up there with Ned ? '' 
He looks like the devil was in him ! 
I hope he has n't swallowed Ned . '' 
`` Give me the lamp , '' said Susan , `` and let me fetch Ned down . 
No wonder he 's ashamed to show his face ! '' 
It 's me , Ned ! '' 
`` Just say you 're sorry for it , and I wo n't let her scold you . '' 
he asked , when upon looking around he failed to discover Ned . 
But no Ned was there . 
He returned again to the chamber immediately below . 
He stood in the centre of the room , and silently surveyed every object in it . 
`` Why do n't you bring him down , '' asked Susan , below , while examining the fractured chest , and trying by the light of the fire , to fit the pieces together again . 
`` Where is he ? '' 
Is it Ned ! '' 
Ned gone ? 
Then some one has torn him away by force . 
Ned and his father 's letters ! 
They soon found the watchman , who knew both Susan and Ned . 
But if he should n't be , '' continued Tim , after a slight hesitation , and lowering the poker despondingly , `` you must go and tell Mrs. Dimple what I 'm away for , as I do n't mean ever to come back till I bring Ned ! '' 
Mallexexerted himself to the utmost to dispel the misgivings that arose in the breast of Ned as the cab swept rapidly away . 
They rolled onward some ten or twelve squares , before Ned exhibited any symptoms of impatience . 
he asked , modestly , of Mallex . 
After going at that rate for some ten minutes more , Ned , observing through the glass that they passed but few houses , and that the street lamps had entirely disappeared , again became restless . 
said he ; `` I am sure we have gone far enough to be there ! '' 
asked Ned , with eagerness . 
Ned did not know anything about the cottage . 
But he knew nothing to the contrary ; and so he remained pacified some ten or fifteen minutes more . 
He then , as if by a sudden impulse , let down the glass himself , and thrust his head out . 
asked Mallex , placing his hand upon the boy 's shoulder . 
said Ned , in tones of vexation . 
`` Let me see it , '' said Ned . 
He did see a very plain looking , old , sharp-roofed building in the direction indicated . 
Telling Ned to remain a minute in the cab , Mallex sprang out and knocked at the door , which was instantly opened . 
In the meantime , Ned had become painfully anxious . 
He feared he had been deceived , and that his conductor intended him some evil . 
He had an impulse to spring out of the cab and attempt making his escape . 
`` Come , Ned , jump out ? '' 
cried Ned . 
he continued , yielding submissively to the thin tallow-faced old man who led him towards the house . 
The rest of his features were , however , much concealed by his profusion of hair . 
Even the end of his curved nose was lost in the sandy integument on his lip . 
`` Nothing will hurt you , Ned , if you do n't cry . 
he added to the cabman , as he sprang into the vehicle . 
The next moment the wheels were rattling swiftly down the lane , and Ned was conducted into the house . 
`` Ned Lorn , madam . 
You are one too many , '' she continued , in still more grating tones , turning and sweeping some strips of white muslin into the fire , while Ned stood trembling before her . 
`` Indeed I am not hungry , or sleepy either , '' said Ned , when the old man withdrew . 
said Ned , looking gratefully in her face through his suffused eyes . 
You 're in somebody 's way -- '' `` I did n't know it , '' said Ned , springing up and looking behind . 
`` Why , Meg , '' he continued , `` you hav 'n' t put the boy to sleep ; I see him setting there by the dog-iron . '' 
Shet the door , Jack ; I 'll do it in a minute , '' said she , turning to Ned . 
said Ned , `` do n't send me up there by myself . 
Ned spread the blanket on the floor , not far from the wall , and laid down . 
After waiting a few moments for him to get asleep , the old woman crept away softly with the light . 
But Ned could not sleep . 
In vain he lifted up his little hands , and repeated the Lord 's prayer with an earnestness such as he had never felt before . 
In vain he uttered the old nursery rhyme : He could not sleep . 
And he feared that he might die before morning . 
But he determined , if possible , to remain quiet , and avoid giving offence to the old woman . 
Presently he heard the following dialogue : `` Is the sled close to the door , Jack ? '' 
Ned 's curiosity to see what they were doing became irresistible . 
The room he lay in was dark . 
He crept noiselessly to the partition door , and peeped into the room illuminated by two lamps -- the one the old man had with him , and the one the old woman had taken . 
Ned sank down chilled with horror . 
He knew not how long he lay prostrate beside the door . 
cried Ned , recovering . 
`` Oh , if you will only please to let me go out , '' said Ned , looking towards the door communicating with the passage . 
continued Ned , with unwonted animation in his eye , as the thought came upon him that he could follow the track of the sled all the way -LRB- he knew not how far it was -RRB- to the city . 
Ned threw himself down on his pallet , shivering with terror . 
But no sleep visited his lids . 
He lay there , mentally repeating the prayers which Susan had taught him , and watching the motions of the old woman . 
Poor Ned could not but be reminded of the time when he too had been in the habit of hanging up his stockings at Susan 's fire-side . 
How cheerless and dreary for him ! 
What a contrast to the comforts and endearments he had been accustomed to ! 
With such reflections as these , there came an idea into his mind , prompted doubtless by some pitying angel , that the little wrinkled old woman before him , might not be able to detain him there if he were once boldly to assert his determination to leave the house . 
But whither could he go , if he were to make his escape on such a night as that ? 
He did not even think of what might become of him , or befall him , when once beyond the purlieus of that detestable abode . 
His teeming thoughts only pointed to the means of escape ; and every moment that now elapsed strengthened his resolution to make the attempt . 
After nodding in her chair , and uttering unconsciously many disjointed remarks , having reference to the dreadful business of the night , and to the unexpected possession of the boy , Meg arose suddenly , and grasping the lamp exclaimed : `` Hoity toity ! 
Ned then rose up and buttoned his overcoat . 
His cap and shoes had not been removed . 
Turning to the door leading into the passage , he gently raised the latch and passed through . 
He groped his way along the dark narrow passage to the front door . 
He then retraced his steps and sought the door in the rear . 
He drew back the bolts , and commenced removing the bar , which was an iron one . 
she exclaimed upon turning , and beholding Ned at the other extremity of the passage . 
Ned had removed the bar by the time she came within striking distance of him . 
But instead of submitting , although unable to open the door which turned inwards , without the risk of being prostrated , he brandished the iron bar threateningly , and declared he would defend himself . 
Then Ned opened the door and sprang out . 
exclaimed Meg , following him into the yard , and plunging with her naked feet into the snow . 
The animal , growling , displayed his formidable teeth . 
Ned was upon the point of suing for mercy , when he discovered that the dog was chained . 
He perceived that the dog had advanced as far as the chain would permit him , and there was still space sufficient for him to pass round the house without being within his reach . 
said Ned , still brandishing the iron bar . 
Ned vanished around the corner , and was soon traversing the narrow lane with all the fleetness of which he was capable . 
He followed the track of the sled . 
He knew that if he pursued it long enough , it would lead him into the city . 
He had no disposition to sleep . 
At every bound his spirits arose and his resolution was strengthened . 
Deaf to all sounds but the imaginary cries of Ned for rescue , and oblivious of all danger but that which he fancied to be threatening the poor boy , he plunged forward regardless of the consequences . 
Had not the vehicles he met , in several instances , diverged quickly from the course they were pursuing , he must infallibly have been run over . 
His speed seemed to increase the farther he ran . 
Once or twice the watchman 's rattle was heard , and he was pursued as one escaping from justice . 
All who followed him were soon distanced . 
One sturdy guardian of the night , meeting him , aimed a blow at his head with his heavy mace . 
Ned was his polar attraction ; his heart the needle . 
`` Ned ! 
I want Ned ! 
and I will have him , if I have to kill all the men and horses in creation ! 
Where is he ? 
`` He 's not here , '' said Mallex . 
`` Where is he , I say ? '' 
`` Yes , and your man at the office kept me there , while poor Ned was took away ! 
Where is he , I say ? 
`` Now , Ned ! 
His sole object was the recovery of Ned , and he felt certain that the marks of the wheels would conduct him to the place where he had been conveyed . 
Tim seized the bit of the skeleton of a horse , and asked the old man if he had seen anything of Ned . 
`` I do n't know any boy by the name of Ned , '' was the equivocal response . 
Tim , struck with the remark , could not avoid coming to the conclusion that the straw actually concealed human bodies ; and the idea that Ned might have been murdered , to swell the number of the subjects , banished the horror that at first possessed him . 
With his poker he removed the straw , and gazed upon the sickening spectacle . 
said he , retreating a few paces backward . 
But the loss of Ned had maddened him completely . 
On he sped , grinding his teeth in rage as he ran . 
With his head hanging down , and his eyes fixed upon the track before him , he ran next against a pedestrian he met in the way , and both were prostrated , but neither were injured . 
Oh , Ned ! 
cried Ned . 
He was unable , for several moments , to utter another word . 
I 'm as strong as an elephant , Ned ! 
We 'll have a merry night , Ned ! '' 
Do n't think about anything disagreeable , Ned ! 
Wo n't it , Ned ? '' 
It makes no odds now , I 've got you , Ned . '' 
But Ned would insist on walking a portion of the way , although it was quite evident that he was hardly equal to the undertaking , after the revulsion which had taken place in his feelings upon meeting so opportunely with Tim . 
`` Tim , '' said Ned , `` perhaps they may have some other boy in that cab , and one who may not have so good a friend to seek after him as I had . '' 
But instead of the stock-jobber , it now contained two burly policemen , who descended from the step , and laid violent hands on both Tim and Ned . 
said Ned , weeping . 
`` What 're you takin ' Ned for ? '' 
Ned 's and Tim 's hands were interlocked indissolubly . 
Utterly overcome by the excitement and fatigue of the night , Ned slept fitfully in that fœtid atmosphere . 
But of all the group of offenders present , none presented such innocent faces as Tim and Ned . 
Ned still clung to the hand of his friend , and would not be separated from him . 
All the world might unite in pronouncing Tim guilty ; they might send him to prison ; they might take his life ; but Ned would not forsake him , knowing him to be innocent . 
Ned whispered something in his ear , and then he spoke as follows : -- `` Ned says , the old woman who keeps the dead people for the doctors , told him they wanted him out of the way , to get some property that belonged to him . '' 
he continued , addressing the cabman . 
said Ned . 
Now , sir , '' he continued , gravely , addressing the driver , `` I warn you to speak the whole truth , and nothing but the truth ; for remember , if you swear falsely , you may have to atone for it in the penitentiary . '' 
Mr. Persever , while regarding the beautiful features of Ned , beautiful even in dejection and distress , had been seen to drop a tear . 
He was poor himself , and had tasted of the bitter cup of ill-treatment and injury . 
He , too , had been an outcast , and deserted by those who had partaken of the bounties of his family . 
This gentleman undertook the defence of Tim ; and his cross examination of the cabman , together with the testimony of Ned , rendered it incontrovertible that Mallex had been a participant in the transactions of the preceding evening . 
It appeared that Ned had been induced by him to enter the cab , and that the driver had been instructed to drive rapidly out of the city . 
But the narrative of Ned , ingenuous and coherent , although the scenes he described made so great an impression upon his sensibilities , when recalled to memory , that the tears ran down his cheeks in streams , was regarded with absorbing interest by every listener . 
Even the most hardened malefactor present looked on him with pity , and experienced a thrill of horror at his description of the scene at the farm-house . 
`` Ned Lorn , sir , '' said the boy , turning his expressive eyes full upon the officer who had addressed him in so kind a tone . 
`` Ned ! '' 
`` Please , sir , '' said Ned , `` I tell you only what I know , and what has been told to me . 
They say my full name is Edward Lorn Parke , but Susan had me called Ned Lorn . '' 
`` Lorn was the name of Mr. Parke 's maternal ancestors , '' said his honor . 
said Ned , gazing curiously at his honor . 
`` I will go , too , '' cried Ned . 
`` No , Ned ; do n't ! 
This decided Ned . 
But before Persever withdrew with Ned , the mayor took occasion to admonish the boy to abandon the idea that he was the son and heir of his deceased friend , and to be careful that his friends did not lead him into the commission of impostures and crimes , which would result in his disgrace and ruin . 
Poor Ned could only reply by a deprecating look . 
He manifested no disposition , however , to retract anything he had said ; and his honor , chagrined that his admonition had produced no acknowledgment of his error , and yet feeling touched at the forlorn condition of the handsome boy , suffered him to depart . 
But Persever resolved to inquire further into the business ; and in despite of the professional taunts of Radley , who congratulated him upon his success , and wished him much joy of the friends he might find in Pecan alley , he pushed his way to the door , with Ned 's hand clasped in his , and departed in quest of Susan . 
As they were crossing Walnut street , and about to enter Washington Square , Ned heard his name mentioned . 
On turning , he beheld the `` Blue Maria '' passing . 
Although nearly frantic at her loss , she had not yet relinquished all hope of seeing Ned again . 
She had uttered too many prayers for his preservation and prosperity , to suppose that Providence would permit him to be utterly destroyed . 
And besides , the loss of Ned could not but be a source of misery to himself . 
So it was a double blow to him . 
He felt for the distress of Susan , and he lamented the abduction of the boy . 
Both of the bereaved friends of Ned offered up prayers for the preservation and restoration of the poor boy they loved so well . 
Mr. Mallex was at Mrs. Dimple 's , and learning that Tim Trudge was to come here to stay with Ned during my absence , obtained Mrs. Dimple 's consent to send him somewhere else , and he did not return until Ned was gone . 
Mr. Mallex and Mr. Bainton , one or both of them I am sure , seized Ned , and carried him away . '' 
said Susan , somewhat disappointed at the apparently slight effect the loss of Ned seemed to produce on the feelings of the aged lawyer , `` I have not told you all . 
The next instant Ned was in her arms . 
Lifting him up , she ran to an extreme corner of the room , holding him fast , and pressing him to her breast , as a mother would a darling child . 
She laughed ; she wept ; and Ned did the same . 
And upon looking a moment at the gentleman who accompanied Ned , and who remained standing near the door , he exclaimed , `` Persever ! 
And can it be possible that Ned there is your nephew ? '' 
Bring him here , Susan . 
I would be qualified to it , '' he continued , holding Ned by the hand and surveying him from head to foot . 
asked Ned . 
`` Yes -- that is , I hope so , my dear child , '' replied the old man , placing his hand affectionately on his head . 
said Ned . 
`` Oh , believe me , it was not Ned they buried there ! '' 
I can swear it was not Ned who died at the house of refuge . '' 
said Ned . 
The news of the disappearance of Ned had made quite a stir in the alley . 
But above all the rest , perhaps little Tommy Denny , a lad of about the age of Ned , appeared to be the most excited . 
He was a `` news-boy , '' and supplied Ned with his unsold papers at cost . 
When Tom Denny had learned that Ned had returned , he hastened to Susan 's house to welcome him back . 
And he determined to greet him with a handsome Christmas gift . 
`` Huzza , Ned ! '' 
cried he , running in , with a noisy parrot perched on his wrist . 
`` I 'm glad you 've got back , Ned ! '' 
`` Take him , Ned ! '' 
`` He do n't , '' said Tom ; `` he 's had it . '' 
Ned will thank you , and be just as grateful as if he had received it . 
Ned must be educated , and all my money must be saved for that purpose . 
Take him back , Tom ; that 's a good boy . '' 
But Susan ca n't afford it , '' said Ned . 
`` In the meantime , Susan , I think it would be well for Ned to sleep an hour or so . 
He has lost much rest , and is paler than usual . '' 
Ned was not averse to it . 
He had been gaping , and stretching his arms apart , ever since his return ; and it was feared the reaction , after the scenes of excitement he had passed through , might have an injurious effect upon his health . 
Mr. Parkeand his young friend called at the widow Dimple 's , and gave that lady the information they possessed in regard to Tim . 
`` Can he not be got out of prison ? '' 
`` I will be his security for any amount of money . 
I know him to be honest and truthful . '' 
`` I am rejoiced to hear you say so , madam , because the testimony of others this morning seemed to throw a shade of doubt upon his statement . 
But if you can vouch so emphatically for his veracity , and bear witness of his good character , it will go far towards bringing him off with flying colors . '' 
Mrs. Dimple had sent word to her little daughter that Ned had returned to Susan ; and Alice had risen immediately from her couch , quite recovered , and joined her mother in the parlor . 
The gentlemen then departed , leaving the widow in an agony of conjecture how it could happen that Tim should be the assailant of Mr. Mallex ; and for what purpose that gentleman had undertaken to carry off poor Ned Lorn . 
This done , he took Ned away , no one knew whither , until it was ascertained by Susan , and Mr. D. L. Parke , that under some pretence , and for some unexplained cause , the child had been sent to the house of refuge . 
They are prodigiously rich ; or rather they possess a vast amount of money and property which should belong to you and poor Ned , if indeed the boy is the son of your deceased brother . '' 
At present we will not push for the identity of Ned . '' 
`` No , if we get anything , though , Ned shall have the benefit of it . '' 
It did not appear to them that his incarceration might result in any advantage to Ned ; and from the note Persever had of Mrs. Dimple , it was to be presumed no obstacle would be interposed . 
And she persists in the absurd declaration that this Ned Lorn is my sister 's child ? '' 
and between you and I , I am inclined to believe he is my brother 's son , for there is certainly a tell-tale resemblance of John . 
It had been a source of regret both to Parke and his young friend that the sum had not been definitely stated in Bainton 's correspondence . 
He wished to discuss the subject of the young pretender , as he jocosely denominated poor Ned . 
he shouted to a servant , and then continued : `` We did resolve to get possession of this Ned Lorn , gentlemen , although , as you are aware , we had the official statement of the death of my nephew . 
He was admitted by Ned , who was radiant with joy upon beholding the tall , gaunt form of his aged friend . 
`` Ah , Ned ! 
Ned obeyed with alacrity . 
`` Now , child , '' said Mr. Parke , when seated beside Susan , `` I wish to recur to the subject of Ned 's parentage . 
Sometimes I see him in distress , appealing to me by the endearing name of uncle , to rescue him from destruction . 
The cot next to Ned 's contained a boy in the agonies of death . 
And poor Ned will likewise swear to it , for he remembers distinctly so remarkable an occurrence . 
Might he not have witnessed the death of the little boy I have mentioned , under the supposition it was Ned ? 
He had no previous knowledge of him -- '' `` It might be so , Susan ! '' 
Were he not of my blood , he would not mingle so much in my dreams ! 
But , sir , so far as I am concerned , all I ask is to be permitted to work for Ned and to keep him near me . 
I 'll answer for his education ! 
that reminds me he must soon lose his principal tutor , Mr. Mulvany , who is about to leave us ! 
At all events I will act precisely as if it were not controverted , and will watch over Ned 's welfare as if I knew him to be my nephew . '' 
`` How far has Ned progressed in his Latin ? '' 
`` He has gone through the grammar twice , and is beginning it the third time . '' 
`` Yes , sir ; he is my friend , and Ned 's friend . 
Why , sir , one half of Ned 's books have been bought with Mr. Mulvany 's money . '' 
`` And now Ned will have the satisfaction of repaying him . '' 
`` But he never expended such a sum as this ! '' 
`` He wo n't have it ! 
He 'll give it to Ned . 
He never expected to be paid anything , sir . '' 
He must receive it , and keep it , too . 
And if his services and bounties have merited such a recompense , what will be the amount due you , do you suppose , Susan ? '' 
I would be the most miserable creature in the world , if any one were to suppose that my attentions to Ned were designed to merit a pecuniary reward . 
Believe me , truly , to be your friend ; one in whom you may safely repose your confidence ; one with whom you should freely consult ; and from whom you should withhold no secret , in which Ned may be directly or remotely concerned . '' 
`` I will not leave Ned for all the husbands in the world ! '' 
But suppose he were to accompany you ? '' 
`` Then Ned will be safe ! 
He will be out of their reach . 
They will not know where to find him ! '' 
Let no one know whither he is to go -- not even himself . 
For there is a mystery in this desire of his enemies to carry him off , which they have not explained to my satisfaction . 
Ned shall no longer be a charity pupil . 
Kiss Ned for me ! '' 
Her thoughts were away at Summerton , where she was strolling in imagination along the green margin of the beautiful river , with her husband and Ned . 
Ned 's uncle left them for you -- '' `` For me , Susan ? '' 
`` Yes , for you -- in payment for your services to Ned , in teaching him Latin . 
Is it Ned 's money ? '' 
Ned was the difficulty . 
Ah , Susan , if his uncle has removed him , I fear you will be unhappy . '' 
He is to go with us -- to live with us -- to be your pupil still -- and to carry money to the institution to defray all his expenses . 
`` Even Ned must not know it beforehand , else he might be surprised into a betrayal of our purpose . 
Ned ! 
Ned obeyed with alacrity . 
`` Ah , Mr. Mulvany , '' cried he , `` I think I have mastered my conjugations this time . 
He gave the book to his teacher , and recited his lesson without committing an error . 
exclaimed Ned . 
said Tim , sitting down near the fire , and holding Ned on his knee . 
Has n't he , Ned ? 
I saw the big tears rising in his eyes , when he looked at you , Ned . 
asked Ned . 
said Ned , who had listened with extraordinary interest . 
`` Ned and I were there yesterday , and she told us so . '' 
If there were any truth in it , Mr. Parke -- your true uncle , Ned -- would not be so intimate with her . '' 
But before the lapse of fifteen minutes , during which time Susan had informed Ned of their future plans , with many injunctions to be prudent , and not to betray their intentions to others , Tim re-appeared before them . 
I do n't know what a juberly means -- but I heard 'em say it was for Ned . 
Mr. D. L. Parkehad conversed frequently and fully with Mrs. Dimple on the subject of Susan and Ned , as well as in relation to his own and his deceased brother 's business connections with Eugene Bainton . 
Susan had informed her that Ned was the offspring of deceased parents , who had been in the enjoyment of all the luxuries of wealth and the benefits of the best society . 
She had known Susan for many years , even before Ned was born ; she had seen her almost weekly during the whole term of their acquaintance ; and in contempt of the insinuations that the poor girl was the mother of Ned , she had rather encouraged her visits , and those of the boy , at her mansion , than repulsed them . 
But Susan had never mentioned to her the name of Ned 's parents , and even suffered her patroness to suppose , in common with all the world , that the son and heir of the deceased John Parke had been consigned to the tomb . 
This being the effect of the revelations at the mansion of Mrs. Dimple , so far as Ned and Susan were concerned , it may be readily surmised that a corresponding change of sentiment was experienced in regard to the characters of their persecutors . 
He succeeded , however ; and both the lady and her daughter , convinced that the welfare , and it might be the safety of Ned , depended upon a strict adherence to the line of policy pointed out by the aged and experienced lawyer , promised faithfully to be governed by his counsels . 
He had likewise informed his fair auditors of the contemplated marriage of Susan , and of the purpose to remove Ned to the school at Summerton . 
The amused mistress was almost as gay as her daughter Alice ; and the gray-haired lawyer vied with Master Ned in innocent merriment . 
Alice had Ned to repeat over and over again many of the particulars of his escape from the clutches of the little old woman , who , though not willing for him to depart , yet persisted in calling him an intruder . 
And if she wept at the narration of his perils and sufferings , and turned pale at the mention of the horrible spectacle he beheld in the adjoining room , yet she could not avoid laughing heartily at his mimicry of the old woman 's speech , and imitation of her gestures when standing in the snow . 
But honest Tim , indignant Tim , conceiving the idea that all his mishaps , and all Ned 's sufferings , were owing to the silly tongue of Betty , who had poured such a torrent of information into the eager ears of Mallex and Bainton , only returned her enthusiastic greeting with coldness , and had even turned his back upon her . 
It was your tongue that night which sent me off after a book that never was nowhere , and that let the cat out of the bag to Mr. Mallex , who went and carried away poor Ned . 
But when a bad thing 's done , what difference does it make , whether one knew what she was doing or not ? 
`` I pray you , '' said Mr. Parke , `` to look and act , if possible , as you would have done , had you been kept in ignorance of everything relating to the history of Ned . '' 
`` Whither did he go ? 
Is he to return ? '' 
`` He has gone to the west to trace your footsteps -- '' `` Hah ! 
And , as I learn his family do not expect him to return for many months , it is probable that he will traverse the plains , and collect evidence of every transaction . '' 
She indulged no apprehension that other scenes , and different circumstances , and new favorites , might diminish her affection for Ned Lorn . 
On the contrary , when urged by her scholar-lover , who as usual had no correct ideas of practical economy , to expend certain sums in the purchase of articles which might be dispensed with , she still repeated her old motto , with a slight variation , `` weca n't afford it ; remember Ned . '' 
But poor Ned himself had been rendered very unhappy , in the midst , too , of his joyous anticipations at the near approach of the nuptials of Susan , and his removal from the city . 
Mallex , his evil genius , had concluded to prepare a written version of Susan 's conduct and Ned 's spurious pretensions , with many embellishments designed to shield the guilty and cover the innocent with odium . 
Ned had the presence of mind not to mention what he had seen to Susan ; but he placed the paper in the hands of Mr. Mulvany , who regarded the statement as a mere bagatelle . 
He said that if the story were true , it would be a serious and sinful matter for the guilty ones ; but being false , as he and Ned both knew it to be , why should they pay any regard to it ? 
He advised Ned to destroy the paper and say nothing about it , and not to think of it himself . 
Ned had already read too many books , and mingled with too many people , to be insensible to the effects of such a calumny . 
He had not been endowed with the Christian fortitude , the philosophic nonchalance , that Mr. Mulvany could boast . 
Several of the boys with whom , for their notorious bad characters , Susan would never permit Ned to associate , had now their revenge . 
They never suffered him to pass , or passed themselves within his hearing , without taunting him as a pretender , and as one claiming to be the son of respectable parents . 
Ned with difficulty restrained himself from resenting such insults in a summary manner . 
He had the inclination to do it ; but was withheld by his respect for Mr. Mulvany , who charged him to pay no attention to such annoyances . 
Thus was Ned 's anticipated happiness to be mingled with painful anxieties . 
She and Ned had likewise become attached to many of the old articles they had been so long accustomed to see about the house ; and although they might be worthless in themselves , they determined not to part with them , for old acquaintance sake . 
Mr. Parke , Ned Lorn , Mrs. Dimple , Alice and Tim , were the witnesses . 
Mulvany , his bride , and Ned , entered a hackney coach and were driven down to the river . 
Ned was pale and silent -- but he could not be long cast down in Susan 's presence . 
She exerted all her powers to dissipate his mysterious dejection , and succeeded . 
In her estimation Ned was still the mere child , his desires bounded by considerations of mere personal security . 
It was in this school that Ned Lorn had received the first lesson . 
The baleful shadows mingling with the sunlight of his young existence , if they threw upon his brow a `` pale cast of thought , '' did not subdue him . 
His energies , so far from being repressed , were eagerly quivering for an opportunity to assert their capacity . 
He had done nothing to deserve the frowns and condemnation of the world ; but he might accomplish something to merit its admiration . 
This was his hope ; this his object ; this his determination . 
No father , no mother , no relative ; none whom he might claim as his kindred . 
What was there for him to do but to repay the kindness of Susan , and of his limited circle of friends ? 
And how might this be done but by the exertion of his energies of body and mind ? 
He resolved to make every effort in his power . 
Oh , thought he , how sweet will be the tasks which others deprecate ! 
How impatient was he to begin ! 
There were fitful glimpses , besides , of another bright thought in the ambitious heart of Ned . 
Might he not win the approbation and secure the lasting esteem of Alice ? 
He was too young to be in love . 
The tender passion celebrated by poets had not yet throbbed within his bosom . 
She had been the only child of her sex with whom he had associated . 
Hers was not an earthly , but a celestial image , which mingled in his dreams . 
He had scarcely ever beheld her face without being greeted by a smile ; and he could understand by the expression of her eyes that the innocent affection he felt was reciprocated . 
Ned most admired the garden , which extended back more than two hundred feet , and was some twenty in width . 
It was in comparison a paradise to anything he had hitherto beheld . 
cried he , espying her looking at him from a window above , `` here is where I shall desire to take my exercise . 
A moment after Ned 's presence was desired in the parlor . 
Ned found Mr. and Mrs. Mulvany seated on either side of an elderly gentleman , who seemed to address them frankly , and in tones of great kindness . 
There was a benevolent smile upon his lip , but something resembling an expression of sadness in his penetrating eye . 
`` This is Ned , is it not ? '' 
he asked , being the first to notice the boy 's entrance . 
`` Ned , this is the president . '' 
Every word that fell from his lips seemed to be engraven upon the memory of Ned , who was , while he listened , entirely oblivious of all other things . 
Ned was charmed with the routine of his new existence , and Susan was perfectly happy . 
So perfectly had Ned imbibed his early lessons , so completely did he comprehend the object and application of the rules , that it was rather a pleasure than a labour to conduct him onward and upward in the scholastic ascent . 
And Ned grew in stature while his mind expanded in learning . 
He had no serious quarrels , and but few differences of opinion with his fellows . 
Obedient , intelligent , and perfectly amiable , he won the friendly regard of all who knew him . 
But still , at times , a mournful expression of the eye and a melancholy cast of the countenance , attested that the shaft which had pierced his young heart had not been , and perhaps could never be , extracted . 
These , however , were but fitful shadows sweeping along his peaceful horizon . 
He strove to dispel them , and almost always succeeded . 
If he could not laugh quite as heartily as some of his companions on the green , at least he had the art to promote their hilarity . 
His inventive genius originated new amusements for them , and they were ever such as obtained the sanction and approbation of the attending teachers . 
Nor had his promise to labour in Susan 's garden been forgotten . 
The little space of earth had yielded under his culture a most astonishing amount of fruit and vegetables . 
And besides such exercises as these , he had maintained a weekly correspondence with his uncle , and an irregular one with Tim . 
`` Angling , '' said Ned , with a kind look . 
Ned smiled , and continued to cast his line . 
And truly he met with no success . 
Nevertheless he evinced no impatience , being resolved to try the experiment fairly . 
Putting , down an old bag which had been thrown across his shoulder , he snatched the rod from the yielding hand of Ned , and whipped the line over the water . 
`` There goes the lash , '' he continued , seeing the hook and fly alight upon the surface some fifty feet out in the stream . 
He cracked his whip again , saying : `` Get up there , shad ! 
`` You whipped the hook off , '' said Ned . 
`` Yes , '' said Ned , having by this time put on another hook . 
`` I have no more , '' said Ned . 
Saying this he untied his bag and pulled forth a large black cat which had a stone fastened to its neck . 
said Ned , recognizing his own cat , which had been brought from the city . 
Where did you find him ? '' 
said Ned , cutting the string with his penknife . 
Returning , and without uttering a word , he aimed a blow with his fist at Ned 's face . 
Springing aside , Ned escaped it . 
And he did go . 
Making a furious rush at Ned -LRB- who sprang aside -RRB- he fell head foremost into the river . 
Ned immediately held out his rod , which his antagonist seized , and by this means was extricated from his perilous position . 
asked Ned , slightly smiling . 
But before he could execute his purpose , the president himself , and Mr. Parke , the aged lawyer , who had been observing them at a short distance , advanced . 
Mr. Parke embraced Ned , and called him his worthy nephew . 
Ned , what would you have done , if we had not shown ourselves , and he had continued the assault ? '' 
`` I think I should have defended myself ; and I might have grown as angry as he was . '' 
and you would have vanquished him , I have no doubt . '' 
The president made no comment ; and Ned , hitherto in doubt , inferred that he would have certainly been justifiable in beating such an enemy . 
And from the estimate made by Persever , it was certain that even in the event of Ned Lorn being unable to establish his claim to that portion of the proceeds rightfully belonging to his father ; and if Bainton and Mallex should succeed in keeping possession of it , still the amount of capital invested in the adventure by Mr. D. L. Parke , together with his share of the profits , and the interest which had accrued , would not fall far short of the handsome sum of & dollar ; 100,000 . 
`` Now , Ned , we 'll be rich in spite of them , '' said Mr. Parke , slapping his nephew on the shoulder , when he had imparted the above information . 
`` I hope they have not found out my place of abode , '' said Ned . 
He may be one of their instruments , Ned . 
If you see him again , mark him well . '' 
Ned was met at the door by Alice and her mother . 
Each of them took him by the hand , and greeted him very cordially . 
She was delighted to meet with Ned , and she said so . 
And he declared that he had thought of her very often , dreamt of her not unfrequently , and was continually hoping he might be permitted to see her again . 
But if she had not come to Summerton , he thought there never would have been an opportunity , as he could not go to the city . 
`` It is true , Ned , '' said Susan , smiling , and detecting something resembling an expression of incredulity in the face of the boy . 
This was joyful news for Ned . 
It was the happiest day of his life . 
He had never received so hearty a greeting and such warm attentions before from Mrs. Dimple . 
Nor had he before heard such endearing terms as brother and sister , in reference to himself and Alice . 
The truth was , Mr. Parke 's revelations of Ned 's prospects had not been without their effect on the discerning widow . 
And if the brotherly affection which she attributed to Ned , should deepen into a more tender passion , why , what was there in it that a mother might object to ? 
Thefew days intervening before the commencement of the session were days of bliss to Ned and Alice . 
Although Susan or Mr. Mulvany , and often both , accompanied Alice and Ned in their rambles , the delighted young companions never experienced the slightest restraint imposed on their innocent prattle . 
But the condition of Mr. Mulvany not being understood by Ned and Alice , did not trouble them with painful forebodings of the future . 
There was but one dark shadow which flitted athwart the vision of Ned , during this , the brightest period of his young existence . 
It was the scowling individual who had attracted the attention of his uncle on the day he visited Summerton . 
He never addressed a word to Ned ; but seemed to be ever watching in the vicinity of Susan 's dwelling . 
In his solitary rambles , Ned had never met with him ; it was always near the dwelling that he crossed his path . 
He had seen him standing opposite after nightfall , with his eyes elevated to the second story . 
These were questions often asked by Susan , to whom Ned communicated all his suspicions . 
However , both Ned and Mulvany had seen the stranger once or twice in company with the butcher 's boy , of pugnacious notoriety . 
This was at least a circumstance sufficient to convince them that he meditated no good to any one . 
And it was determined that one of the constables of the town should have his attention directed towards so suspicious a person . 
The letters which Mr. Parke had deposited with Ned , were gone ! 
Ned and Susan thought differently , although they allowed the reasoning of their benevolent friend to be quite correct . 
Ned , however , was advised to write his uncle an account of the occurrence immediately . 
He did so , and placed it in the post-office himself . 
This , together with the remembrance that he was a companion of the one on whom suspicion rested , made Susan and Ned believe he had participated in the crime . 
Several days elapsed before any reply to Ned 's letter was received . 
The reason might have been known , if they had taken the papers ; but since the publication of the slanderous letter of Mallex , which had so deeply wounded Ned -- although it had been inserted and paid for as an advertisement -- the family had dispensed with the modicum of daily information supplied by the journals . 
It was brought by Tim , and it was evidently not superscribed by Ned 's uncle . 
Susan and Ned , too eager to exchange salutations and greetings with Tim , to think of the probable subject matter of the letter , suffered it to lie unopened for some minutes on the table , where Tim had thrown it down with some violence . 
Ned could not avoid smiling . 
Here he gave himself another cruel twinge . 
Ned looks better . 
Dang it , how he grows ! 
`` She can afford it , '' said Ned , smiling . 
he exclaimed , seeing Ned take it up , being in the act of breaking the seal . 
`` Ned do n't do it , yet awhile . 
`` Perhaps the letter will explain everything , '' said Ned , once more intent on breaking the seal . 
`` If you please , Ned , do n't ! '' 
In truth , Susan and Ned were the only ones who might really boast of some degree of composure . 
Ned 's hand was quite steady , and his countenance firm . 
He had passed through so many trials , and had pondered so deeply on the distressing events and circumstances of his life , that he seemed to be prepared for any new vicissitude that might occur . 
`` Tim , '' said he , `` tell me that my uncle is well , and I care not what else may have happened , or can happen . 
`` Oh , Ned , I -- I -- ca n't ! '' 
`` Is he sick -- dead ? '' 
I did n't think you could be so cruel to poor Ned . '' 
The attendance of Ned , he thought , would have been impolitic and unnecessary . 
He would consult with others , learned in the law , and ascertain whether the probability of success , under all the circumstances , would warrant proceedings in behalf of Ned . 
He feared , however , it was a desperate case . 
If Bainton and Mallex , -LRB- now avowed partners , -RRB- would be content to relinquish the share justly due to Mr. D. L. Parke , retaining undisputed possession of Mr. John Parke 's proportion of the capital and profits , he thought Ned should not hesitate to close with them . 
He would , when the effect of the recent sad occurrences had passed away , resume the subject , and continue the correspondence with his young friend . 
He concluded by stating that another difficulty had arisen by reason of the omission of his aged legal friend , to execute a will . 
From the papers and memoranda found on his table , it was evidently his intention to write his will about the time of his death . 
Thus , it was supposed , he had some premonitions of his approaching dissolution . 
These memoranda furnished sufficient evidence to believe it was his intention to leave whatever fortune he possessed or might lay claim to in future , to his `` nephew Edward Lorn Parke . '' 
But , unfortunately , the intention of the deceased had not been consummated , and it was not clear what disposition would now be made of the several thousand dollars found to his credit in one of the banks . 
An administrator would be appointed by the proper court , and he -LRB- Persever -RRB- would still watch over the interests of Ned . 
If none such should come forward within a sufficient space of time , then the field would be left clear for them , -LRB- Ned and his counsel , -RRB- and as there were no indications of a purpose on the part of Eugene to claim the money belonging undisputedly to Mr. D. L. Parke , and his legal representatives , he thought he perceived the means of opening a way , -LRB- provided they recovered the money in bank , -RRB- and without exciting the suspicions of the enemy , to the ultimate attainment of the great object they had been pursuing . 
And in the meantime he advised Ned to remain where he was , if Susan was still able and disposed to keep him with her . 
`` Never -- never shall you leave me , Ned ! '' 
It was for you , Ned -- your uncle gave it to me for you , and you shall have it . '' 
`` I do not want money , Susan , '' said Ned , with a pale brow , but a brave lip . 
`` Adhere to that idea , Ned , '' said Mr. Mulvany , and you will be happy . 
`` In a pinch , '' said Ned , half smiling . 
`` But it 'll be more , Ned . 
`` No , Ned ! '' 
Only let me have a crust and a few clothes , until my education be completed -- '' `` Ned is in the right , Susan , '' said Mr. Mulvany . 
He will not work as you do , though . 
He has been blessed with more than ordinary intellectual powers , which , when cultivated properly , may enable him to repay you all . 
He has the resolution , and it would be a pleasure for him to do it . 
I regret I shall not witness the success I predict for him , '' added Mr. Mulvany , with a sigh . 
asked Ned . 
They were interrupted by the entrance of the postman with a letter for Ned . 
said Tim , interrupting Ned , who was reading the extraordinary epistle aloud . 
Here , Ned , '' he continued , producing the note written by Mallex on Christmas eve , which he had picked up in the stock-jobber 's office , `` look at this ! 
You can find it in time for him to leave you somewhere between nine and ten o'clock , ca n't you ? 
`` You wo n't go , Ned , '' asked Susan . 
Ned was rapidly becoming versed in some of the deepest lessons of the world , and he was to be no inapt scholar . 
`` Do n't even write to him , Ned ! '' 
said Ned , `` I 'm sorry I ca n't laugh . 
just when I began to love him as a good uncle should be loved ! '' 
The dejected looks and mournful tone of Ned , brought tears to the eyes of all . 
`` And his letters are in our possession , after all the trouble of writing them , '' responded Mallex . 
`` And the one to whom his precious revelations were made , has opportunely departed to that bourne whence no traveller returns ! '' 
`` Ned , alone , remains . 
He has not yet answered my letter . '' 
`` He will not answer it . 
An amicable adjustment might be suggested , which his client , Ned Lorn , could embrace . 
There is no heir either in esseor in posse.In short , sir , we are in a situation to bid defiance to the whole world -- unless , '' he added in a very low tone , `` some distant relative of the deceased -- other than this Ned -- could be produced , which might be easily done if you and I were to go in quest of him . '' 
`` Ned Lorn 's . 
We think we can prove he is the son of John Parke , and the nephew and heir of D. L. Parke . '' 
`` In Ned Lorn 's . '' 
`` Ned Lorn 's ! '' 
`` And can you suppose , Mr. Persever , that we intend to lie still and suffer you to establish Ned Lorn 's right to that money ? 
`` I was not referring to any legal claim , '' said Ned 's friend . 
But it might not be the worst policy for you to confess to me what you know -- what I am sure you know -- that Ned Lorn is the legitimate son and heir of John Parke . '' 
I have made the declaration in your presence that Ned Lorn is the rightful heir of John Parke , his father , and of D. L. Parke , his uncle ; and that you wrongfully , criminally , withhold his inheritance . '' 
Ned was with her still , a tall young man , a fine scholar , and exceedingly poor , for his fortune was yet withheld from him . 
When it was ascertained that nothing could be obtained , through the promptings of justice , from Bainton and Mallex , and that the tribunals of the country would not avail him in his just demand , Ned had determined to quit the college , and perhaps the town , and go in quest of some sort of employment by which he might earn an honest livelihood . 
He informed Ned that when his deceased uncle was in Summerton -LRB- at the time he appeared on the margin of the river and rescued him from the assaults of the butcher 's boy -RRB- he had deposited with him a certain sum of money . 
No demand was made , and Ned had graduated with honour . 
A situation as teacher was tendered Ned in the institution , and he had this kind proposition under consideration at the time when the thread of his history is resumed . 
It was the beginning of a vacation , and hence he had several weeks to meditate upon the matter . 
But the anguish of poverty was not the only pang experienced by Ned . 
He was , or imagined himself to be , deeply , hopelessly , in love with Alice . 
He had not seen her , however , since the completion of her education . 
The loss of Ned 's fortune , by the death of his uncle , rendering it an ineligible match , Mrs. Lonsdale dismissed the matter from her mind , and fondly supposed that her simple determination was equivalent to an extinction of the project . 
Cupid seemed to have done his work , to have consummated his mischief , and Ned Lorn , the sighing lover , often wandered alone along the green margin of the river , or traversed the solitudes of the meadows and silent woods , recalling in fancy the bright form which had so frequently accompanied him thither , and listening in imagination to the music of her words . 
Every object , however insignificant , that had ever arrested her attention , whether animate or inanimate , whether bird , insect , tree or pebble , was hallowed in his memory . 
And with such mementoes around him , he penned many a sonnet for the village paper , which he knew she regularly perused every week . 
This was now his only means of direct communication . 
Nor that Ned , with his erect , tall stature , his high forehead , restless eagle-eye , and pale , though animated face , should be invited to the quiet little parties of the rich dowagers and aristocratic families in retirement , who were pleased with the society of the young and the gifted . 
And it must not be denied that Ned was highly gratified at their delicate attentions ; and had it not been for his smitten heart , his p620-163 vulnus immedicabile , he might have chosen a partner among them , and been comfortably settled for life -- if not a matrimonial partner -- at least a partner at whist . 
The former did not on any occasion choose to recognize Ned as an acquaintance ; but the latter had of late evinced quite a different disposition . 
When Ned was in the city , Eugene not only sought to encounter him in a friendly manner in the street , but had on one occasion pressed him in an urgent and serious manner to visit him at his house . 
Ned 's conduct was reserved and circumspect , rather than defiant and passionate . 
He declined the invitation in respectful terms , and passed on without a desire to prolong the conversation . 
It was during the last vacation , and while he still had under consideration the offer of the principal of the institution , that Ned accompanied one of the resident dowagers to the city , at her special request . 
She had procured for him a card of invitation to the magnificent and almost regal entertainment to be given that evening , by the celebrated Mrs. R -- , whose boundless wealth and ambition to vie with the most successful patronesses in either hemisphere , had made her name familiar in aristocratic cirles in Europe , and secured its commemoration in the traditions of the city as effectually as had been the rich Athenian 's . 
Having parted with his complaisant companion at the mansion of one of her acquaintances in the west end of the city , Ned was hastening in the direction of the more humble dwelling of his legal friend , when he was accosted by his old acquaintance in Pecan alley -- Tom Denny . 
`` Ned Lorn ! '' 
exclaimed Ned , surveying the enormous protuberance between the young man 's shoulders . 
`` I think so , Ned . 
`` I did , Ned -- Mr. Job Mallex . '' 
Ned , he never will let me go ! 
When I get positive -- because I am independent -- he cools down in a minute , and agrees to everything I say . 
He 's a tyrant to everybody else ; but they say I am his master . 
He will abuse me , and curse me ! 
but then he always submits in the end . 
Now was n't it a lucky thing for me that he broke my back ? '' 
`` I ca n't agree with you , Tom , '' said Ned , shaking his head . 
`` Ned ! '' 
`` I understand , Ned . 
He 's been your enemy , and is yet . 
I hear him and Mr. Bainton speak about you very often . 
`` Good bye , '' said Tom , seeing Ned was about to leave him . 
When Ned drew near the residence of his legal friend , he was somewhat surprised to meet him in company with Eugene Bainton , and apparently engaged in an earnest conversation . 
After greeting Persever very warmly , Ned permitted Bainton to take his reluctant hand . 
`` Ned , '' said Eugene , `` I have long been a sufferer on your account . 
exclaimed Ned , throwing up his arms , and speaking in such a vehement manner as to attract the attention of persons in the street . 
continued Ned . 
asked Ned . 
continued Ned , in a passionate tone . 
`` Ned -- no ! 
said Persever , who supposed from Ned 's contracted brow and quivering lip , that he was about to utter some irritating reply . 
he continued , `` I am glad we met . 
Eugene pressed the hand of Persever , and touching that of Ned , departed without making any answer . 
When he had gone several minutes , Persever , who had thrown himself back in his chair and closed his eyes , started up , laughing loudly , and exclaimed : `` Ned , the devil who has been working against us , is about to be overthrown at last ! 
Ned , my boy ! 
`` If I have character , '' said Ned , `` the fortune might contribute to my happiness -- but not without . '' 
Remember , Ned -- while life lasts it is not too late to repent , or to repair an injury -- and that all just men must forgive . '' 
Again the murderess , Mrs. Sutly , confronted Mallex in his own parlour . 
What if she should establish the legitimacy of Ned Lorn ? 
We can pay Ned Lorn the amount of principal and interest that might be claimed by him as the representative of his father and uncle , and still be rich . 
We can settle with Ned , separate , still be rich , and what is better , be happy . '' 
And if Ned 's legitimacy be proven or admitted , you shall be exempted from molestation . '' 
I am intimate with Ned Lorn , and am invited to visit him at Mr. Persever 's house , while he stays in the city . 
And Ned Lorn , with no symptoms of trepidation on his pale , composed face , and no misgiving as to the validity of his right to associate upon an equality with the proudest of those present , entered the spacious mansion with the high-bred dowager , Mrs. Sword , clasping his manly arm . 
Mrs. S. was intimately acquainted with hundreds of the elite who were present on that occasion , and it seemed to be a special purpose on her part to make known the merits of her youthful gallant to as many of her friends as possible . 
For this Ned had not been prepared , and all his native immobility had to be brought in requisition to withstand with composure the many unexpected compliments that assailed him . 
He learned to his surprise that his sonnets had been copied into papers he had not seen , and were admired by the poets and poetesses generally with whom he had the pleasure of meeting that evening . 
Ned was ultimately relinquished to Miss B. , who had evinced a disposition to become his chaperon . 
She was slightly his senior in years , and although she had perhaps no intention or inclination to form a matrimonial project , yet she had a passion for poets and poetry , and seemed to take pleasure in attending our hero in the rounds of the gay establishment . 
She repeated every poetical sentiment that had been met with in her reading , which might be suggested by the objects before them , or applied to any incident occurring in their presence . 
And Ned was forced to draw upon his memory for responses . 
And if Ned could not be regardless of the many eyes turned upon him as he moved along , having at his side the beautiful , the accomplished , the aristocratic and wealthy Miss B. , still he was conscious of a hitherto ungratified desire which had never been absent from his thoughts since he first resolved to be present on that memorable occasion . 
It was his wish to meet with Alice . 
He knew she was present , for Miss B. , had told him so , and had proposed to introduce him . 
And upon remarking that he was already acquainted with her , Miss B. had evinced some emotion of curiosity , inasmuch as she had just been expatiating on her beauty . 
It was when Ned was almost ready to despair , that he beheld Alice at a short distance clinging to the arm of Mr. Lonsdale , her stepfather . 
Their eyes met ; and Ned thought he had never beheld his divinity looking so beautiful . 
So deadly pale , so anxious were her looks , that Ned was painfully startled , and so completely abstracted by his conjectures , that Miss B. was almost entirely disregarded . 
Alice observed his trepidation , and averted her face . 
But his eyes never ceased to follow her from that moment . 
Every obstacle was overcome in his progress , until he found himself but a few paces in her rear , and pursuing the same direction . 
So energetic had been his progress , that Miss B. , under some pretext , supposing him to be pursuing another object , found an opportunity to withdraw , and he was left without embarrassment to direct his steps whithersoever his fancy might lead him . 
With inexpressible delight he saw Mr. Lonsdale and Alice separate from the throng , and retire towards an obscure recess . 
Ned approached . 
Alice , tell me -- tell me -- '' She had risen ; and placing her hand on his arm , he led her through an alcove into the conservatory , where amid the blossoming shrubbery and the pendent fruit jutting over their shoulders , they were enabled to converse in low murmurs for some moments , unobserved by the many other lovers engaged in similar communications . 
Ned learned that , however robust Alice might be in bodily health , she had great uneasiness of mind ; and the depression of her spirits had been so complete , that nothing but the hope of meeting him , had induced her to appear at Madame R -- 's magnificent entertainment . 
said Mrs. S. , taking Ned 's arm . 
Ned was stricken dumb at the rude occurrence , so unexpected , and so contrary to his wishes . 
He stood gazing at the receding form of Alice , and meditating a fearful retribution for Mr. Lonsdale . 
If Ned should call the capitalist to an account , it would be nothing more than one of those little interludes in the drama of existence , with which she had been made familiar during the lifetime of her husband . 
It so happened that Ned once more encountered Lonsdale that night . 
Ned was calm ; always pale ; but now the impersonation of deliberate resolve . 
Nevertheless he exerted himself successfully to be as gay and vivacious as ever during the remainder of the evening . 
Thenext morning at breakfast , Mr. Persever concurring , Ned decided to decline the generous proposition of the principal of the college at Summerton . 
He owned that in the existing state of his feelings , he must be utterly incompetent to discharge the duties of the responsible position to which his benevolent friend was anxious to promote him . 
And the consciousness of this fact was a source of pain and mortification , for he was aware of his great indebtedness to his reverend friend and protector . 
Rising from the table , Ned retired to his room and wrote a formal note to Mr. Lonsdale . 
Ned then determined to return to Summerton that day , and await the response of Mr. Lonsdale . 
He said that however much he wished to believe Ned was his nephew , upon a deliberate reconsideration of all the testimony pro and con , he was under the necessity of awaiting further developments before he could take any decided step in the business . 
In a postscript , however , he desired Mr. Persever to call at his office that day at noon , and to bring Ned with him . 
He said he felt an affection for the young man , and whether they were relatives or not , he had a disposition to serve him . 
said Ned , `` I will write him a note , rejecting with scorn his offensive overture ! '' 
`` No , Ned ! '' 
Ned departed for the boat , with his carpet bag in his hand , and Persever proceeded to deliver the letter to Mr. Lonsdale . 
At the warf Ned encountered Mr. Radley . 
He had not forgotten his face or burly person , although he had not seen him since the memorable morning that Tim and himself were arraigned as prisoners before the mayor . 
Ned could not , in common civility , refuse the proffered hand extended towards him in full view of so many people then passing into the boat . 
The words of Ned had never ceased to echo in his ears from the moment they had been uttered . 
Might he not avail himself of the subterfuge , that Ned Lorn was no gentleman ? 
No , he had been associated with the most respectable guests at the hotelof Madame R -- , and had accompanied thither the widow of a gallant officer who had been celebrated for his duels . 
`` I hope , sir , there is nothing seriously annoying in Ned 's letter , '' observed Persever . 
`` I hope his proposition may not prove disagreeable to any party . '' 
I am here as the friend of Ned Lorn , or rather of Mr. Parke . '' 
Ned , naturally , is as peaceable as a lamb . 
Dismiss this nonsense of Ned 's from your mind . 
Persever retired to his office , smiling , but yet a little displeased at Ned for not confiding everything to him . 
He stated that Ned 's old friend , Tom Denny , was to wait upon him during the evening of the day upon which his letter was written , and it was probable some important information might be imparted by him . 
Ned then determined to execute a project he had long been meditating , viz : to go to New York , and treat with a bookseller for the publication of his romance . 
He would become an avowed author , and make a fortune with his pen , while the law delayed to do him justice . 
So completely had this idea taken possession of his imagination , that he really experienced , at times , an indifference in regard to the realization of the splendid inheritance which had seemed to be almost within his grasp . 
If fame and fortune could be achieved by the magic of his pen , he concluded that Alice would necessarily follow , and be comprehended in his noble triumphs . 
Susan was Ned 's only confidant in the full sense of the word . 
His heart was open to his early , and often his only friend and protector . 
If she wept with joy at his prospect of obtaining a fortune , not too confidently held out by his legal correspondent , she smiled with encouraging anticipation of his success as an author . 
And now Ned walked the streets of the great city . 
The first day he determined to do nothing more than reconnoitre the premises of the score of publishers and booksellers enumerated in a schedule which he held in his hand . 
He likewise carried in his pocket a map of the city , to guard against being lost . 
The first thing that struck him as being somewhat remarkable , was that every one he met seemed to be in a prodigious hurry . 
At first he supposed they might be hastening to a conflagration in the vicinity ; but then he soon perceived others moving with the same celerity in the opposite direction , and indeed in every direction . 
He observed likewise that every one he met , male or female , without exception , cast a glance at him , and looked him in the face , too , as if they knew him to be a stranger , or wondered why he did n't run like the rest . 
Ned resolved to pursue his own course in his own way . 
Taking a deliberate aim , he succeeded in crossing Broadway , near Barnum 's Museum . 
This accomplished in safety , he smiled at the recollection of a paragraph he had seen in one of the papers , which asserted that it required talents to accomplish the feat . 
While pausing on the pavement , and undetermined which course to take , amid the hum of human voices and the roar of carriages , he was thus accosted by a man in genteel dress . 
asked Ned . 
said Ned . 
The stranger stared at him a moment , and then entered the shop . 
Ned found the localities of most of the publishers on his list . 
But , having left his manuscript at his lodgings , he did not that day make known the existence of the prize which was to fall to the lot of one of them on the morrow . 
In the evening he returned to his boarding house with wearied feet and an aching head . 
He had walked farther and seen more than he had ever before done in the same length of time . 
Nevertheless , before he closed his eyes that night , he glanced over his manuscript again with great affection , as if he were about to part with it forever . 
He made no additional alterations or corrections ; for he had ceased to find anything which he had the ability so improve . 
He had , perhaps , examined every page half a dozen times . 
He sallied forth the next morning with his manuscript under his arm , and found his way without difficulty to one of the houses he had inspected the day before , and which was the first on his list . 
When he entered , he asked for the principal partner ; and was shown the way to his closet , a retreat quite different from the fabled one , from which there were no returning foot-prints . 
The grave publisher , although surrounded by voluminous evidences of his calling , returned the respectful salutation of the young author , and seemed to regard him with an anxiety to have his business stated promptly , and in the most explicit terms . 
It was a moment of agony for Ned . 
His knees trembled , his forehead was moistened , and his tongue hardly dared to utter his proposition . 
asked the publisher , after waiting some moments for his visitor to speak . 
`` Yes , sir , '' said Ned . 
He did not interrogate the young man as to his experience and success in authorship , or even ask his name . 
He had reason to suppose that if the applicant had ever written a successful book , it would have been announced by him at once , or made known by letter . 
`` If you see proper , '' he continued , `` to leave your work with us , it will be read , and if approved , we can then settle the terms upon which it is to be published . '' 
And when Ned bowed and turned to depart , there was a pleasant smile on the lips of the publisher . 
He thought it a much more agreeable way of disposing of the matter , than to be under the necessity of keeping the young man a long time in suspense , and then in all probability to be obliged to decline the publication . 
As Ned retreated from the establishment , an incident in the life of Defoe occurred to him , where the author of Robinson Crusoe was seen in dejection , retiring from the bookstore of the famous Curll , with his rejected manuscript under his arm . 
Ned thought that if his work should become popular , it would affix an indelible reproach upon the memory of the house from which he had just made his exit . 
But no better success awaited him at the other houses . 
He applied to several firms , but effected no arrangement with any of them . 
At the last place he entered , he met a literary character with whose name he had been made familiar . 
He was an author and critic , and one who had undertaken to matriculate young authors on reasonable terms . 
When Ned heard his name mentioned by some one , he looked up , and perceived the eyes of Mr. Shallow Skimmer fixed upon him . 
asked Mr. Skimmer , who had heard the conversation between Ned and the bookseller . 
Indeed he accompanied Ned all the way to his lodgings , conversing in the kindest and most unreserved manner . 
He declared his intention to serve him , and in return learned the young author 's name , his place of residence , and present circumstances -- Ned , however , omitting to mention anything of his past history or future expectations . 
asked Skimmer , when they were seated in Ned 's room looking at the schedule of publishers ' names . 
Ned placed it on the table before him . 
`` I am glad it meets your approbation , '' said Ned ; `` and I shall be happy to adopt your suggestions in regard to any alterations -- '' `` Mere phraseology -- it can be done when we see the proofs . 
`` I can not undertake it , then , '' said Ned , promptly . 
`` I am rejoiced , sir , to hear that my sonnets have merited your applause , '' said Ned , blushing deeply , and really delighted to learn that his verses were admired by the renowned literateur.And they had been sincerely admired by him ; so much so , that some of them had been inserted in a British periodical , for which he wrote , along with specimens of his own composition . 
`` My dear Ned ! '' 
When left to his solitary reflections , Ned found himself in such a state of literary exhilaration , that his eyes were filled with tears of joy . 
He blessed the hour that threw Skimmer in his way , and the propitious fates that made him his friend and adviser . 
Punctual to the time appointed , the experienced author and critic knocked at Ned 's door , and they met again with mutual pleasure . 
It may not , as a whole production , be worthy your approbation , '' said Ned . 
`` It follows , then , I suppose , as a general rule , '' said Ned , `` that works of merit , if they do not happen to be advertised extensively , and handsomely puffed , are liable to failure ? '' 
said Ned , abstractedly , and mentally resolving not to become an author by profession . 
And after wringing Ned 's hand very heartily , Mr. Shallow Skimmer descended to the street , a richer man , poor fellow ! 
Inan hour Ned was across the river , and in three or four more he was in Summerton . 
He entered Susan 's cottage with rather a dejected countenance . 
`` Well , Ned , '' said Susan , `` I hope you have succeeded according to your utmost wishes . 
`` You will be , Ned , when you are older . '' 
-- '' `` Oh , Ned ! 
For a long time Ned enjoyed in silence the inspiring influence of the scene ; and in his meditations upon the future , it occurred to him that the dark vapour of mystery and wrong which had so long enveloped him , might likewise be providentially removed , and be finally succeeded by years of prosperity and happiness , as the storm had been succeeded by sunshine . 
When the sun had descended to the verge of the horizon , and the birds had ceased their tuneful lays , Ned drew forth a flute from his pocket , an instrument he was in the habit of amusing himself with in his solitary rambles , and warbled several plaintive airs . 
Once or twice during his pauses , he thought he heard something resembling a low breathed sigh behind him . 
He sat with his face towards the river , and reclined against the trunk of the tree . 
No one could be seen on either side , and supposing it might have been merely a groundless fancy , he did not cast his eyes in any other direction . 
But when he replaced the flute in his pocket , and rose upon his feet , the sigh was repeated very distinctly , and he beheld , standing a few paces in the rear , his arms folded on his breast , a tall , pale youth , whom he had seen several times recently at church , but had not learned his name , nor where he sojourned . 
He had been much interested by the sad expression of the beautiful features of the young man , and had enquired of several of his acquaintances if they knew him , or knew anything in relation to him . 
`` Not at all , '' said Ned , with the utmost frankness . 
`` Such tunes , I believe , '' continued Ned , `` are not often practiced by the professors . 
`` It is the same in poetry , '' replied the stranger , his dark eyes flashing with enthusiasm . 
`` And , '' said Ned , catching the enthusiasm , `` that which so much absorbs the attention and commands the admiration of many of the fashionable teachers , critics and connoisseurs , is not nature , and hence is not comprehended or appreciated by the uninitiated millions . '' 
said Ned , grasping the young man 's hand . 
said Ned , still holding his new friend by the hand . 
`` I can not imagine what that was , '' said Ned , with interest . 
cried Ned , `` What letters did you find there ? '' 
Farewell , Ned . 
Mutually the meeting was regarded as a happy occurrence , and each determined to do all in his power to merit the esteem of his newfound friend . 
`` Ned ! 
Ned ! 
Oh , Ned ! '' 
cried Tim Trudge , running with all his might along the river bank , and calling for our hero at every leap . 
`` Here I am , Tim , '' said Ned , meeting him . 
`` What can he be writing about , think you , Tim ; '' said Ned , taking the letter . 
They entered , and Ned hastened to break the seal , while Susan and Tim stood at a distance , hoping to hear some good news . 
It ran thus : `` My dear Ned -- I was pained to learn the nature of your note to Mr. Lonsdale . 
Dropping the letter on the table , Ned remained for many minutes the mute victim of painful conjecture . 
`` If anything wery terrible should ever happen , Susan , '' said poor Tim , quite loud enough to be heard by Ned , `` I 'm glad I 've made money . 
Two dollars for turkies ; one and a quarter a pair for chickens ; fifteen dollars for calves , which are Betty 's -- Betty does the milking -- Oh , Mr. Ned , '' he continued , seeing a faint smile on Ned 's lip , `` I mean to take you to see Betty 's calves -- they are the fattest and the largest in the country , for their age . 
Ned will not suffer for food or clothes , even if he never recovers a particle of his fortune . '' 
`` My dear friends , '' said Ned , `` I understand you both , God will not permit such generosity to go unrewarded . 
Ned retired to his room , and wrote a brief note of explanation and apology to Mr. Lonsdale , and despatched it by the cars that evening . 
I 've heard the tales that rascal whispered through the city concerning the Parkes and that bastard , Ned Lorn . 
He did not name any of the parties ; but any reader who had heard any portion of Ned Lorn 's history , could not be at a loss to know who the denunciation was aimed at . 
But that is the chain which binds him to me . 
Ned , however , had impulsively acted upon one of its hints before weighing the consequences . 
Ned was at the wharf when the boat landed , and the first of more than a hundred passengers that stepped on board . 
During the passage down the river several of his acquaintances bowed slightly in recognition , but sought no friendly converse with him . 
The secret was revealed to poor Ned why his acquaintances avoided him ! 
He had seen the paper handed about among the passengers from Summerton , and of course there were among them one or more sufficiently acute to discover that our hero was the culpable individual aimed at . 
Ned was a man , now . 
The flush of rage that gleamed upon his face was but as the reflection of the lightning upon a distant cloud , and was gone in an instant . 
When the boat landed at the foot of Walnut street , Ned was bowed to as he passed along by but one individual , and that was old Captain Searles , the obliging and useful living index stationed there for the benefit of strangers . 
It was impossible to avoid a mutual recognition ; and Ned , although he did not desire to exchange any words with his unjust kinsman , supposed that the latter would certainly accost him in his usual conciliatory manner . 
Even this change was deeply felt by Ned , although he despised the man , and had ever repulsed his friendly advances . 
He might be his kinsman , but he could never be worthy his friendship until all the wrongs he had committed were redressed , and full restitution made . 
But this was not the last blow which fate seemed to have prepared for the victim which fortune in her capricious freaks delighted to persecute . 
When passing some of the principal stores in a fashionable street , Ned saw Mrs. Lonsdale and Alice alight from their carriage and enter one of those magnificent establishments which only the rich can afford to visit . 
They passed within a few feet of him . 
Alice had seen him before she entered . 
He accosted her . 
Ned did not dare to pursue . 
Alice was not indebted to him for any favours conferred , she had not despoiled him of anything , save , perhaps , his heart -- which could not be worth a great deal -- and even of that he might have been mistaken . 
She had a right to do as she pleased , and he would be the last person in the world to require her to behave differently . 
He strode on , and even occasionally dismissed the recollection of the painful incident from his mind in the ensuing whirlpool of his ideas . 
When he reached the office of his friend , he was met by Persever , with a smile and an open hand . 
`` Sit down , Ned , This is about the hour I expected you . 
`` I hope so , sir , '' said Ned . 
cried Ned , livid with rage . 
He alluded without hesitation to his singular position , and begged Ned , as a personal favour , that he would not mention to any one the fact that he had officiated in the capacity of a second on such an occasion . 
Ned readily assenting , there were no obstacles thrown in the way to cause a departure from the limits designated by Persever . 
It seemed that Susan had a presentiment of danger attending Ned , inasmuch as he did not explain the contents of the letter received the preceding evening so fully or so satisfactorily as was his usual custom . 
He had , moreover , been silent in regard to the letter written to Mr. Lonsdale . 
Therefore she sent for Tim at an early hour in the morning , and urged him to follow Ned in the next boat , and not lose sight of him while he remained in the city . 
On the way down the river , Tim explained sufficiently the history of Ned to enlist the sympathy of his honest neighbour , who , although he had never had any personal acquaintance with Ned , declared he was quite ready to defend him , or to serve him in any way he could . 
exclaimed Ned , `` what are you doing here ? '' 
Come , Ned , we must return to the office before we go over . '' 
`` What was that thing he had under his arm ? '' 
See here , '' he continued , very much excited , stepping into the shop , and addressing the one who had been waiting upon Persever and Ned , `` do you know who those two gentlemen was , that jist come out of here ? '' 
`` Did n't they get that box-thing one had under his arm , in here ? '' 
You 'll be guilty of shedding poor Ned 's blood . '' 
`` Who is poor Ned ? '' 
Do you think he intends to shoot himself in a duel . '' 
Let every one attend to his own business . 
if Mr. Mallex and Ned Lorn are a going to fight a duel . '' 
And we believe Mr. Mallex is a-going to try to shoot at Ned after robbin ' him of his fortin . 
But he sha n't do it , I 'll be consarned if he does ! '' 
`` Yes , and I 'll mow him down , first ! '' 
`` Ned Lorn . '' 
`` All I can say , '' replied Ned , `` is that I will be quite prepared , and very eager to stand up in your place , whenever your objection to it shall be removed . '' 
`` But , Ned , you must not be quite sure of having a gratifying interview with Alice -- '' `` I am not sure of it . 
`` Yet I will see her , '' said Ned . 
It is your poverty , Ned . 
Ned departed with a serious visage , and a determination to know , if possible , the sentiments of Alice , in regard to him , independently of the influences that surrounded her . 
He had plighted his faith in all honesty of purpose , and believed that he could never love another as he had done the companion of his childhood . 
But he was still quite young ; and he was one of those enthusiasts who did everything heartily , and with all his might ; one who advanced or receded with equal momentum . 
If the once dearest object of his heart smiled upon him , no obstacle , no danger could prevent his approach ; if she frowned , none could be more resolute in his estrangement . 
Unfortunately for his prospects , the letter he had written the preceding day had produced an effect upon the mind of Lonsdale quite the reverse of what he expected . 
That gentleman , thus relieved of the apprehension of personal peril , experienced , perhaps , a not unnatural revulsion of sentiment in regard to Ned . 
While he feared him , he respected him . 
And in consequence he lost no time in adopting such measures as would be likely to result in a complete termination of our hero 's acquaintance with any of the members of his family . 
He resolved , inasmuch as there was an intimation in Ned 's letter that he might call in person to express more fully his regrets for the silly message he had sent him , that an early day should be fixed for making a long-promised visit to some of the fashionable and aristocratic friends of his family in New York . 
And when the malicious article in the paper was read by him , he openly rallied his forces against Ned , and had the satisfaction of seeing Alice remain quite unmoved under the storm of depreciation and obloquy aimed at her friend and lover . 
Then , and never till then , did Lonsdale inform her of the hostile note which Ned had sent him by the hands of Persever . 
And such were the grounds of her conduct as described by Tim , and as witnessed by Ned in the morning . 
Ned had often met them in Chestnut street , and had , perhaps , been introduced to one or two of them ; but he paid no sort of attention to them now , as they did not seem inclined to exchange salutations . 
`` Mr. Lonsdale , '' said Ned , when they were alone , `` I desired to see you , merely to reiterate my regret -- '' `` Oh , do n't refer to that subject at all . 
As she came slowly through the long parlour towards Ned , who had risen , and whose heart palpitated audibly , she made a motion as if about to throw the paper on one of the tables , but seemed to change her mind , or rather she did not seem to have the will to acomplish her half-formed purpose . 
When she had advanced nearly to where Ned was standing , she paused , and nodded a recognition so coldly , that he , in stead of tendering his hand , merely made a formal bow . 
said she , seeing he hesitated . 
`` And if other counsellors had been wanting , '' said Ned , sarcastically , `` no doubt there would have been an abundance found in the rich and fashionable circles into which you have been conducted . 
`` Ned -- Mr. Lorn ! 
Ned turned proudly on his heel , and hastily withdrew , without casting a look behind . 
`` Ned Lorn and Mr. Job Mallex , '' said Tim . 
`` But Ned lives in Jersey , '' said Tim . 
`` Maybe it is n't Ned , but that other one , Mr. Persevere , who 's a-going to fight , '' said Timothy . 
`` It 's either him or Ned Lorn , we do n't know which . '' 
Then they directed their steps towards the office of the lawyer , knowing , as Tim expressed it , that if they could only secure Ned , he could n't be shot , even if Mallex escaped them . 
Ned and Persever stood on the extreme end of the boat , while Mallex and Fawner sat in an open carriage . 
As soon as Ned could perceive through the dust and the no less blinding effects of the horizontal rays of the sun , the posture of Mallex , he advanced towards the prostrate man to ascertain what might be the effect of the unlooked-for interruption . 
The Tims reached the wounded man , who was endeavouring to rise , assisted by Fawner , just when Ned came up . 
`` Oh , Ned , I 've got you ! '' 
cried Tim , throwing his arms around our hero , lifting him up , and striving to bear him away from the place , as he had done some years before , when Ned was but a child . 
said the suffering man , seeing Ned approach . 
Ned turned away in silence , and rejoined his principal , to whom he conveyed the intelligence that the affair had , in all probability , reached a termination for the present . 
Mr. Perseverand Ned , accompanied by the two Tims , returned from the grove to Camden . 
And so , after entrusting a note with a friend whom he chanced to meet at one of the hotels , to be delivered to his wife , he declared his intention to return with Ned to Summerton . 
The proposition was gladly received ; and Tim , when it was explained to him that both Ned and Persever were particularly liable to be arrested in the state where the challenge had been accepted , offered his house as a secure asylum . 
They arrived at Summerton just in time for tea , and made Susan very happy to see Ned alive and well , for simultaneously with their arrival came the news of the duel . 
They did not justify Ned -- all still supposing it to be our hero who had fought , and who had wounded Mallex , for so the rumour ran -- and they did not hesitate to condemn the practice of duelling ; but still they desired that everything which might be said in his favour should be heard . 
Susan had no reproaches to utter , being all joy that the affair was over , and Ned had escaped . 
Ned and Persever had agreed to answer no questions on the subject , and requested Susan not to ask them any . 
Ned resolved to find an asylum with his friend Charles Montague , at the lowly dwelling of Mrs. Kale . 
No entreaties could induce him to seek a shelter elsewhere ; and Persever acquiesced in the separation from his friend the more readily , because it was his intention to send Tim for his family and remain a few weeks in the country , where many of the voluminous documents incident to his profession could be prepared as well as in his own office . 
The stars were blinking merrily in the western sky when Ned approached the humble dwelling of the widow Kale . 
The night-hawk darted down to the path before him in quest of the fire-fly . 
On the chimney-top was perched the whipporwill , which the widow said had been his haunt at that season for many years . 
`` Ned , '' said Montague , `` you left me abruptly , or rather left the town uncourteously , which , however , might be the result of a sudden necessity . 
since I saw you last , I have learned from her own lips -- from Alice 's own lips -- that it would be incompatible -- injurious to her position and prospects -- yea , a violation of filial duty -- any longer to encourage -- '' `` Oh , Ned ! 
Yes , Ned , God has implanted the immortal spark in our bosoms . 
Yes , Ned ! 
She is rich , and surrounded by so many powerful admirers , it is not to be presumed that her heart might be won by a poor poet -- poor in purse , rich in genius -- '' `` Not so , Ned , '' said Charles , `` but with sufficient of the Castalian afflatus , I hope , to make a successful effort to achieve something worthy of being preserved . 
Did she request it , Ned ? '' 
But , Ned , that poem willbe read ! 
`` I had , however , attracted the attention of the publisher of a weekly literary paper , with whom I soon became acquainted , and for whom I am at present engaged writing his brief reviews of new books . 
Charles had perused only Ned 's sonnets , and other brief poetic effusions ; and our hero , in return for the confidence reposed in him , related how he had attempted to negotiate for the publication of his romance ; how he had failed in the attempt ; and then , almost despairing , had sent the manuscript to the publisher of a hebdomadal sheet . 
`` They tell me , '' said Ned , `` that I have genius , the creative faculty , and that I should employ it on some usefulwork , in contradistinction to poetry and romance . 
`` Yes , Ned . 
One morning , when Ned and Charles were sitting with Persever around a table filled with books , time-stained parchments , and other insignia of the legal profession , they beheld Tim and Timothy approaching the house , with evidences of satisfaction in their faces . 
said Ned , much interested in the subject they had been discussing . 
`` We 'll be there presently , Tim , '' said Ned ; `` as soon as we finish looking over some old documents we have here . '' 
said Ned , who had taken up the old lids of the bible , and had been reading the inscriptions written on the fly-leaves by different hands , `` here is something which has made a thrill run through me . 
`` Stop , stop , Ned ! '' 
See how composed Montague is . 
`` Take Mr. Persever 's advice , Ned , '' said Charles . 
`` Of course he will . 
`` Oh yes , '' said Ned , pale , though not trembling quite so violently as he had been doing a moment before . 
`` It was not the fortune that excited me , '' said Ned , `` but the joy , the felicity of knowing that Susan and I were relatives . 
To thee , Susan -- '' `` Go on , '' said Persever , interrupting him ; `` the evidence is sufficient for that . 
Go on , Ned ; utter thanks to heaven , and praises of Susan . 
I have found something in this old bible and in the letters which has interested me , and I want to borrow them -- Not a word , Ned ; turn your back to him , '' he added aside to our hero , who was about to utter something or other which might have betrayed his ill-suppressed perturbation . 
Charles was introduced to Mrs. Persever , who soon after asked Ned in a whisper if his friend was not in dreadful health . 
Ned said he was a poet and a student , which might account for his paleness . 
But Mrs. P. said it did not satisfactorily account for his cough . 
She admired his manners , his conversation , and was pleased to have met with him . 
When the inspection was over , Mrs. P. and the kind hearted farmer permitted Persever and Ned to depart for the village , on the plea of an engagement , on condition that Montague should remain and accompany them to the premises of Timothy Hay . 
`` Do n't stop , Ned . 
`` I wo n't even utter a hint of this discovery , '' said Ned . 
Her happiness will be derived from the anticipated enjoyment of others -- '' `` Ned , have you forgotten the fable in the spelling book , wherein a certain damsel let fall her bucket of milk ? 
`` Let us seek the darkest and oldest , '' said Ned . 
exclaimed Persever , who had wandered a few paces away , seeing Ned had become pensive , and poetically meditative , forgetting in his distraction the object of their visit , and ceasing to search for old inscriptions . 
cried Ned , aroused from his reverie . 
Ned gazed some moments in silence , swayed by the reflection that he stood near the dust of one of his own kindred . 
`` This is almost what we lawyers call a `` clincher , '' Ned ! 
She ran to Ned and seized his hand . 
you have surprised me , '' said Ned , caressing the beautiful child . 
Ned introduced Persever , and then the whole party turned in the direction of the grave Elgiva had referred to . 
Neither Persever nor Ned had manifested by a look or motion a desire to divert the thoughts of the fair mourner from the subject which afforded her a melancholy pleasure . 
asked Ned . 
said Ned , warmly . 
He did so , and the young lady was surprised and pleased to learn that Ned had not fought at all , nor had he intended to fight . 
When about to separate at the gate which led into the broad thoroughfare where the cars were thundering past , Elgiva , turning suddenly to Ned , reminded him that he had not yet brought his friend Charles Montague with him , to listen to her poor music . 
`` Not yet , '' said Ned ; `` but it is my intention to do so , if I can prevail on him to accompany me . '' 
`` Mr. Persever , '' said Ned , as the two approached the residence of Susan , `` she who is the most deeply interested in this matter ; who watched over my helpless infancy ; supported me , instructed me , guarded me -- '' `` Should be informed of everything , '' said Persever . 
She sat a moment with her eyes fixed upon his open countenance , and then said : `` Ned , what has happened ? 
said Ned , `` you have been both to me . 
If there has been only one to truly sympathize -- '' `` Cease , Ned ! '' 
`` You are mistaken for once , Susan , '' said he , smiling through his tears . 
Tell me , Ned ! '' 
cried Susan , embracing Ned , in the ungovernable tempest of her emotions . 
It is Ned 's . 
It belongs to him , every cent of it . 
take the money that belongs to you , Ned ? 
If you do n't take it , there is a possibility that Ned will never enjoy any portion of it , and that I shall have no fee . '' 
`` Then I 'll give it all to Ned ! 
`` But is it not Ned 's , justly and -- '' `` I do n't deny that ; I think it is . 
Morally and religiously it is Ned 's ; but the law , I think , will give it to no one but you . '' 
Ned will explain why it is essential that our discovery be kept for the present a profound secret . 
The greatest obstacle , it occurs to me , would be the virtual relinquishment on the part of Ned of his claim to legitimacy . '' 
`` And that I am prepared to do without hesitation , '' said Ned . 
`` Ned Lorn sounds as well in my ears as Ned Lorn Parke . '' 
Do you remain here , Ned , until I write for you . 
When Susan and Ned accompanied Persever to the door , their attention was arrested by an altercation in the street , and a crowd of men and boys surrounding the disputants . 
Persever and Ned approached the scene of contention to learn the occasion of it . 
`` I want Mr. Persevere -- I want Ned Lorn , '' was heard above all the voices . 
said Ned . 
asked both Persever and Ned . 
said Ned , confronting him . 
Ned rode into the country with the two Tims , to deliver his message to Mrs. Persever , and to rejoin his friend Montague . 
Persever wrote frequently to Ned , but not for him . 
Whenever Ned visited the city all his movements were watched and duly reported . 
`` I defy all the lawyers in creation to recover a dime for Ned Lorn while the certificate of Dr. Drastic is in existence , '' replied Radley , leaning back in his chair , and elevating his right hand . 
`` Oh , I am not sure but we shall be able some day to establish nuncupative willin favour of Ned . 
His uncle was in the habit of speaking of him as his heir -- '' `` Uncle ? 
Oh , if you can make it appear that the elder Parke was his uncle , we shall submit ; and he will be the heir of his father likewise , without the necessity of a will . '' 
So Ned 's illegitimacy , as you are in the habit of terming it , will have nothing whatever to do with the matter . 
And if he recovers the estate of D. L. Parke , of course that will include John Parke 's also , for the former was undeniably the heir of the latter . '' 
Susanand Ned had been well-advised not to expect to obtain possession of the fortune of D. L. Parke immediately , and to be prepared for long delays and possibly a final disappointment . 
As it had been stipulated that Ned 's name should not appear as the author , the editor had adopted a nom de plumefor him , and the tale purported to have been written by `` Mark Mayfield . '' 
Susan alone was entrusted with the secret , and Ned was delighted to watch the changes of her countenance as she pored over the successive numbers of the paper , now shedding a tear of pity , now bursting into hilarious laughter , and always praising the production . 
It was when the tale was nearly concluded that Ned received a letter from the editor , which afforded him quite as much exquisite delight , as one announcing the recovery of a fortune would have done . 
It stated that he had several weeks previously negotiated with a publisher to issue the romance in book-form , stipulating that the author was to receive the usual per cent . 
When Ned had finished reading the letter he placed it in the hands of Susan , and watched at a distance the effect it produced . 
`` Why , Ned , '' said she , when she arrived at the conclusion , `` the book is printed , and he says it is selling famously . 
`` And that was myopinion , decidedly , '' said Ned , `` banteringly . 
cried Ned , in great excitement , glancing his eye down the columns of a literary journal which he had received at the post-office with his letter , but which had been temporarily forgotten . 
`` What , Ned ? '' 
`` Yes , Ned . '' 
`` And his friend will be in a fitting condition to sympathize with him , '' said Susan , as Ned was striding rapidly away . 
Throwing down the paper in which he had been reading his last contribution of notices of new books , he sprang forward , and seizing his friend 's hand , exclaimed : `` Ned ! 
And , Ned , '' he continued , when his friend was seated opposite , and regarding him with looks of concern , `` I have sometimes of late had seasons of gloom and depression , and was almost ready to believe I was rapidly drawing near the place of my final abode . 
said Ned , with moistened eyes , `` cease to dwell on so mournful a theme . 
`` Ah , Ned ! 
said Ned , making an effort to smile . 
It was not for the lover , Ned ; no ! 
`` And that is not the only tribute the poet has had , '' said Ned , placing the review in Montague 's hands . 
The young man , with a convulsive grasp and a trembling frame , removed his chair to the most distant window , and perused the article in silence , while Ned gazed with interest at his excited , and classically beautiful face . 
`` Have you read it , Ned ? '' 
`` You see , then , '' said Ned , with as much gravity as he could command , `` that one should never despair , so long as he deems himself capable of success . 
`` True , Ned . 
asked Ned , slightly turning aside his face , to hide the blush he felt mantling his forehead . 
But excuse me , Ned . 
Read my notice of ` The Dishonoured , ' Ned , while I peruse this review again . '' 
Saying this , Montague approached the window once more , while Ned himself , with trembling hand , seized the paper containing the notice of his own book , and retreated to the other window . 
Oh , Ned ! '' 
`` Such will be your triumph , my friend , '' said Ned . 
`` Ned , here is a volume of my poems . 
said Ned , dashing down the journal . 
`` He assails without showing what he condemns , that his readers may judge of the justice of the condemnation . 
It is ill-natured -- envious -- '' `` Do not be annoyed by it , Ned , '' said Montague , still smiling . 
`` I know the writer . 
He has recently produced a book himself which , I believe , was a failure , in spite of the most extraordinary efforts to keep it alive ; and I have since observed that he invariably sneers at the productions of others whose reputations are supposed to be within the reach of his shafts . '' 
`` Who is he ? '' 
cried Ned , turning over the pages . 
It can not be that he was ignorant of the fact that it was the same book , and that I was the author -- '' `` Be composed , Ned . 
StillSusan and Ned had nothing decisive from Persever . 
But the delay was deprived of its pain , by the unanticipated success of Ned 's novel . 
The publisher said it was mainly owing to the title , which was his work ; and , no doubt , that was the first feature which attracted public attention . 
During the progress of these events there was an occurrence of another nature , apparently insignificant in itself , but productive of unpleasant apprehensions in the minds of Ned and Susan . 
But his efforts to produce the same favourable impression on the minds of Ned and Susan , did not meet with the same degree of success . 
He had the audacity to wait upon them both , thinking , as he said , it was necessary to apologize to them also , knowing their friendship for the Tims . 
Ned still thought he had seen him somewhere under suspicious circumstances , but his memory was not clear . 
And the more effectually to win their confidence , he made repeated references to Ned Lorn , whose cause he seemed to espouse very heartily , and to unite with the Tims in bitter denunciations of the rich bankers . 
After he had thus cast his nets , the confident Dick thought he might as well be catching some fish , to use an expression of his wife , who was privy to his operations and objects . 
So he ingeniously inquired of the unsuspecting countrymen , if Ned was not then engaged in some plan to recover his fortune . 
The honest Tims did not suspect his motive ; they did not doubt the honesty of his solicitude ; but as they were not possessed of the secret themselves , they could not divulge it . 
`` And I recollect , now , '' continued Tim , with sudden animation , `` that Mr. Persevere , and Ned too , looked as well pleased as if they had found a regular will made by old Mr. Parke giving everything to Susan . 
Susan , Ned , and Charles were present , the latter pale and feeble . 
Ned 's presence was at last required by the lawyers , now increased in number -- the astute learned and experienced legal author and compiler , Mr. W -- , being recently employed . 
Perhaps Ned had suffered less from the delay on the part of the lawyers , and from the wound inflicted on his heart by the conduct of Alice , than almost any other individual under different circumstances would have experienced . 
But one thing had the power of soothing him , and it was fortunate that its potency was exercised at the particular juncture when its counteracting influences were so urgently required . 
Nor was this all ; for , inasmuch , as the book was meeting with a rapid sale , of course there were no inconsiderable profits accruing both for the publisher and author ; and hence Ned was no longer assailed by the phantom want , often at the same time the most familiar and the most depressing spirit attendant upon the sons of genius . 
Ned hastened from the wharf towards the office of his friend Persever . 
But Ned was not fated to pass unobserved . 
`` How are you , Tom ? '' 
he asked , seeing his old friend looking him full in the face . 
`` Well , Ned , pretty well , I thank you , '' was the slow , measured response . 
Tom paused , and cast a penetrating glance at Ned . 
Ned stood a few moments gazing after him . 
At first he thought he had been suddenly attracted apart , and would soon return . 
Then , concluding that his patron had corrupted his heart , and transformed him into a subservient instrument , he proceeded on his way , congratulating himself that he had not definitely hinted at the enterprise then in meditation against the great bad man . 
Ned found all three of the lawyers at the office of his friend , and he was introduced to Mr. B -- and Mr. W -- as the author of `` The Dishonoured ! '' 
Ned blushed , and looked in great surprise at Persever , while the old lawyers smiled . 
`` It is not without a meaning , Ned . 
It was then announced to Ned , who was almost speechless with astonishment , that the first step to be taken was to have a copy of his book sent to the secretary ! 
And , moreover , the publisher was to be authorized and requested to intimate to the Hon. Mr. Mallex , that Mark Mayfield was no other than Ned Lorn . 
asked Ned . 
`` In short , Ned , '' said Persever , `` we have everything in a state of preparation to commence the action . 
`` I will endeavour to execute the work assigned me , '' said Ned . 
asked Ned , jocosely . 
You are to look resolutely composed , determinedly complacent -- '' `` Ned , have you a copy of Lavater ? '' 
`` Well , '' said Ned , `` having fixed the faces I am to make , are there any particular words I am to utter ? '' 
Ned promised to observe everything they enjoined ; and being really delighted at the idea of visiting the federal capital , he took leave of the legal triumvirate and proceeded towards the establishment of his publisher , where he learned there were funds still constantly accruing to his credit , and whence it was necessary for him to have dispatched the book and letter to the address of the honourable secretary . 
Ned Lorn ! 
Fawner , here 's Ned Lorn seeking an interview . 
The two devoted several minutes to the perusal of the letters , and were soon convinced that the object of Ned 's visit must be in relation to the estates of the deceased brothers Parke . 
`` Spring , admit Ned Lorn , '' said the secretary . 
And when Ned was admitted the great man arose and tendered him his hand , which was merely touched by our hero . 
`` You recognize my friend , I see , '' he continued , with a slight smile , observing that Ned bowed slightly to Fawner . 
`` I care not who hears me , '' said Ned , returning the steady gaze of the great bad man , and with difficulty restraining the rising indignation in his breast , as he surveyed the features of the principal author of all his woes . 
With the exception of the brief encounter on the field of honour , Ned had not confronted the banker face to face , nor heard his voice , since the night when he had been abducted by him and conveyed to the horrible abode of Cadaver . 
And although he was but a child then , and many years had passed in the interval , the same features and the same voice , without perceptible change , which had subsequently been seen and heard in his dreams , now filled his vision and saluted his ears . 
But the terrors so often associated with the presence of the despoiler , had vanished ; and Ned felt that if he could only meet his foe upon some truly honourable field of combat , there could be no greater delight afforded him on earth , or greater benefit bestowed upon mankind , than in vanquishing such a monster . 
Yet he knew that such a thing was impracticable . 
`` I am here , '' continued Ned , `` by the advice of my counsel . 
Mallex did not mark his words , knowing what the purport of them must be ; but sate in deep abstraction , with the syllabus in one hand and a letter from Radley in the other , looking from one to the other alternately . 
Ned patiently awaited the result of the apparent struggle between right and wrong ; but he was not to be kept long in suspense . 
But when his guardian spirit suggested that the great functionary could easily frown down any imputation upon his character ; that heclaimed no kindred with the Parkes , and was not to be morally or legally responsible for the absence of affection on the part of Bainton for his nephew -- if Ned were indeed his nephew ; that a judgment by default or confession , would be followed by an exposure of many business transactions which it would be painful to disclose ; and that he had already committed a horrible crime -- perpetrated an irremediable act -- to secure the prize which his silly impulse would have vainly relinquished ; when these opposing facts rose up in his mind , he was instantly `` himself again , '' the same reckless and infamous Job Mallex of former days . 
said Ned , struggling to repress his angry emotions , `` I hope our conversation will be confined strictly to the business before us . 
Ned arose , and with an imperturbable countenance was about to withdraw in silence , when Mallex , with a show of vivacious urbanity which he did not feel , a species of diplomacy not unknown to cabinet ministers , begged him to remain longer . 
`` One of your friends , '' continued the secretary , when Ned resumed his chair , `` has made me the repository of one of your secrets , which you need not fear I will divulge . 
In the intoxication of the moment the object of Ned 's mission to Washington entirely faded from his mind ; and he became more than half convinced that Mallex , after all , was not the bad man he had always supposed him to be . 
And Mallex , amused at the successful effort he had made to conciliate the author by skilful appeals to his ruling passion , meditated deeply the project he had conceived of making Ned his friend . 
But it was his rule never to seek the friendship of any one whom he could not use , and whose talents could not be made subservient to his own selfish projects . 
Ned was , most fortunately , yet too young to feel the importance of wealth , however acquired , in this wicked world . 
But if he could not be used directly in the consummation of the great demagogue 's schemes of ambition , at least his enmity might be appeased , and the danger of being made the mark for his ready pen might be averted . 
Therefore , without absolutely determining to modify his original intentions in regard to the estates of the deceased Parkes , Mallex resolved , for the time being , to cultivate the good opinion of the young man , and to exhibit him to the guests of Col. H. , in the aspect of a friend . 
Atthe appointed hour , Ned presented himself at the mansion of Col. H. , and was met by Mallex himself , who introduced him as a particular friend to the polite and gentlemanly host . 
Ned was introduced to the most intimate friends of Mallex ; and he could not avoid noticing the expressions of surprise which frequently escaped the lips of those who repeated his name . 
He then turned to Ned , who had not yet been separated from him , and observed in a low tone , but with a smile , `` You must prepare for a surprise . 
`` Oh , if the surprise be not likewise very dangerous , I think I shall bear it with some degree of composure , '' said Ned . 
The gigantic stature of Mallex could not prevent Ned , whose curiosity was highly excited , from perceiving who it was that approached from the opposite end of the saloon . 
`` Lorn ! 
Lorn , did you say ? '' 
`` Yes , Ned Lorn -- the same Ned Lorn , concerning whom my enemies once slandered me so much . 
Where is he ? 
`` It has been some time since we had the pleasure of seeing Mr. Lorn , '' observed Mrs. L. , who really seemed to survey the manly form of Ned with some degree of pleasure . 
`` Oh yes , '' replied Ned . 
asked Ned , in tones of sadness , when Mrs. L. 's retiring satin ceased to rustle in his ears . 
`` Yes , I have read the book , '' said Ned , assuming an air of indifference . 
`` Not that I am aware of , '' said Ned , very gravely , almost indignantly , and deeply wounded at the incredible change which had taken place in one whom he had so fondly loved , so often worshipped . 
A general dispersion ensued ; and Mallex , still keeping in view of Ned , followed him down the marble steps , and joined him in his walk towards his lodgings . 
`` A widow again , Ned , '' said the secretary , `` but quite young enough to find a third husband . '' 
Drive home , Charles , I will walk , '' said he , addressing his last words to his coachman . 
`` By your leave , Ned , '' he continued , familiarly , `` I will accompany you to your hotel . 
Ned assented with the politeness inseparable from his nature , but was not flattered by the condescension . 
His interview with Alice had abated the ardour of his spirits , and dispelled the intoxication of the moment which had been so skilfully contrived by the penetrating mind of the secretary . 
`` Ned , '' said the secretary , when they were seated together in a private apartment of the hotel , `` since I have had the satisfaction of becoming acquainted with you , I feel an interest in your welfare . 
As to my desires , if they be extravagant -- '' `` You do not understand me , Ned . 
`` Then the other alternative remains , '' said Ned . 
It is scornful defiance ! '' 
He withdrew abruptly , and hastened to telegraph his instructions to Radley . 
Ned employed the remainder of the evening in writing to his friends in Philadelphia and p620-347 Summerton . 
`` And you know that Ned Lorn could n't get it . '' 
`` No . 
He ca n't prove he did n't die in the house of refuge . 
But he writes , as I told you , that they 'll get it for Susan . 
Afterwandering about the capital a few days , and easily gratifying the curiosity he had often felt to see the representatives of the union in Congress assembled , Ned returned to his friends in Philadelphia . 
He was anxious to learn what would be the next step taken , and whither it would lead ; and hoped it might be attended with better success than had been his mission to Washington . 
There was nothing in his own conduct , however , with which to reproach himself ; nor did the lawyers attribute the failure to conciliate the great secretary to any omission on his part . 
Simultaneously with the appearance of Ned before the lawyers , they were informed , by a note from Radley , that the pretensions of Susan Meek , or rather Mrs. Mulvany , would be resisted on the ground of remote collateral descent , when there was a legitimate son of D. L. Parke in existence.This announcement , although it filled them with indignation , as they had been perfectly well acquainted with the eldest Mr. Parke , and could not believe he had ever been married , convinced them that the contest was to be of doubtful issue , and the victory , if ultimately gained , the result of a desperate struggle . 
They warned Ned against being too confident of success . 
If he triumphed at all , or rather if a verdict should be obtained in favour of Susan , it would probably be after many long delays , and the expenditure of a considerable sum of money . 
But they cheered him with the assurance that inasmuch as they had embarked in what they conceived to be a just cause , the means should be supplied to conduct it to a conclusion , and no exertions omitted to obtain the desired result . 
They assured him of their conviction that the opposing party intended to produce a false heir ; and they pledged themselves to use their utmost endeavours to expose every fraud , and bring every criminal to the bar of justice . 
Ned parted from Persever in despondency . 
But happening to step into the publisher 's store , he was cheered and reanimated by the happy eyes , hearts and hands that greeted him . 
He was assured that his book continued to sell very well ; and not only so , but it had caused many orders to be received for the poems of his friend Montague , to whom he had dedicated the last edition of `` The Dishonoured . '' 
So great was the revulsion of his spirits , produced by this little incident , that our hero went on his way rejoicing . 
When passing near the corner of Third and Chestnut streets , Ned encountered his uncle Eugene , attended by Radley . 
The latter bestowed his usual unmeaning salutation ; but the other started , with marks of dismay on his face , as if he had confronted an object of terror . 
He , too , then , bowed to his nephew , half unconsciously , and evidently in that sort of perturbation attending spasmodic attempts to regain one 's self-possession . 
Ned gazed but an instant at his uncle ; but that instant sufficed to fix a picture of mingled remorse and degradation in his memory . 
Eugene 's form was prematurely bowed , his features pale and pointed , and his restless eyes , clouded with swollen veins , gleamed out fearfully , as if familiar with the horrors which ever flit athwart the inward vision of those whose consciences are oppressed with the recollections of unrighteous acts committed , and which have never been redressed . 
Arrived at Summerton , no discouraging phase of affairs , no freak of fortune , or caprice of villainy , could qualify or diminish the unalloyed and mutual delight of Ned and Susan upon meeting again after their comparatively brief separation . 
The narrative of the nocturnal adventure of Tim and Timothy made Ned laugh very heartily ; and his account of meeting with Alice , and his imitation of her ludicrous references to Miss Z. , the President 's niece , diverted Susan , who perceived , with unalloyed satisfaction , that her foster son might easily survive the sometimes fatal shock of unrequited love . 
But she was grieved to think that Alice was capable of becoming so sadly changed ; and she uttered a secret prayer that both Ned and herself might still remain in poverty , if the possession of fortune must be attended by such unworthy changes of heart . 
Ned hastened thither , and found his friend in a sad condition , but with a sweet smile on his wan lips . 
`` Ned , '' said he , with difficulty extending his thin white hand , as he sat propped up in an old arm-chair , `` I am much rejoiced to see you again , for I was really apprehensive that we might -- might not meet again on earth . 
`` Not depressed -- not gloomy , Ned . 
Ned , thus it was my purpose to confer a benefit on mankind . 
`` Yes , Ned . 
`` No , Ned , it were useless . 
I have had a visit from my physician in the city . 
He was candid , as I desired him to be . 
He knew I could bear to hear the truth , and he told it me . 
That is all I will say , at the present time , '' added he , smiling , `` upon matters of such graveimportance . 
`` I will do so cheerfully , '' said Ned , through his tears . 
There , Ned , are some half a dozen volumes , which I desire you to review for me . 
`` One moment , Ned ! '' 
It was poor Skimmer , again . 
Ned devoted a portion of his time to the work assigned him ; and his brief reviews were unhesitatingly accepted by the publishers . 
He then made rapid progress with his `` Discarded Lover , '' the title of his new novel , portions of which he read daily to the dying poet . 
Ned was once near being surprised into a betrayal of his guilt , as he called it when mentioning the circumstance to Charles , being suddenly confronted by Elgiva , and interrogated as to who Mr. Mark Mayfield was , and were he lived . 
And Ned , seeing that his friend did not exhibit so many evidences of physical prostration when deprived of the use of his pen , would not consent for him to resume the exercise of it . 
He wrote for him at his dictation , or substituted his own composition , when there was a perfect unity of sentiment , which happened pretty generally to be the case . 
With the arm of Ned sustaining his fragile form , he was enabled to walk forth and view the inspiring landscape , and gaze at the blue sky lightly dappled over with fleecy clouds . 
Ned -- my dear brother -- you weep . 
Ned , come hither at this hour , in future years , and remember me . 
They retraced their steps to the humble cottage , where Ned remained until a late hour , for he was to visit New York the next day , and might be absent a whole week . 
p620-363 He was going at the solicitation of a respectable publisher , who had a proposition to make him in reference to the work then passing through the columns of the periodical , and likewise in regard to other works , which might enable the young man to enter upon new fields in the world of literature , with the comfortable assurance that the ox would not be entirely muzzled during his labours . 
If it must go at all , he preferred either Ned or Susan as the heir . 
It might not have been good policy to assert the existence of other children ; and Lucy Sutly , who had been his own servant at the time of the murder of Parke , was again a domestic in his family . 
Mr. Radley , you know that this Dick is no more the son of Parke than I am ; and knowing this , does it not appear to you sometimes like a species of roguery to endeavour to procure the money for him ? '' 
`` I presume his title to it is quite as good as those in whose keeping it remains . 
Do you remember the conversation you once held with Ned Lorn on the steamboat ? '' 
The first is a dissolution of partnership , without incurring the enmity of my partner ; the second a reconciliation with my p620-371 nephew , Ned Lorn , and restitution of his father 's and his uncle 's estates . 
Upon his mind the first impression is to be made . 
Convince him that his interest , his comfort , his safety , will not be injuriously affected by the separation , and you will have done a good work , that shall not go unrewarded . 
`` Ned Lorn ! 
There 's General M -- , Mr. B -- , Mr. W -- , Mr. H -- , forming a group around Ned , and introducing him to the ladies ! 
Now he comes this way , '' she added , after a long pause , `` following Mr. Bibliopole and Mrs. Pringle . '' 
The greeting of the young ladies was cordial enough , and Ned was quite unembarrassed in their presence . 
He lingered near them several minutes , and until he was led away by some of his new acquaintances . 
Mayfield is no other than Mr. Edward Lorn . '' 
said Ned , while a tear trembled in his eye . 
said Ned . 
`` Viola was his sister , '' said Ned . 
Ned repeated the narrative of Charles . 
`` Let us visit their graves together , '' added Ned , comprehending her . 
Ned , Elgiva , the bishop , and even Susan , were absent . 
When it was all over , and life pronounced to be extinct , Tim and Timothy came to watch over the corpse of Ned 's friend . 
An hour afterwards Ned was weeping over the grave of his friend . 
The elucidation of the mystery of the certificate of Dr. Drastic , asserting positively that Ned Lorn Parke had expired in the house of refuge , was the matter in which he was the most immediately concerned . 
The wretched woman declared that the boy who died , and whom she represented to the doctor as Ned , had been lame for several years , produced by an enormous enlargement of the knee joint . 
And it was in persuance of this policy that Persever had sent to Summerton for Susan , to whom certain explanations were made , and who readily , even in the absence of Ned -- who was to be directly benefited by the withdrawal of her claim -- sanctioned the arrangement . 
He had begged Susan not to interrogate him as to his object , and neither she nor Ned had heard anything more of the matter since the statement had been sent him . 
asked both Susan and Ned . 
asked Ned . 
`` This confession may be of some importance , '' said Ned , with interest . 
In yourway , Ned . 
Ned had Dick called in , who confirmed fully what the Tims had said of him . 
Ned , however , conceiving this step of Dick to be the effect of an honest and spontaneous impulse , did not hesitate to make him promises of compensation in the event named . 
When left quite alone , Ned hastened to communicate his information to Persever by letter , resolving not to go to the city again until his presence should be demanded . 
Susan permitted him to remain in ignorance of the arrangement she had sanctioned , and of the fact that Dick 's claim had been already withdrawn . 
`` I did not , indeed , '' said Ned . 
exclaimed Ned . 
Ned readily agreed , for it had been no unusual thing for him to spend his evenings , since the death of Charles , in the company of Elgiva . 
After our hero departed from New York , upon learning his friend was so desperately ill , Alice had seen Elgiva repeatedly , and had often referred to the attachment which once subsisted between Ned and herself . 
And as she could not rationally account for the subsequent estrangement but by depreciating his character , she did not hesitate to hurl detractions at his head . 
Yet she admitted his merit ; and desiring her injurious imputations to be considered confidential , intimated a purpose of re-establishing friendly relations with him -- merelyfriendly relations . 
And hence her letters to Elgiva , who could easily perceive the object of the correspondence on the part of the belle , was to facilitate a renewal of familiar intercourse , perhaps not with Ned Lorn , but certainly with the author of `` The Dishonoured . '' 
Her first letter , however , informed Elgiva , that some of the things alleged against Ned , she had just heard contradicted , and on such authority as to make her doubt whether there was a particle of truth in any of the tales which had been for years repeated to his disadvantage . 
Her second declared her conviction that Ned had been from the beginning the victim of atrocious calumniators . 
`` And that reminds me , '' said Ned , `` of the fickle Alice . '' 
This one contained a pressing invitation from Alice and her mother -LRB- although the latter was still in mourning -RRB- for Elgiva and Ned to visit their mansion in the city , where , Alice assured them , they should have the pleasure of meeting with Miss Z -- , the President 's niece . 
And she said her mother was particularlyanxious to see Ned at her house , as he had alwaysbeen a great favourite of hers . 
Without a word of comment Ned returned the two letters , and in silence received and perused the third one . 
continued Ned , in a soft whisper , taking the unresisting hand of Elgiva . 
asked Ned . 
asked Elgiva , still permitting her hand to remain in his . 
said she , in a low but distinct voice , her drooping head touching his shoulder . 
said she , interrupting him . 
Her head pressed more heavily on his shoulder , and the arm that encircled her was not repulsed . 
continued he , `` or let your silence -- '' `` No , I will not be silent , '' said she . 
`` Then , Ned , I am yours ! '' 
said Ned , smiling , `` the bird is witness of our vows ! '' 
`` I accompanied Dr. Drastic , Dr. Castor , Mr. Persever , Mr. Radley and Mr. Bainton to the cemetery , and witnessed the exhumation of the remains of the boy , supposed to be Ned Lorn Parke , that died at the house of refuge . 
`` That settles the legitimacy of this Ned , who has given us so much trouble . 
He 's to be rich , now , and his old sweetheart , who discarded him , poor ! 
`` They say Ned will likewise inherit his fortune . '' 
`` Certainly he will if -- Tom ! 
I 'll put you in possession of half my fortune the day after you inform me this Ned died from the effects of a few inches of steel inserted between his ribs . '' 
I 'll give the same amount for the scalp of Fawner -- as much for Persever 's -- for Ned Lorn 's -- the President 's ! 
When Ned entered the office of his friend , he was surprised to find assembled there Drs. Drastic and Castor , Fawner and Radley . 
Ned received the documents in silence . 
at length asked Ned , after looking around and not finding him present . 
`` We go , Ned , '' he continued , `` to hear the confession of the old woman , Mrs. Sutly . 
When the party arrived at Cadaver 's house , Ned , escaping a moment from the room where the rest were assembled , traversed the premises with vivid recollections of the fearful night on which he had been so cruelly conveyed thither by Mallex . 
I see every night , in my dreams , or when I 'm awake , I ca n't say which , and it amounts to the same thing , whole cords of stark corpses -- '' Ned would hear no more . 
`` She means Ned Lorn , '' said Mrs. Cadaver . 
`` She raved about him all night . '' 
`` I am here , '' said Ned , advancing , and standing at the foot of the bed directly in front of her . 
exclaimed Ned , pale and agitated . 
`` I wanted to let Ned know that his uncle Bainton had no hand in it , and did n't know anything about it . 
cried Ned . 
`` He is innocent ! '' 
Ned hastened away from the appalling scene . 
Accompanied by Persever he proceeded to the mansion of his uncle . 
He found him sitting in his great chair , dressed , and awaiting the interview , but with difficulty maintaining his upright position . 
`` My nephew , '' said he , in weak and tremulous accents , and extending his hand , which was cordially grasped by our hero , `` can you forgive me ? '' 
said Ned . 
Oh , Ned ! 
Here he was seized with a fit of coughing , but he was too feeble to discharge the accumulated mucus ; and flushed and speechless , pointed to the bed , and indicated by signs that he wished them to convey him thither . 
Persever and Ned hastened to obey . 
A few months after these painful events , Ned and Elgiva were united in holy wedlock in the church at Summerton . 
Persever and Susan accompanied Ned to the altar , and Elgiva was followed by a long train of beautiful young ladies , graduates at the Hall . 
Among them was one borne in the arms of Mrs. Tim Trudge , a fine male child ; and the name bestowed upon it was Persever Ned Lorn Parke . 
Persever of course shared the prosperity of Ned , and won the high distinction in his profession he so truly merited . 
