It was a melancholy day at Waverley-Honour when the young officer parted with Sir Everard , the affectionate old uncle to whose title and estate he was presumptive heir . 
A difference in political opinions had early separated the Baronet from his younger brother Richard Waverley , the father of our hero . 
Sir Everard had inherited from his sires the whole train of Tory or High-church predilections and prejudices , which had distinguished the house of Waverley since the Great Civil War . 
was non-resistance ; yet reason would have probably been unable to combat and remove hereditary prejudice could Richard have anticipated that his elder brother , Sir Everard , taking to heart an early disappointment , would have remained a bachelor at seventy-two . 
But this was a consummation of things not to be expected at Richard 's outset , when Sir Everard was in the prime of life , and certain to be an acceptable suitor in almost any family , whether wealth or beauty should be the object of his pursuit , and when , indeed , his speedy marriage was a report which regularly amused the neighbourhood once a-year . 
His younger brother saw no practicable road to independence save that of relying upon his own exertions , and adopting a political creed more consonant both to reason and his own interest than the hereditary faith of Sir Everard in High-church and in the house of Stewart . 
The accession of the near relation of one of those steady and inflexible opponents was considered as a means of bringing over more converts , and therefore Richard Waverley met with a share of ministerial favour , more than proportioned to his talents or his political importance . 
It was , however , discovered that he had respectable talents for public business , and the first admittance to the minister 's levee being negotiated , his success became rapid . 
Sir Everard learned from the public News-Letter , first , that Richard Waverley , Esquire , was returned for the ministerial borough of Barterfaith ; next , that Richard Waverley , Esquire , had taken a distinguished part in the debate upon the Excise bill in the support of government ; and , lastly , that Richard Waverly , Esquire , had been honoured with a seat at one of those boards , where the pleasure of serving the country is combined with other important gratifications , which , to render them the more acceptable , occur regularly once a-quarter . 
Although these events followed each other so closely that the sagacity of the editor of a modern newspaper would have presaged the two last even while he announced the first , yet they came upon Sir Everard gradually , and drop by drop , as it were , distilled through the cool and procrastinating alembic of Dyer 's Weekly Letter.Long the oracle of the country gentlemen of the high Tory party . 
For it may be observed in passing , that instead of those mail-coaches , by means of which every mechanic at his six-penny club may nightly learn from twenty contradictory channels the yesterday 's news of the capital , a weekly post brought , in those days , to Waverley-Honour , a Weekly Intelligence , which , after it had gratified Sir Everard 's curiosity , his sister 's , and that of his aged butler , was regularly transferred from the Hall to the Rectory , from the Rectory to Squire Stubbs 's at the Grange , from the Squire to the Baronet 's steward at his neat white house on the heath , from the steward to the bailiff , and from him through a huge circle of honest dames and gaffers , by whose hard and horny hands it was generally worn to pieces in about a month after its arrival . 
This slow succession of intelligence was of some advantage to Richard Waverley in the case before us ; for , had the sum total of his enormities reached the ears of Sir Everard at once , there can be no doubt that the new commissioner would have had little reason to pique himself on the success of his politics . 
These various ideas floated through the brain of Sir Everard , without , however , producing any determined conclusion . 
He examined the tree of his genealogy , which , emblazoned with many an emblematic mark of honour and heroic achievement , hung upon the well - varnished wainscot of his hall . 
The nearest descendants of Sir Hildebrand Waverley , failing those of his eldest son Wilfred , of whom Sir Everard and his brother were the only representatives , were , as this honoured register informed him , -LRB- and , indeed , as he himself well knew , -RRB- the Waverleys of Highly Park , com . 
These offences , however , had vanished from Sir Everard 's recollection in the heat of his resentment ; and had Lawyer Clippurse , for whom his groom was dispatched express , arrived but an hour earlier , he might have had the benefit of drawing a new settlement of the lordship and manor of Waverley-Honour , with all its dependencies . 
Even this slight manoeuvre was embarrassing to Sir Everard , who felt it as a reproach to his indecision . 
He looked at the attorney with some desire to issue his fiat , when the sun , emerging from behind a cloud , poured at once its chequered light through the stained window of the gloomy cabinet in which they were seated . 
The Baronet 's eye , as he raised it to the splendour , fell right upon the central scutcheon , impressed with the same device which his ancestor was said to have borne in the field of Hastings ; three ermines passant , argent , in a field azure , with its appropriate motto , sans tache . 
`` May our name rather perish , '' exclaimed Sir Everard , `` than that ancient and loyal symbol should be blended with the dishonoured insignia of a traitorus Roundhead ! '' 
The apparition of Lawyer Clippurse at the Hall occasioned much speculation in that portion of the world to which Waverley-Honour formed the centre : But the more judicious politicians of this microcosm augured yet worse consequences to Richard Waverley from a movement which shortly followed his apostacy . 
This was no less than an excursion of the Baronet in his coach-and-six , with four attendants in rich liveries , to make a visit of some duration to a noble peer on the confines of the shire , of untainted descent , steady Tory principles , and the happy father of six unmarried and accomplished daughters . 
Sir Everard 's reception in this family was , as it may be easily conceived , sufficiently favourable ; but of the six young ladies , his taste unfortunately determined him in favour of Lady Emily , the youngest , who received his attentions with an embarrassment , which showed , at once , that she durst not decline them , and that they afforded her any thing but pleasure . 
Sir Everard could not but perceive something uncommon in the restrained emotions which the young lady testified at the advances he hazarded ; but , assured by the prudent Countess that they were the natural effects of a retired education , the sacrifice might have been completed , as doubtless has happened in many similar instances , had it not been for the courage of an elder sister , who revealed to the wealthy suitor that Lady Emily 's affections were fixed upon a young soldier of fortune , a near relation of her own . 
Sir Everard manifested great emotion on receiving this intelligence , which was confirmed to him , in a private interview , by the young lady herself , although under the most dreadful apprehensions of her father 's indignation . 
With a grace and delicacy worthy the hero of a romance , Sir Everard withdrew his claim to the hand of Lady Emily . 
He had even , before leaving Blandeville Castle , the address to extort from her father a consent to her union with the object of her choice . 
What arguments he used on this point can not exactly be known , for Sir Everard was never supposed strong in the powers of persuasion ; but the young officer , immediately after this transaction , rose in the army with a rapidity far surpassing the usual pace of unpatronised professional merit , although , to outward appearance , that was all he had to depend upon . 
The shock which Sir Everard encountered upon this occasion , although diminished by the consciousness of having acted virtuously and generously , had its effect upon his future life . 
His resolution of marriage had been adopted in a fit of indignation ; the labour of courtship did not quite suit the dignified indolence of his habits ; he had but just escaped the risk of marrying a woman who could never love him , and his pride could not be greatly flattered by the termination of his armour , even if his heart had not suffered . 
The result of the whole matter was his return to Waverley-Honour without any transfer of his affections , notwithstanding the sighs and languishments of the fair tell-tale , who had revealed , in mere sisterly affection , the secret of Lady Emily 's attachment , and in despite of the nods , winks , and innuendoes of the officious lady mother , and the grave eulogiums which the Earl pronounced successively on the prudence , and good sense , and admirable dispositions , of his first , second , third , fourth , and fifth daughters . 
The memory of his unsuccessful amour was with Sir Everard , as with many more of his temper , at once shy , proud , sensitive , and indolent , a beacon against exposing himself to similar mortification , pain , and fruitless exertion for the time to come . 
He continued to live at Waverley-Honour in the style of an old English gentleman , of an ancient descent and opulent fortune . 
His sister , Miss Rachel Waverley , presided at his table ; and they became , by degrees , an old bachelor and an ancient maiden lady , the gentlest and kindest of the votaries of celibacy . 
The vehemence of Sir Everard 's resentment against his brother was but short-lived ; yet his dislike to the Whig and the placeman , though unable to stimulate him to resume any active measures prejudicial to Richard 's interest , in the succession to the family estate , continued to maintain the coldness between them . 
Richard knew enough of the world , and of his brother 's temper , to believe that by any ill-considered or precipitate advances on his part , he might turn passive dislike into a more active principle . 
Richard had married a young woman of rank , by whose family interest and private fortune he hoped to advance his career . 
In her right , he became possessor of a manor of some value , at the distance of a few miles from Waverley-Honour . 
In the round-faced rosy cherub before him , bearing his eye and his name , and vindicating a hereditary title to his family , affection , and patronage , by means of a tie which Sir Everard held as sacred as either Garter or Blue-mantle , Providence seemed to have granted to him the very object best calculated to fill up the void in his hopes and affections . 
Sir Everard returned to Waverley-Hall upon a led horse , which was kept in readiness for him , while the child and his attendant were sent home in the carriage to Brere-wood Lodge , with such a message as opened to Richard Waverley a door of reconciliation with his elder brother . 
Sir Everard obtained , in the frequent society of his little nephew , something on which his hereditary pride might found the anticipated pleasure of a continuation of his lineage , and where his kind and gentle affections could at the same time fully exercise themselves . 
For Richard Waverley , he beheld in the growing attachment between the uncle and nephew the means of securing his son 's , if not his own , succession to the hereditary estate which he felt would be rather endangered than promoted by any attempt on his own part towards a closer intimacy with a man of Sir Everard 's habits and opinions . 
But he considered that one of his choosing would probably have been unacceptable at Waverley-Honour , and that such a selection as Sir Everard might have made , were the matter left to him , would have burdened him with a disagreeable inmate , if not a political spy , in his family . 
Sir Everard 's chaplain , an Oxonian , who had lost his fellowship for declining to take the oaths at the accession of George I. , was not only an excellent classical scholar , but reasonably skilled in science , and master of most modern languages . 
Sir Everard had never been himself a student , and , like his sister Miss Rachel Waverley , held the common doctrine , that idleness is incompatible with reading of any kind , and that the mere tracing the alphabetical characters with the eye , is in itself a useful and meritorious task , without scrupulously considering what ideas or doctrines they may happen to convey . 
In classical literature , Waverley had made the usual progress , and read the usual authors ; and the French had afforded him an almost exhaustless collection of memoirs , scarcely more faithful than romances , and of romances so well written as hardly to be distinguished from memoirs . 
The splendid pages of Froissart , with his heart-stirring and eye-dazzling descriptions of war and of tournaments , were among his chief favourites ; and from those of Brantome and De la Noue he learned to compare the wild and loose yet superstitious character of the nobles of the League , with the stern , rigid , and sometimes turbulent disposition of the Huguenot party . 
The Spanish had contributed to his stock of chivalrous and romantic lore . 
But his mother died in the seventh year after the reconciliation between the brothers , and Richard Waverley himself , who , after this event , resided more constantly in London , was too much interested in his own plans of wealth and ambition , to notice more respecting Edward , than that he was of a very bookish turn , and probably destined to be a bishop . 
He was in his sixteenth year , when his habits of abstraction and love of solitude became so much marked , as to excite Sir Everard 's affectionate apprehension . 
He tried to counterbalance these propensities , by engaging his nephew in field-sports , which had been the chief pleasure of his own youthful days . 
Sir Everard had , upon the death of Queen Anne , resigned his seat in Parliament , and , as his age increased and the number of his contemporaries diminished , had gradually withdrawn himself from society ; so that when , upon any particular occasion , Edward mingled with accomplished and well-educated young men of his own rank and expectations , he felt an inferiority in their company , not so much from deficiency of information , as from the want of the skill to command and to arrange that which he possessed . 
Family tradition and genealogical history , upon which much of Sir Everard 's discourse turned , is the very reverse of amber , which , itself a valuable substance , usually includes flies , straws , and other trifles ; whereas these studies , being themselves very insignificant and trifling , do nevertheless serve to perpetuate a great deal of what is rare and valuable in ancient manners , and to record many curious and minute facts which could have been preserved and conveyed through no other medium . 
If , therefore , Edward Waverley yawned at times over the dry deduction of his line of ancestors , with their various intermarriages , and inwardly deprecated the remorseless and protracted accuracy with which the worthy Sir Everard rehearsed the various degrees of propinquity between the house of Waverley-Honour and the doughty barons , knights , and squires , to whom they stood allied ; if -LRB- notwithstanding his obligations to the three ermines passant -RRB- he sometimes cursed in his heart the jargon of heraldry , its griffins , its moldwarps , its wyverns , and its dragons , with all the bitterness of Hotspur himself , there were moments when these communications interested his fancy and rewarded his attention . 
The deeds of Wilibert of Waverley in the Holy Land , his long absence and perilous adventures , his supposed death , and his return on the evening when the betrothed of his heart had wedded the hero who had protected her from insult and oppression during his absence ; the generosity with which the Crusader relinquished his claims , and sought in a neighbouring cloister that peace which passeth not away ; There is a family legend to this purpose , belonging to the knightly family of Bradshaigh , the proprietors of Haigh-hall , in Lancashire , where , I have been told , the event is recorded on a painted glass window . 
From the minuteness with which I have traced Waverley 's pursuits , and the bias which these unavoidably communicated to his imagination , the reader may perhaps anticipate , in the following tale , an imitation of the romance of Cervantes . 
Sir Everard would not at first listen to a proposal which went to separate his nephew from him . 
Every representative of their house had visited foreign parts , or served his country in the army , before he settled for life at Waverley-Honour , and she appealed for the truth of her assertion to the genealogical pedigree ; an authority which Sir Everard was never known to contradict . 
In short , a proposal was made to Mr Richard Waverley , that his son should travel , under the direction of his present tutor , Mr Pembroke , with a suitable allowance from the Baronet 's liberality . 
The unhappy turn of Sir Everard 's politics , the minister observed , was such as would render it highly improper that a young gentleman of such hopeful prospects should travel on the Continent with a tutor doubtless of his uncle 's choosing , and directing his course by his instructions . 
This he could himself say , that he knew his Majesty had such a just sense of Mr Richard Waverley 's merits , that if his son adopted the army for a few years , a troop , he believed , might be reckoned upon in one of the dragoon regiments lately returned from Flanders . 
A hint thus conveyed and enforced was not to be neglected with impunity ; and Richard Waverley , though with great dread of shocking his brother 's prejudices , deemed he could not avoid accepting the commission thus offered him for his son . 
The truth is , he calculated much , and justly , upon Sir Everard 's fondness for Edward , which made him unlikely to resent any step that he might take in due submission to parental authority . 
He coincided with him , in the most flattering manner , in the propriety of his son 's seeing a little more of the world , and was even humble in expressions of gratitude for his proposed assistance ; was , however , deeply concerned that it was now , unfortunately , not in Edward 's power exactly to comply with the plan which had been chalked out by his best friend and benefactor . 
He himself had thought with pain on the boy 's inactivity , at an age when all his ancestors had borne arms ; even Royalty itself had deigned to inquire whether young Waverley was not now in Flanders , at an age when his grandfather was already bleeding for his king in the Great Civil War . 
What could he do ? 
There was no time to consult his brother 's inclinations , even if he could have conceived there might be objections on his part to his nephew 's following the glorious career of his predecessors . 
And , in short , that Edward was now -LRB- the intermediate steps of cornet and lieutenant being overleapt with great agility -RRB- Captain Waverley , of Gardiner 's regiment of dragoons , which he must join in their quarters at Dundee in Scotland , in the course of a month . 
Sir Everard Waverley received this intimation with a mixture of feelings . 
At the period of the Hanoverian succession he had withdrawn from parliament , and his conduct , in the memorable year 1715 , had not been altogether unsuspected . 
Nay , it was even said , that at the arrest of Sir William Wyndham , the leader of the Tory party , a letter from Sir Everard was found in the pocket of his night-gown . 
Nor did Sir Everard 's apprehensions of personal consequences seem to correspond with the reports spread among his Whig neighbours . 
It was well known that he had supplied with money several of the distressed Northumbrians and Scotchmen , who , after being made prisoners at Preston in Lancashire , were imprisoned in Newgate and the Marshalsea , and it was his solicitor and ordinary counsel who conducted the defence of some of these unfortunate gentlemen at their trial . 
It was generally supposed , however , that , had ministers possessed any real proof of Sir Everard 's accession to the rebellion , he either would not have ventured thus to brave the existing government , or at least would not have done so with impunity . 
The feelings which then dictated his proceedings , were those of a young man , and at an agitating period . 
Since that time Sir Everard 's jacobitism had been gradually decaying , like a fire which burns out for want of fuel . 
His Tory and High-church principles were kept up by some occasional exercise at elections and quarter-sessions ; but those respecting hereditary right were fallen into a sort of abeyance . 
In sober prose , as perhaps these verses intimate less decidedly , the transient idea of Miss Cecilia Stubbs passed from Captain Waverley 's heart amid the turmoil which his new destinies excited . 
It was upon the evening of this memorable Sunday that Sir Everard entered the library , where he narrowly missed surprising our young hero as he went through the guards of the broadsword with the ancient weapon of old Sir Hildebrand , which , being preserved as an heir-loom , usually hung over the chimney in the library , beneath a picture of the knight and his horse , where the features were almost entirely hidden by the knight 's profusion of curled hair , and the Bucephalus which he bestrode concealed by the voluminous robes of the Bath with which he was decorated . 
Sir Everard entered , and after a glance at the picture and another at his nephew , began a little speech , which , however , soon dropt into the natural simplicity of his common manner , agitated upon the present occasion by no common feeling . 
`` Nephew , '' he said ; and then , as mending his phrase , `` My dear Edward , it is God 's will , and also the will of your father , whom , under God , it is your duty to obey , that you should leave us to take up the profession of arms , in which so many of your ancestors have been distinguished . 
Sir Everard had done his best to correct this unnatural disposition of the times ; for he had brightened the chain of attachment between the recruits and their young captain , not only by a copious repast of beef and ale , by way of parting feast , but by such a pecuniary donation to each individual , as tended rather to improve the conviviality than the discipline of their march . 
After inspecting the cavalry , Sir Everard again conducted his nephew to the library , where he produced a letter , carefully folded , surrounded by a little stripe of flox-silk , according to ancient form , and sealed with an accurate impression of the Waverley coat-of-arms . 
These -- By the hands of Captain Edward Waverley , nephew of Sir Everard Waverley , of Waverley-Honour , Bart . '' 
The simplicity of this anecdote struck the gentleman , who , as we before observed , had managed the defence of some of those unfortunate persons , at the expense of Sir Everard , and perhaps some others of the party . 
He was , besides , himself a special admirer of the old Patavinian , and though probably his own zeal might not have carried him such extravagant lengths , even to recover the edition of Sweynheim and Pannartz , -LRB- supposed to be the princeps , -RRB- he did not the less estimate the devotion of the North Briton , and in consequence exerted himself to so much purpose to remove and soften evidence , detect legal flaws , et cetera , that he accomplished the final discharge and deliverance of Cosmo Comyne Bradwardine from certain very awkward consequences of a plea before our sovereign lord the king in Westminster . 
A congenial passion for field-sports , and a general coincidence in political opinions , cemented his friendship with Sir Everard , notwithstanding the difference of their habits and studies in other particulars ; and , having spent several weeks at Waverley-Honour , the Baron departed with many expressions of regard , warmly pressing the Baronet to return his visit , and partake of the diversion of grouse-shooting upon his moors in Perthshire next season . 
The laird was only rejoiced that his worthy friend , Sir Everard Waverley of Waverley-Honour , was reimbursed of the expenditure which he had outlaid on account of the house of Bradwardine . 
Sir Everard , accustomed to treat much larger sums with indifference , received the remittance of # 294 , 13s . 
He felt that he had been indolent as a tutor , and , besides , his conscience checked him for complying with the request of Mr Richard Waverley , that he would impress no sentiments upon Edward 's mind inconsistent with the present settlement in church and state . 
-- But now , thought he , I may , without breach of my word , since he is no longer under my tuition , afford the youth the means of judging for himself , and have only to dread his reproaches for so long concealing the light which the perusal will flash upon his mind . 
-- While he thus indulged the reveries of an author and a politician , his darling proselyte , seeing nothing very inviting in the title of the tracts , and appalled by the bulk and compact lines of the manuscript , quietly consigned them to a corner of his travelling trunk . 
Waverley was naturally modest , and therefore did not fall into the egregious mistake of supposing such minuter rules of military duty beneath his notice , or conceiting himself to be born a general , because he made an indifferent subaltern . 
The truth was , that the vague and unsatisfactory course of reading which he had pursued , working upon a temper naturally retired and abstracted , had given him that wavering and unsettled habit of mind , which is most averse to study and riveted attention . 
Time , in the meanwhile , hung heavy on his hands . 
The arrival of summer , and a curiosity to know something more of Scotland than he could see in a ride from his quarters , determined him to request leave of absence for a few weeks . 
He resolved first to visit his uncle 's ancient friend and correspondent , with the purpose of extending or shortening the time of his residence according to circumstances . 
He travelled of course on horseback , and with a single attendant , and passed his first night at a miserable inn , where the landlady had neither shoes nor stockings , and the landlord , who called himself a gentleman , was disposed to the rude to his guest , because he had not bespoke the pleasure of his society to supper . 
Some such thoughts crossed Waverley 's mind as he paced his horse slowly through the rugged and flinty street of Tully-Veolan , interrupted only in his meditations by the occasional caprioles which his charger exhibited at the reiterated assaults of those canine Cossacks , the collies before mentioned . 
The solitude and repose of the whole scene seemed almost monastic ; and Waverley , who had given his horse to his servant on entering the first gate , walked slowly down the avenue , enjoying the grateful and cooling shade , and so much pleased with the placid ideas of rest and seclusion excited by this confined and quiet scene , that he forgot the misery and dirt of the hamlet he had left behind him . 
Tired of the din which he created , and the unprofitable responses which it excited , Waverley began to think that he had reached the castle of Orgoglio , as entered by the victorious Prince Arthur , When ` gan he loudly through the house to call , But no man cared to answer to his cry ; There reign 'd a solemn silence over all , Nor voice was heard , nor wight was seen in bower or hall . 
Would not Mr Waverley choose some refreshment after his journey ? 
His honour was with the folk who were getting doon the dark hag ; the twa gardener lads -LRB- an emphasis on the word twa -RRB- had been ordered to attend him ; and he had been just amusing himself in the mean time with dressing Miss Rose 's flower-bed , that he might be near to receive his honour 's orders , if need were : he was very fond of a garden , but had little time for such divertisements . '' 
Waverley delivered his credentials to Mr Gellatley , who seemed to confirm the butler 's last observation , by twisting his features at him , when he was looking another way , into the resemblance of the grotesque face on the bole of a German tobacco-pipe ; after which , with an odd congé to Waverley , he danced off to discharge his errand . 
`` Upon the honour of a gentleman , '' he said , `` but it makes me young again to see you here , Mr Waverley-Honour -- spes altera , as Maro hath it -- and you have the look of the old line , Captain Waverley ; not so portly yet as my old friend Sir Everard -- mais cela viendra avec le tems , as my Dutch acquaintance , Baron Kikkitbroeck , said of the sagesse of Madame son epouse . 
Right , right ; though I could have wished the colour different , and so I would ha ' deemed might Sir Everard . 
A bell was now heard at the head of the avenue ; for an old man , who acted as porter upon gala days , had caught the alarm given by Waverley 's arrival , and , repairing to his post , announced the arrival of other guests . 
And God forbid , Captain Waverley , that we of irreproachable lineage should exult over him , when it may be , that in the eighth , ninth , or tenth generation , his progeny may rank , in a manner , with the old gentry of the country . 
And though I give not in to such anilia , it is certain it has always been esteemed a solemn standard cup and heirloom of our house ; nor is it ever used but upon seasons of high festival , and such I hold to be the arrival of the heir of Sir Everard under my roof ; and I devote this draught to the health and prosperity of the ancient and highly - to-be-honoured house of Waverley . '' 
He was never more mistaken in his life . 
He slept therefore soundly till late in the succeeding morning , and then awakened to a painful recollection of the scene of the preceding evening . 
He had received a personal affront , -- he , a gentleman , a soldier , and a Waverley . 
True , the person who offered it was not , at the time it was given , possessed of the moderate share of sense which nature had allotted him ; true also , in resenting this insult , he would break the laws of Heaven , as well as of his country ; true , in doing so , he might take the life of a young man who perhaps respectably discharged the social duties , and render his family miserable ; or he might lose his own ; -- no pleasant alternative even to the bravest , when it is debated coolly and in private . 
All this pressed on his mind ; yet the original statement recurred with the same irresistible force . 
He had received a personal insult ; he was of the house of Waverley ; and he bore a commission . 
There was no alternative ; and he descended to the breakfast parlour with the intention of taking leave of the family , and writing to one of his brother officers to meet him at the inn mid-way between Tully-Veolan and the town where they were quartered , in order that he might convey such a message to the Laird of Balmawhapple as the circumstances seemed to demand . 
Waverley sat down almost in silence , and with an air of absence and abstraction , which could not give Miss Bradwardine a favourable opinion of his talents for conversation . 
He answered at random one or two observations which she ventured to make upon ordinary topics ; so that feeling herself almost repulsed in her efforts at entertaining him , and secretly wondering that a scarlet coat should cover no better breeding , she left him to his mental amusement of cursing Dr Doubleit 's favourite constellation of Ursa Major , as the cause of all the mischief which had already happened , and was likely to ensue . 
Balmawhapple , on the contrary , seemed embarrassed and dejected ; and Waverley now , for the first time , observed that his arm was in a sling , which seemed to account for the awkward and embarrassed manner with which he had presented his hand . 
To a question from Miss Bradwardine , he muttered , in answer , something about his horse having fallen ; and , seeming desirous to escape both from the subject and the company , he arose as soon as breakfast was over , made his bow to the party , and , declining the Baron 's invitation to tarry till after dinner , mounted his horse and returned to his own home . 
Waverley now announced his purpose of leaving Tully-Veolan early enough after dinner to gain the stage at which he meant to sleep ; but the unaffected and deep mortification with which the good-natured and affectionate old gentleman heard the proposal , quite deprived him of courage to persist in it . 
The roe , Captain Waverley , may be hunted at all times alike ; for never being in what is called pride of grease , he is also never out of season , though it be a truth that his venison is not equal to that of either the red or fallow deer.The learned in cookery dissent from the Baron of Bradwardine , and hold the roe venison dry and indifferent food , unless when dressed in soup and Scotch collops . 
Waverley expressed his surprise that his friend Davie was capable of such trust ; but the Baron gave him to understand that this poor simpleton was neither fatuous , nec naturaliter idiota , as is expressed in the brieves of furiosity , but simply a crack-brained knave , who could execute very well any commission which jumped with his own humour , and made his folly a plea for avoiding every other . 
He had in this respect a prodigious memory , stored with miscellaneous snatches and fragments of all tunes and songs , which he sometimes applied , with considerable address , as the vehicles of remonstrance , explanation , or satire . 
With this excuse , or explanation , Waverley was silenced , if not satisfied ; but he could not help testifying some displeasure against the Blessed Bear , which had given rise to the quarrel , nor refrain from hinting , that the sanctified epithet was hardly appropriate . 
The letter further insinuated , though with great delicacy , that although some family connexions might be supposed to render it necessary for Captain Waverley to communicate with gentlemen who were in this unpleasant state of suspicion , yet his father 's situation and wishes ought to prevent his prolonging those attentions into exclusive intimacy . 
And it was intimated , that while his political principles were endangered by communicating with laymen of this description , he might also receive erroneous impressions in religion from the prelatic clergy , who so perversely laboured to set up the royal prerogative in things sacred . 
This last insinuation probably induced Waverley to set both down to the prejudices of his commanding officer . 
He was sensible that Mr Bradwardine had acted with the most scrupulous delicacy , in never entering upon any discussion that had the most remote tendency to bias his mind in political opinions , although he was himself not only a decided partizan of the exiled family , but had been trusted at different times with important commissions for their service . 
ejaculations which threw no light upon the cause of their dismay , Waverley repaired to the fore-court , as it was called , where he beheld Bailie Macwheeble cantering his white pony down the avenue with all the speed it could muster . 
Passing from thence towards the garden , Waverley beheld the Baron in person , measuring and re-measuring , with swift and tremendous strides , the length of the terrace ; his countenance clouded with offended pride and indignation , and the whole of his demeanour such as seemed to indicate , that any inquiry concerning the cause of his discomposure would give pain at least , if not offence . 
Waverley therefore glided into the house , without addressing him , and took his way to the breakfast-parlour , where he found his young friend Rose , who , though she neither exhibited the resentment of her father , the turbid importance of Bailie Macwheeble , nor the despair of the handmaidens , seemed vexed and thoughtful . 
The Baron entered at this moment , and rebuked her with more asperity than Waverley had ever heard him use to any one . 
`` Was it not a shame , '' he said , `` that she should exhibit herself before any gentleman in such a light , as if she shed tears for a drove of horned nolt and milch kine , like the daughter of a Cheshire yeoman ! 
The Baron , meanwhile , paced the room in silent indignation , and at length fixing his eye upon an old portrait , whose person was clad in armour , and whose features glared grimly out of a huge bush of hair , part of which descended from his head to his shoulders , and part from his chin and upper-lip to his breast-plate , -- `` That gentleman , Captain Waverley , my grandsire , '' he said , `` with two hundred horse , whom he levied within his own bounds , discomfited and put to the rout more than five hundred of these Highland reivers , who have been ever lapis offensionis , et petra scandali , a stumbling-block and a rock of offence to the Lowland vicinage -- he discomfited them , I say , when they had the temerity to descend to harry this country , in the time of the civil dissensions , in the year of grace , sixteen hundred forty and two . 
And now , sir , I , his grandson , am thus used at such unworthy hands ! '' 
Waverley could not help starting at a story which bore so much resemblance to one of his own day-dreams . 
Here was a girl scarce seventeen , the gentlest of her sex , both in temper and appearance , who had witnessed with her own eyes such a scene as he had used to conjure up in his imagination , as only occurring in ancient times , and spoke of it coolly , as one very likely to recur . 
He felt at once the impulse of curiosity , and that slight sense of danger which only serves to heighten its interest . 
He might have said with Malvolio , ``` I do not now fool myself , to let imagination jade me ! ' 
He had indeed often heard of Highland thieves , but had no idea of the systematic mode in which their depredations were conducted ; and that the practice was connived at , and even encouraged , by many of the Highland chieftains , who not only found the creaghs , or forays , useful for the purpose of training individuals of their clan to the practice of arms , but also of maintaining a wholesome terror among their Lowland neighbours , and levying , as we have seen , a tribute from them , under colour of protection-money . 
Waverley was now left to his own meditations , for his attendant with the battle-axe spoke very little English . 
The robber received Captain Waverley with a profusion of French politeness and Scottish hospitality , seemed perfectly to know his name and connexions , and to be particularly acquainted with his uncle 's political principles . 
On these he bestowed great applause , to which Waverley judged it prudent to make a very general reply . 
After this refreshment , which , though coarse , fatigue and hunger rendered palatable , steaks , roasted on the coals , were supplied in liberal abundance , and disappeared before Evan Dhu and their host with a promptitude that seemed like magic , and astonished Waverley , who was much puzzled to reconcile their voracity with what he had heard of the abstemiousness of the Highlanders . 
He was ignorant that this abstinence was with the lower ranks wholly compulsory , and that , like some animals of prey , those who practise it were usually gifted with the power of indemnifying themselves to good purpose , when chance threw plenty in their way . 
He even mentioned the exact number of recruits who had joined Waverley 's troop from his uncle 's estate , and observed they were pretty men , meaning , not handsome , but stout warlike fellows . 
He put Waverley in mind of one or two minute circumstances which had happened at a general review of the regiment , which satisfied him that the robber had been an eye-witness of it ; and Evan Dhu having by this time retired from the conversation , and wrapped himself up in his plaid to take some repose , Donald asked Edward , in a very significant manner , whether he had nothing particular to say to him . 
Waverley felt an involuntary shudder creep over him at the mysterious language held by this outlawed and lawless bandit , which , in despite of his attempts to master it , deprived him of the power to ask the meaning of his insinuations . 
A heath pallet , with the flowers stuck uppermost , had been prepared for him in a recess of the cave , and here , covered with such spare plaids as could be mustered , he lay for some time watching the motions of the other inhabitants of the cavern . 
When Waverley sallied forth to the entrance of the cave , he perceived that the point of rock , on which remained the marks of last night 's beacon , was accessible by a small path , either natural , or roughly hewn in the rock , along the little inlet of water which ran a few yards up into the cavern , where , as in a wet-dock , the skiff which brought him there the night before , was still lying moored . 
When he reached the small projecting platform on which the beacon had been established , he would have believed his farther progress by land impossible , only that it was scarce probable but what the inhabitants of the cavern had some mode of issuing from it otherwise than by the lake . 
Accordingly , he soon observed three or four shelving steps , or ledges of rock , at the very extremity of the little platform ; and , making use of them as a staircase , he clambered by their means around the projecting shoulder of the crag on which the cavern opened , and , descending with some difficulty on the other side , he gained the wild and precipitous shores of a Highland loch , about four miles in length , and a mile and a half across , surrounded by heathy and savage mountains , on the crests of which the morning mist was still sleeping . 
Looking back to the place from which he came , he could not help admiring the address which had adopted a retreat of such seclusion and secrecy . 
The rock , round the shoulder of which he had turned by a few imperceptible notches , that barely afforded place for the foot , seemed , in looking back upon it , a huge precipice , which barred all farther passage by the shores of the lake in that direction . 
Ere Waverley entered the banqueting hall , he was offered the patriarchal refreshment of a bath for the feet , which the sultry weather , and the morasses he had traversed , rendered highly acceptable . 
He was not , indeed , so luxuriously attended upon this occasion as the heroic travellers in the Odyssey ; the task of ablution and abstersion being performed , not by a beautiful damsel , trained To chafe the limb , and pour the fragrant oil , but by a smoke-dried skinny old Highland woman , who did not seem to think herself much honoured by the duty imposed upon her , but muttered between her teeth , `` Our father 's herds did not feed so near together , that I should do you this service . '' 
The bagpipers , three in number , screamed , during the whole time of dinner , a tremendous wartune ; and the echoing of the vaulted roof , and clang of the Celtic tongue , produced such a Babel of noises , that Waverley dreaded his ears would never recover it . 
Mac-Ivor , indeed , apologized for the confusion occasioned by so large a party , and pleaded the necessity of his situation , on which unlimited hospitality was imposed as a paramount duty . 
`` These stout idle kinsmen of mine , '' he said , `` account my estate as held in trust for their support ; and I must find them beef and ale , while the rogues will do nothing for themselves but practise the broadsword , or wander about the hills , shooting , fishing , hunting , drinking , and making love to the lasses of the strath . 
''' Then , turning to the company , he proposed the `` Health of Captain Waverley , a worthy friend of his kind neighbour and ally , the Baron of Bradwardine . '' 
Waverley thought he even discerned his own name , and was convinced his conjecture was right , from the eyes of the company being at that moment turned towards him simultaneously . 
When the first salutations had passed , Fergus said to his sister , `` My dear Flora , before I return to the barbarous ritual of our forefathers , I must tell you that Captain Waverley is a worshipper of the Celtic muse , not the less so perhaps that he does not understand a word of her language . 
I have told him you are eminent as a translator of Highland poetry , and that Mac-Murrough admires your version of his songs upon the same principle that Captain Waverley admires the original , -- because he does not comprehend them . 
The discourse followed the turn which the Chieftain had given it , and Waverley was equally amused and surprised with the account which the lady gave him of Celtic poetry . 
She stopped upon observing him below , and , with an air of graceful ease , which made him shudder , waved her handkerchief to him by way of signal . 
He was unable , from the sense of dizziness which her situation conveyed , to return the salute ; and was never more relieved than when the fair apparition passed on from the precarious eminence which she seemed to occupy with so much indifference , and disappeared on the other side . 
Advancing a few yards , and passing under the bridge which he had viewed with so much terror , the path ascended rapidly from the edge of the brook , and the glen widened into a silvan amphitheatre , waving with birch , young oaks , and hazels , with here and there a scattered yew-tree . 
But , as she possessed excellent sense , she gave the romance of the scene , and other accidental circumstances , full weight in appreciating the feelings with which Waverley seemed obviously to be impressed ; and , unacquainted with the fanciful and susceptible peculiarities of his character , considered his homage as the passing tribute which a woman of even inferior charms might have expected in such a situation . 
But Waverley , though the thought rushed on his mind , found no courage to utter it . 
Indeed , the wild feeling of romantic delight with which he heard the few first notes she drew from her instrument , amounted almost to a sense of pain . 
He would not for worlds have quitted his place by her side ; yet he almost longed for solitude , that he might decipher and examine at leisure the complication of emotions which now agitated his bosom . 
`` That is Fergus 's faithful attendant , Captain Waverley , and that was his signal . 
He likes no poetry but what is humorous , and comes in good time to interrupt my long catalogue of the tribes , whom one of your saucy English poets calls Our bootless host of high-born beggars , Mac-Leans , Mac-Kenzies , and Mac-Gregors . '' 
Waverley expressed his regret at the interruption . 
It would be greatly for the benefit of my cellar if she could teach her coadjutor , Mac-Murrough , the value of its influence : he has just drunk a pint of usquebaugh to correct , he said , the coldness of the claret -- Let me try its virtues . '' 
The interval was spent by Waverley with great satisfaction at Glennaquoich ; for the impression which Flora had made on his mind at their first meeting grew daily stronger . 
In the neighbourhood of this enchantress , while sport consumed the morning , and music and the dance led on the hours of evening , Waverley became daily more delighted with his hospitable landlord , and more enamoured of his bewitching sister . 
Fergus was attended on this occasion by about three hundred of his clan , well armed , and accoutred in their best fashion , Waverley complied so far with the custom of the country as to adopt the trews , -LRB- he could not be reconciled to the kilt , -RRB- brogues , and bonnet , as the fittest dress for the exercise in which he was to be engaged , and which least exposed him to be stared at as a stranger when they should reach the place of rendezvous . 
The word was given in Gaelic to fling themselves upon their faces ; but Waverley , on whose English ears the signal was lost , had almost fallen a sacrifice to his ignorance of the ancient language in which it was communicated . 
Waverley then attempted to rise , but found that he had suffered several very severe contusions , and , upon a further examination , discovered that he had sprained his ankle violently . 
Waverley made no commentary , therefore , on the manner of the treatment , but rewarded the professor of medicine with a liberality beyond the utmost conception of his wildest hopes . 
He uttered , on the occasion , so many incoherent blessings in Gaelic and English , that Mac-Ivor , rather scandalized at the excess of his acknowledgments , cut them short , by exclaiming , Ceud mile mhalloich ort ! 
After Waverley was left alone , the exhaustion of pain and fatigue , -- for the whole day 's exercise had been severe , -- threw him into a profound , but yet a feverish sleep , which he chiefly owed to an opiate draught administered by the old Highlander from some decoction of herbs in his pharmacopeia . 
This good old man , whose charity and hospitality were unbounded , would have received Waverley with kindness , had he been the meanest Saxon peasant , since his situation required assistance . 
But his attention to a friend and guest of Vich Ian Vohr was anxious and unremitted . 
At length , after more solicitude than was perhaps for the advantage of his health , Fergus took farewell of Edward for a few days , when , he said , he would return to Tomanrait , and hoped by that time Waverley would be able to ride one of the Highland ponies of his landlord , and in that manner return to Glennaquoich . 
The next day , when his good old host appeared , Edward learned that his friend had departed with the dawn , leaving none of his followers except Callum Beg , the sort of foot-page who used to attend his person , and who had now in charge to wait upon Waverley . 
Waverley repeated his question , to which his host answered in a proverb , -- `` What sent the messengers to hell , Was asking what they knew full well . '' 
He was about to proceed , but Callum Beg said , rather pertly , as Edward thought , that `` Ta Tighearnach -LRB- i.e. the Chief -RRB- did not like ta Sassenagh Duinhé-wassel to be pingled wi ' mickle speaking , as she was na tat weel . '' 
From this Waverley concluded he should disoblige his friend by enquiring of a stranger the object of a journey which he himself had not communicated . 
He seemed in the highest spirits , congratulated Waverley on his progress towards recovery , and finding he was able to sit on horseback , proposed their immediate return to Glennaquoich . 
Waverley joyfully acceded , for the form of its fair mistress had lived in his dreams during all the time of his confinement . 
Now he has ridden o'er moor and moss , O'er hill and many a glen , Fergus , all the while , with his myrmidons , striding stoutly by his side , or diverging to get a shot at a roe or a heath-cock . 
The letters which Waverley had hitherto received from his relations in England , were not such as required any particular notice in this narrative . 
His father usually wrote to him with the pompous affectation of one who was too much oppressed by public affairs to find leisure to attend to those of his own family . 
Now and then he mentioned persons of rank in Scotland to whom he wished his son should pay some attention ; but Waverley , hitherto occupied by the amusements which he had found at Tully-Veolan and Glennaquoich , dispensed with paying any attention to hints so coldly thrown out , especially as distance , shortness of leave of absence , and so forth , furnished a ready apology . 
But latterly the burden of Mr Richard Waverley 's paternal epistles consisted in certain mysterious hints of greatness and influence which he was speedily to attain , and which would ensure his son 's obtaining the most rapid promotion , should he remain in the military service . 
Sir Everard 's letters were of a different tenor . 
This he considered as a mere sop in the pan to stay the appetite of Edward 's curiosity , until he should find an opportunity of sending down the volume itself , which was much too heavy for the post , and which he proposed to accompany with certain interesting pamphlets , lately published by his friend in Little Britain , with whom he had kept up a sort of literary correspondence , in virtue of which the library shelves of Waverley-Honour were loaded with much trash , and a good round bill , seldom summed in fewer than three figures , was yearly transmitted , in which Sir Everard Waverley of Waverley-Honour , Bart. , was marked Dr. to Jonathan Grubbet , bookseller and stationer , Little Britain . 
This faith had become so general , that the insurgent party in the cabinet of which we have made mention , after sounding Mr Richard Waverley , were so satisfied with his sentiments and abilities , as to propose , that , in case of a certain revolution in the ministry , he should take an ostensible place in the new order of things , not indeed of the very first rank , but greatly higher , in point both of emolument and influence , than that which he now enjoyed . 
Richard Waverley 's letter to his son upon this occasion was a masterpiece of its kind . 
Accordingly , the next letter which Edward opened was from Sir Everard . 
His brother 's disgrace seemed to have removed from his well-natured bosom all recollection of their differences , and , remote as he was from every means of learning that Richard 's disgrace was in reality only the just , as well as natural consequence , of his own unsuccessful intrigues , the good , but credulous Baronet at once set it down as a new and enormous instance of the injustice of the existing government . 
It was true , he said , and he must not disguise it even from Edward , that his father could not have sustained such an insult as was now , for the first time , offered to one of his house , unless he had subjected himself to it by accepting of an employment under the present system . 
Sir Everard had no doubt that he now both saw and felt the magnitude of this error , and it should be his -LRB- Sir Everard 's -RRB- business , to take care that the cause of his regret should not extend itself to pecuniary consequences . 
But it was both the opinion of Mr Richard Waverley and his own , that Edward , the representative of the family of Waverley-Honour , should not remain in a situation which subjected him also to such treatment as that with which his father had been stigmatized . 
She considered the disgrace of brother Richard as the just reward of his forfeiting his allegiance to a lawful , though exiled sovereign , and taking the oaths to an alien ; a concession which her grandfather , Sir Nigel Waverley , refused to make , either to the Round-head Parliament or to Cromwell , when his life and fortune stood in the utmost extremity . 
She also concluded with her respects to Mr Bradwardine , and begged Waverley would inform her whether his daughter , Miss Rose , was old enough to wear a pair of very handsome ear-rings , which she proposed to send as a token of her affection . 
From the desultory style of his studies , he had not any fixed political opinion to place in opposition to the movements of indignation which he felt at his father 's supposed wrongs . 
Of the real cause of his disgrace , Edward was totally ignorant ; nor had his habits at all led him to investigate the politics of the period in which he lived , or remark the intrigues in which his father had been so actively engaged . 
He indeed knew of more motives than Waverley was privy to for the peremptory order that he should join his regiment . 
Waverley 's attachment was evident ; and as his person was handsome , and his taste apparently coincided with her own , he anticipated no opposition on the part of Flora . 
Indeed , between his ideas of patriarchal power , and those which he had acquired in France respecting the disposal of females in marriage , any opposition from his sister , dear as she was to him , would have been the last obstacle on which he would have calculated , even had the union been less eligible . 
Waverley felt half-alarmed at the thought of adopting the badge of what was by the majority of the kingdom esteemed rebellion , yet he could not disguise his chagrin at the coldness with which Flora parried her brother 's hint . 
`` Miss Mac-Ivor , I perceive , thinks the knight unworthy of her encouragement and favour , '' said he , somewhat bitterly . 
`` Why should I refuse my brother 's valued friend a boon which I am distributing to his whole clan ? 
`` A better one by far , '' said Flora , gently withdrawing her hand , `` Mr Waverley will always find in his own bosom , when he will give its small still voice leisure to be heard . '' 
`` So saying , he seized Waverley 's arm , and dragged him off to review his military preparations . 
His head was , or appeared to be , so full of guns , broadswords , bonnets , canteens , and tartan hose , that Waverley could not for some time draw his attention to any other topic . 
`` Are you to take the field so soon , Fergus , '' he asked , `` that you are making all these martial preparations ? '' 
But if you can not immediately make up your mind to a glorious revenge , go to England , and ere you cross the Tweed , you will hear tidings that will make the world ring ; and if Sir Everard be the gallant old cavalier I have heard him described by some of our honest gentlemen of the year one thousand seven hundred and fifteen , he will find you a better horse-troop and a better cause than you have lost . '' 
He could not but remember how much this morning had changed his fate , and into what a complication of perplexity it was likely to plunge him . 
Sun-rise had seen him possessed of an esteemed rank in the honourable profession of arms , his father to all appearance rapidly rising in the favour of his sovereign ; -- all this had passed away like a dream -- he himself was dishonoured , his father disgraced , and he had become involuntarily the confident at least , if not the accomplice , of plans , dark , deep , and dangerous , which must infer either the subversion of the government he had so lately served , or the destruction of all who had participated in them . 
Should Flora even listen to his suit favourably , what prospect was there of its being brought to a happy termination , amid the tumult of an impending insurrection ? 
Or how could he make the selfish request that she should leave Fergus , to whom she was so much attached , and , retiring with him to England , wait , as a distant spectator , the success of her brother 's undertaking , or the ruin of all his hopes and fortunes ? 
`` And might not the granting the suit I solicit , '' said Waverley , too earnest on his purpose to consider what he was about to say , `` even advance the interest to which you have devoted yourself ? 
Waverley attempted to reply , but his words failed him . 
Every sentiment that Flora had uttered vindicated the strength of his attachment ; for even her loyalty , although wildly enthusiastic , was generous and noble , and disdained to avail itself of any indirect means of supporting the cause to which she was devoted . 
With these words she parted from him , for they were now arrived where two paths separated . 
He avoided any private interview with Fergus , as he did not find himself able either to encounter his raillery , or reply to his solicitations . 
In the morning , when Waverley 's troubled reflections had for some time given way to repose , there came music to his dreams , but not the voice of Selma . 
He imagined himself transported back to Tully-Veolan , and that he heard Davie Gellatley singing in the court those matins which used generally to be the first sounds that disturbed his repose while a guest of the Baron of Bradwardine . 
-- Callum Beg , see that our horses are ready , with a pony for yourself , to attend and carry Mr Waverley 's baggage as far as -- -LRB- naming a small town , -RRB- where he can have a horse and guide to Edinburgh . 
`` Cathleen , let my sister know Mr Waverley wishes to bid her farewell before he leaves us . 
Waverley forgot Flora Mac-Ivor 's prejudices in her magnanimity , and almost pardoned her indifference towards his affection , when he recollected the grand and decisive object which seemed to fill her whole soul . 
Waverley assured the prudent page that he would be cautious ; and as he now distinguished , not indeed the ringing of bells , but the tinkling of something like a hammer against the side of an old mossy , green , inverted porridge-pot , that hung in an open booth , of the size and shape of a parrot 's cage , erected to grace the east end of a building resembling an old barn , he asked Callum Beg if it were Sunday . 
To this sanctified person Waverley addressed his request , that he would procure him a guide , with a saddle-horse , to carry his portmanteau to Edinburgh . 
returned he of the Candlestick , somewhat disconcerted at this rebuff . 
Waverley had but very little of a captain of horse 's spirit within him -- I mean of that sort of spirit which I have been obliged to when I happened , in a mail-coach , or diligence , to meet some military man who has kindly taken upon him the disciplining of the waiters , and the taxing of reckonings . 
Waverley thought he had misunderstood his meaning ; he gazed in his face , and discovered in Callum 's very handsome , though embrowned features , just the degree of roguish malice with which a lad of the same age in England would have brought forward a plan for robbing an orchard . 
But his letter turned chiefly upon some trifling commissions which Waverley had promised to execute for him in England , and it was only toward the conclusion that Edward found these words : -- `` I owe Flora a grudge for refusing us her company yesterday ; and as I am giving you the trouble of reading these lines , in order to keep in your memory your promise to procure me the fishing-tackle and cross-bow from London , I will enclose her verses on the Grave of Wogan . 
Waverley stared at the man 's impudence , but , as their connexion was to be short , and promised to be convenient , he made no observation upon it ; and , having paid his reckoning , expressed his intention to depart immediately . 
He mounted Dermid accordingly , and sallied forth from the Golden Candlestick , followed by the puritanical figure we have described , after he had , at the expense of some time and difficulty , and by the assistance of a `` louping-on-stane , '' or structure of masonry erected for the traveller 's convenience in front of the house , elevated his person to the back of a long-backed , raw-boned , thin-gutted phantom of a broken-down blood-horse , on which Waverley 's portmanteau was deposited . 
As Waverley passed him , he pulled off his hat respectfully , and , approaching his stirrup , bade him `` Tak heed the auld Whig deevil played him nae cantrip . '' 
Waverley once more thanked , and bade him farewell , and then rode briskly onward , not sorry to be out of hearing of the shouts of the children , as they beheld old Ebenezer rise and sink in his stirrups , to avoid the concussions occasioned by a hard trot upon a half-paved street . 
Waverley , with better regulated curiosity than his attendant 's , dismounted , and gave his horse to a boy who stood idling near . 
It arose , perhaps from the shyness of his character in early youth , that he felt dislike at applying to a stranger even for casual information , without previously glancing at his physiognomy and appearance . 
While he looked about in order to select the person with whom he would most willingly hold communication , the buzz around saved him in some degree the trouble of interrogatories . 
He attempted to argue mildly with them , but his voluntary ally , Mrs Mucklewrath , broke in upon and drowned his expostulations , taking his part with an abusive violence , which was all set down to Edward 's account by those on whom it was bestowed . 
Waverley meditated a retreat in the confusion , but his horse was nowhere to be seen . 
At length he observed , at some distance , his faithful attendant , Ebenezer , who , as soon as he had perceived the turn matters were likely to take , had withdrawn both horses from the press , and , mounted on the one , and holding the other , answered the loud and repeated calls of Waverley for his horse . 
His first attention , after he had directed the bystanders to detain Waverley , but to abstain from injuring him , was turned to the body of Mucklewrath , over which his wife , in a revulsion of feeling , was weeping , howling , and tearing her elf-locks , in a state little short of distraction . 
The nature of the smith 's hurt was inquired into , and as the actual injury was likely to prove trifling , and the circumstances in which it was received rendered the infliction , on Edward 's part , a natural act of self-defence , the Major conceived he might dismiss that matter , on Waverley 's depositing in his hands a small sum for the benefit of the wounded person . 
There ensued a painful and embarrassed pause , till Major Melville , looking upon Waverley with much compassion , and often consulting a paper or memorandum which he held in his hand , requested to know his name . 
`` I thought so ; late of the -- dragoons , and nephew of Sir Everard Waverley of Waverley-Honour ? '' 
He handed to Waverley a warrant from the Supreme Criminal Court of Scotland , in full form , for apprehending and securing the person of Edward Waverley , Esq. suspected of treasonable practices , and other high crimes and misdemeanours . 
After indulging the prisoner , for such our hero must now be considered , with what he thought a reasonable time for reflection , Major Melville resumed his examination , premising , that as Mr Waverley seemed to object to general questions , his interrogatories should be as specific as his information permitted . 
He then proceeded in his investigation , dictating , as he went on , the import of the questions and answers to the amanuensis , by whom it was written down . 
`` Certainly ; he was sergeant of my troop , and son of a tenant of my uncle . '' 
He then detailed the history of his misfortune at the hunting match , and added , that on his return he found himself suddenly deprived of his commission , and did not deny that he then , for the first time , observed symptoms which indicated a disposition in the Highlanders to take arms ; but added , that having no inclination to join their cause , and no longer any reason for remaining in Scotland , he was now on his return to his native country , to which he had been summoned by those who had a right to direct his motions , as Major Melville would perceive from the letters on the table . 
Major Melville accordingly perused the letters of Richard Waverley , of Sir Everard , and of Aunt Rachel ; but the inferences he drew from them were different from what Waverley expected . 
It is said , that a treasonable toast having been proposed in your hearing and presence , you , holding his majesty 's commission , suffered the task of resenting it to devolve upon another gentleman of the company . 
Beset and pressed on every hand by accusations , in which gross falsehoods were blended with such circumstances of truth as could not fail to procure them credit , -- alone , unfriended , and in a strange land , Waverley almost gave up his life and honour for lost , and , leaning his head upon his hand , resolutely refused to answer any further questions , since the fair and candid statement he had already made had only served to furnish arms against him . 
Waverley listened with great composure until the end of this exhortation , when , springing from his seat , with an energy he had not yet displayed , he replied , `` Major Melville , since that is your name , I have hitherto answered your questions with candour , or declined them with temper , because their import concerned myself alone ; but as you presume to esteem me mean enough to commence informer against others , who received me , whatever may be their public misconduct , as a guest and friend , -- I declare to you that I consider your questions as an insult infinitely more offensive than your calumnious suspicions ; and that , since my hard fortune permits me no other mode of resenting them than by verbal defiance , you should sooner have my heart out of my bosom , than a single syllable of information on subjects which I could only become acquainted with in the full confidence of unsuspecting hospitality . '' 
Mr Morton and the Major looked at each other , and the former , who , in the course of the examination , had been repeatedly troubled with a sorry rheum , had recourse to his snuff-box and his handkerchief . 
The youth and apparent frankness of Waverley stood in strong contrast to the shades of suspicion which darkened around him , and he had a sort of naiveté and openness of demeanour , that seemed to belong to one unhackneyed in the ways of intrigue , and which pleaded highly in his favour . 
Each mused over the particulars of the examination , and each viewed it through the medium of his own feelings . 
In the meanwhile , his soldiers become mutinous and disorderly , and at length , when the rumour of this unhappy rebellion becomes general , his favourite Sergeant Houghton , and another fellow , are detected in correspondence with a French emissary , accredited , as he says , by Captain Waverley , who urges him , according to the men 's confession , to desert with the troop and join their captain , who was with Prince Charles . 
Waverley awoke in the morning , from troubled dreams and unrefreshing slumbers , to a full consciousness of the horrors of his situation . 
How it might terminate he knew not . 
He might be delivered up to military law , which , in the midst of civil war , was not likely to be scrupulous in the choice of its victims , or the quality of the evidence . 
Nor did he feel much more comfortable at the thoughts of a trial before a Scottish court of justice , where he knew the laws and forms differed in many respects from those of England , and had been taught to believe , however erroneously , that the liberty and rights of the subject were less carefully protected . 
A sentiment of bitterness rose in his mind against the government , which he considered as the cause of his embarrassment and peril , and he cursed internally his scrupulous rejection of Mac-Ivor 's invitation to accompany him to the field . 
`` Why did not I , '' he said to himself , `` like other men of honour , take the earliest opportunity to welcome to Britain the descendant of her ancient kings , and lineal heir of her throne ? 
Waverley 's first impulse was to intimate a desire that he might not be disturbed with questions or conversation ; but he suppressed it upon observing the benevolent and reverend appearance of the clergyman who had rescued him from the immediate violence of the villagers . 
I can solemnly assure you they will be deposited with a faithful , and , to the extent of his limited powers , a zealous agent . '' 
Waverley , after a few minutes ' reflection , was convinced that his reposing confidence in Mr Morton , so far as he himself was concerned , could hurt neither Mr Bradwardine nor Fergus Mac-Ivor , both of whom had openly assumed arms against the government , and that it might possibly , if the professions of his new friend corresponded in sincerity with the earnestness of his expression , be of some service to himself . 
About noon , Mr Morton returned , and brought an invitation from Major Melville that Mr Waverley would honour him with his company to dinner , notwithstanding the unpleasant affair which detained him at Cairnvreckan , from which he should heartily rejoice to see Mr Waverley completely extricated . 
He therefore pleaded , that the invitation argued the Major 's disbelief of any part of the accusation which was inconsistent with Waverley 's conduct as a soldier and man of honour , and that to decline his courtesy might be interpreted into a consciousness that it was unmerited . 
In short , he so far satisfied Edward that the manly and proper course was to meet the Major on easy terms , that , suppressing his strong dislike again to encounter his cold and punctilious civility , Waverley agreed to be guided by his new friend . 
He had at all times remarkable natural power of conversation , though easily silenced by discouragement . 
On the present occasion , he piqued himself upon leaving on the minds of his companions a favourable impression of one who , under such disastrous circumstances , could sustain his misfortunes with ease and gaiety . 
His spirits , though not unyielding , were abundantly elastic , and soon seconded his efforts . 
Waverley and his new friend followed him , though probably he would have dispensed with their attendance . 
As he came up a few steps to meet Major Melville , and touched solemnly , but slightly , his huge and overbrimmed blue bonnet , in answer to the Major , who had courteously raised a small triangular gold-laced hat , Waverley was irresistibly impressed with the idea that he beheld a leader of the Roundheads of yore , in conference with one of Marlborough 's captains . 
Morton also took an affectionate farewell , and Waverley , having mounted his horse , with a musketeer leading it by the bridle , and a file upon each side to prevent his escape , set forward upon the march with Gilfillan and his party . 
Such was the situation of matters , when the pedlar , missing , as he said , a little doggie which belonged to him , began to halt and whistle for the animal . 
This signal , repeated more than once , gave offence to the rigour of his companion , the rather because it appeared to indicate inattention to the treasures of theological and controversial knowledge which was pouring out for his edification . 
He therefore signified gruffly , that he could not waste his time in waiting for an useless cur . 
But he was almost instantly extricated from the fallen steed by two Highlanders , who , each seizing him by the arm , hurried him away from the scuffle and from the high-road . 
The velocity , and indeed violence , with which Waverley was hurried along , nearly deprived him of sensation ; for the injury he had received from his fall prevented him from aiding himself so effectually as he might otherwise have done . 
When this was observed by his conductors , they called to their aid two or three others of the party , and swathing our hero 's body in one of their plaids , divided his weight by that means among them , and transported him at the same rapid rate as before , without any exertion of his own . 
By the light which the fire afforded , Waverley could discover that his attendants were not of the clan of Ivor , for Fergus was particularly strict in requiring from his followers that they should wear the tartan striped in the mode peculiar to their race ; a mark of distinction anciently general through the Highlands , and still maintained by those Chiefs who were proud of their lineage , or jealous of their separate and exclusive authority . 
In this recess the Highlanders deposited Waverley , after he had by signs declined any refreshment . 
His slumbers were broken and unrefreshing ; strange visions passed before his eyes , and it required constant and reiterated efforts of mind to dispel them . 
Shivering , violent headach , and shooting pains in his limbs , succeeded these symptoms ; and in the morning it was evident to his Highland attendants or guard , for he knew not in which light to consider them , that Waverley was quite unfit to travel . 
His own portmanteau , which the Highlanders had not failed to bring off , supplied him with linen , and , to his great surprise , was , with all its undiminished contents , freely resigned to his use . 
The bedding of his couch seemed clean and comfortable , and his aged attendant closed the door of the bed , for it had no curtain , after a few words of Gaelic , from which Waverley gathered that he exhorted him to repose . 
He observed , however , that there was a great disinclination , on the part of the old woman who acted as his nurse , as well as on that of the elderly Highlander , to permit the door of the bed to be left open , so that he might amuse himself with observing their motions ; and at length , after Waverley had repeatedly drawn open , and they had as frequently shut , the hatchway of his cage , the old gentleman put an end to the contest , by securing it on the outside with a nail so effectually , that the door could not be drawn till this exterior impediment was removed . 
But after a short conflict between his eager desire to believe she was in his neighbourhood , guarding , like an angel of mercy , the couch of his sickness , Waverley was compelled to conclude that his conjecture was altogether improbable ; since , to suppose she had left her comparatively safe situation at Glennaquoich to descend into the Low Country , now the seat of civil war , and to inhabit such a lurking-place as this , was a thing hardly to be imagined . 
Yet his heart bounded as he sometimes could distinctly hear the trip of a light female step glide to or from the door of the hut , or the suppressed sounds of a female voice , of softness and delicacy , hold dialogue with the hoarse inward croak of old Janet , for so he understood his antiquated attendant was denominated . 
Having nothing else to amuse his solitude , he employed himself in contriving some plan to gratify his curiosity , in dspite of the sedulous caution of Janet and the old Highland janizary , for he had never seen the young fellow since the first morning . 
At length , upon accurate examination , the infirm state of his wooden prison-house appeared to supply the means of gratifying his curiosity , for out of a spot which was somewhat decayed he was able to extract a nail . 
Through this minute aperture he could perceive a female form , wrapped in a plaid , in the act of conversing with Janet . 
The form was not that of Flora , nor was the face visible ; and , to crown his vexation , while he laboured with the nail to enlarge the hole , that he might obtain a more complete view , a slight noise betrayed his purpose , and the object of his curiosity instantly disappeared ; nor , so far as he could observe , did she again revisit the cottage . 
All precautions to blockade his view were from that time abandoned , and he was not only permitted , but assisted , to rise , and quit what had been , in a literal sense , his couch of confinement . 
But he was not allowed to leave the hut ; for the young Highlander had now rejoined his senior , and one or other was constantly on the watch . 
Whenever Waverley approached the cottage door , the sentinel upon duty civilly , but resolutely , placed himself against it and opposed his exit , accompanying his action with signs which seemed to imply there was danger in the attempt , and an enemy in the neighbourhood . 
Old Janet appeared anxious and upon the watch ; and Waverley , who had not yet recovered strength enough to attempt to take his departure in spite of the opposition of his hosts , was under the necessity of remaining patient . 
His fare was , in every point of view , better than he could have conceived ; for poultry , and even wine , were no strangers to his table . 
The Highlanders never presumed to eat with him , and , unless in the circumstance of watching him , treated him with great respect . 
His sole amusement was gazing from the window , or rather the shapeless aperture which was meant to answer the purpose of a window , upon a large and rough brook , which raged and foamed through a rocky channel , closely canopied with trees and bushes , about ten feet beneath the site of his house of captivity . 
Upon the sixth day of his confinement , Waverley found himself so well , that he began to meditate his escape from this dull and miserable prison-house , thinking any risk which he might incur in the attempt preferable to the stupifying and intolerable uniformity of Janet 's retirement . 
The question indeed occurred , whither he was to direct his course when again at his own disposal . 
Upon the evening of the seventh day the door of the hut suddenly opened , and two Highlanders entered , whom Waverley recognised as having been a part of his original escort to this cottage . 
It was now , however , once more rekindled , and with a throbbing mixture of hope , awe , and anxiety , Waverley watched the group before him , as those who were just arrived snatched a hasty meal , and the others assumed their arms , and made brief preparations for their departure . 
As he sat in the smoky hut , at some distance from the fire , around which the others were crowded , he felt a gentle pressure upon his arm . 
He looked round -- It was Alice , the daughter of Donald Bean Lean . 
She showed him a packet of papers in such a manner that the motion was remarked by no one else , put her finger for a second to her lips , and passed on , as if to assist old Janet in packing Waverley 's clothes in his portmanteau . 
It was obviously her wish that he should not seem to recognise her ; yet she repeatedly looked back at him , as an opportunity occurred of doing so unobserved , and when she saw that he remarked what she did , she folded the packet with great address and speed in one of his shirts , which she deposited in the portmanteau . 
Was Alice his unknown warden , and was this maiden of the cavern the tutelar genius that watched his bed during his sickness ? 
Was he in the hands of her father ? 
and if so , what was his purpose ? 
Spoil , his usual object , seemed in this case neglected ; for not only Waverley 's property was restored , but his purse , which might have tempted this professional plunderer , had been all along suffered to remain in his possession . 
All this perhaps the packet might explain ; but it was plain from Alice 's manner that she desired he should consult it in secret . 
Nor did she again seek his eye after she had satisfied herself that her manoeuvre was observed and understood . 
He moved with great precaution , as if to avoid giving any alarm , and halted as soon as he came to the verge of the ascent . 
Waverley was soon sensible of the reason , for he heard at no great distance an English sentinel call out `` All 's well . '' 
After proceeding a greater way in this inconvenient manner than was at all comfortable to his knees and shins , Waverley perceived the smell of smoke , which probably had been much sooner distinguished by the more acute nasal organs of his guide . 
They were all asleep , except the sentinel , who paced backwards and forwards with his firelock on his shoulder , which glanced red in the light of the fire as he crossed and re-crossed before it in his short walk , casting his eye frequently to that part of the heavens from which the moon , hitherto obscured by mist , seemed now about to make her appearance . 
In the course of a minute or two , by one of those sudden changes of atmosphere incident to a mountainous country , a breeze arose , and swept before it the clouds which had covered the horizon , and the night planet poured her full effulgence upon a wide and blighted heath , skirted indeed with copsewood and stunted trees in the quarter from which they had come , but open and bare to the observation of the sentinel in that to which their course tended . 
This indeed Waverley could easily conceive might be a matter of no great difficulty to the active mountaineer , who was perfectly acquainted with the ground , and traced his course with a firmness and confidence to which his pursuers must have been strangers . 
The alarm which he excited seemed still to continue , for a dropping shot or two were heard at a great distance , which seemed to serve as an addition to the mirth of Duncan and his comrades . 
Waverley was then mounted upon one of the horses , a change which the fatigue of the night and his recent illness rendered exceedingly acceptable . 
His portmanteau was placed on another pony , Duncan mounted a third , and they set forward at a round pace , accompanied by their escort . 
Passing hastily through a small and mean town , where their appearance excited neither surprise nor curiosity in the few peasants whom the labours of the harvest began to summon from their repose , the party crossed an ancient and narrow bridge of several arches , and turning to the left , up an avenue of huge old sycamores , Waverley found himself in front of the gloomy yet picturesque structure which he had admired at a distance . 
So saying , he hastily left the apartment , as if to avoid further discussion . 
Before Waverley awakened from his repose , the day was far advanced , and he began to feel that he had passed many hours without food . 
His compliments were , however , delivered by a servant , with an offer to provide any thing in his power that could be useful to Captain Waverley on his journey , which he intimated would be continued that evening . 
He removed the table and provisions , and Waverley was again consigned to his own meditations . 
As he contemplated the strangeness of his fortune , which seemed to delight in placing him at the disposal of others , without the power of directing his own motions , Edward 's eye suddenly rested upon his portmanteau , which had been deposited in his apartment during his sleep . 
The mysterious appearance of Alice , in the cottage of the glen , immediately rushed upon his mind , and he was about to secure and examine the packet which she had deposited among his clothes , when the servant of Colonel Stewart again made his appearance , and took up the portmanteau upon his shoulders . 
When dinner was finished , the governor arose , and , wishing Edward a good journey , said , that having been informed by Waverley 's servant that his baggage had been sent forward , he had taken the freedom to supply him with such changes of linen as he might find necessary , till he was again possessed of his own . 
With this compliment he disappeared . 
A servant acquainted Waverley an instant afterwards , that his horse was ready . 
Upon this hint he descended into the court-yard , and found a trooper holding a saddled horse , on which he mounted , and sallied from the portal of Doune Castle , attended by about a score of armed men on horseback . 
Waverley 's eye , accustomed to look at a well-disciplined regiment , could easily discover that the motions and habits of his escort were not those of trained soldiers , and that , although expert enough in the management of their horses , their skill was that of huntsmen or grooms , rather than of troopers . 
The commander of this small party was mounted upon an excellent hunter , and although dressed in uniform , his change of apparel did not prevent Waverley from recognising his old acquaintance , Mr Falconer of Balmawhapple . 
`` And a fine harvest , apparently , '' continued Waverley , following up his first attack . 
But as Jinker was entered full sail upon the pedigree of Balmawhapple 's mare , having already got as far as great-grandsire and great-grand-dam , and while Waverley was watching for an opportunity to obtain from him intelligence of more interest , the noble captain checked his horse until they came up , and then , without directly appearing to notice Edward , said sternly to the genealogist , `` I thought , lieutenant , my orders were preceese , that no one should speak to the prisoner ? '' 
To shorten his journey , or perhaps to display his importance and insult the English garrison , Balmawhapple , inclining to the right , took his route through the royal park , which reaches to and surrounds the rock upon which the fortress is situated . 
With a mind more at ease , Waverley could not have failed to admire the mixture of romance and beauty which renders interesting the scene through which he was now passing -- the field which had been the scene of the tournaments of old -- the rock from which the ladies beheld the contest , while each made vows for the success of some favourite knight -- the towers of the Gothic church , where these vows might be paid -- and , surmounting all , the fortress itself , at once a castle and palace , where valour received the prize from royalty , and knights and dames closed the evening amid the revelry of the dance , the song , and the feast . 
Balmawhapple , in the pride of his heart , as he wheeled his little body of cavalry round the base of the castle , commanded his trumpet to sound a flourish , and his standard to be displayed . 
This insult produced apparently some sensation ; for when the cavalcade was at such distance from the southern battery as to admit of a gun being depressed so as to bear upon them , a flash of fire issued from one of the embrazures upon the rock ; and ere the report with which it was attended could be heard , the rushing sound of a cannon-ball passed over Balmawhapple 's head , and the bullet , burying itself in the ground at a few yards ' distance , covered him with the earth which it drove up . 
All seemed busy , and earnestly intent upon something of importance ; but Waverley was suffered to remain seated in the recess of a window , unnoticed by any one , in anxious reflection upon the crisis of his fate , which seemed now rapidly approaching . 
While he was deep sunk in his reverie , the rustle of tartans was heard behind him , a friendly arm clasped his shoulders , and a friendly voice exclaimed , `` Said the Highland prophet sooth ? 
said Waverley , eagerly returning his greeting , `` it is long since I have heard a friend 's voice . 
`` Ay , in this city at least , '' answered his friend , `` and you shall see her ; but first you must meet a friend whom you little think of , who has been frequent in his inquiries after you . '' 
Thus saying , he dragged Waverley by the arm out of the guard chamber , and , ere he knew where he was conducted , Edward found himself in a presence room , fitted up with some attempt at royal state . 
But I desire to gain no adherents save from affection and conviction ; and if Mr Waverley inclines to prosecute his journey to the south , or to join the forces of the Elector , he shall have my passport and free permission to do so ; and I can only regret , that my present power will not extend to protect him against the probable consequences of such a measure . 
-- But , '' continued Charles Edward , after another short pause , `` if Mr Waverley should , like his ancestor , Sir Nigel , determine to embrace a cause which has little to recommend it but its justice , and follow a prince who throws himself upon the affections of his people to recover the throne of his ancestors , or perish in the attempt , I can only say , that amone these nobles and gentlemen he will find worthy associates in a gallant enterprise , and will follow a master who may be unfortunate , but , I trust , will never be ungrateful . '' 
The Prince -LRB- for , although unfortunate in the faults and follies of his forefathers , we shall here , and elsewhere , give him the title due to his birth -RRB- raised Waverley from the ground , and embraced him with an expression of thanks too warm not to be genuine . 
He also thanked Fergus Mac-Ivor repeatedly for having brought him such an adherent , and presented Waverley to the various noblemen , chieftains , and officers who were about his person , as a young gentleman of the highest hopes and prospects , in whose bold and enthusiastic avowal of his cause they might see an evidence of the sentiments of the English families of rank at this important crisis.The Jacobite sentiments were general among the western counties , and in Wales . 
He really loved Waverley , because their feelings and projects never thwarted each other ; he hoped to see him united with Flora , and he rejoiced that they were effectually engaged in the same cause . 
But , as we before hinted , he also exulted as a politician in beholding secured to his party a partisan of such consequence ; and he was far from being insensible to the personal importance which he himself gained with the Prince , from having so materially assisted in making the acquisition . 
Will Mr Waverley favour us with his opinion in these arduous circumstances ? '' 
`` Why , '' said Waverley , looking at his soiled dress , `` my shooting jacket has seen service since we parted ; but that , probably , you , my friend , know as well or better than I. '' `` You do my second-sight too much honour , '' said Fergus . 
`` Shemus , Mr Waverley is to wear the cath dath , -LRB- battle colour , or tartan ;-RRB- his trews must be ready in four hours . 
The Prince has given Mr Waverley broadsword and pistols , I will furnish him with a dirk and purse ; add but a pair of low-heeled shoes , and then , my dear Edward , -LRB- turning to him , -RRB- you will be a complete son of Ivor . '' 
He could not bear that Flora should be considered as conducing to her brother 's preferment , by the admiration which she must unquestionably attract ; and although it was in strict correspondence with many points of Fergus 's character , it shocked him as selfish , and unworthy of his sister 's high mind and his own independent pride . 
The uniform in which he was now attired , a blue coat , namely , with gold lace , a scarlet waistcoat and breeches , and immense jack-boots , seemed to have added fresh stiffness and rigidity to his tall , perpendicular figure ; and the consciousness of military command and authority had increased , in the same proportion , the self-importance of his demeanour , and dogmatism of his conversation . 
He received Waverley with his usual kindness , and expressed immediate anxiety to hear an explanation of the circumstances attending the loss of his commission in Gardiner 's dragoons ; `` not , '' he said , `` that he had the least apprehension of his young friend having done aught which could merit such ungenerous treatment as he had received from government , but because it was right and seemly that the Baron of Bradwardine should be , in point of trust and in point of power , fully able to refute all calumnies against the heir of Waverley-Honour , whom he had so much right to regard as his own son . '' 
`` I wasna comparing them , '' quoth Evan , `` nor was I speaking about his being weel-favoured ; but only that Mr Waverley looks clean-made and deliver , and like a proper lad o ' his quarters , that will not cry barley in a brulzie . 
And , indeed , he 's gleg aneuch at the broads word and target . 
I hae played wi ' him mysell at Glennaquoich , and sae has Vich Ian Vohr , often of a Sunday afternoon . '' 
Such was Waverley 's first thought , and it was so exquisitely painful as to banish from his cheek every drop of blood . 
These words , which she uttered with great emotion , were overheard by the Chevalier himself , who stepped hastily forward , and , taking Waverley by the hand , inquired kindly after his health , and added , that he wished to speak with him . 
The Chevalier smiled once or twice at the incongruity of his replies , but continued the same style of conversation , although he found himself obliged to occupy the principal share of it , until he perceived that Waverley had recovered his presence of mind . 
But it appeared , from his concluding expressions , that he had a different and good-natured motive , personal to our hero , for prolonging the conference . 
`` I can not resist the temptation , '' he said , `` of boasting of my own discretion as a lady 's confident . 
So saying , he turned easily away , and joined a circle of officers at a few paces ' distance , leaving Waverley to meditate upon his parting expression , which , though not intelligible to him in its whole purport , was sufficiently so in the caution which the last word recommended . 
Making , therefore , an effort to show himself worthy of the interest which his new master had expressed , by instant obedience to his recommendation , he walked up to the spot where Flora and Miss Bradwardine were still seated , and having made his compliments to the latter , he succeeded , even beyond his own expectation , in entering into conversation upon general topics . 
Waverley determined upon convincing Flora that he was not to be depressed by a rejection , in which his vanity whispered that perhaps she did her own prospects as much injustice as his . 
And , to aid this change of feeling , there lurked the secret and unacknowledged hope , that she might learn to prize his affection more highly , when she did not conceive it to be altogether within her own choice to attract or repulse it . 
Under the influence of these mixed sensations , and cheered at times by a smile of intelligence and approbation from the Prince as he passed the group , Waverley exerted his powers of fancy , animation , and eloquence , and attracted the general admiration of the company . 
The conversation gradually assumed the tone best qualified for the display of his talents and acquisitions . 
Waverley , as we have elsewhere observed , possessed at times a wonderful flow of rhetoric ; and , on the present occasion , he touched more than once the higher notes of feeling , and then again ran off in a wild voluntary of fanciful mirth . 
He was supported and excited by kindred spirits , who felt the same impulse of mood and time ; and even those of more cold and calculating habits were hurried along by the torrent . 
He was presented to several of the first rank , and his manners , which for the present were altogether free from the bashful restraint by which , in a moment of less excitation , they were usually clouded , gave universal delight . 
Flora Mac-Ivor appeared to be the only female present who regarded him with a degree of coldness and reserve ; yet even she could not suppress a sort of wonder at talents , which , in the course of their acquaintance , she had never seen displayed with equal brilliancy and impressive effect . 
But if a passing wish occurred that Waverley could have rendered himself uniformly thus amiable and attractive , its influence was momentary ; for circumstances had arisen since they met , which rendered , in her eyes , the resolution she had formed respecting him , final and irrevocable . 
When Waverley spoke , her ear was exclusively filled with his voice ; when others answered , her eye took its turn of observation , and seemed to watch his reply . 
The sound of Callum 's brogues in his apartment -LRB- for Mac-Ivor had again assigned Waverley to his care -RRB- was the next note of parting . 
Waverley sprung up , and , with Callum 's assistance and instructions , adjusted his tartans in proper costume . 
By this periphrasis Waverley readily apprehended his portmanteau was intended . 
He thought upon the mysterious packet of the maid of the cavern , which seemed always to escape him when within his very grasp . 
Waverley , however , not feeling the full force of this polite simile , asked him no farther questions . 
Upon extricating themselves from the mean and dirty suburbs of the metropolis , and emerging into the open air , Waverley felt a renewal both of health and spirits , and turned his recollection with firmness upon the events of the preceding evening , and with hope and resolution towards those of the approaching day . 
When he had surmounted a small craggy eminence , called St Leonard 's Hill , the King 's Park , or the hollow between the mountain of Arthur 's seat , and the rising grounds on which the southern part of Edinburgh is now built , lay beneath him , and displayed a singular and animating prospect . 
Waverley had already seen something of the kind at the hunting-match which he attended with Fergus Mac-Ivor ; but this was on a scale of much greater magnitude , and incomparably deeper interest . 
The rocks , which formed the back-ground of the scene , and the very sky itself , rang with the clang of the bagpipers , summoning forth , each with his appropriate pibroch , his chieftain and clan . 
Many horsemen of this body , among whom Waverley accidentally remarked Balmawhapple , and his lieutenant , Jinker , -LRB- which last , however , had been reduced , with several others , by the advice of the Baron of Bradwardine , to the situation of what he called reformed officers , or reformadoes , -RRB- added to the liveliness , though by no means to the regularity , of the scene , by galloping their horses as fast forward as the press would permit , to join their proper station in the van . 
Thus admonished , Waverley walked briskly forward , yet often casting a glance upon the darksome clouds of warriors who were collected before and beneath him . 
When Waverley reached that part of the column which was filled by the clan of Mac-Ivor , they halted , formed , and received him with a triumphant flourish upon the bagpipes , and a loud shout of the men , most of whom knew him personally , and were delighted to see him in the dress of their country and of their sept. `` You shout , '' said a Highlander of a neighbouring clan to Evan Dhu , `` as if the Chieftain were just come to your head . '' 
Waverley walked forward out of the line to satisfy his curiosity , and soon observed five or six of the troopers , who , covered with dust , had galloped in to announce that the enemy were in full march westward along the coast . 
Passing still a little farther on , he was struck with a groan which issued from a hovel . 
He approached the spot , and heard a voice , in the provincial English of his native county , which endeavoured , though frequently interrupted by pain , to repeat the Lord 's Prayer . 
`` You shall have it , '' answered Waverley , at the same time raising him in his arms , bearing him to the door of the hut , and giving him some drink from his flask . 
He then kindly greeted Mac-Ivor and Waverley , who requested to know his opinion of their situation . 
-- `` I could almost apply to Mr Bradwardine the character which Henry gives of Fluellen , '' said Waverley , as his friend and he walked towards their bivouac : `` Though it appears a little out of fashion , There is much care and valour in this ` Scotchman . 
Waverley felt his heart at that moment throb as it would have burst from his bosom . 
It was not fear , it was not ardour , -- it was a compound of both , a new and deeply energetic impulse , that with its first emotion chilled and astounded , then fevered and maddened his mind . 
The sounds around him combined to exalt his enthusiasm ; the pipes played , and the clans rushed forward , each in its own dark column . 
It was at this moment of confusion and terror , that Waverley remaked an English officer , apparently of high rank , standing alone and unsupported by a field-piece , which , after the flight of the men by whom it was wrought , he had himself levelled and discharged against the clan of Mac-Ivor , the nearest group of Highlanders within his aim . 
Struck with his tall , martial figure , and eager to save him from inevitable destruction , Waverley outstripped for an instant even the speediest of the warriors , and , reaching the spot first , called to him to surrender . 
The officer replied by a thrust with his sword , which Waverley received in his target , and in turning it aside the Englishman 's weapon broke . 
Waverley intercepted and prevented the blow , and the officer , perceiving further resistance unavailing , and struck with Edward 's generous anxiety for his safety , resigned the fragment of his sword , and was committed by Waverley to Dugald , with strict charge to use him well , and not to pillage his person , promising him , at the same time , full indemnification for the spoil . 
Waverley , as he cast his eyes towards this scene of smoke and slaughter , observed Colonel Gardiner , deserted by his own soldiers in spite of all his attempts to rally them , yet spurring his horse through the field to take the command of a small body of infantry , who , with their backs arranged against the wall of his own park , -LRB- for his house was close by the field of battle , -RRB- continued a desperate and unavailing resistance . 
Waverley could perceive that he had already received many wounds , his clothes and saddle being marked with blood . 
To save this good and brave man , became the instant object of his most anxious exertions . 
But he could only witness his fall . 
The look with which he regarded Waverley in his dying moments , did not strike him so deeply at that crisis of hurry and confusion , as when it recurred to his imagination at the distance of some time . 
On entering the room , where they stood crowded together , Waverley easily recognised the object of his visit , not only by the peculiar dignity of his appearance , but by the appendage of Dugald Mahony , with his battle-axe , who had stuck to him from the moment of his captivity , as if he had been skewered to his side . 
He hastened to assure Waverley , therefore , with more words than he usually employed , that he had `` keepit ta sidier roy haill , and that he wasna a plack the waur since the fery moment when his honour forbad her to gie him a bit clamhewit wi ' her Lochaber-axe . '' 
Waverley assured Dugald of a liberal recompence , and , approaching the English officer , expressed his anxiety to do any thing which might contribute to his convenience under his present unpleasant circumstances . 
The officer smiled and shook his head . 
said the English officer , with great emotion ; `` the nephew of Sir Everard Waverley , of -- shire ? '' 
But , with Mr Waverley 's permission , and yours , sir , if yours also must be asked , I would willingly speak a few words with him on affairs connected with his own family . '' 
`` Mr Waverley , sir , regulates his own motions . 
`` On my return to England , '' continued Colonel Talbot , `` after long absence , I found your uncle , Sir Everard Waverley , in the custody of a king 's messenger , in consequence of the suspicion brought upon him by your conduct . 
He is my oldest friend -- how often shall I repeat it -- my best benefactor ! 
I found this man in confinement , rendered harsher to him by his habits of life , his natural dignity of feeling , and -- forgive me , Mr Waverley , -- by the cause through which this calamity had come upon him . 
Having , by my family interest , which you probably know is not inconsiderable , succeeded in obtaining Sir Everard 's release , I set out for Scotland . 
There was so much dignity in Colonel Talbot 's manner , such a mixture of military pride and manly sorrow , and the news of Sir Everard 's imprisonment was told in so deep a tone of feeling , that Edward stood mortified , abashed , and distressed , in presence of the prisoner , who owed to him his life not many hours before . 
He then took him apart , made many inquiries concerning Colonel Talbot , and when he had received all the information which Edward was able to give concerning him and his connexions , he proceeded , -- `` I can not but think , Mr Waverley , that since this gentleman is so particularly connected with our worthy and excellent friend , Sir Everard Waverley , and since his lady is of the house of Blandeville , whose devotion to the true and loyal principles of the Church of England is so generally known , the Colonel 's own private sentiments can not be unfavourable to us , whatever mask he may have assumed to accommodate himself to the times . '' 
So little , however , was he at this time in love with vanity , that he had quite forgotten the ceremony in which Fergus had laboured to engage his curiosity . 
''' Were it not for the recollection of Fergus 's raillery , thought Waverley to himself , when he had perused this long and grave document , how very tolerably would all this sound , and how little should I have thought of connecting it with any ludicrous idea ! 
When Waverley acquainted Colonel Talbot with the Chevalier 's purpose to commit him to his charge , `` I did not think to have owed so much obligation to that young gentleman , '' he said , `` as is implied in this destination . 
Waverley escaped the alarm which this accident would have occasioned to him , as he was unavoidably delayed by the necessity of accompanying Colonel Talbot to Edinburgh . 
When Waverley again entered upon the subject which he had most at heart , the situation , namely , of his father and his uncle , Colonel Talbot seemed now rather desirous to alleviate than to aggravate his anxiety . 
Waverley 's quarters had been assigned to him , by the Prince 's express orders , in a handsome lodging , where there was accommodation for Colonel Talbot . 
Under a blank cover , simply addressed to E. Waverley , Esq. he found a number of open letters . 
It reminded Waverley of his duty , as a man of honour , an officer , and a Briton ; took notice of the increasing dissatisfaction of his men , and that some of them had been heard to hint , that their Captain encouraged and approved of their mutinous behaviour ; and , finally , the writer expressed the utmost regret and surprise that he had not obeyed his commands by repairing to head-quarters , reminded him that his leave of absence had been recalled , and conjured him , in a style in which paternal remonstrance was mingled with military authority , to redeem his error by immediately joining his regiment . 
And his being superseded , in consequence of his apparent neglect of this last command , was so far from being a harsh or severe proceeding , that it was plainly inevitable . 
The next letter he unfolded was from the Major of the regiment , acquainting him that a report , to the disadvantage of his reputation , was public in the country , stating , that one Mr Falconer of Ballihopple , or some such name , had proposed , in his presence , a treasonable toast , which he permitted to pass in silence , although it was so gross an affront to the royal family , that a gentleman in company , not remarkable for his zeal for government , had nevertheless taken the matter up , and that , supposing the account true , Captain Waverley had thus suffered another , comparatively unconcerned , to resent an affront directed against him personally as an officer , and to go out with the person by whom it was offered . 
The Major concluded , that no one of Captain Waverley 's brother officers could believe this scandalous story , but that it was necessarily their joint opinion that his own honour , equally with that of the regiment , depended upon its being instantly contradicted by his authority , & c. & c. & c. `` What do you think of all this ? '' 
said Colonel Talbot , to whom Waverley handed the letters after he had perused them . 
The men , who had been educated as Jacobites , so far as they had any opinion at all , and who knew their landlord , Sir Everard , had always been supposed to hold such tenets , easily fell into the snare . 
That Waverley was at a distance in the Highlands , was received as a sufficient excuse for transmitting his letters through the medium of the pedlar ; and the sight of his well-known seal seemed to authenticate the negotiations in his name , where writing might have been dangerous . 
Wily Will justified his appellative ; for , after suspicion arose , he was seen no more . 
When the Gazette appeared , in which Waverley was superseded , great part of his troop broke out into actual mutiny , but were surrounded and disarmed by the rest of the regiment . 
It is remarkable , that as soon as the poor fellow was satisfied of this , he became also convinced that the instigator had acted without authority from Edward , saying , `` If it was dishonourable and against Old England , the squire could know nought about it ; he never did , or thought to do , any thing dishonourable , no more did n't Sir Everard , nor none of them afore him , and in that belief he would live and die that Ruffen had done it all of his own head . '' 
Donald even believed that Waverley himself was at bottom in the Stewart interest , which seemed confirmed by his long visit to the Jacobite Baron of Bradwardine . 
When , therefore , he came to his cave with one of Glennaquoich 's attendants , the robber , who could never appreciate his real motive , which was mere curiosity , was so sanguine as to hope that his own talents were to be employed in some intrigue of consequence , under the auspices of this wealthy young Englishman . 
His conduct passed for prudent reserve , and somewhat piqued Donald Bean , who , supposing himself left out of a secret where confidence promised to be advantageous , determined to have his share in the drama , whether a regular part were assigned him or not . 
For this purpose , during Waverley 's sleep , he possessed himself of his seal , as a token to be used to any of the troopers whom he might discover to be possessed of the captain 's confidence . 
His first journey to Dundee , the town where the regiment was quartered , undeceived him in his original supposition , but opened to him a new field of action . 
He knew there would be no service so well rewarded by the friends of the Chevalier , as seducing a part of the regular army to his standard . 
By Colonel Talbot 's advice , Waverley declined detaining in his service the lad whose evidence had thrown additional light on these intrigues . 
He represented to him it would be doing the man an injury to engage him in a desperate undertaking , and that , whatever should happen , his evidence would go some length , at least , in explaining the circumstances under which Waverley himself had embarked in it . 
Waverley therefore wrote a short state of what had happened , to his uncle and his father , cautioning them , however , in the present circumstances , not to attempt to answer his letter . 
He would willingly have persuaded his new friend to become acquainted with some of his former intimates . 
`` I do not compare him with those uneducated men , my dear Rose . 
But Waverley is so gentle , so well informed '' -- `` Yes , '' said Flora , smiling , `` he can admire the moon , and quote a stanza from Tasso . '' 
`` Besides , you know how he fought , '' added Miss Bradwardine . 
He would never have been his celebrated ancestor Sir Nigel , but only Sir Nigel 's eulogist and poet . 
Waverley had , indeed , as he looked closer into the state of the Chevalier 's Court , less reason to be satisfied with it . 
Every person of consequence had some separate object , which he pursued with a fury that Waverley considered as altogether disproportioned to its importance . 
Having escaped from the old gentleman , Waverley went to Fergus 's lodgings by appointment , to await his return from Holyrood-House . 
`` I am the very child of caprice , '' said Waverley to himself , as he bolted the door of his apartment , and paced it with hasty steps -- `` What is it to me that Fergus Mac-Ivor should wish to marry Rose Bradwardine ? 
In such political disputes , Waverley usually opposed the common arguments of his party , with which it is unnecessary to trouble the reader . 
But he had little to say when the Colonel urged him to compare the strength by which they had undertaken to overthrow the government , with that which was now assembling very rapidly for its support . 
And in his turn he generally silenced Colonel Talbot , and succeeded in changing the subject . 
He raised his head hastily , as Edward stood uncertain whether to advance or retire , and Waverley perceived that his cheeks were stained with tears . 
Say , with a thousand kind greetings , all that is dutiful and affectionate to Sir Everard and Aunt Rachel -- Think of me as kindly as you can -- speak of me as indulgently as your conscience will permit , and once more adieu . '' 
As they had always hitherto walked together , and almost constantly side by side , Waverley pursued his course silently in the same direction , determined to let the Chief take his own time in recovering the good-humour which he had so unreasonably discarded , and firm in his resolution not to bate him an inch of dignity . 
Waverley 's servant always led a saddle-horse for him in the rear of the battalion to which he was attached , though his master seldom rode . 
But now , incensed at the domineering and unreasonable conduct of his late friend , he fell behind the column , and mounted his horse , resolving to seek the Baron of Bradwardine , and request permission to volunteer in his troop , instead of the Mac-Ivor regiment . 
A happy time of it I should have had , thought he , after he was mounted , to have been so closely allied to this superb specimen of pride and self-opinion and passion . 
-- The Baron , whose learning -LRB- like Sancho 's jests while in the Sierra Morena -RRB- seemed to grow mouldy for want of exercise , joyfully embraced the opportunity of Waverley 's offering his service in his regiment , to bring it into some exertion . 
In the meanwhile , Waverley turned the instructions he had received while in Gardiner 's dragoons to some account , and assisted the Baron in his command as a sort of adjutant . 
`` Parmi les aveugles un borgne est roi , '' says the French proverb ; and the cavalry , which consisted chiefly of Lowland gentlemen , their tenants and servants , formed a high opinion of Waverley 's skill , and a great attachment to his person . 
They were now in Lancashire , when , attracted by a castellated old hall , he left the squadron for half an hour , to take a survey and slight sketch of it . 
As he returned down the avenue , he was met by Ensign Maccombich . 
And he also drew his sword . 
Charles Edward was no sooner left with the Chieftain and Waverley , the rest of his attendants being at some distance , than he said , `` If I owed less to your disinterested friendship , I could be most seriously angry with both of you for this very extraordinary and causeless broil , at a moment when my father 's service so decidedly demands the most perfect unanimity . 
Both the young men protested their resolution to submit every difference to his arbitration . 
He took Fergus a little apart , and spoke to him very earnestly for two or three minutes , and then returning to Waverley , said , `` I believe I have satisfied Colonel Mac-Ivor , that his resentment was founded upon a misconception , to which , indeed , I myself gave rise ; and I trust Mr Waverley is too generous to harbour any recollection of what is past , when I assure him that such is the case . 
Endeavouring to retire from it as softly as possible , and blessing the obscurity which hitherto he had murmured against , Waverley groped his way the best he could along a small paling , which seemed the boundary of some cottage garden . 
As he reached the gate of this little enclosure , his outstretched hand was grasped by that of a female , whose voice at the same time uttered , `` Edward , is ' t thou , man ? '' 
Accordingly , he set seriously about sheltering and refreshing our hero for the night . 
Ned , who perhaps did not care that his handsome namesake should remain too long in the same house with his sweetheart , for fear of fresh mistakes , proposed that Waverley , exchanging his uniform and plaid for the dress of the country , should go with him to his father 's farm near Ulswater , and remain in that undisturbed retirement until the military movements in the country should have ceased to render his departure hazardous . 
`` And this , then , was thy last field , '' said Waverley to himself , his eye filling at the recollection of the many splendid points of Fergus 's character , and of their former intimacy , all his passions and imperfections forgotten -- `` here fell the last Vich Ian Vohr , on a nameless heath ; and in an obscure night-skirmish was quenched that ardent spirit , who thought it little to cut a way for his master to the British throne ! 
As these ideas pressed on Waverley 's mind , he resolved to go upon the open heath , and search if , among the slain , he could discover the body of his friend , with the pious intention of procuring for him the last rites of sepulture . 
The precaution became more necessary than Waverley had anticipated , as a variety of incidents prolonged his stay at Fasthwaite , as the farm was called . 
A tremendous fall of snow rendered his departure impossible for more than ten days . 
An accusation of the same grave crime hangs over his elder brother , Sir Everard Waverley , the representative of that ancient family ; and we understand the day of his trial will be fixed early in the next month , unless Edward Waverley , son of the deceased Richard , and heir to the Baronet , shall surrender himself to justice . 
In that case , we are assured it is his Majesty 's gracious purpose to drop further proceedings upon the charge against Sir Everard . 
While these reflections passed like the stings of scorpions through Waverley 's sensorium , the worthy divine was startled in a long disquisition on the battle of Falkirk by the ghastliness which they communicated to his looks , and asked him if he was ill ? 
Waverley then explained to his friends , that he was under the necessity of going to London with as little delay as possible . 
One cause of delay , however , did occur , to which Waverley had been very little accustomed . 
His purse , though well stocked when he first went to Tully-Veolan , had not been reinforced since that period ; and although his life since had not been of a nature to exhaust it hastily , for he had lived chiefly with his friends or with the army , yet he found , that , after settling with his kind landlord , he should be too poor to encounter the expense of travelling post . 
Waverley was taken so much at unawares , that he acquiesced . 
`` I was so unfortunate , madam , '' he replied , `` as to witness that engagement . '' 
In every town where they stopped , she wished to examine the corps de garde , if there was one , and once very narrowly missed introducing Waverley to a recruiting-sergeant of his own regiment . 
When Waverley knocked at his door , he found it at first difficult to procure admittance , but at length was shown into an apartment where the Colonel was at table . 
`` My father -- my uncle -- this paragraph , '' -- he handed the paper to Colonel Talbot . 
It is true , however , my dear Edward , that you have lost your father ; but as to this flourish of his unpleasant situation having grated upon his spirits , and hurt his health -- the truth is -- for though it is harsh to say so now , yet it will relieve your mind from the idea of weighty responsibility -- the truth then is , that Mr Richard Waverley , through this whole business , showed great want of sensibility , both to your situation and that of your uncle ; and the last time I saw him , he told me , with great glee , that as I was so good as take charge of your interests , he had thought it best to patch up a separate negotiation for himself , and make his peace with government through some channels which former connexions left still open to him . '' 
Sir Everard is gone down to Waverley-Honour , freed from all uneasiness , unless upon your own account . 
I have had a correspondence on this subject with a very zealous friend of yours , your Scottish parson , Morton ; his first letter was addressed to Sir Everard ; but I relieved the good Baronet of the trouble of answering it . 
Well , I do n't discourage you ; I think it will please Sir Everard , from what he said when I jested with him about it ; only I hope that intolerable papa , with his brogue , and his snuff , and his Latin , and his insufferable long stories about the Duke of Berwick , will find it necessary hereafter to be an inhabitant of foreign parts . 
The first use which occurred to Waverley of his newly-acquired wealth , was to write to honest Farmer Jopson , requesting his acceptance of a silver tankard on the part of his friend Williams , who had not forgotten the night of the eighteenth December last . 
Waverley riding post , as was the usual fashion of the period , without any adventure save one or two queries , which the talisman of his passport sufficiently answered , reached the borders of Scotland . 
Here he heard the tidings of the decisive battle of Culloden . 
It was no more than he had long expected , though the success at Falkirk had thrown a faint and setting gleam over the arms of the Chevalier . 
As there was no resisting her claim of acquaintance , Waverley acknowledged it with a good grace , as well as the danger of his own situation . 
Waverley accepted her invitation , and engaged her lodging for a night or two , satisfied he should be safer in the house of this simple creature than anywhere else . 
When he entered the parlour , his heart swelled to see Fergus 's bonnet , with the white cockade , hanging beside the little mirror . 
`` Ay , '' said Mrs Flockhart , sighing , as she observed the direction of his eyes , `` the puir Colonel bought a new ane just the day before they marched , and I winna let them tak that ane doun , but just to brush it ilka day mysell ; and whiles I look at it till I just think I hear him cry to Callum to bring him his bonnet , as he used to do when he was ganging out . 
There was some pretty men amang them , and ane Major Whacker was quartered on me , a very ceevil gentleman , -- but O , Mr Waverley , he was naething sae weel fa ` rd as the puir Colonel . '' 
Among these , Waverley distinguished one of his own , a small copy of Ariosto , and gathered it as a treasure , though wasted by the wind and rain . 
While , plunged in the sad reflections which the scene excited , he was looking around for some one who might explain the fate of the inhabitants , he heard a voice from the interior of the building singing , in well-remembered accents , an old Scottish song : `` They came upon us in the night , And brake my bower and slew my knight : My servants a ' for life did flee , And left us in extremitie . 
Waverley , remembering his habits , began to whistle a tune to which he was partial , which Davie had expressed great pleasure in listening to , and had picked up from him by the ear . 
Davie again stole from his lurking-place , but timidly , while Waverley , afraid of frightening him , stood making the most encouraging signals he could devise . 
They passed beneath the ruins of the castle ; Waverley followed , keeping up with his guide with difficulty , for the twilight began to fall . 
Following the descent of the stream a little lower , he totally lost him , but a twinkling light , which he now discovered among the tangled copse-wood and bushes , seemed a surer guide . 
A fierce barking of dogs was at first heard , but it stilled at his approach . 
A voice sounded from within , and he held it most prudent to listen before he advanced . 
said an old woman , apparently in great indignation . 
On one side , two grim and half-starved deer greyhounds laid aside their ferocity at his appearance , and seemed to recognise him . 
On the other side , half concealed by the open door , yet apparently seeking that concealment reluctantly , with a cocked pistol in his right hand , and his left in the act of drawing another from his belt , stood a tall bony gaunt figure in the remnants of a faded uniform , and a beard of three weeks ' growth . 
After some compliments , the Baron occupied his usual couch , and Waverley reclined in an easy chair of tattered velvet , which had once garnished the state bed-room of Tully-Veolan , -LRB- for the furniture of this mansion was now scattered through all the cottages in the vicinity , -RRB- and went to sleep as comfortably as if he had been in a bed of down . 
Waverley had the curiosity to clamber up and look in upon him in his den , as the lurking-place might well be termed . 
Upon the whole , he looked not unlike that ingenious puzzle , called a reel in a bottle , the marvel of children , -LRB- and of some grown people too , myself for one , -RRB- who can neither comprehend the mystery how it has got in , or how it is to be taken out . 
The cave was very narrow , too low in the roof to admit of his standing , or almost of his sitting up , though he made some awkward attempts at the latter posture . 
His sole amusement was the perusal of his old friend Titus Livius , varied by occasionally scratching Latin proverbs and texts of Scripture with his knife on the roof and walls of his fortalice , which were of sand-stone . 
As the cave was dry , and filled with clean straw and withered fern , `` it made , '' as he said , coiling himself up with an air of snugness and comfort which contrasted strangely with his situation , `` unless when the wind was due north , a very passable gite for an old soldier . '' 
Neither , as he observed , was he without sentries for the purpose of reconnoitring . 
`` Then Miss Rose was probably also the author of my deliverance , '' inferred Waverley , delighted at the confirmation of an idea which local circumstances had already induced him to entertain . 
A few more questions now brought out the whole mystery respecting Waverley 's deliverance from the bondage in which he left Cairnvreckan . 
When Waverley communicated to Fergus the letter he had received from Rose Bradwardine , by Davie Gellatley , giving an account of Tully-Veolan being occupied by a small party of soldiers , that circumstance had struck upon the busy and active mind of the Chieftain . 
It was at this moment that Rose learned , by open-mouthed fame , with all sorts of exaggeration , that Waverley had killed the smith at Cairnvreckan , in an attempt to arrest him ; had been cast into a dungeon by Major Melville of Cairnvreckan , and was to be executed by martial law within three days . 
Resolved this scruple should not part him and the treasure , he voluntarily offered to take an oath that he would never mention Miss Rose 's share in the transaction ; and foreseeing convenience in keeping the oath , and no probable advantage in breaking it , he took the engagement -- in order , as he told his lieutenant , to deal handsomely by the young lady -- in the only mode and form which , by a mental paction with himself , he considered as binding -- he swore secrecy upon his drawn dirk . 
He was the more especially moved to this act of good faith by some attentions that Miss Bradwardine showed to his daughter Alice , which , while they gained the heart of the mountain damsel , highly gratified the pride of her father . 
At Rose 's earnest entreaty , he left an old man , a herbalist , who was supposed to understand a little of medicine , to attend Waverley during his illness . 
They were suggested by old Janet , who insisted , that a reward having been offered for the apprehension of Waverley , and his own personal effects being so valuable , there was no saying to what breach of faith Donald might be tempted . 
Desirous to bind Waverley to his service , and wishing also to do a kind and friendly action , the Prince next assailed the Baron on the subject of settling his estate upon his daughter . 
When Janet had once finished the leading facts of this narrative , Waverley was easily enabled to apply the clew which they afforded , to other mazes of the labyrinth in which he had been engaged . 
The pleasure of being allied to a man of the Baron 's high worth , and who was so much valued by his uncle Sir Everard , was also an agreeable consideration , had any thing been wanting to recommend the match . 
The wily agent listened with apprehension when he found Waverley was still in a state of proscription -- was somewhat comforted by learning that he had a passport -- rubbed his hands with glee when he mentioned the amount of his present fortune -- opened huge eyes when he heard the brilliancy of his future expectations -- but when he expressed his intention to share them with Miss Rose Bradwardine , ecstacy had almost deprived the honest man of his senses . 
The Bailie started from his three-footed stool like the Pythoness from her tripod ; flung his best wig out of the window , because the block on which it was placed stood in the way of his career ; chucked his cap to the ceiling , caught it as it fell ; whistled Tullochgorum ; danced a Highland fling with inimitable grace and agility , and then threw himself exhausted into a chair , exclaiming , `` Lady Wauverley ! 
With some difficulty , Waverley made him comprehend that he was going a little too fast . 
He explained to him that he should want his assistance , in the first place , to make his residence safe for the time , by writing to the officer at Tully-Veolan , that Mr Stanley , an English gentleman nearly related to Colonel Talbot , was upon a visit of business at Mr Macwheeble 's , and , knowing the state of the country , had sent his passport for Captain Foster 's inspection . 
I mentioned the obligations which I lay under to Sir Everard , and to you personally , and claimed , as the sole reward of my services , that he would be pleased to afford me the means of evincing my gratitude . 
I perceived that he still meditated a refusal , and , taking my commission from my pocket , I said , -LRB- as a last resource , -RRB- that as his Royal Highness did not , under these pressing circumstances , think me worthy of a favour which he had not scrupled to grant to other gentlemen , whose services I could hardly judge more important than my own , I must beg leave to deposit , with all humility , my commission in his Royal Highness 's hands , and to retire from the service . 
He was not prepared for this ; he told me to take up my commission ; said some handsome things of my services , and granted my request . 
And I have the pleasure to tell you , that whatever progress you can make in her good graces will be highly agreeable to Sir Everard and Mrs Rachel , who will never believe your views and prospects settled , and the three ermines passant in actual safety , until you present them with a Mrs Edward Waverley . 
When it was near sunset , Waverley hastened to the hut ; and he could not but allow that superstition had chosen no improper locality , or unfit object , for the foundation of her fantastic terrors . 
It resembled exactly the description of Spenser : `` There , in a gloomy hollow glen , she found A little cottage built of sticks and reeds , In homely wise , and wall 'd with sods around , In which a witch did dwell in loathly weeds , And wilful want , all careless of her needs ; So choosing solitary to abide Far from all neighbours , that her devilish deeds , And hellish arts , from people she might hide , And hurt far off , unknown , whomsoever she espied . '' 
He entered the cottage with these verses in his memory . 
At a low whistle , he observed the veteran peeping out to reconnoitre , like an old badger with his head out of his hole . 
`` Ye hae come rather early , my good lad , '' said he , descending ; `` I question if the redcoats hae beat the tattoo yet , and we 're not safe till then . '' 
`` Good news can not be told too soon , '' said Waverley ; and with infinite joy communicated to him the happy tidings . 
`` She had never a will but her old father 's ; besides , you are a likely youth , of honest principles , and high birth ; no , she never had any other will than mine , and in my proudest days I could not have wished a mair eligible espousal for her than the nephew of my excellent old friend , Sir Everard . 
Edward assured him that Sir Everard would think himself highly honoured in the flattering reception his proposal had met with , and that it had his entire approbation ; in evidence of which , he put Colonel Talbot 's letter into the Baron 's hand . 
`` Sir Everard , '' he said , `` always despised wealth in comparison of honour and birth ; and indeed he hath no occasion to court the Diva Pecunia . 
thought Edward , that Sir Everard does not hear these scruples ! 
-- He then , with all the ardour of a young lover , assured the Baron , that he sought for his happiness only in Rose 's heart and hand , and thought himself as happy in her father 's simple approbation , as if he had settled an earldom upon his daughter . 
Waverley was now considered as a received lover in all the forms . 
If he came into the room , she of the four Miss Rubricks who chanced to be next Rose , was sure to recollect that her thimble , or her scissors , were at the other end of the room , in order to leave the seat nearest to Miss Bradwardine vacant for his occupation . 
Flora rose to receive him , and stretched out her hand , but neither ventured to attempt speech . 
But O , Mr Waverley , I spurred his fiery temper , and half of his ruin at least lies with his sister ! '' 
`` Do not think I have forgotten them , '' she said , looking up , with eager quickness ; `` I do not regret his attempt , because it was wrong ! 
Not that I fear what is to follow for myself , '' he said proudly : `` Nature has her tortures as well as art ; and how happy should we think the man who escapes from the throes of a mortal and painful disorder , in the space of a short half hour ? 
-- This same law of high treason , '' he continued , with astonishing firmness and composure , `` is one of the blessings , Edward , with which your free country has accommodated poor old Scotland -- her own jurisprudence , as I have heard , was much milder . 
These were the last words which Waverley heard him speak . 
The last of the soldiers had now disappeared from under the vaulted arch-way through which they had been filing for several minutes ; the court-yard was now totally empty , but Waverley still stood there as if stupified , his eyes fixed upon the dark pass where he had so lately seen the last glimpse of his friend . 
Waverley forced on this good man a ring of some value , and a sum of money to be employed -LRB- as he thought might gratify Flora -RRB- in the services of the Catholic church , for the memory of his friend . 
`` Fungarque inani munere , '' he repeated , as the ecclesiastic retired . 
The next morning ere day-light he took leave of the town of Carlisle , promising to himself never again to enter its walls . 
He dared hardly look back towards the Gothic battlements of the fortified gate under which he passed , for the place is surrounded with an old wall . 
On the contrary , whatever pain Sir Everard and Mrs Rachel had felt during Waverley 's perilous engagement with the young Chevalier , it assorted too well with the principles in which they had been brought up , to incur reprobation , or even censure . 
The mutual epistles , for example , which were exchanged between Sir Everard and the Baron upon this occasion , though matchless specimens of eloquence in their way , must be consigned to merciless oblivion . 
There was a coach and six after the newest pattern , which Sir Everard had presented to his nephew , that dazzled with its splendour the eyes of one half of Scotland ; there was the family coach of Mr Rubrick ; -- both these were crowded with ladies , and there were gentlemen on horseback , with their servants , to the number of a round score . 
