Immediately , Navy Bob , a stout , old Triton , stealthily descended , and at once went to groping in the locker after something to eat . 
Supper ended , he proceeded to load his pipe . 
No wonder , then , that after a while Bob 's head sunk upon his breast ; presently his hat fell off , the extinguished pipe dropped from his mouth , and the next moment he lay out on the chest as tranquil as an infant . 
Directly a shadow glided across the forecastle and noiselessly approached the unsuspecting Bob . 
Hardly was his back turned , when a long limb was thrust from a hammock opposite , and Doctor Long Ghost , leaping forth warily , whipped the rope from Bob 's ankle , and fastened it like lightning to a great lumbering chest , the property of the man who had just disappeared . 
Here it jammed ; and thinking that Bob , who was as strong as a windlass , was grappling a beam and trying to cut the line , the jokers on deck strained away furiously . 
`` So the counseloris come , '' exclaimed Navy Bob , who , like all the rest , invariably styled him thus , much to mine and the doctor 's diversion . 
But no one exceeded the cooper in the violence with which he inveighed against the ship and every thing connected with her . 
And `` Heave round cheerly , men , '' sung out Navy Bob , dancing a hornpipe on the fore castle . 
`` Good-by , Little Jule , '' cried Navy Bob , as we swept under the bows . 
The whole of this proceeding was regarded with infinite scorn by Navy Bob , who , years before , had been captain of the foretop on board a line-of-battle ship . 
By this time , our guide had informed us , that he went by the name of `` Capin Bob '' -LRB- Captain Bob -RRB- ; and a hearty old Bob he proved . 
It was just the name for him . 
These arrangements completed , Captain Bob proceeded to `` hannapar , '' or secure us , for the night . 
Captain Bob now bustled about , like an old woman seeing the children to bed . 
Captain Bob and his friends lived in a little hamlet hard by ; and when morning showed in the East , the old gentleman came forth from that direction likewise , emerging from a grove , and saluting us loudly as he approached . 
Bob was a linguist , and had been to sea in his day , as he many a time afterward told us . 
At this moment , we were all alone with him ; and it would have been the easiest thing in the world to have given him the slip ; but he seemed to have no idea of such a thing ; treating us so frankly and cordially , indeed , that even had we thought of running , we would have been ashamed of attempting it . 
He very well knew , nevertheless -LRB- as we ourselves were not slow in finding out -RRB- , that , for various reasons , any attempt of the kind , without some previously arranged plan for leaving the island , would be certain to fail . 
As Bob was a rare one every way , I must give some account of him . 
There was a good deal of `` personal appearance '' about him ; in short , he was a corpulent giant , over six feet in height , and literally as big round as a hogshead . 
Bob seldom disposed of the produce of his lands ; it was all needed for domestic consumption . 
Indeed , for gormandizing , I would have matched him against any three common-council men at a civic feast . 
A friend of Bob 's told me , that , owing to his voraciousness , his visits to other parts of the island were much dreaded ; for , according to Tahitian customs , hospitality without charge is enjoined upon every one ; and though it is reciprocal in most cases , in Bob 's it was almost out of the question . 
The damage done to a native larder in one of his morning calls , was more than could be made good by his entertainer 's spending the holydays with him . 
The old man , as I have hinted , had , once upon a time , been a cruise or two in a whaling-vessel ; and , therefore , he prided himself upon his English . 
Having acquired what he knew of it in the forecastle , he talked little else than sailor phrases , which sounded whimsically enough . 
I asked him one day how old he was . 
he exclaimed , looking very profound in consequence of thoroughly understanding so subtile a question -- `` Oh ! 
After our sunrise bath , Bob once more placed us in the stocks , almost moved to tears at subjecting us to so great a hardship ; but he could not treat us otherwise , he said , on pain of the consul 's displeasure . 
How long we were to be confined , he did not know ; nor what was to be done with us in the end . 
`` Vast heavey '' -LRB- avast heaving , or wait a bit -RRB- -- said Bob -- `` kow-kow '' -LRB- food -RRB- `` come ship by by . '' 
With a grin , he said it was a present from Wilson ; it was all we were to get that day . 
This we agreed to ; and every morning afterward , when the bucket came , its contents were at once handed over to Bob and his friends , who never ceased munching until nightfall . 
Our exceedingly frugal meal of bread-fruit over , Captain Bob waddled up to us with a couple of long poles hooked at one end , and several large baskets of woven cocoa-nut branches . 
Not far off was an extensive grove of orange-trees in full bearing ; and myself and another were selected to go with him , and gather a supply for the party . 
To preserve the fruit from bruising , Bob , hooking the twigs with his pole , let them fall into his basket . 
A fewdays passed ; and , at last , our docility was rewarded by some indulgence on the part of Captain Bob . 
He allowed the entire party to be at large during the day ; only enjoining upon us always to keep within hail . 
Notwithstanding the regular supply of food which we obtained from Captain Bob and his friends , it was so small , that we often felt most intolerably hungry . 
As Captain Bob insensibly remitted his watchfulness , and we began to stroll farther and farther from the Calabooza , we managed , by a systematic foraging upon the country round about , to make up for some of our deficiencies . 
he asked , turning this time to old Navy Bob . 
`` That ere young cove does , '' replied Bob , pointing toward the place where I lay , as if he were directing attention to a sail at sea . 
Wehad been inmates of the Calabooza Beretanee about two weeks , when , one morning , Captain Bob , coming from the bath , in a state of utter nudity , brought into the building an armful of old tappa , and began to dress to go out . 
The tappa -- of the coarsest kind -- was in one long , heavy piece ; and , fastening one end to a column of Habiscus wood , supporting the Calabooza , he went off a few paces , and putting the other about his waist , wound himself right up to the post . 
This unique costume , in rotundity something like a farthingale , added immensely to his large bulk ; so much so , that he fairly waddled in his gait . 
But he was only adhering to the fashion of his fathers ; for , in the olden time , the `` Kihee , '' or big girdle , was quite the mode for both sexes . 
Bob , despising recent innovations , still clung to it . 
He was a gentleman of the old school -- one of the last of the Kihees . 
He now told us , that he had orders to take us before the consul . 
Leaving these hints to operate for themselves , he dismissed the party , ordering Captain Bob and his friends to escort us back whence we came . 
The interest felt in Pat 's welfare , by his benevolent countryman , was very serviceable to the rest of us ; especially as we all turned Catholics , and went to mass every morning , much to Captain Bob 's consternation . 
Upon finding it out , he threatened to keep us in the stocks , if we did not desist . 
He went no farther than this , though ; and so , every few days , we strolled down to the priest 's residence , and had a mouthful to eat , and something generous to drink . 
It was Sunday in Tahiti , and a glorious morning , when Captain Bob , waddling into the Calabooza , startled us by announcing `` Ah -- my boy -- shippy you , harree -- maky sail ! '' 
On this head , Captain Bob could tell us nothing ; no further at least , than that he still considered himself responsible for our safe-keeping . 
However , he never put us to bed any more ; and we had every thing our own way . 
As we were wholly without resources , so long as we remained on the island no better place than Captain Bob 's could be selected for an abiding-place . 
Beside , we heartily loved the old gentleman , and could not think of leaving him ; so , telling him to give no thought as to wherewithal we should be clothed and fed , we resolved , by extending and systematizing our foraging operations , to provide for ourselves . 
We went to see Mahinee , the old chief ; Captain Bob going along , and stoutly insisting upon having the chattels delivered up . 
Here , we disposed them about quite tastefully ; and made such a figure , that in the eyes of old Bob and his friends , the Calabooza Beretanee was by far the most sumptuously furnished saloon in Tahiti . 
So often were they repulsed , that we pretty nearly gave up all thoughts of leaving the island in this way ; and growing domestic again , settled down quietly at Captain Bob 's . 
Night after night every vessel in the harbor was visited in rotation , the foragers borrowing Captain Bob 's canoe for the purpose . 
Now , Captain Bob 's `` gig '' was exceedingly small ; so small , and of such a grotesque shape , that the sailors christened it the Pill Box ; and by this appellation it always went . 
Although , from its novelty , life at Captain Bob 's was pleasant enough , for the time ; there were some few annoyances connected with it , any thing but agreeable to a `` soul of sensibility . '' 
Farnow , an old native who had recently retired from active pursuits , having thrown up the business of being a sort of running footman to the queen , had settled down in a snug little retreat , not fifty rods from Captain Bob 's . 
His selecting our vicinity for his residence , may have been with some view to the advantages it afforded for introducing his three daughters into polite circles . 
Old Bob called these fellows `` kannakippers , '' a corruption , I fancy , of our word constable . 
The sailors in the Calabooza were witnesses to this , as well as several natives ; who , when the intruders were out of sight , applauded Captain Bob 's spirit in no measured terms ; the ladies present vehemently joining in . 
Kooloo , who at times was patriotic and pensive , and mourned the evils under which his country was groaning , frequently inveighed against the statute , which thus authorized an utter stranger to interfere with domestic arrangements . 
A bachelor friend of Captain Bob rejoiced in the possession of a full European suit ; in which he often stormed the ladies ' hearts . 
Having a military leaning , he ornamented the coat with a great scarlet patch on the breast ; and mounted it also , here and there , with several regimental buttons , slyly cut from the uniform of a parcel of drunken marines , sent ashore on a holyday from a man-of-war . 
From the tightness of the cloth across the shoulders , his elbows projected from his sides , like an ungainly rider 's ; and his ponderous legs were jammed so hard into his slim , nether garments , that the threads of every seam showed ; and , at every step , you looked for a catastrophe . 
In the same way , the `` Opio , '' or festive harvest-home of the bread-fruit , has been suppressed ; though , as described to me , by Captain Bob , it seemed wholly free from any immoral tendency . 
Ruschenberger , an intelligent surgeon in the United States Navy , takes the following instance from the records kept on the islands . 
By a curious coincidence , not five minutes after making this observation , Doctor Long Ghost himself fell down in an unaccountable fit ; and without asking any body 's leave , Captain Bob , who was by , at once dispatched a boy , hot foot , for Johnson . 
here sung out Navy Bob , as if he had just spied a sail . 
`` Pr ` aps it 's St. Witus 's hornpipe , '' suggested Bob . 
But before the deed could be done , the face became natural ; -- a sigh was heaved ; -- the eyelids quivered , opened , closed ; and Long Ghost , twitching all over , rolled on his side , and breathed audibly . 
By degrees , he became sufficiently recovered to speak . 
After trying to get something coherent out of him , Johnson withdrew ; evidently disappointed in the scientific interest of the case . 
Long Ghost acquiesced ; and being at once mounted upon the shoulders of four of Captain Bob 's men , was marched off in state , like the Grand Lama of Thibet . 
We were without any regular supply of food ; the arrival of ships was growing less frequent ; and , what was worse yet , all the natives but good old Captain Bob , began to tire of us . 
On the point of starting , Captain Bob 's men raised the most outrageous cries , and tried to prevent us . 
Turning upon them incensed , he bade them be off -- he would have nothing more to say to us ; and then , hurriedly addressing Captain Bob in Tahitian , he hastened on , and never stopped till the postern of Pritchard 's wicket was closed behind him . 
This garment , once worn as a festival dress , is now seldom met with ; but Captain Bob had often shown us one which he kept as an heirloom . 
So told me , Captain Bob . 
Like Captain Bob , he was , in some things , a gentleman of the old school -- a stickler for the customs of a past and pagan age . 
Captain Bob once told me the story . 
And by way of throwing more spirit into the description , as well as to make up for his oral deficiencies , the old man went through the accompanying action : myself being proxy for the Queen of Tahiti . 
