And , in all her beauty , costumed as we have shown her , Zulieme approaches her lord , and , with one hand on his shoulder , and her great black eyes peering into his , she exclaims , in tolerable English , just sufficiently broken and imperfect to show that she is of another nation , and to occasion a pleasant interest by the discovery -- she exclaims : -- `` Why , Harry , how is this ? 
`` But why have you put in here , Harry ? '' 
`` But I am not wise , Harry , and you sha ' n't make me wise ; and how , if nobody tells me anything but you , and you never tell me anything ! '' 
I asked Mr. Molyneaux , and he answered ; and there 's no harm in that , Harry . '' 
`` Yes , but you doknow , Harry ; and when Iwant to know something , I willask , and somebody mustanswer . '' 
I 'm your wife , Harry , am I not ? '' 
I do n't care about the ship 's affairs , Harry ; it 's my own affairs ; and I ask you why you put in here , in this wild place , when we were to go to Charleston ? 
`` How , Harry , do you mean that Mr. Molyneaux is not to answer my questions ? '' 
`` Look you , Harry , none of your haughty ways with me . 
I must and will know , Harry . 
You promised me , Harry , to carry me to Havana and Charleston both , and now you bring me here to this wild heathen country , where there are wolves and tigers , and the red savages . 
I say , I will know , Harry , whether you mean to keep your word , and carry me to Charleston . '' 
`` And from whom , Harry , in this savage place ? 
`` And I say again , Harry Calvert , that you treat me like a child ! '' 
`` But why may I not go on shore , Harry ? '' 
it will be so pretty , and so nice , Harry . '' 
And , so speaking , Captain Calvert was moving away , when the lady caught his arm : `` But is there no danger of the red savages , Harry ? 
But , go ` long , Harry . 
There was an instinct at work , no doubt , which made Captain Calvert feel that there was something unpleasant in that smile of his second officer . 
`` Well , Jack , '' said Calvert , impatiently , `` you have seen the governor ? 
Circe was willing enough to exhibit herself to beast as well as man ; and , like her , our Zulieme was perhaps quite as well pleased with the admiration of Jack Tar as that of her own liege lord , his superior and hers -- the stern , half outlaw , but noble Captain Calvert . 
But of his griefs , or of any griefs , our lady asks no questions . 
`` Look you , Molyneaux , '' he was wont to say , `` for all that Captain Calvert seems so indifferent about these liberties you take with his wife , I 'm sure he do n't like it . '' 
There 's Harry , now -- why , when he made love to me , it was like a tiger . 
I did n't know but he wanted to eat me . 
And when he spoke of love , even before we were married , it was as if he spoke of some great sorrow and trouble ; for he groaned , and clasped his head in his hands , and then he would start , and dash out into the groves , and almost run , till he got into the thickest part , where the sun never shines . '' 
`` I would teach you another sort of love from his , '' responded the courtier in low tones , looking sadly sweet , with that intense stare of the eyes , which , with a slight dash of melancholy in the gaze , makes the usual ideal of devoted and inveterate passion , among professed artists . 
On the edge of the little amphitheatre , thus occupied , suddenly stood Harry Calvert and his faithful follower , Jack Belcher . 
He had emerged from the sylvan recess of the latter , ere he had approached him , and found Belcher in waiting . 
And , speaking thus , Harry Calvert turned away , almost contemptuously , and moved slowly out of the woods . 
Calvert and Belcher were upon the headland as it went . 
And why , Harry , did n't you come and dance with me , instead of this Molyneaux ? 
Now , Harry , youcan do so much better , and you wear such loose breeches , and youcan stand it so much longer ! '' 
Calvert smiled sadly , as he chucked her silently under the chin . 
I remember that sharp smile of Harry Berkeley -- Calvert , I should say -- from the time when he was only knee-high to a cocksparrow ; and when he smiled so through them half-shut eyes , there was mischief in it ; and he 's one to work with a word and a blow ; and the word is just so much thunder , always after the flash . '' 
Harry Calvert , with arms folded , eyes half shut , and looking inward rather than outward , sombre as a thunder-cloud -- hardly conscious of anything but that he was obeyed -- did not see her approach , till he felt her arm on his shoulder . 
He acknowledged her presence with a start , then turned away , and strode to the opposite side of the vessel . 
`` Why , what 's the matter , Harry ? '' 
`` Yes : but where bound for , Harry ? '' 
And verily , none might reasonably think so , judging from his brows at that moment . 
`` Oh , do n't think to scare me , Harry , with such a face . '' 
I 'm sure I do n't mind 'em , Harry ; and now that we 're really to go to Charleston , you may blow yourself up into a thunder-storm as soon as you please . '' 
And she hummed and lilted as usual , swept across the quarter-deck on light fantastic toe , then darted back to him , and with hand again on his shoulder , asked -- `` But how long , Harry , before we get there ? '' 
He gave her but a single glance , then turned away , and looked out upon the dim waste of sea , now growing white in the increasing light of morning , as , shooting out between the green islets that guard the mouth of the Edisto , our cruiser made her way into blue water . 
`` Tell me , Harry Calvert , '' said she , after repeated intrusions , `` what 's the use of all these foolish papers ? 
Do you hear me , Harry ? '' 
`` Harry Calvert , you are a great sulky cayman ; and I 'm only sorry that I ever saw you . '' 
I tell you , Harry , I 'm sorry I ever nursed you , and made you well ; for you do n't care if I die here , in your vile vessel . 
you 've cheated , and deceived me , and made a fool of me , Harry Calvert , and I hate you ! 
-- I do , Harry , and I never did care about you ; and if I told you so , I lied . 
`` That I have ; and I 'll never come with Harry again , though he begs me on his bended knees . 
But tell me , Molyneaux , why do n't Harry go up to Charleston ? 
With one fell swoop she had swept the papers from the table to the floor , exclaiming -- `` You sha ' n't bother with these papers any more , Harry . 
`` Oh , Harry ! 
`` Oh , Harry , it was all fun . '' 
`` Oh , Harry , how can you speak so -- and to me -- when you know -- '' `` Do I not tell you that I believe you saved my life ? 
Harry , to speak of your dying -- and that I should be funny ! '' 
O , Harry ! 
`` You stab me to the soul , Harry . '' 
Harry , what a fool you must think me ! '' 
`` I do n't know , Harry ; only I feel you are saying terrible things to me . 
`` Harry , do n't talk to me any more . 
`` Ah , Harry , but did n't I nurse you well ? '' 
`` Harry ! 
-- you horrid Harry . '' 
I know -- there was a lady , Harry . 
That 's it , Harry . '' 
Harry -- no ! '' 
`` But , Harry -- do n't -- '' `` Stay , Zulieme , hear ! 
Harry , I would n't fight for him again . 
And why should you follow the seas , Harry ? 
You have enough , and I have enough , and we 'll go back to the Isthmus , where no English can ever find us out ; and there , O Harry , there we can be so happy . 
No troubles , Harry ; no cares ; nothing but dancing and delight , and fruits and pleasures . 
Let us go , Harry ; let us leave this place ; and leave the seas ; and have no more trouble , safe , high up in the mountains of the Isthmus . '' 
`` Do not go , Harry -- do not ! 
I 'm sure , Harry , I do n't care to go there . 
Do n't go there , Harry . 
`` Oh , Harry , I will mind all that you say . '' 
`` Who else should I mind , Harry , but you ? 
And if I do n't mind you always , Harry , it 's because you are such a great English bear sometimes ; showing such great teeth and such big paws , and not letting a body laugh as much . '' 
But he had scarce done so , when she returned : `` Harry , let me stay here awhile . 
After awhile , she started up and cried out : -- `` O Harry ! 
She started up , and drew the poniard from her own girdle , as she cried -- `` And I would kill myself , Harry , if harm should ever come to you . '' 
Calvert looked round , half confounded , half amused . 
`` What a contradiction , '' he muttered to himself . 
And he resumed his writing for awhile ; finished , folded up his papers , and hurried on deck , leaving Zulieme sleeping . 
Calvert was already there ; had , indeed , navigated the craft into the harbor ; and was still engaged , knowing thoroughly the route , in steering her for Ashley river . 
what is that , Harry ? '' 
Calvert looked as she bade him , and quietly putting his hand upon her shoulder , said , in impressive but low tones , scarcely above a whisper : -- `` That , Zulieme , is the gallows -- that is where they hang the pirates ! '' 
These precautions taken , Calvert , who had not closed his eyes for thirty-six hours , threw himself down in his berth , leaving Molyneaux in charge of the cruiser . 
He cares nothing for mykisses . 
He shall seek them before he gets them . '' 
Three hours might have elapsed , when she returned to the vessel , re-entered the cabin , and found Calvert not only awake , but busily engaged with papers at the table `` You do n't ask where I 've been , Harry . '' 
He nodded his head , and showed himself incurious . 
You might go with me , Harry , and see these beautiful woods ; such great trees , all green , with such mighty arms ! 
I 've been climbing trees , Harry . 
She looked at him with vexation . 
`` How long , Harry , are you to keep at these papers ? 
`` But if youcan go there , why can ' t I , Harry ? '' 
`` Well , that seems to me very foolish , Harry . '' 
You gave me one fright about that matter , Harry , last night , but sha 'n' t give me another . 
said he , gravely . 
He surveyed her , for a moment , with a glance of impatience , which had in it something of contempt ; but the expression soon changed to one of sadness , as he said , resuming his papers -- `` It is hopeless , Zulieme , to keep you in one settled impression of mind . 
That 's because you 're afraid , Harry . '' 
There 's one you love better , Harry . 
He looked up . 
He resumed his labors . 
She walked round him ; he never looked up . 
Suddenly she clapped her hands over his eyes , and laughed out , though with some effort . 
`` You sha ' n't write any more , Harry . '' 
He offered no resistance , uttered no complaint ; but , quietly laying down the pen , seemed resolved to wait patiently her movements . 
She released him , and , looking over his shoulder , said : -- `` Now you could eat me up , Harry , and without salt . 
He did not answer . 
She looked into his eyes . 
The sad , resigned air which he wore seemed to say -- `` This foolish creature saved my life ; her father 's fortunes have repaired mine ; I owe her everything ; I must bear with everything . '' 
She seemed to read this in his expression . 
`` Do n't look so , Harry , as if you hadto take it from me , whether you would or no . '' 
If you hate me , Harry , say so . '' 
`` But you do n't loveme , Harry , any more ! '' 
He was silent . 
Harry , do n't fling that money into my face . 
I do n't want the money , Harry . 
`` Even now -- '' `` And when I 'm trying to be fond with you , Harry , you call it striving against you . 
If you had any love for me , Harry , you would n't call it so . 
It was resumed at evening , just before Calvert 's departure . 
Under cover of the night , Calvert dropped down the river in one of the small boats of the cruiser . 
He was accompanied by four men as rowers . 
In a few strokes the boat was out of sight of the vessel , and Calvert surrendered himself up to his own dark musings , which did not need to receive their color from the night . 
`` After all , '' he thought to himself , `` what need I chafe ? 
Instead of twelve hundred people -LRB- as Calvert estimates -RRB- in Charleston , then newly christened -- being , nearly up to this period , `` Oyster-Point town '' -- the wholecolony scarcely numbers twelve hundred whites , distributed sparsely about the Ashley and Cooper , the Edistow , Winyah , Santee , and Savannah ; and these , thus scattered , are enforted in block-houses , having mortal dread of their red neighbors , who are too powerful still not to inspire fear . 
And -- but we must not suffer details of this sort further to interfere with the progress of Captain Calvert . 
We may have to conduct him and the reader to others before we have done , but sufficient for the scene should be the action thereof , and the approach to the event will necessarily imply such description of the locality as will serve for its proper comprehension . 
It contents us now to accompany Captain Calvert to one of the habitations of Boggy Quarter , Elliott street , a nest of rookeries ; two or three frame houses huddled together around a square fabric of logs , which in process of time ceased altogether to appear upon the street , and formed a sort of donjon , or keep , to an otherwise innocent-looking habitation , of very rude and ungainly structure . 
Calvert , armed with an oyster-shell , made himself heard against an upper window . 
Calvert heard this description in silence . 
When it was finished he rose and walked the apartment for a few minutes without speaking . 
Without answering , Calvert drew nigh the table , poured out a moderate stoup of the Jamaica , and , dashing it with water , drank it off , resuming his silent progress around the apartment . 
Several boats , well stuffed with contraband commodities , have dropped down the river , and have been disposed of by Calvert , through familiar channels . 
Enough , in this place , that Calvert is very far from blind , though it is a part of his policy not to see a moment too soon . 
He is quite satisfied , for the present , that he has a faithful hound upon their tracks , whom he holds to be quite able to scent them out in all their sinuosities of progress . 
We have shown you that all our parties have been busied , each in his department , during the three days which have elapsed since our last chapter . 
How Captain Calvert found his way into the private apartments of his excellency , through what agency of Ben Backstay and others , we might make a long story . 
We have seen something of Calvert already . 
But , showing well as a courtier , he shows at disadvantage in contrast with the Herculean proportions , and the lofty freedom , the manly , almost brusquecarriage , the brave simplicity and dignity , of the rover , Calvert , captain of the `` Happy-go-Lucky , '' whom we find closeted with him at this moment . 
The costume of our rover has undergone some changes since we made his acquaintance . 
He , too , recognises the necessity of a more courtier-like , a more pacific appearance . 
Accordingly , he figures in a rich black suit , such as was worn by the gentlemen of the day . 
He has great ruffles at his shirt bosom and wrists . 
He wears knee-breeches and silk stockings . 
He carries a rapier at his side . 
His hat is steeple-crowned , but of felt or beaver , no longer of straw or Panama . 
And , though it may lessen his freedom of carriage , we are constrained to admit that the costume of `` King Charles 's cavaliers , '' sets off his fine figure to advantage . 
He has , we may mention here , been accustomed to appear in it , and in high places How he has found his way into the private apartments of the governor of Carolina , we may easily conjecture from previous portions of this history . 
He has probably been conducted thither by Backstay , and in secresy , under cover of the night . 
He is now , at all events , an inmate of the governor 's mansion ; and that governor holds in his escritoire an order from the English lords in council for his arrest and execution -- `` short shrift and sudden cord '' -- as a pirate of the high seas ! 
Calvert has reason to suspect the fact . 
Captain Calvert gave it but a glance , then threw it back to the official . 
And Calvert folded his arms upon his bosom , and planted himself before the governor . 
the gallant Captain Calvert , the terror of the Spanish seas and dons , frightened by false fires ? 
Calvert was about to answer , but arrested himself , and walked slowly for awhile up and down the chamber . 
His meditations , during this interval , we shall deliver hereafter . 
When he did speak again , it was with an abrupt change of subject . 
Calvert asked , seemingly without caring for the answer , in respect to the actual locality of the contemplated barony , and other matters relating to the habits of the proprietor , and the character and condition of the family ; to all of which the governor replied , without supposing that the querist had any interest in the answer . 
`` I am in a trap now , should that man prove treacherous , '' was the soliloquy of Calvert . 
This last affair of the rover Calvert -- the destruction of the ` Maria del Occidente , ' a royal vessel -- has made the matter a very serious one , and compels us to adopt a much more strict and national policy . 
By-the-way , should you not make proclamation of the tenor of your last instructions against piracy , and offer a reward for the apprehension of this rover Calvert ? '' 
With neither ships-of-war nor troops in hand , we could only hope to effect his apprehension by stratagem , in the event of his putting into our port again , as he has boldly done before . 
To make public proclamation of what he may expect , if he returns , will be most effectually to defeat our own object , and keep him off . 
Our true policy is to lie low , keep dark , and close upon him when he least expects it . '' 
He is a good seaman and a fearless scoundrel . 
The circumstances of that savage fight , were it in a good cause , would suffice to make him a hero . 
Had we in our king 's ships such brave fellows to command as this rover Calvert , Britain would never be made ashamed before Spaniard , or Frenchman , or Hollander . 
As it is , I should grieve to see this fellow Calvert strung up to the gallows , when , as a mere deed of valor , his crime would rather merit star and garter . 
Of course , we must bring these pirates to the gallows -- this fellow Calvert especially ; though , I confess with you I should much rather see him commissioned in a king 's cruiser , and doing a still larger business among the Spanish galleons . '' 
The cassique of Kiawah took his departure , and the governor suffered Calvert to emerge from his retreat . 
was all the answer Calvert made to this speech . 
He proceeded abruptly : -- `` I should like to have seen this cassique of Kiawah . 
The governor lifted his eyebrows with a ludicrous stare . 
It was a long morning to Calvert , unemployed and almost uncompanioned , in the solitude of the governor 's private chamber . 
But he had his excellency to himself over a bottle of Madeira after dinner -- the latter being served to him secretly by miladi herself , who , however , could give the rover but few moments of her presence . 
It may have been an hour later , when the door opened again , and this time to admit our rover , the gallant Captain Calvert . 
But the court of England has suddenly grown virtuous , and sensitive to the royal pledges ; and the crown has taught the proprietary lords to translate ` privateer ' into ` pirate , ' and especially to consider one Captain Calvert a particular offender of the latter class -- simply for not pulling down the British jack in obedience to the shot of a royal packet of Castile . '' 
Abruptly then , and with a greater degree of earnestness , she said : -- `` Your tones are very sad , Harry . 
`` I would I could do something , Harry Calvert , to make you more cheerful . 
Ah , Harry , what a life is mine ! 
Why , Harry , even I , who claim to be disappointed also , have not survived hope . '' 
`` And you hold me one of these creatures , Harry ? '' 
`` No -- '' `` You do , Harry Calvert -- you do ! 
But , Harry , need I say to you that I am here in a solitude ? 
She rose and followed him , laid her hands upon his shoulder , and continued , even more earnestly -- `` You do not believe me , Harry ! '' 
O Harry Calvert , I so long for sympathy ! 
The eyes of Harry Calvert settled upon her with a keen and searching glance . 
He was no sentimentalist . 
His deep , earnest tones were in unison with the stern , cold , troublesome query which he put . 
`` Oh , do not , Harry , use an address so formal . 
He was dull of comprehension . 
The question that followed was a somewhat annoying one : -- `` Do you love him ? '' 
cried the lady , grasping the arm of the inquirer , and looking intently into his face -- `` no , Harry , how should I ? 
How should such as he control affections such as mine ? 
He , bent only on the acquisition of money -- cold , selfish , indifferent -- leaving me lonely -- '' `` Does he interest you when here ? '' 
`` Then you are quits ; for it is clear , Charlotte , that you do not interest him , or he would remain , in compliance with your wishes . '' 
`` But , Harry , do you hold me incapable of interest in the eyes of a gentleman ? '' 
`` Ah , Harry , that speech should only be made by a lover . '' 
He had long before sounded the lady 's shallows . 
Captain Calvert was not pleased to echo the lady 's sentimentalities -- nay , he was rather disposed to probe them . 
`` Charlotte , '' he said coolly , but in the deepest tones of his sonorous voice , `` I repeat the question -- of what do you complain ? '' 
`` Have I not said of isolation , abandonment , indifference , neglect , on the part of him who ought to love me ? '' 
`` But you have just as distinctly admitted that you do not love him . '' 
`` Because he neglects me . '' 
Think , now , before you speak . 
You knew him before you married . 
He was always the same person -- a person nowise attractive , externally , to a woman ; shrewd and persevering , but not intellectual ; nowise refined ; totally inelegant ; coarse of manner as of structure , and just as cold , no doubt , and indifferent always . 
I was a mere girl , Harry . '' 
`` A pretty old one , '' was Harry 's secret suggestion , but he did not say it . 
`` You mean , by that , that you deceived yourself in the belief that you did love him ? '' 
May not the secret of his indifference be found in the fact that he has discovered your secret ? 
Now , Charlotte , he was much more likely to have loved you than you him . 
Youhad attractions for the eyes of men . 
O Harry Calvert , is it from your lips that I hear such approval of the most mercenary aims of life ? '' 
`` And is it so , Harry Calvert ? '' 
`` Oh , Harry ! '' 
`` Hush , Captain Calvert -- hush ! 
`` Ah , but I have , Harry ! '' 
`` It is too late , now , Charlotte , either for that being or yourself , supposing him to be still in existence . '' 
`` He is ! 
he is ! '' 
`` Better , then , for yoursake , that he were dead ! '' 
`` You can never be the same to him as at the time when you were unmarried to another . '' 
`` Ah , but I did not know him then . 
It was only when I came to know him , that I found my present bonds were fetters . '' 
`` Still too late for both , since you can no longer bring him the tribute of a virgin heart . 
How should he believe you ? 
how persuade himself that the same fancies which deluded you to wed another , will not , in their caprice , beguile you from him ? '' 
`` Never , never , Harry Calvert ! 
I could die for him ! '' 
`` Better live for yourself , '' he answered , gloomily . 
A deep sigh from the lady , who sank back in her chair at the same moment , responded to his speech . 
He took her hand , and in softer accents said , touching his own breast : -- `` Judge of the wreck here , Charlotte , when I tell you that this young wife , whom I propose to bring to you , is one of the loveliest creatures whom your eyes ever beheld . 
`` Well , Harry , I will do for her all I can -- though I am not suffered to do anything for her husband ! '' 
Go , Harry Calvert -- go ! 
But , lest the reader should suffer too much anxiety , from what he has seen of her present state of feeling , we beg to mention that , in ten minutes after , she was busily engaged locking the gorgeous necklace which Calvert had brought her , about her fair , white neck ; trying the bracelets upon her arms ; weaving the diamonded birdcrests in her hair ; and , finally , folding the delicate shawl tastefully about her shoulders , while she walked before the great oval mirrors , watching with delight the beautiful effects produced by these fine gifts . 
WhenCalvert left Mrs. Perkins Anderson , he proceeded to a meeting with Franks ; and the two together took their way to the lagune in which the boats of the `` Happy-go-Lucky '' were wont to seek safe harborage . 
It was time , according to Belcher 's opinion , that Captain Calvert should resume the command of the ship . 
To what Belcher said of Molyneaux , Calvert only responded with contemptuous indignation in regard to the course of that individual . 
`` Franks , '' said Calvert , drawing him aside , `` have you that stout hackney that I used to ride when I was here last ? '' 
` You must get him across the Ashley for me by to-morrow , sometime . 
But , as Calvert did not seem to notice the confusion of Eckles , we must not anticipate . 
Zulieme answered , with equal coolness and simplicity -- `` I asked him in , Harry , to play with me . '' 
`` He should have known better than to have accepted your invitation . 
This is no place for him , and he knows it . 
But that I know youso well , Zulieme , I had cut his throat and yours too . 
Calvert saw the expression of his face , and simply muttered to himself -- `` The time is not yet come ! '' 
`` And you come , Harry , only to be a brute ! 
`` What 's that I can ' t understand , Harry ? '' 
`` Oh , dear Harry , is it true ? 
`` Ah , Harry , now you look good-natured again . 
`` And is she young , and gay , and pretty , and rich , Harry ? 
`` I wo n't go , Harry -- I wo n't ! 
Let 's go from 'em -- go to Havana , Harry -- that 's a good Harry ! '' 
`` Why , Harry , what 's to be done ? 
`` But we will notgo there , Harry , or to Havana either , or anywhere , if they hate you , Harry . 
We 'll go back to the isthmus , Harry , where we can dance as we please , and no garoteand no gallows for either you or me . 
O Harry , you talk as if I wished you were dead ! 
You brute , Harry ! '' 
`` Ah , Harry ! 
`` But , Harry -- '' `` Not a word more ! '' 
`` Oh , you savage , Harry ! 
`` Why , Harry , are you mad ? 
`` You spiteful , awful Harry ! '' 
`` Andnow , '' muttered Calvert , `` for Lieutenant Molyneaux ! '' 
Thus armed and strengthened , he could not help the fancy that Calvert had grown a foot since he had last seen him . 
His person now seemed absolutely gigantic . 
He himself -LRB- Molyneaux -RRB- was a trim , neatly-built , compact young fellow , active in great degree , and vigorous for his gristle ; but , with all his vanity , he did not deceive himself with the notion that he could , for a single instant , maintain his ground in a grapple with our rover . 
He felt that he was good at his weapon ; but he knew that so was Calvert -- good at any weapon -- and so powerful , that , whether armed with rapier or quarter-staff , he was likely to prove a dangerous enemy , no matter with whom he fought . 
Calvert , however , was growing suspicious ; but , with sufficient grounds for suspicion , he had yet no proper clues for inquiry , and no such evidence as would enable him to form a judgment . 
It was his present policy to look for these clues . 
And Calvert , proud , passionate , resolute , was yet cool enough , and a sufficiently-trained man , to pursue the search with equal acuteness and discretion . 
But just now , Calvert contemplated no such necessities . 
He had first to make discoveries . 
He joined the young man where he stood , on one side of the quarter-deck looking out upon the shore . 
The voice of Calvert was mild in tone , though firm and serious : -- `` Lieutenant Molyneaux , I had occasion to use some sharp language to you in my cabin . 
`` I had no object , Captain Calvert . '' 
I know that you employ these arts in vain -- '' `` I employ no arts , Captain Calvert ! 
`` You have entirely mistaken me , Captain Calvert . 
We pass them by , very much as Calvert himself did , and for the same reason , as discreditable pleas and evasions , put in at the expense of his manhood . 
He was not prepared to join final issue with his superior ; and a sense of guilt is , in a young mind , a necessary source of weakness . 
But his vanity stimulated him to replies which were only to be urged at the cost of character and pride ; and to all these Calvert refused to listen , and so may we . 
Nor did Calvert wholly mistake the nature of his lieutenant , so far as to suppose that the same vanity would suffer him to grow wiser after the rebuke . 
He knew the man too well to believe that anything short of severe penalties , actually enforced , could do any effectual service in bringing him back to a right consciousness of his true relations with the world about him . 
He rightly conceived that all which he said would be wasted upon blind ears ; but he had his own policy in his exhortations , and their very severity on onesubject was calculated to render the young man obtuse to those more searching inquiries which his superior had to make in other directions . 
Had Calvert said nothing to him touching his presence in the cabin , Molyneaux must either have supposed him grossly insensible to his honor -- which he could hardly be -- or too deeply interested in other matters , in which the guilty man was a participator , to suffer him to attach a proper weight to this . 
Calvert read him through ; understood all the workings of his mind ; smiled a bitter scorn as he listened to his replies ; and said to himself , at the close : -- `` He will not be saved ! 
And so he proceeded to talk , as it were indifferently , of the affairs of the ship ; taking a minute report of everything that had been done in his absence , even to a list of the names of parties engaged in the several tasks of scouting the woods , fishing , loading and unloading , and of the crews employed in conveying the boats to town . 
he asked . 
Scarcelyhad Calvert shut himself within his cabin , when Sylvia , the mulattress , crawled out from a cupboard which had concealed her under the stairs of the companion-way , and stole up to the deck , where she joined Molyneaux . 
This was one of the discoveries which Belcher had made , leading him to suspect Molyneaux of other treacheries ; but he had failed to communicate the fact to his superior , for the reason , probably , that Calvert had given rather indifferent attention to all the reports which had been made him in respect to his lieutenant 's intimacy with Zulieme . 
And so the Abigail rambled on , in a loose manner ; contriving , however , to report very fully all that Calvert had said to his wife in respect to her abode in town . 
While this scene was in progress , ignorant if not indifferent , Harry Calvert was keeping painful vigil below . 
He did not sleep -- did not seek for sleep -- was busy with books and papers . 
He read and wrote alternately for two hours . 
Then rising , putting away books and papers , he approached the berth where Zulieme slept -- slept like a child -- just as heedless of the morning as if it were never to dawn again . 
The strong man gazed on her sleeping features , in a stern and meditative silence . 
What was she to him ? 
Were she lying there in the absolute embrace of Death -- as she was in that of its twin-sister , Sleep -- he would probably have been as sadly calm a spectator . 
What was she to him ? 
But , though indifferent , he would not have had one breath of heaven too roughly to beteem her cheeks . 
True , she was but a child in his sight -- erring , weak , silly -- a creature quite unsuited to his needs as to his nature ; but whose was the fault that she was here ? 
She woke , and threw out her arms . 
`` Harry -- is it you , Harry ? 
Harry . '' 
And she sighed , and lapsed away again in sleep . 
She did not start for the city quite so soon as she expected . 
And Calvert was absent , no one knew in what quarter ; in the woods somewhere ; but whether with or without an object , who could say ? 
But by noon he came -- unexpectedly as he went ; and it was then understood that it was only after night , availing himself of the tide , that he meant that the boats should drop down the river . 
Her trunks were already on board ; and she herself had been ready , as we have seen , some twelve hours before . 
She , too , passed on board . 
She gave her hand cordially to Molyneaux , and Eckles too , as she left the vessel -- though the don , her husband , was at hand -- and spoke her farewell with all the freedom of a child . 
`` Good-by , Mr. Molyneaux -- good-by , Mr. Eckles , '' she cried to them , with naïveaccents -- `` good-by ! 
Sylvia was about to step on board after her mistress , when Calvert arrested her . 
`` Harry , '' cried Zulieme , hearing the anguished cry of the Abigail , `` I must have Sylvia . '' 
`` But , Harry , why can ' t Sylvia go ? 
`` But she wo n't blab , Harry . 
sobbed the disconsolate Abigail , as the boats swept away down-stream ; while Zulieme repeated for the twentieth time : -- `` You try all you can to cross me , Harry Calvert , and make me miserable . 
`` To meit was , Harry Calvert -- to me , to me only ! '' 
Enough , that the decision of Calvert deranged some of the plans of Molyneaux -- for the moment . 
In the rear of this pyre stood a dark , square mass , which Calvert instantly recognised as the ancient `` Blockhouse '' commanding the creek at `` Oldtown . '' 
This pyre was his signal . 
He knew that Gowdey was on the watch , and that his horse was in readiness . 
As the boat darted into the little creek , Zulieme cried out : -- `` Why , Harry , what 's this ? 
You must carry me yourself to Mrs. Anderson , Harry . '' 
You send me among strange people , Harry Calvert , and who ought to introduce me but you ? '' 
To this determined speech Calvert gave no attention . 
`` Why , Harry -- Harry , I say ! 
Calvert knew her resources . 
In little more than an hour after he had left the boat , she had entered the lagune , and passed on to the obscure landing-place , in the rear of the courthouse of the present city . 
`` Harry calls me a child and a baby , and treats me just as if I was a doll . 
Of course , Calvert has told you ? 
Even when visited by our rover Calvert , it was a place of ruins . 
Calvert is not philosopher enough to anticipate the wondrous future ; and may be allowed to feel some saddening sensations as he passes over the ruined site of the infant colony . 
Calvert has little time for reflection upon the vicissitudes of place ; and we , who are his biographers , must not suffer him to go from sight . 
He glides through the thicket , he winds about the creek , he reaches the knoll where the pyre still blazes to guide his course , behind which looms up the block-house , no longer surrounded by its guardian pickets . 
There were no signs of life within the log-house as Calvert approached it . 
But Calvert had not yet found his way in . 
All was still as death as he approached the entrance . 
Here he drew a silver whistle from his pocket , and sounded . 
Uncovering a dark-lantern , which served only to make the darkness visible , Gowdey seized with one hand the wrist of Calvert , and conducted him to the foot of the ladder by which they were to mount to the upper story . 
`` You have forgotten me , Gowdey , I suppose , '' said Calvert , as he shook the hand of the garrison . 
And ef ' t want for this stiffness of the arm '' -- lifting his left -- `` and that 's another sign to make me remember you -- '' `` What about your arm , and what had I to do with it , Gowdey ? '' 
`` God bless you , sir , '' grasping and squeezing his guest 's hand , `` and your visits and honor to this poor old hunter ! 
It was clean , of course , and simple ; the Jamaica was employed , and its virtues acknowledged -- though neither Calvert nor the hunter professed to be bottle-holders . 
But , now , Calvert encourages Gowdey to speak . 
Calvert involuntarily nodded his head in the affirmative . 
You are to understand , however , that , letting out Calvert first , then bolting securely the massive oaken door upon him , Gowdey , with rope and tackle , let himself down from the upper story . 
And while Gowdey rode on before , as guide , Calvert discussed in his own mind the subjects of their recent conversation . 
Calvert roused himself at the question , and shook himself free of his revery . 
-- lowering his voice -- `` I see a light yonder in the woods . 
He had alighted and hitched his nag ere he had done speaking . 
The consent of the rover was anticipated by his guide , who soon disappeared in the bushes ; and , while he `` scouted , '' gradually nearing the fire which had excited his curiosity , if not alarm , the thoughts of Calvert carried him back to the subject upon which he had been musing a few minutes before . 
Something correct , but not all correct , Calvert . 
Harry Calvert sat moodily upon his horse , waiting the return of Gowdey , but hardly conscious that he waited . 
His chin rested upon his breast ; his eyes were closed ; his thoughts striving in chaotic provinces in which he could as yet find no light . 
He was roused by the voice of Gowdey : -- `` As I thought , captain ! 
And they rode as before , Gowdey now silent , and Calvert meditative , and still on the same subject : -- `` Yes , we arealike -- and Heaven spare us the meeting as enemies ! 
And so they parted -- Calvert seeking the forest , where he hid his horse , and Gowdey the camp of Cussoboe . 
We show him to you a week in advance of Calvert 's visit . 
See the energy with which he throws himself into labor : see the frightful intensity with which he concentrates will , and thought , and muscle , upon the tasks before him ; watch the eager impulse , the stirring mind , the restless impatience ; hear the sharp , stern voice of authority , angry because dull labor is slow to comprehend , and a sullen mood stubbornly resists instruction . 
Note him , as he hurries to and fro -- now on foot , now mounted -- hurrying this way , straining that ; and now busy with the builders , now with the hewers ; and anon with the ploughmen , as they drive their shares through the newlycleared lands -- striving , by dint of extra exertion , to repair the loss of previous time -- the business of `` breaking up '' having been begun rather late in the season . 
And now observe him , as , in a state of physical exhaustion , he flings himself down upon the naked earth , trying to rest the animal man , while the mental , with keen eye and impatient thought , chafes at the demands of the poor body for needful hours of repose ! 
But , follow him now , as he starts up and passes into the dwelling . 
Note his countenance as he enters the house . 
But these disappear the moment he penetrates the dwelling . 
We now see that a sudden cloud has passed over his brow , which declares for some deeper working of the more secret nature . 
And you note that , when out of doors , and in contact with his workmen , his carriage was rapid , eager , and without that reserve , that staid dignity and measured movement , which vain men usually maintain when dealing with the vulgar ; yet , the moment he approaches his dwelling , his movements become slow , his carriage more erect ; he seems to brace himself , with effort , as for an encounter . 
He has put on his armor of pride and dignity as if for the meeting with a foe . 
Bring in ` Young Harry . ' '' 
`` Young Harry , with his cuisses on ! '' 
`` He is a brave-looking fellow , is he not ? 
See what a brow he has ! 
From the first , he looked like a dear brother whom I lost -- a wild , manly , noble fellow -- and he bears his name ; and every day seems to strengthen the likeness . 
You have a brother named Harry , Sir Edward ? '' 
The nurse had taken out the child , `` Young Harry , '' into the great avenue of oaks of which we have already spoken ; and , whether she knew the fact or not , thither Olive had also gone . 
And between the kisses and this study , big tears fell from her eyes upon the blooming , red cheeks of the infant , while broken murmurs -- `` My Harry ! 
my Harry ! '' 
He had seen her caressing `` Young Harry '' as only a loving mother could caress ; and he was so far satisfied . 
He is dead -- Harry is dead -- and I shall never be his wife ! 
Let him die , too ; tell himto drown ! 
Ah , Harry , dear Harry , you are come ! 
They told me you were dead , Harry -- that you were dead and buried in the deep sea . 
And she rose in the bed , in a sitting posture , threw out her arms , clasped the cassique about his neck , and their eyes met , and she stared fixedly into his , and , throwing herself upon his bosom , murmured fondly -- `` Dear Harry , you are come at last ! '' 
At all events , the illusion was complete ; and she suffered him to lay her back upon the pillow , which he did very gently ; while , still looking into his eyes , or seeming to look , she murmured repeatedly : -- `` You are come -- you are come at last , my Harry ! 
That was my poor brother Harry . 
His death would have made no difference in my conduct in respect to one whom I should have conceived to be his widow ! 
`` Yet his name was Harry , too ? '' 
`` Yes , his name was Harry , too ! '' 
Who told you that Harry was drowned ? 
He wrote it . 
He knew the facts . 
He was one of the survivors in the long-boat . 
He saw the pinnace go down , with all in her . '' 
`` He lied to you , mother ! 
Harry escaped to the shore . 
But Harry isalive ! 
Then I answered him -- yes , I answered out , mother -- though ' t was all said in a whisper , for shame -- shame for you , mother -- then I answered : ` It was for the cassique 's gold , Harry ! 
I told him it really was not marriage -- only a sham ; and that , in my heart , I had only one husband , and that was himself ! 
Yes , mother , my true husband , Harry , is alive ! '' 
`` How could he be here , Olive ? 
Only think , Olive , if Harry were living , and the brothers were to meet -- do you not see that they would fight ? 
What was the use , my child , when we knew that Harry was dead ? '' 
`` I can not think him dead . 
I feel him all around me . 
I seem to breathe the same air with him ; I seem to hear his voice at moments ; and , sometimes , to catch the bright flash of his great blue eyes . 
it is impossible to think him dead . 
You have made me doubt something , but not that he is living still . '' 
I feel sure he will come to me again , mother , if I lie down . '' 
If he comes now , it will be in spirit only . '' 
`` His spirit ! 
Suchwas the condition of things , at the barony , when Harry Calvert made his night-ride to the precinct , in company with Gowdey . 
We enable him to understand now why we have introduced this description here , when we recall to his memory the scene , in the first part of this veritable history , in which honest Jack Belcher detected the Indian canoe on its passage to the sacred isle of Kiawah , and when subsequently the alarm was given to the same personage , in company with his superior , Calvert , when they discovered the same Indian canoe so nearly athwart the hawser of the saucy cruiser , the Happy-go-Lucky . 
Harry Calvert harbored in the very thicket to which they directed their steps . 
From the edge of this thicket , approaching as nearly as he might with safety , he had watched the whole proceedings . 
Now , as the cassique and his son drew nigh , he receded stealthily into yet deeper thickets , taking care not to lose them from sight . 
Not that he felt much , or any curiosity , with regard to their movements . 
In observing them , he simply obeyed those instincts which had been habitually exercised by the life he led , and the vigilance which its necessities had rendered natural to his mind . 
He had been a warrior and hunter himself with the red men , and knew much of their ways . 
It was only the habitual employment of his wits , in the absence of every duty , that he should fathom their purposes . 
He had a motive in this , by-the-way , in consequence of what Gowdey had reported to him of the doubtful fidelity of the red men in the precinct . 
The latter drew nigh , and Calvert , from a clump of bushes , could behold the scene , though too remote to gather what was spoken . 
He saw that the cassique spoke with solemnity ; that his action was imposing and dignified . 
He saw his hands lifted to heaven at one moment , and in the next laid on the young man 's head . 
Harry Calvert had been able to behold the scene already described ; and , though he heard not a syllable , he yet fully conceived its purport . 
He waited in his hiding-place until the red men were certainly gone , and at a distance , when he readvanced to the edge of the opening , which revealed the new settlement , and satisfied himself that all there were too much occupied to interfere with his own actions . 
He returned to the thicket , found the tree in which the sheaf of arrows had been deposited , and drew it forth . 
He found it tied with the skin of the rattlesnake ! 
And even now , though unsent , it had a peculiar significance , which Calvert well understood . 
He counted the arrows , and restored the sheaf to its hiding-place . 
Then , gathering up the fragments of the shaft which had been broken , he retired still deeper into the thickets , till he reached a little branch , or brooklet , upon the banks of which the canes or hollow reeds , of which the arrows were made , grew abundantly . 
He gathered one of these , as nearly like , in size and appearance , as possible , to the one which had been broken ; trimmed it with his knife to the same shape and measure , and inserted it within the sheaf with the rest . 
This done , he resumed his scrutiny of the plantation and settlements of his brother . 
In this scrutiny , he consumed the better part of the day . 
He noted all the bearings and relations of the several buildings , the courses of the streams and woods around the place , and made himself familiar with the various paths or avenues which seemed to lead to and from it . 
For hours he watched the buildings from such points as afforded him the best survey . 
He could distinguish the workmen at their several tasks , and his brother among them . 
He could see much -- everything , indeed , which would have been necessary had he been making a reconnaissancein contemplation of assault . 
But he was still unsatisfied . 
His eyes never once rested on the object which was most precious to his sight -- which he came especially to see ! 
But there was one sight which worked keenly upon his sensibilities . 
Toward sunset , he beheld the nurse , with the child , enter the great grove of moss-bearded oaks -- a Titan family , hoar with eld , and with branches large as the shafts of other trees -- which ranged along one side of the whole settlement ; a natural avenue such as no prince of Europe might boast . 
Calvert told him what he had seen , of the interview between the chief and his son . 
He told him , also , what he had done , in substituting a perfect for the broken arrow . 
The sudden change in the voice of the speaker ; the deep pathos conveyed in those few allegoric words ; the utter rejection , in tone , manner , and thought , of that tribute to the vanity of the superior , which the humble man probably designed -- and innocently too -- to convey in his complimentary language -- all combined to reveal the presence of a great grief , perhaps an incurable one , which hitherto Gowdey had never supposed to exist in the heart of Calvert . 
Bythe dawn of the next day , Calvert was safely sheltered within the close chamber in the dwelling of Governor Quarry . 
It was enough to find a welcome from the accommodating Governor Quarry , to whom , without committing himself in any way , or revealing his own personal purposes and objects , Calvert made known all his apprehensions of the hostile intentions of the red men . 
`` You may be too nice for safety , '' answered Calvert , gravely . 
They scarcely speak of anything else ; and it has been to me matter of real rejoicing that Berkeley and Morton are busy with their several baronies , and that Middleton has gone pioneering somewhere about the Santee , so that I am temporarily relieved of their discussions as to the proper mode of treating a certain notorious offender , whom they familiarly style ` the pirate Calvert . ' '' 
-- and Calvert read the letter , only to lay it down quietly . 
But you see where he somewhat modestly asks if there be not some five hundred pounds offered for the capture of ` this most nefarious sea-robber , Harry Calvert ? ' 
Sylvester -- or , as the governor persisted in calling him , Stillwater -- was punctual to his appointment , and Calvert was an unsuspected witness . 
Accordingly , when Jack Belcher , the emissary of the infamous pirate Calvert , came to him some months ago , as had been his wont on previous occasions , to make arrangements for the sale in Charleston of the plunder which the pirate had made , he , Job Sylvester , with the cunning of the serpent and the innocence of the dove , gave him every encouragement to come , and bring his wares to the customary market . 
But I 'm pretty sure she 's no other than the mistress of this pirate Calvert . '' 
And Calvert scrawled a few lines in a billet , which he sealed and put into the governor 's hands . 
`` It is possible , '' said Calvert , rising , `` that Jack Belcher is somewhere waiting . 
The governor nodded ; and Calvert , applying a silver whistle to his mouth , sounded three mots , and then a fourth , after a pause . 
That Governor Quarry should have foreborne the formal publication of the government missives against piracy -- should have given no circulation to the fact that a heavy reward had been offered for Calvert -- was , of itself , sufficiently suspicious ; and Job was not the man to be put at fault by any such pretexts as those which had quieted Sir Edward Berkeley . 
When he was gone , and Calvert came forth from the chamber where he had heard everything , the governor said -- `` I fancy I have disarmed that scamp of all suspicions . '' 
That night , Calvert left the governor 's mansion as darkly as he came . 
He soon found another hiding-place under the guidance of Franks , with whom , and Belcher , he had a long conference . 
Gowdey made a rough map , at the instance of Calvert , showing the topography of all the region lying along the coast from the Kiawah to the Stono rivers , and to the Edisto beyond , and inland up to the barony of Sir Edward Berkeley . 
At midnight , Calvert and Belcher were upon the road . 
Calvert 's coming was a surprise ; even the wonted audacity of Lieutenant Molyneaux failing him for a moment . 
But , whether Calvert had suspicions or not , he never gave the slightest indication of them . 
He was simply taciturn ; he had no reproaches ; spoke of the discipline of the vessel ; and gave his orders with regard to her future disposition , only leaving the period of the ship 's removal in doubt , to be determined by his further orders through Belcher . 
We shall see hereafter , perhaps , that the first lieutenant was even more of an offender than Calvert thought him . 
But , when Belcher , after they had left the ship , and remounted their steeds , proceeded to certain detailed passages in respect to his dealing with the discontents , Calvert silenced him . 
`` I know all that you would say , perhaps more than you guess . 
Belcher would have remonstrated with this woful self-abandonment , but Calvert hushed him : -- `` Of what use , Jack ? 
A sad smile passed over the face of Calvert as he heard the speech , and he answered mournfully : -- `` Do you think , because I am indifferent to all things , Jack , that I would not domany things -- thatespecially ? 
When , at length , they had reached a point which Calvert judged to be about a mile from the barony of Kiawah , he stopped , alighted , and motioned Belcher to do the same . 
Having given Belcher instructions in respect to his route , and warned him to guard against all chance encounters , whether with red men or white , Calvert shook the hand of that faithful follower ; and , mounting their horses , the two went different ways , Belcher taking his progress toward Gowdey 's block-house , and Calvert shaping his route for the barony of his brother . 
Once there , he was careful to conceal his steed in the deepest coverts , yet convenient to his reach ; then he walked forward till the grounds of the new settlement began to appear through the woods . 
His first object was to visit the tree in which the sheaf of arrows had been deposited by Cussoboe . 
He found a second shaft broken , as he expected . 
As before , he supplied its place . 
Then he resumed his espionage upon the premises . 
He soon caught a glimpse of his brother , the cassique ; saw him , still impetuously busied with his workmen ; and , in the course of his watch , noted the Indian boy , wandering about the settlement , accompanied by Grace Masterton ; she rather leading him than he her , and eagerly challenging his observation to the thousand wonders , in her eyes , of that primitive world which she now for the first time inhabited . 
Let us leave Calvert to this espionage , which shall not profit him greatly , even though he may satisfy that curiosity -- if we may describe , by such a word , the mood which prompted him -- which was perhaps the only object of his watch . 
It was a wasting care which possessed him ; and his eye grew dim , and his face pale , and his heart sank within him , while his watch was protracted . 
His was the nature which required great physical exertions to work off the stimulating passions which excited him ; and , lacking these , during the hours devoted to this unprofitable employment , his excitements grew momently more powerful , and told upon his frame . 
His movements were marked by a nervous and irregular energy ; his action was spasmodic ; he started now at every sound in the woods ; he found his fancies active , as it were , in the mood equally of experience and judgment ; he felt himself no longer the cool , deliberate master , of either his situation , his resources , or his own moods . 
It was only when he could throw himself into the interests of others , while planning for his ship , people , or the colony -- working in concert with Gowdey and others , in anticipation of danger -- that he felt reassured on the subject of his own manhood . 
More than once a strong impulse seized him to dart forward , join his brother , denounce him where he stood , no matter in what presence , and have any issue with him which should effect a crisis ; or to grapple with the tools of the workmen , and lose his intellectual nature in the mere brute exertions of his physical . 
We will suppose a week to pass in these employments : by day , in surveillanceof the barony ; by night , in riding to Gowdey 's , passing over to the city , or cantering up to the cruiser where she still lay in her snug harborage up the river . 
The tides happened to be low , however , the winds were ahead , and there were reasons why the Happy-go-Lucky should not yet change her position . 
When Calvert now visited the ship , he did so on horseback ; but he took care to leave his horse in the woods , to approach stealthily , and never appeared on shipboard . 
His visits were unsuspected , save by one of the crew , who , previously counselled , knew where to expect him , and had learned to distinguish his whistle in the thickets from that of any wandering bird . 
But , though he heard much , he heard not all . 
`` Not with such a fellow to halloo them on against us as Harry Calvert . '' 
But where 's he to halloo them on ? 
Look you , captain -- so I makes free to call you at once -- I 'm a-thinkin ' that Captain Calvert will never pipe our fellows to quarters ag ` in . 
He 's safe from us , ef he ai n't safe from the governor ; and , thank the devils , we 're safe from him ! '' 
He was here three nights ago . '' 
Where 's he now ? 
I knowsthat Franks hai n't seed him in all that time . 
They 've got Calvert fast . 
He 's the main one they strike at , for you see there 's a good five hundred pounds offered for him one , dead or alive . 
They 'll be satisfied to have him in the darbies , and they 'll be pleased to have our trade jest the same . '' 
But s ` posin ' him locked up in cold quarters , or s ` posin ' him not locked up , and jest schoolin ' about on his own business , what 's it to us any way ? 
The first question is , whether we shall use our heels to please Captain Calvert , or to please me and Captain Molyneaux . 
If we wait for Calvert , there 's so much more to do , and so much more risk in the doin ' of it . 
Captain Calvert owes me a life . 
He has wounded my honor ; he has treated me with scorn and insult . 
Fight with him ? '' 
Once hitched with Harry Calvert , you 'd soon enough l'arn the difference ` twixt your 'n and his ` n . 
As for a fight with him , man to man , it 's not in you . '' 
You 're as brave a lad as I know , and you can use a broadsword as well as most men ; but Harry Calvert ! 
We 'll be off while Calvert 's ashore , no matter where . 
We 'll leave him -- maroon him , and in good quarters , I reckon . 
And ef we can ' t do that , there 's but one way -- and that 's to send him down-stream , swimming like a pig in a gale of wind , with a gapin ' throat . 
`` I would rather fight him , man to man . 
It 's part of the business that we leave Captain Calvert to take care of himself , on a coast where he knows all the bearings as well as we do ; or , if he comes in our way , and only when he comes in our way , when the word is ` Cut and run , ' then we cut him out of it . 
`` But , Sam , there 's another reason for putting Calvert out of the way . '' 
`` But she 'll never consent , so long as Calvert is a living man . '' 
`` Then butcher him when you find him ; nobody says ` no ' to that ; it 's only against the nonsense of a fight with him , yard-arm to yard-arm ; for in sich a fight he 'll sink you to Davy Jones 's locker , jest so sure as you come to the grapple ! 
It 's strange , lieutenant , that a man that 's got sich a good conceit of himself in some things , should be so bashful in others . 
It 's mighty strange I could n't get on the track of Captain Calvert anywhere in town . 
He 's either under the governor 's hatches , or he 's off somewhere . 
He 's got some secret business on some of the plantations . 
What if he should think to turn the ship into a slaver ? 
He 's scrup ` lous , I know , about privateerin ' any more ag ` inst the dons , now that the king calls it piracy . 
And I can hardly think , ef Calvert knows anything about the business , that ' t would suit him . 
Still , it 's curious where he hides himself . 
Belcher I could n't hear of any more than Calvert . 
`` May not Calvert be with his wife ? '' 
`` Well , he war n't over fond of her company when he had the freedom of it ; and it 's not likely he 'll run his neck into a halter for it now , when he 's got so much reason to keep from any sort of a noose . 
I 'm more anxious to find Jack Belcher than his master . '' 
But Calvert did n't fear for her.It was you he was afraid of . 
He 's too proud to think that shewould play him false ; but he 's too wise not to know what hot blood , in the veins of a young Irishman , might not attempt . 
`` Why , you talk , Sam , as if ' t were a certain thing that I must fall , fighting Calvert . '' 
But , ef you mean that you can stand a fair , up-and-down fight , with smallsword or broadsword , ag ` in Harry Calvert , then you 've more of Irish conceit in you than I 'm willin ' you should nurse to spoilin ' . 
You can ' t do it ; and the best thing for you and us is , to slip cable , and get the wind of him while we have a chance . 
Calvert got to the right market this time , and helped to make it when he carried his frisky wife down there , under a false name . '' 
And how if Calvert comes up in the meantime , and orders us to weigh anchor ? '' 
`` Then muzzle him , as you propose ! 
If he forces us to the worst , his blood be upon his own head ! 
T wo n't be hard to get her out in the dusk , with some message from Calvert . '' 
The voice was that of our rover himself , Captain Calvert . 
The voice which answered him was that of one who has hitherto been unknown to us . 
Calvert almost forgot the presence of his follower , in the utterance of his passionate speech ; but he soon recalled his thoughts , bringing them , by a strong effort of will , from vehemence to subjection : -- `` And now , Will Hazard , my good boy , keep up your watch , as well and faithfully as you have done thus far . 
And the outlawed rover stood alone in the depth and midnight shadow of that Indian forest , his eyes straining through the solid thickness of the woods , and the almost solid density of the night , in the direction of the ship , which he could not see . 
was his exclamation . 
And well , indeed , might he make it . 
So our Harry Calvert ; so our cassique , his brother ; so the courtly Robert Quarry , governor of the colony ; and so the pious Master Sylvester , aliasStillwater : all of these , running as deep as their waters may , and exercising whatever amount you please of the reasoning faculty , have somehow , through some fraudful or debilitating passion , denuded the cogitating faculty of its best virtues at the very outset ; and now keep it busy , wandering in a circle , and in movements not half the time so graceful , though quite as erratic , as those of your tabby , who will suddenly dart away from her comfortable couch upon the hearth-rug , and put herself into fever-heat , in the very intellectual chase after -- her own tail ! 
But we have seen , as well as Harry Calvert , that Mrs. Perkins Anderson is still veritably a fool of the first water . 
She desires to make a conquest of Harry Calvert . 
Do n't make yourself ridiculous by such a notion . 
She has not a bit more love for him than for Perkins Anderson , though he may better please her tastes.But she is wealthy and idle-minded ; and all persons in this condition must exercise their brains in some way , and in the provocations of some petty passion . 
She fanciesthat she loves him , possibly ; but the truth is , that she desires to make a conquest . 
She will waste her smiles and sighs -- nay , her caresses -- on Harry Calvert ; but if Harry will not suffer himself to be caressed , she will condescend to Dick or Peter . 
Harry Calvert knew her thoroughly , and was not to be deluded by her sentimentality . 
He , however , committed one error -- that of piquing her vanity by his disregard of her blandishments . 
No doubt Calvert felt that this was his danger . 
He knew the sex ; few men better . 
He knew her ; and he felt that to yield , but a single hair , and he must have laid his head in her lap -- another Samson in the embrace of a new Delilah . 
He was too earnest a man to trifle in a flirtation . 
He was one of those persons who , in affaires de cœur , are apt to proceed as the lion is said to do when he woos hisbride ! 
He knew very well that the lady had no passion at work more profound than her vanity , and he was not willingto engage in a traffic of the passions at too much cost to his own . 
Hispassions were all terribly intense ones ; he knew not how to trifle with them . 
He knew that she could sigh , and sigh , and yet feel no pain . 
Sighing with her was only a pleasant accomplishment ; and , when she spoke of her heart 's disappointments , he had only to look at her and smile . 
He felt that she would survive any defeat of hope and heart ; that her affections were scarcely skindeep ; and , though he scrupulously forebore to exhibit his fullest consciousness of her case -- forebore to wound and mortify unnecessarily by tone , word , or look -- he yet did not hesitate to fling her off and deny . 
He fancied that he had done this too gently to offend ; but he did not the less pique and disappoint . 
But , as we have hinted , the pique of that lady toward Harry Calvert suggested certain other objects which may not be so obvious to the unsuspecting wits of our readers . 
Let us make them wiser , if we can ; and we can scarcely do this so well as by retracing our steps , for a brief space , to the period of that interview , already reported , between Calvert and Mrs. Anderson , in which the former arranged for the visit of his wife to a town in which he dared not show himself . 
We all remember with what savage coolness Calvert received the revelations of tenderness which Mrs. Anderson made on that occasion . 
When he was gone , and the lady had sufficiently examined the presents of shawl and jewels he had brought her , she put them away , with a sigh of satisfaction , and subsided pensively into her cushions -- her thoughts divided between the sensation which these ornaments would produce among her envious friends , and the disappointment which she felt at Calvert 's cavalier indifference to her charms , which , as she fondly conceived , would not have been so slighted by any other cavalier . 
O Harry Calvert ! 
this child , as he calls her ! 
She is pretty , even in his eyes -- pretty and gentle ; a child , and dependent on him : yet he loves her not ! 
She is not capable of hisaffections ; she can not understand him ; does not suffice for hisheart -- does not know her own ! 
Yet he is sure of her ; he can trust her!He relies upon her instinctsfor her fidelity ; upon her simplicity , forsooth , to protect her passions ! 
and he thinks he knows the nature of the woman-heart ! 
He braves the trial . 
I gave him proper warning . 
He can not blame me!It is he that exposes her to the peril , not I ! 
He himself is willing to conduct her to the garden ; he himself shows her the tree ; and he turns to me , with cool exultation , and says : -- ``` I can trust her safely . 
`` And he knows that there will be others to persuade -- others of his own treacherous and artful sex -- who will help raise her to the branches , so that she may help herself -- nay , will brave any danger rather than she should forego the temptation ! 
Harry Calvert . 
`` He shall have opportunity enough . 
Yea , Harry Calvert , since her simplicityof heart is so perfect a security , she shall rely on that wholly . 
Now that he holds her to be so perfect in virtue , her childishness of character becomes a virtue in itself . 
We shall see ; and when the fruit is eaten , Harry Calvert shall also see ! 
He is not a man whom you can blind through any self-conceit . 
He can be made to see without needing that I should lift a finger . 
And see he shall , or I am not Charlotte Anderson ! '' 
With such an appreciation as Mrs. Perkins Anderson had of virtue in the abstract , you may hold her to be quite moderate in the sort of revenge which she proposed to take , at once of Harry Calvert and his wife -- the one , for the indifference which he had shown to her charms ; the other , for that most impertinent simplicity of heart by which she was assumed to be less assailable than wiser people . 
But , as Calvert very well knew , she was not a person to conceive of such dangers ; and there was no mode which reason might choose , which could enlighten her understanding upon the subject . 
`` Oh , how Harry Calvert must love you , dear Zulieme ! '' 
`` He love me ? 
He do n't care about pretty hair , or little feet , or little women ! '' 
Harry Calvert 's a person of good taste . 
He could never be so stupid as to look with indifference upon such charms as yours ! '' 
`` But he does ! 
He do n't love me at all . '' 
who does he love , then ? '' 
He 's one of your fierce , fighting , English brutes , as I constantly call him , who takes pleasure in nothing but the sulks . 
He 's a savage ; and so cross , sometimes , that I 'm afraid he 'll eat me up ! 
-- he has no love in him for anybody . '' 
He mustlove you ! '' 
He does not . 
Everybody loves me better than Harry . '' 
Why should n't Harry love me as other people love me ? '' 
I would like Harry to show me as much love as anybody else , and more ! 
But I 'm afraid ` child ' means ` fool , ' or something like it , in your hard English language ; for whenever Harry 's vexed with me , he always calls me ` child ' -- ` a mere child ; ' and I know that must mean ` fool , ' or something quite as ugly . '' 
But why should Harry ever be vexed with you?What do you do , or say , to make him vexed with you ? 
I make Harry angry every day ; and he does look so grand when he 's angry ! 
-- but he frightens me too . '' 
And the pretty child -- for child she was , and perhaps would remain so a thousand years -- gave a lively narration of some of her most startling freaks , such as had , frequently enough , driven the stern Harry Calvert from his propriety . 
Harry 's anger kills sometimes . 
He 's one of your terrible English brutes , I tell you ; but I know , if I can only get behind him , and throw my arms round his neck , it 's all over . 
And then he pushes me off so gently ; and I sometimes think , he looks so sorrowful , that he 's going to cry ! 
But do n't you believe he cries : he never sheds a tear ! 
I sometimes think , if he would cry a little , he 'd laugh more ! 
But he wo n't laugh , and he wo n't cry , and I do n't know what to make of him -- except that he do n't love me . '' 
You do n't suppose , do you , that Harry Calvert loves any other woman ? '' 
`` He love ! 
He loves nobody . 
It 's ridiculous to think of such as he loving anybody . '' 
He fights , so Lieutenant Eccles told me , just as if he wanted some bullet to kill him . 
Poor Harry ! 
Harry could show them if he pleased . 
He can change in a moment , like lightning ; and he shows you , very soon , that he feels every change . 
He sees , too , every change in your feelings . 
But , Charlotte dear , something 's wrong with Harry . 
His heart has had some sad hurts . 
He used to speak of a person -- '' `` Ah ! 
`` He never told me any more ; and that he told me when he was out of his head with fever , and when I nursed him . '' 
He owes you much , Zulieme . '' 
`` Well , he loved this Lady Olive very much . 
He told it all when he was raving . '' 
She ran away with another man , and Harry never could hear of her again ; and since then he 's been the same cold , passionless Harry that you see him now -- and he loves nobody , I tell you ! '' 
`` But why did he marry you , then , or why did you marry him , if you knew all this ? '' 
Somehow , I thought it would be pleasant to be Harry 's wife ; and he asked me one day , and I said ` Yes . ' 
`` He playing!I should as soon think of an elephant or lion dancing to the castanets . '' 
`` Oh , but he can dance , I tell you ! 
When I said ` playing , ' I should rather say that I was playing with him , and he suffered it . 
Now I think of it , it could be no humor of play that he was in , for he spoke most wofully all the time . 
He was very sad , and very changeful ; and his man , Jack Belcher , said he was afraid his master would go mad ! 
And so I said I would marry him , and so it was . '' 
You only married him that he should n't go mad ? '' 
I love Harry ; and is n't he a noble-looking fellow to love ? 
I like to look at him , even though he scares me ; and even when he looks at me with a growl , like the great English brute that he is ! 
But what I mean to say is , that he do n't love me as I love him -- and , indeed , do n't love me at all ! 
And sometimes I feel as if I could run away from him , and go back to the old haciendaat Panama , and never see him any more ! 
Do n't tell me that Calvert does n't love you , when he furnishes your wardrobe with such extravagance . '' 
`` He does n't furnish me . 
Harry do n't care . 
Harry 's a strange sort of English brute , you know ; but he lets me do as I please with myself . '' 
`` But not with him ? '' 
`` Now , if he would let you do as you please with him as well as yourself , one mightthink that he had some love for you ... Dear me , what a glorious scarf ! 
Harry bade me choose them for you . '' 
But Harry , he thinks of everything . '' 
`` A strange husband , that -- your Harry -- and not so bad after all . '' 
Harry bad ? 
Harry 's as good a man as ever wore a hat . 
It 's only that he 's such a monster , that I quarrel with him . 
He 's such a great English brute , and so grand ! '' 
Calvert 's jewels , and Zulieme 's silks and satins , were calculated , in great degree , to render the affair successful . 
It was while the two were prostrate on the floor , immersed in these rainbow varieties of silk and splendor -- the matting literally overstrewn with colors , and the pair of tongues eager in their discussion -- that the door was opened wide , and , simultaneously with the announcement of his name , the Honorable Keppel Craven abruptly made his appearance in the room ! 
Both have the proper arts for winning their way with such a creature ; and , if they succeed , why , what prevents my conquest of Harry Calvert ? 
He loves her now , after a fashion ; respects her , at all events , as he has faith in her fidelity . 
She is his toy , no doubt -- the mere plaything of his fancy ; but the fancy of such a man requires that his playthings shall not be common ! 
Let him once see that she is frail , and he whistles her off with scorn ; and then ! 
`` He must have refuge in someaffections -- somewhere ! 
And he is not superior to the rest of his tribe . 
He will turn to me!He has seen that I prefer him ; and , however he may disguise the feeling from himself -- satisfied as he is , at present , with this toy of a woman -- the discovery did not displease him . 
No ! 
his vanity was interested , I am sure , in spite of his woes and virtues . 
And that vanity , so soon as he finds out the weakness of the onecreature , whom he now values chiefly for her fidelity , will bring him to me ! 
I know him -- know his sex thoroughly , and do not despair to conquer his stubbornness , so soon as this pretty child is out of his thought and sight . 
Harry will not fail me then ! 
He will not look with indifference upon a person -- '' And the rest of the sentence was supplied mutely , by a gratified reference to the mirror . 
`` Ay , '' she resumed , `` I will have him to myself -- all ! 
I can love him!I feel that his earnestness of soul is not a whit superior to mine . 
I can appreciate his manhood ; can sympathize with his sorrows ; can forgive him that he has ever loved another with so much devotion ; and gradually win him to forget the ruined past , in a present in which he will find a soul responsive to his own . 
So Harry Calvert , otherwise Berkeley , watched the manor of Kiawah . 
Harry Calvert watched the progress with mingled emotions of sweet and bitter , and with increasing interest . 
When his brother came upon the scene , or the mother of Olive , then he writhed with a restless feeling of indignation and revolting ; then he felt like strife and curses ! 
And when manhood was striving in his sight ; and the energetic woodman was busy everywhere , laying the axe to the root of the mightiest forms ; Labor , like a giant , grappling with the gnarled oak , and the tough , resinous pine , and the towering , gray cypress -- admiration naturally got the better of smaller , selfish emotions : and the spectator , not forgetting his own cares , was yet compelled to admit the ennobling influence of a moral power in the objects of his survey ; and this consciousness ever appeals gratefully to the like sense of power in our own souls , subduing in some degree their own consciousness of self . 
-- my Harry ! 
my Harry ! '' 
I knew that , Harry ! 
But , afterward , Harry , I could not feel you dead ! 
But , O Harry , you did stay away so long ! '' 
Beware of that , Harry . 
Do n't leave me again , Harry ; for you know not what they say to me when you are gone . 
But I have you now , and you will never again leave me , Harry ? 
You forget , Harry . '' 
It is Harry that says , ` Come ! ' '' 
`` Dear Harry ! '' 
`` O Harry , yes -- so happy ! '' 
`` Oh , yes , dear Harry -- you know ! 
We shall go back to the Feltham willows , dear Harry , and then there shall be no more death -- no more drowning . 
Then , giving him a look of reproach -- `` O Harry , how could you do me thus ? '' 
And when she so mournfully exclaimed , with such a full return of reason and consciousness -- `` How could you do me thus , Harry ? '' 
`` And it is -- it isyou , Harry ! '' 
`` Say not so , Harry , You must live ; and be not sad -- '' `` Another plaintive cry of the child , now evidently approaching , half drowned the feeble accents of her voice , and stifled the half-spoken sentence . 
The momentary strength was gone ; she staggered , and would have fallen , but that he caught her in his arms . 
`` Carry me to my child , Harry ! '' 
Harry knew , with the first intonation , from whose lips the accents came . 
It was the voice of his brother -- of Edward Berkeley , the husband of Olive -- the cassique of Kiawah ! 
Nay , could Harry have exercised sufficient calm of mood to note the expression in his eyes , he would have seen that they were full of sorrow , and not of strife . 
But he had heard the tones ; and now , as he turned , he saw that the cassique carried a drawn rapier in his hand . 
Harry , supporting Olive with one arm , instantly extricated his own rapier from its sheath . 
In this action , Olive began to recover her consciousness . 
Her eyes opened slowly , and , staring for a moment wildly upon her husband , she started suddenly to her feet -- started forward , and , though staggering , stood up , alone and unsupported , between the brothers , who had each , as by a mutual instinct , recoiled a pace . 
She beheld the drawn sword in the hands of each . 
She extended her own hands between them . 
she cried ; `` oh , shame ! 
Harry , on the other hand , was garbed in the manly and picturesque costume of the forest-ranger -- the hunting-shirt of light-blue homespun , with its falling capes and fringes -- a garment which , for grace of drapery , and the freedom of movement which it allows , merits preference over all others , as properest for the American costume . 
`` O Harry ! 
And as the cassique bore away his precious burden toward the dwelling , Harry picked up his rapier , and , without sheathing it , walked slowly off for a few paces , to the sheltering branches of a great oak , under which he threw himself down . 
In his present conflict of mood , there could be no logical conclusion for it . 
Ourrover lay waiting for some time impatiently beneath his tree . 
It was scarcely possible that he should leave her before she showed signs of recovery . 
As Harry saw his brother approach , he rose eagerly to his feet , but did not advance , till he beheld the other pick up his sword . 
He had not sheathed his own ; and now , poising it lightly in his grasp , he strode a few paces forward , diminishing the distance between them . 
The cassique beheld the action of his brother , and his countenance assumed a sadder aspect than before . 
He paused -- deliberately sheathed his own sword , and came forward , presenting his hand . 
Harry gazed sternly on his face ; and , speaking only to the action of the other , said , in the harshest accents : -- `` Better take your weapon in it , Edward Berkeley . 
`` I know not why it should be so , Harry , my brother . '' 
`` If this is to be taken into the account , Harry , '' said the other , sadly enough , `` I know not how long it will be before you may make your reckoning complete . 
Deep crimson was the flush that suddenly passed over the cheeks and forehead of the cassique as he listened to this language . 
His lips were , for a moment , sternly compressed , as if to subdue all efforts of the rising passion in his blood . 
When he spoke , he had obtained a great triumph over himself . 
His tones were measured , his words and utterance quite calm . 
The sword -- '' `` There had been a season , Harry , when even youshould not have challenged me to the sword without the sword 's answer . 
`` Why , yes , Harry ; it must be impossible to you , in such a mood as yours , when you make it my offence that I was born before you ; that , by law , I have a certain family inheritance . 
He forgets that he has shared with me the profits of this very inheritance ; that my purse has ever been his own ; that his first outfits for fortune were under my advances of money ; and that I have never said him ` Nay , ' when from boyhood to manhood he had a craving or a plan , a need or a pleasure , which implied the free use of money . 
Indignation and mortification strove together in the expression of his face . 
`` O Harry Berkeley , '' he said , `` this is very , very cruel . 
`` Harry ! 
Harry ! '' 
By cunning arts , you overcame her weakness ; roused her vanities by your temptations -- your wealth , your title ; played upon her poor , weak , woman-heart ; dazzled her eyes -- '' `` Stop , Harry ; and whatever else you may say in your madness , forbear all reproach of Olive Berkeley ! 
On his lips , it was but too plausibly stated ; and the cassique shuddered as he heard . 
`` Were I to say to you , Harry , that I had such proofs -- now , with my present thoughts and convictions -- I should speak falsely . 
`` It is enough for me , Harry , to disclaim the cunning as mine . 
That others were used , I now believe ; but it is not for me , Harry , to declare or denounce the guilty . 
`` You may laugh , Harry , as you will . 
`` I never betrayed you , Harry . '' 
O Harry , would to God that the old man had spoken out ! 
`` O Harry ! 
Harry , this is among the keenest pangs of my soul . 
Loving her as I do , Harry , would to God , for your sake and hers , I had never seen her ! 
She will die , Harry -- you have seen that -- Olive will die ! '' 
Harry -- it is something very sacred -- but hearken . '' 
Here his voice sank to a whisper , and he drew his brother aside , taking him by the arm : -- `` Harry , all the secret of her love for you has been delivered to me , by her own unconscious lips , in her midnight dreams , and when her senses seemed all to wander . 
Think of that , Harry : how awful ! 
O Harry , though I shuddered to hear the cruel story , yet a strange fascination bound me to her side , and I was made fatally wise in regard to her fate , and mine , and yours -- all so terribly bound up together ! 
`` Tell me of yourself , Harry , '' in low , sweet accents ; and the hand of the cassique gently stole once more about the neck of our rover . 
`` Whither would you go , Harry ? '' 
Be with me now , Harry , since Fate so thoroughly restores you to me ! 
I and mine are yours , Harry ! 
`` Let us not part now , Harry . 
I have so much to hear , Harry ! '' 
`` Will you go with me , Harry ? '' 
T would madden me , too , Edward Berkeley , and I should forget that we have spoken in words of peace -- '' `` And love , too , Harry ! '' 
-- '' `` Curse not , Harry ! '' 
`` You will now grasp my hand -- we may now embrace , dear Harry ! '' 
Harry watched him as he went . 
Then , as he turned , he discovered the nurse with the child close beside him . 
Confounded by what she saw , the woman had lingered . 
Such men as Harry Berkeley -LRB- or Calvert , for we must still continue to know him by both names -RRB- think in action . 
So it was , that the moment Harry Calvert began to gallop , he began to think . 
And very various , indeed , were the topics which now pressed upon his thoughts . 
Ship and crew ; brother and wife ; his own wife ; the machinations of the conspirators among his people ; the machinations of the red men against the colony : all these in turn , and all together , crowded upon his thought and memory -- his steed , meanwhile , beginning to suffer under the infliction of the spur . 
He had been careful to observe the injunctions of Calvert , and had maintained the strictest secresy in his operations . 
Calvert lingered with Gowdey till dark , making final arrangements in reference to the approaching issues ; and was then , under cover of the night , paddled over to the thickets of the opposite shore , whence he made his way to the town on foot . 
Here , at an appointed place , he found Jack Belcher and our old acquaintance Franks , who were both eager for his coming , and in no little consternation . 
And against this danger even the fertile genius of Harry Calvert had no remedy . 
But he seemed neither surprised nor disconcerted . 
These were soon dashed by the tidings Calvert brought . 
But , before he spoke of those which most affected his own private fortunes , he opened the one topic of most importance to the colany : -- `` Your excellency has , I fear , taken no steps in regard to the report I made you touching the movements of the red men . '' 
The governor rose , and stood up before Calvert . 
Calvert knew where the difficulty lay . 
Captain Calvert , you are a d -- d generous fellow ! 
He knew Calvert too well to suppose him guilty of a jest ; knew , in fact , that when he expressed an apprehension , it was generally founded upon some trouble of more than common difficulty . 
`` By -- , Captain Calvert , but you take it with a d -- d virtuous coolness ! '' 
` From Calvert himself , ' eh ? '' 
But Harry Calvert , while he twiddled the domino in his fingers , did not seem eager to habit himself for the evening . 
He gave himself up to a sombre fit of meditation , seeing which , old Franks , with genuine sailor instinct , proceeded to get out the rum , and sugar , and lemon-juice , and quietly concoct a bowl of punch . 
Were he to offer to prepare it , as dull dogs are apt to do , Calvert would no doubt refuse . 
The only proper way , as old experience and a gentlemanly tact had taught him , was the process already adopted . 
But , though Calvert drank , he grew moodier than ever . 
They reached their destination , a creek which put in somewhere between the present streets Queen and Wentworth , in the very heart of the modern city , and possibly an eighth of a mile above that which usually afforded shelter to the skiff of Captain Calvert . 
Sproulls was no doubt moved to admiration , in some degree , because of the notion he had taken that the famous rover , Calvert himself , stood before him . 
Fowler had not named his companion . 
Molyneaux kept on his vizard , and Sproulls himself had never seen Calvert . 
He conjectured and concluded just as he wished . 
When the latter happened to say -- `` Where can Harry be ? 
but I love Harry , '' said poor little Zulieme , with a sigh . 
You love that stern British brute , as you call him ? '' 
-- I suppose because he is a brute ! 
I wish he 'd come to-night . 
I 'm sure he can outdance all these people . 
That young Craven , though he 's a most funny little fellow , can ' t dance with Harry . '' 
do n't let himhear you call him little . '' 
`` But he islittle ! '' 
He 's of good size enough -- not to compare with Harry Calvert , of course -- he ` sa sort of monster -- but a most superior cavalier . 
I do n't think I care a bit about him ; and I 'm very sure if Harry thought he was making love to me , he 'd wring his neck ! '' 
`` Wring his neck ? 
`` But he 'd doit , Charlotte ! '' 
`` Well , if he could , perhaps ; because it 's the nature of tyranny to enforce its laws by violence . 
`` But where 's Harry , and where 's the ship ? '' 
`` Mr. Molyneaux -- Lieutenant Molyneaux -- next officer to Harry in the ship -- '' `` If Mr. Molyneaux will be careful not to forego his disguise for a moment . '' 
Whether he wished to acquire a claim on the favors of Stillwater , or that he desired to obtain a clue to the hiding-place of the rover Calvert , matters nothing to us . 
His motive need not tax our inquiry . 
Enough that he fancies Molyneaux to be Calvert . 
He knew the fidelity of Belcher to Calvert ; felt , from his presence , in the place of the hands he had left in the boat , that his treachery was known . 
That companion was no less a person than the old salt , Franks ; Calvert having found it necessary , in the present complication of his affairs , to put all his personnelinto requisition . 
you mean Calvert ? 
Blast him , Zulieme , I 'll fight him , any day , for you ! '' 
Harry would chop you to pieces in a minute ! 
And you talk to me of him , of my husband , in such a voice , and such language ! 
And curse him , too ! 
what do I care for Harry ? 
You 'll get into danger , and put Harry and the ship in danger . 
I shall yet see you , and feel you , hugging and kissing that monkey , much more fondly than you have ever kissed your husband -- your royal Harry -- your -- your -- blast him ! '' 
I am Captain Florence O'Sullivan , commander of the guard , and this is the famous pirate-captain , Calvert ; I have the council 's warrant for his capture , under his majesty 's proclamation . 
You have done him too much honor , Mr. Craven , in crossing weapons with him . '' 
`` It is Captain Calvert , '' said the lieutenant , meekly . 
Calvert , for it was he , led the way in silence . 
`` Captain Calvert , '' continued he , apologetically , though with some effort , `` I am ashamed , sir , of all this business -- '' `` Let us not talk of it now . '' 
Molyneaux several times attempted to break the silence , by apologetic and atoning speeches , but Calvert bluffedhim off . 
He sat moodily taciturn . 
When fairly landed , Calvert said , abruptly : -- `` Lieutenant Molyneaux , we must have some talk together . 
When the two reached the edge of the wood , Calvert paused . 
He was a man of terribly direct purpose -- no trifler . 
`` Lieutenant Molyneaux , '' he said , `` we are now alone together . 
`` Captain Calvert in the character of a spy ! '' 
`` Forgive me , Captain Calvert , forgive me ! 
Calvert joined the boat 's crew , and the body of Molyneaux was carried on board . 
A narrow stretch of shells and sand afforded them solid footing ; and here , it seemed , Captain Calvert proposed a temporary rest , with what object we shall see hereafter . 
Calvert surveyed the engine with a stern composure ; but , after a moment , he said abruptly to his followers -- `` Is there an axe in the boat ? '' 
And he stood , sternly watching the proceeding , while one of the sailors , with vigorous arm and active stroke , smote the uprights until ready to fall ; when , lending their united strength , the party pushed the ominous fabric into the sea . 
Here , in solemn brooding , with a mind intensely exercised with the numerous and conflicting cares which still rose before it , Calvert sat silent , a protracted watch , which none of his followers cared to disturb . 
`` It is the fort at Oyster Point , sir , '' said Belcher to Calvert . 
`` Send up the signal , Belcher , that they may know where to look for us , '' said Calvert . 
It was not long before Calvert , followed by the boat 's crew , ascended the sides of the Happy-go-Lucky , once more the free rover -- once more sole master of his little world ; and , as he strode the quarter-deck , he was conscious of security , and a certain degree of elation at having escaped more perils than we have thought proper to put on record . 
His former rank was conferred on young Hazard , the loyal emissary on board when Calvert was absent from the ship ; a mere boy of nineteen , but precocious , ardent , full of enthusiasm as courage , and too happy to be doing , to desire to do wilfully or mischievously . 
Calvert possessed a rare faculty in the knowledge of men . 
He took no present heed of the seamen who had pledged themselves to Molyneaux and Fowler . 
And will Calvert leave his work undone ? 
Has he left the colony to its fate ? 
-- left his wife to the tender mercies of his enemies ? 
We have known his character too long to suppose that he will be unfaithful to any duties or any interests in behalf of which he has given his pledges in his cares . 
And , as yet , we know not what his policy may be : but we may rest assured that it is one founded on thought , experience , and a knowledge of necessities which have not yet become clear to us ; in brief , of the best human wisdom , in such a case as his , as it develops to his understanding . 
Hitherto , he has proved himself equal to every emergency . 
Leaving the rover to his own progress on the high-seas , let us look to other parties in the infant city . 
At his requisition , Quarry has issued his proclamation against the pirate Calvert . 
Florence O'Sullivan has been commissioned for his arrest , with powers to call out the posse comitatus.It is positively sworn by Stillwater , aliasSylvester , that Calvert is in Charleston . 
No wonder that he paces his library , at two o'clock in the morning , very restlessly , Morton present ; uneasy , excited , yet compelled to appear not only cool and determined , but especially loyal ; with a holy indignation against pirates , and Calvert in particular , as the prince of them ! 
He does not know what will be the upshot of the business . 
they would seize Harry ! 
He never thought they would seize me.And why not seize me as well as Harry ? 
I 'm Harry 's wife . 
She would show Harry she was no such child as he supposed ! 
`` It is also charged , my young lady , that you are the wife , or companion , of the notorious pirate , Harry or Henry Calvert , captain of the cruiser called ` The Happy-go-Lucky , ' or ` The Almeida , ' or the ` St. George 's Dragon ' -- for by all these names the vessel is reported to sail . '' 
Then broke out the woman-soul : -- `` Harry a pirate ! 
Harry is a fighting-man , like all you English -- '' She was about to add `` brutes , '' for it had become a somewhat familiar epithet with her ; but a warning instinct arrested her in the speech . 
`` Have I done anything to hurt Harry ? '' 
The governor , remembering Calvert 's private letter , put on a triumphant air , and , turning to Morton , said -- `` It is hardly necessary to ask her any more questions . '' 
`` It is very clear , my dear young lady , that the Harry of whom you speak , and Harry Calvert of the Happy-go-Lucky , are the same person . '' 
But if there 's anything against Harry , I 'm ready to answer it . 
If he 's a pirate , then hang me , for I wo n't deny it . 
Harry 's my own , own husband . 
He 's been married to me a year ; and you may kill me for him ! 
But he 's no pirate ; but a brave , fighting , good , brute Englishman -- just as good and brave as any of you here ! 
`` He 's so like Harry ! 
I see he 's not Harry -- but -- '' `` Certainly , a great likeness . '' 
I have no doubt that she is Calvert 's wife -- perhaps mistress -- but there is no reasonable ground for supposing her to be an active participant in his criminal proceedings . 
The public sympathies , in all the colonies , have been really and warmly with this fellow Calvert , for his famous fight with the ` Maria del Occidente ' -- that very affair which the Spanish influence at the English court has succeeded in making an act of piracy , bringing forth the proclamation which we have just published . 
When Zulieme heard him out , she said to Mrs. Anderson -- `` I am to be a prisoner , Charlotte , for Harry ? 
And he looks so like Harry ! '' 
They sha ' n't hear a word from me which shall bring trouble to Harry . 
He shall find that I am a woman now . '' 
Mrs. Anderson began to think that Harry Calvert knew his ridiculous little wife better than herself . 
To try and bring Harry to the gallows ! 
he was a fine gentleman . 
His coach was frequently at my door . 
He was a favorite here ; and when he came , he seemed quite unwilling to depart : he made long visits . '' 
We need scarcely mention that , in removing Zulieme , the cassique `` did his spiriting '' with all courtesy and gentleness . 
Having persuaded herself that she was a hostage for Harry , and possibly might be a sacrifice , she rose to a sense of dignity with the sense of danger , which changed , for the time , her whole demeanor . 
And , by-the-way , public opinion in Charleston was hardly so unfavorable to Calvert , `` the don-destroyer , '' as to suffer his little wife to be disparaged . 
She watched him obliquely , with a growing sympathy ; and , with every glance , she thought -- `` How like to Harry ! '' 
He was so sad ; his looks were so grand , yet so gentle ; and he was `` so like Harry ! '' 
`` I think I know what you mean , señor , my lord , '' was the reply , in rather more broken English than usual , `` and I thank you , señor , and Harry will thank you too ; but tell me how long you mean that I should stay with you . '' 
`` Harry will not wait for a king 's pardon . 
He will come for me anywhere . 
Harry does not love me much , but he will fight for me . 
He is not afraid to come to Charleston . 
Why , if Harry was so minded , he would bring his ship and fight all the town ! '' 
It is Harry 's secret . '' 
I like him for his deeds . '' 
You would like him better if you knew him , though he is so grand and proud , and so cold ! 
And then , he looks so very much like you , señor ! '' 
I will try to get his pardon , at all events . '' 
`` Thank you , señor ; but Harry will not wait for that ! 
He will have me , I know it , as soon as he can find me . 
He will take me out of your deepest dungeons . '' 
Then , finding it of no avail to press her , the cassique alighted himself , and lifted Grace into the vehicle , and bade her be good friends of the young lady , who , he added impressively , `` is the wife of Captain Calvert . '' 
Surely , this could not be the `` Olive '' that Harry used to love ! 
And yet , how strange that the cassique should so greatly resemble Harry ! 
`` We have but few days left us , '' said Calvert to his favorite follower , Belcher , as he strode the quarter-deck . 
Such were Calvert 's calculations . 
At ten , however , the wind had slightly shifted , so as to enable the ship to shape her course a few points nearer . 
exclaimed Calvert . 
His hands now promised to be full . 
His anxieties increased . 
`` It is easy enough , perhaps , to show them our heels , '' he said to Belcher , `` for there are few creatures so swift of wing as our little cruiser ; but we must make our port ! 
Calvert walked the deck . 
They had gained accordingly ; but Calvert soon found -- for they continued to show lights also -- that they did not gain upon him . 
`` We can run out of sight of them , if we please ; but I would rather beguile them into the gulf . 
Shifting the scene to the Happy-go-Lucky , we find Calvert still on deck , as the stars began to pale in the growing mists of the morning . 
He seemed to drowse , so silent were his musings . 
At length he said , referring to a previous order -- `` Belcher , has the boat been made ready , with the lanterns ? '' 
Calvert mused and strode the deck ; Eccles lingered . 
At the same moment , Calvert seized the helm of the ship from the hands of the seaman , and , under the sudden direction of his arm , she shot aside obliquely into the darkness ; shifting her course , and laying her head landward , though as yet no outline of the shore was visible to any eye . 
`` Our little ` Firefly , ' '' quoth Calvert to the group beside him , `` must make report for us to our pursuers . 
continued Calvert . 
And Calvert ran up the rigging , to the windward side . 
muttered Calvert . 
Calvert descended from the rigging , and relieved Franks at the helm . 
`` And you 've had the eyes of old Satan , Captain Calvert , I must say it , gittin ' through these cussed sand-banks as you did ! 
Yet , perhaps , no man but Calvert , of all that crew of ninety men , good seamen all , could have carried them through that difficult navigation , in that thick atmosphere . 
said Calvert , exultingly . 
No danger that the king 's cruisers would attempt to follow , even if they had noted her course , through the sinuous channels which the familiar eye and mind of Calvert had enabled him to penetrate . 
By the time this news was digested , Harry Calvert was in a stern passion , and it was broad daylight . 
Calvert ranged once more beside the two half-disabled consorts of the perished brigantine , prepared to renew the punishment ; but their flags came down at his approach ! 
Drawing nigh the English ships , he demanded , through his trumpet , if they had men enough to man the prizes , which were now drifting beside the conqueror . 
Calvert hauled off to a decent distance , and waited just long enough to see that they had full possession , when he cried again , through his trumpet -- `` Do you want any help ? '' 
`` The Happy-go-Lucky privateer , of England , Captain Harry Calvert ! '' 
But Calvert had no real purpose of pursuit , and followed not far . 
He simply sought to fetch a sufficient compass about the English ships -- to lose them briefly -- so that his own course should not be conjectured . 
He knew that the work of securing the prizes , and refitting , was one to consume some time ; and naturally enough concluded that , this done , the consorts would immediately proceed -- however ungenerous the duty -- in pursuit of himself ! 
He ran out to sea , accordingly , till fairly out of sight , and on the edge of the gulf ; then put about , and shaped his course , as fast as he might , for his secret harborage in the Stono . 
Calvertreturned in season , as he believed , to his anchorage in the Stono . 
Our rover lost not a moment in making all his preparations for a night-march . 
He called his lieutenants , Eccles and Hazard , into his cabin . 
Thither also , at his bidding , came Belcher and Franks . 
The door of the cabin closed , and all parties seated , Calvert said : -- `` Gentlemen , you are probably all aware of the task that is before us . 
He proceeded , without heeding their looks of inquiry : -- `` These facts , hitherto , were only known to my faithful friend and servant , Belcher . 
He dismissed them with an affectionate embrace . 
Will Hazard , with tears in his eyes , entreated to accompany him ; but Calvert was firm in his refusal . 
When they were gone , he had a long conference with Belcher and Franks , in respect to Zulieme and other subjects of interest . 
So far as she was concerned , Calvert felt himself secure . 
The only question was , how she should be got away from Charleston ; and it was arranged that Franks , who was to be left with the ship , should contrive it , by a midnight expedition , in a boat through Wappoo . 
She was then -- assuming that Calvert was no more -- to be carried home to the haciendaof her father , on the isthmus . 
Old Franks , by-the-way , did express the suspicion that Zulieme might be imprisoned for her husband , if suspected ; and that the cunning of Sylvester might lead him even to this . 
But Calvert dismissed the suggestion with a -- `` Pshaw ! 
Calvert at once went on with his preparations . 
He clad himself in the hunting-shirt and leggins of the backwoods hunter , with cutlass , pistols , and tomahawk . 
Then did Calvert know that Ligon had reached in safety the place of appointment . 
He was taken on board , and the little cruiser run up the Stono to its junction with the Wappoo . 
But Calvert and his company were gone from sight before the vessel left the place . 
He brought little news , but this was interesting . 
Beyond this news , Calvert got little from his guide . 
But of all this history Calvert knew nothing ; and perhaps Gowdey , who had sent him to Calvert , was just as ignorant . 
Leading the way , with Calvert following close , and the whole company keeping together , though in a long , single line , Ligon made a rapid progress through the wood , as he well might , turning neither to one side nor the other . 
But , at length , as the night advanced , he beheld a great light , as of a fire shining through the thickets on the right ; and this was at a point nearly the same distance from Gowdey 's castle as from the barony of Kiawah , and lying somewhat below them , and near the course which the party had to pursue . 
This was the custom ; and the party of Calvert shrouded themselves in the woods , well hidden , and mute as mice , while Ligon went forward . 
said Calvert . 
He was absent this time quite an hour . 
He had seen and done something , during this interval , of which he made no report to Calvert . 
Ligon returned to Calvert as quietly as when he had gone forth . 
He reported the red men to be sleeping , and with no captives . 
He had nothing more to communicate . 
Calvert led his men into a close swamp-cover , where , having first set watches all about the encampment , they proceeded to take a very necessary rest , in a dense wilderness , quite impenetrable to any passing espionage . 
Having covered his men temporarily in the woods , Calvert , accompanied only by Belcher and Ligon , all well armed , approached the open grounds . 
Calvert tried the fastenings of the house . 
From the main dwelling he proceeded to one about a hundred yards distant . 
`` This , '' said he , `` is the armory and magazine . 
Calvert was as well prepared to be a housebreaker as a pirate . 
`` A pretty good armory , '' said Calvert . 
`` Now , '' continued Calvert , `` we must see to the laborers . 
Sure enough , as Calvert conjectured , some twenty workmen slept in a building , remote from the mansion as the arsenal , and with open doors . 
Calvert suddenly appeared among the laborers , rousing them from sleep . 
he demanded , as they started from their beds . 
Had the red men been the visiters , not one of them would have saved his scalp ; and Calvert could not but meditate seriously upon that amiable insanity of his brother , which , because of his humane theory about the Indians , had exposed all these people to be butchered in their sleep . 
Calvert made the danger apparent to him in few words ; made him get his people dressed , and , conducting them to the block-house , supplied them with the necessary weapons . 
`` We are to be prepared simply for whatever happens ; all your people -- every quarter of your house . 
Calvert continued : -- `` I shall be at hand to succor you . 
With this , Calvert left the workmen , and , with Belcher , made his way back to the block-house , where he had already installed the ten musketeers . 
Having seen this done , he took possession of the carriage-house and stables , both log-houses , where in the loft he established another squad of ten . 
Calvert then returned to the woods . 
These he well knew . 
He had explored them often enough . 
His solicitude now was , that the Indians should not get into the rear of his party ; and some time was consumed in calculating the probabilities with regard to the route and manner of approach of the red men . 
He took for granted that the course of Cussoboe would be from below , and that , fetching a circuit about the settlement , he would proceed directly to the tree , in the hollow of which the sheaf of arrows had been deposited . 
To place his men in such position as would enable them to cover the open grounds and buildings , yet keep them from discovery till the last moment , was Calvert 's object , and one of some difficulty ; but the points were finally chosen , after due consultation with Ligon and Belcher . 
Oh , my poor Olive , do believe me , that if , by my own life , I could give you back your youth , and put you where you were before the cruel Fates had made meyour fate , I should now know no greater gladness than to die for you , and in the last moments of consciousness to be able to place your hand in the hand of Harry , my brother -- my noble brother -- whom , as well as yourself , I have so cruelly but unwittingly destroyed ! 
Yes , on my life , on my soul , Olive , this would I do , and die ; though , even in doing it , Olive , I should still be free to tell you that the heart of Edward Berkeley was no less sworn to you than that of the more fortunate Harry . '' 
How I loved Harry , your brother , He , the good God , alone can know ; how Harry loved me , I have felt and feel ! 
He would have thrown off the intruder , but found himself firmly held ; while a voice , which he at once knew -- though subdued to a whisper -- said , hurriedly : -- `` It is you , Edward -- I am Harry . 
`` Harry , my brother , you come at an awful moment ! '' 
We can easily conjecture how Harry had effected his entrance . 
Thecassique was not a little surprised by his visiter . 
As requested , he procured candles , two of which Calvert lighted instantly , and placed in front of a window which was visible from the forest where Belcher and Ligon had been left with the marines . 
O Harry , she is dying ! 
But , O Harry , it is terrible to think that , in the midst of strife , and storm , and bloodshed , her pure , sweet spirit shall go out ! 
O Harry , it is your right , even more than mine ! '' 
`` Harry -- Harry Berkeley ! '' 
I beg you , mother , bring Harry hither . 
They are there together . 
I feel it -- almost see it -- hear his voice -- know his step ! 
`` As if Harry should be called a stranger ! 
But he ishere ! '' 
-- go bring him ! '' 
The lights had been placed in the chimney , when Calvert had taken them from the window . 
His air , figure , face , were unmistakeable by one who so well knew him as Zulieme ; and , forgetting every consideration but the one vivid memory and feeling , she sprang upon him -- with no power of self-restraint -- threw herself upon his bosom , her arms almost vainly stretching up toward his neck , and cried aloud : -- `` O Harry ! 
you great brute of a Harry , you are come for me at last ! '' 
As he paused in silence , suddenly struck with the wonder of the thing , Olive said to him : -- `` Surely , it is so , Edward -- Harry is here ? '' 
`` He is , Olive ! 
Shall I bring him to you , my love ? '' 
He has come in time . '' 
`` He belongs to us both , Olive : he shall come to you . '' 
-- Bring Harry to me , Sir Edward , if you please . '' 
The scene had occupied but a few minutes , and he returned promptly to the hall where he had left Harry and Zulieme . 
A few words sufficed to say what was wanted , and our rover hastened to obey ; the little wife still eagerly hanging on his arm , and whispering : -- `` I see it all now , Harry . 
he whispered in reply , pressing her hand , and passing on , while the cassique led the way . 
Then he entered , closely following the cassique , who went at once to the bedside . 
So did Harry ; and , without a word , he knelt down beside the dying woman . 
Her eyes were closed -- she did not look at him -- but she knew he was there ; and stretched out her thin fingers , which he took within his grasp , and carried to his lips . 
Then she said : -- `` You are here , Harry ! 
-- My husband , Sir Edward -- '' The cassique leaned over her ; and , possessing herself of one of his hands , she laid it in that of Harry . 
The cassique tried in vain to pacify the matron ; but , finding words unavailing , he led her from the room . 
When she was removed , he returned and closed the door . 
None but Harry , himself , and Zulieme , were now in the chamber . 
Harry remained beside Olive -- close by , on one side -- her hand still clasped in his . 
The cassique knelt opposite . 
And under his wings they were subdued into silence ; each seeming to hold his breath , as if waiting for some signal , significant of that approaching Power whose potency they already felt ! 
Theharboring-place in which Calvert had posted Ligon , with his remaining body of marines , had been chosen with singular circumspection ; at once with reference to concealment , and to the maintenance of a watch upon the hollow tree in which the sheaf of arrows had been hidden . 
He well apprehended that the first visit of the old chief , Cussoboe , would be made to the tree , to ascertain if his commands had been obeyed by his son ; and , probably , with the hope to meet him there , bringing the keys of the barony and of all its offices . 
It was in the chamber of Olive ; the windows had been quietly fastened by the cassique , at a moment when Harry Calvert was kneeling by Olive 's bedside , after his first arrival . 
Ah , Harry , Harry ! 
Do not leave me , Harry ! 
Hold me still , Harry ! '' 
`` O Harry , is it the red savages ? '' 
`` And you wishme to love you , Harry ? '' 
When she was gone , the cassique said : -- `` I know none of your plans , Harry . 
I would beg you to go and keep with Olive , but that I know -- '' `` How can you propose such a thing , Harry ! '' 
Harry Calvert met him at the door , and they spoke together in whisper . 
-- '' And he took him to the front , and , through a crevice , just wide enough for the muzzle of a blunderbuss , he showed him the area , where the red men were sufficiently visible , and scattered , skipping about the scene , dotting the grounds in all directions between house and arsenal , and in perpetual motion . 
`` Good heavens , Harry , it will be a massacre ! '' 
And he slapped the great brass barrel of the blunderbuss which he carried , with an exulting and determined action . 
Without waiting for an answer , he stole up-stairs , advancing cautiously along the passage , until he sheltered himself in the left corner near the door , his right hand free . 
Calvert watched his moment , and lifted his blunderbuss ; but he instantly put it down . 
he muttered to himself . 
He pulled from his belt one of the ship 's pistols , thrust it suddenly forward , and drew the trigger . 
Calvert congratulated himself on the approach of the moment when he could effect the havoc which he desired . 
`` Thick grass , '' he said , as he again went below -- using the very language of the Hun against Rome -- `` thick grass is easier cut than thin . '' 
He said to the cassique , as he got below : -- `` Now , Edward , get to your post again ! 
Though quite as brave as his brother , he yet , with all others , tacitly felt and acknowledged that superiority of resource , that authority in command , which , in the case of the latter , was the fruit of a long experience in strife . 
Calvert had a motive for hurrying the cassique back to the passage , the entrance to which he saw would , for some while yet , baffle the assailants . 
But he also foresaw that the red men could not much longer curb their impatience , and that they would almost unconsciously accumulate about the several points of attack , in numbers , irrespective of the commands of their leaders . 
Calvert felt sure that he would soon enjoy his desired opportunity , in delivering all his fire upon their masses . 
`` Two blunderbusses , '' he counted again and again to himself -- `` two blunderbusses and ten muskets ! '' 
He did not desire his brother to be present at the discharge . 
He respected the error -LRB- as he held it -RRB- of philanthropic tenderness for the red men which the cassique entertained . 
He whispered all around among his men : -- `` They will soon make a rush ! 
He had hardly spoken , when the rush was made , at once upon dwelling-house and armory . 
Calvert watched every movement impatiently . 
His moment came at last ! 
`` Now , '' said he , `` let them feel you ! 
And , as he spoke , a burst of fire followed , which was echoed seemingly from the several garrisons . 
`` It is a horrid massacre , Harry ! '' 
`` We must get rid of that conjuror , '' quoth Calvert to his men . 
He stood unmoved , tall as a tower , among the crowd , smiting still as fearlessly as ever ; and ever and anon crying out to the band to avenge their gods and people . 
At that moment , there rose a shout among the savages , as if stimulated by some new cause of hope ; and Calvert saw with anxiety a runner approaching from the rear , who carried aloft a ball of blazing tow , coated in the gum-turpentine , fastened to the end of a spear , and burning furiously ; while another followed him , with a bundle of arrows similarly dressed with gum and tow , not yet lighted , but ready for use ! 
`` See that every gun and pistol be charged , '' he said to his men , `` and be prepared to follow me ! '' 
Then , taking off his hunting-shirt , he made one of the sailors wrap it tightly , in several folds , about his left arm . 
This done , he grasped a heavy tomahawk , and , bidding all his men follow , ascended from the basement to the passage-way . 
Here he met the cassique , to whom he said : -- `` We have a new danger to contend with , and the worst yet ! 
`` I will go with you , Harry ! '' 
He felt that he could not leave the dwelling . 
He shed bitter tears at the necessity . 
He , too , was ready for death . 
said Calvert to one of his men . 
He produced it from under his arm . 
`` The moment we sally forth , '' continued he to the fellow , `` do you sound it thrice , with all your wind ! 
In a moment , and while the Iawa was still thundering at the door with his macana , the bar was quietly removed , the bolt shot back , and the door thrown open -- the Iawa staggering forward , only to receive a heavy blow from Calvert , upon the shoulder , which drove him out again . 
Calvert kept his enemy at close quarters , the better to prevent its stroke , and for the more effectual use of the short-handled tomahawk which he bore . 
It was in vain that the Iawa receded , in order to deliver his blows . 
Our rover clung to him closely , and drove him before him , with sharp , sudden blows , frequent but slight , as not given with the full swing of his arm . 
And this difficulty was one not easily overcome -- since , to avoid the formidable macana , Calvert , who had no shield , but the coat wrapped about his left arm , was required to employ his agility to the utmost , either by getting within the length of his enemy 's arm , or by dodging his club in its descent . 
One wellaimed stroke from such a mace , falling upon head or arm , would slay or disable him for ever . 
The Iawa was no match for him in agility , however he might be in strength . 
Calvert pressed him with his keenest purpose , restrained simply by the necessity of keeping the closest watch , and eluding every blow : no easy task , amid the din , the imperfect light , and the sudden glare in his eyes from the blazing tow-balls , which were now to be seen waving in several parts of the area . 
So far , it had been the work of a few seconds only -- the two rushing into conflict from the moment when Calvert had emerged from the dwelling . 
But , so soon as his ten musketeers could make their way out , and spread themselves on either side of their chief , they delivered their fire , full in the thick of the excited crowd ! 
At that signal , for which the other garrisons had been impatiently waiting , volley after volley was poured forth from each ; the combatants following up the effect of a most murderous discharge , with their cutlasses , even as Calvert 's party had done . 
Old Cussoboe raged in vain ; and , even while delivering his war-cry , was hewn , to his very teeth , by the cutlass of a common sailor ! 
It was a curious illustration of that chivalrous instinct which characterizes all truly brave people , that no one , of either side , sought to meddle in the fight between Calvert and the Iawa . 
His tall form was pre-eminent , even above the height of Calvert , which was considered great among the whites ; and his mighty macanawas whirled about in air , the whizzing sound of its motion being heard for thirty feet or more ! 
But , hitherto , with the exception of two slight injuries , where the club had grazed his bandaged arm , Calvert had escaped unwounded ; and he had succeeded , thrice , in giving more decided hurts to his enemy . 
His strokes were less frequent . 
He raised his macanawith more effort and more slowly . 
He was staggered -- twice by the strokes of the tomahawk ; and once , from no apparent cause . 
But he made a final and powerful effort . 
He felt that it was probably the last he could make ; and , with a wild cry , uttering certain guttural words in his own language -- doubtless addressed to his false gods -- he whirled the macanaabout his head , and it sung fearfully in the air as it descended ! 
It required all Calvert 's dexterity to elude the blow , which grazed him narrowly , smiting the cap from his head ! 
The force thrown into the stroke , bore the Iawa completely about ; while the heavy end of his mace sank in the ground . 
Before he could recover himself , lift his weapon , or again meet the eyeof his enemy , the tomahawk had descended once , twice -- the first blow stunningly , the last fatally ; the heavy steel crunching deeply into the brain ! 
The conjuror sank forward , with a single yell , which found many a fearful echo among his people . 
Down he went , like a great tower , and in his fall the conflict ceased . 
Enough , if we mention that the timely provision of Calvert saved old Gowdey and his fortress on the Ashley . 
He , too , was attacked the same night , by a strong force of the savages ; who , not suspecting his resources in men , exposed themselves in numbers to his fire , and were beaten off in like manner with those at Kiawah , with considerable loss . 
Harry Calvert forbade pursuit . 
He had done , with hismen , all that could be expected at their hands ; and , once on the alert , and well armed , the cassique and his English workmen were now fully able of themselves to defend the barony , in the event of any renewal of the assault . 
He did not find it so easy to restrain Ligon , however , whose passion for scalps would have rendered the pursuit of the fugitives an unrelenting one . 
He reluctantly forebore , at the imperative command of the rover ; and , thus disappointed , abruptly declared his desire to leave the barony . 
He had served the purpose for which he had been employed -- had safely guided the party ; which could now easily find its way back to the ship : and he was anxious to attach himself to some body of men less scrupulous in hunting down the savages to their ruin . 
He no sooner declared his desire to leave the party , than Calvert paid him the twenty pounds sterling , which was the reward of his services . 
Without word of farewell , pocketing his money , Ligon braced his belt about his waist , primed his weapons , adjusted his knife , grasped his tomahawk , and darted into the thickets , taking the direction for Gowdey 's castle and Charleston . 
We are to assume , from what we know of Calvert , that he did not suffer any time to be wasted , or any military necessity to be neglected . 
His own force of marines and sailors he gathered in hand , with orders to prepare for instant marching , if necessary . 
Having seen his marines gathered and counted ; ascertained his losses -LRB- and some had been slain , and others wounded -RRB- ; having done all that might be done to secure equally the party and the barony , Calvert once more turned his eyes and footsteps upon the dwelling where lay the objects of his solicitude . 
What was he to learn on reaching that dwelling ? 
The condition in which he had left Olive Berkeley , at the beginning of the conflict , led him to but one conclusion . 
That morning star of his youthful fancy -- that light still shining upon his soul , and casting a wan but precious moonlight over its darkest recesses -- that light was now dimmed for ever to his eyes ! 
The delicious voice of his heart was hushed ! 
He should never more hear its music ! 
Such were his melancholy meditations as he slowly approached the house . 
From the eyes of Calvert had gone the wild and savage fires of battle . 
His face was now wan , his eyes and form were drooping . 
His brother met him at the entrance , and silently led him into the parlor . 
The Death , so busy without , wore no such touching aspect as that within , where he was doing his work in music ! 
Where is Harry ? 
He will quiet the noise . 
He is a charmer , Harry , and speaks the very seas into calm . '' 
But I do not see you all well , and -- I do not now see Harry ! 
Where 's Harry -- and -- Sir Edward ? 
call him -- call Harry ! 
now I see Harry , where he crosses the stile . 
He is bringing me flowers ; and we shall have a sail on the lake . 
My brave and noble Harry ! '' 
Harry will spend the evening with us . 
He says he will not go to sea again . 
... But -- where is he gone ? 
Come back , Harry ; oh , be not so impatient , Harry ! 
Harry ! 
Harry ! 
Come back to me , my Harry ! 
Yes , O Harry , come back to me at once , my Harry -- at once , or I shall die with terror ! '' 
`` They belong to Harry now ! 
It was thus waiting that Harry met him on his return . 
Suddenly the cassique lifted his hand , and , without looking at his brother , waved it toward the chamber of death . 
Harry rose and left the room , then quietly passed into the chamber . 
She spoke -- Olive spoke : -- `` Harry ! '' 
Who called ` Harry ' ? '' 
Calvert pointed silently to the corse . 
The workmen of the cassique , the marines of Calvert , were all under arms , and present . 
Calvert , with his face pressed close to one of the great oaks , sought in this way to conceal the show of emotion which he could not well subdue . 
The strife over , and no call upon his will and courage , he was weak as any woman . 
But when his brother 's voice no longer reached his ears ; when he knew that the last painful duty was at hand , of hiding from human eyes the form of the beloved one -- then he turned , made his way through the group , and stood for a single moment gazing down upon the lidded coffin . 
His eye seemed to pierce the cover . 
He shuddered with a sharp convulsion , and , with a groan which he could not suppress -- which , indeed , escaped him unconsciously -- he wheeled around , and was about to make his way into the forest , when a savage cry was heard , a bustle , a rush from without , and , darting through the circle with a succession of bounds , the Indian hunter-boy , Iswattee , dashed in among the group , even as a tiger leaps from the jungle among the brooding or browsing herds . 
Never was there a more striking picture of mixed famine , misery , and insanity , than he presented to the gaze . 
He was meager with long starvation ; his eye was full of idiotic fury ; his hair was long , wild , and floating black from his shoulders . 
His shoulders were bare -- his arms ; the clothes seemed to have been torn from him in desperate struggle with wolf or wildcat . 
In his hand he brandished a tomahawk ; and , with shriek and yell , heralding his descent among the party , his appearance was well calculated to strike terror into every breast . 
`` But , Harry , unless you receive this pardon -- which is really a mere form -- you can never return to Britain . '' 
`` But , Harry , my brother , your people -- your followers -- are you prepared to lead them into outlawry , or keep them in it ? '' 
`` Ask me not , Harry . 
Were he twelve or fourteen years of age -- but now -- an infant -- '' `` You forget , I have a wife -- who will most probably never bear me a child . 
Harry , my brother , I am selfish : I would have him wholly mine.I would rather keep him from youthan from any other , since I should feel sure that you would wean him from me . '' 
And , after a fond , repeated embrace , Harry Calvert tore himself away . 
`` O Harry , stoop down ! 
And she clung to him till he bowed , and his head bent to her mouth , which she fondly kissed ; then , beginning her sentence with a whisper , she ended it with a scream : -- `` Harry , you dear brute Harry , I have something to tell you -- to makeyou love me ! '' 
`` I am going to have a baby , Harry ! 
Now you will love me , Harry ! 
You great , big , brute English Harry ! 
`` But yourpet , Harry . 
And the breezes grew stronger ; and more swiftly the vessel sped ; and still the music rose and fell upon the delighted air -- Calvert yielding himself to those seductions with which Love subdues War , and makes even Ambition forgetful of his aim ! 
