To the above advertisement , which was prefixed to the first edition of the Antiquary , it is necessary in the present edition to add a few words , transferred from the Introduction to the Chronicles of the Canongate , respecting the character of Jonathan Oldbuck . 
Thus , the character of Jonathan Oldbuck , in the Antiquary , was partly founded on that of an old friend of my youth , to whom I am indebted for introducing me to Shakspeare , and other invaluable favours ; but I thought I had so completely disguised the likeness , that it could not be recognised by any one now alive . 
I have only farther to request the reader not to suppose that my late respected friend resembled Mr Oldbuck , either in his pedigree , or the history imputed to the ideal personage . 
There is not a single incident in the Novel which is borrowed from his real circumstances , excepting the fact that he resided in an old house near a flourishing seaport , and that the author chanced to witness a scene betwixt him and the female proprietor of a stage-coach , very similar to that which commences the history of the Antiquary . 
Martin , author of the Reliquiæ Divi Sancti Andreæ , written in 1683 , gives the following account of one class of this order of men in the seventeenth century , in terms which would induce an antiquary like Mr Oldbuck to regret its extinction . 
He conceives them to be descended from the ancient bards , and proceeds : -- `` They are called by others , and by themselves , Jockies , who go about begging ; and use still to recite the Sloggorne -LRB- gathering-words or war-cries -RRB- of most of the true ancient surnames of Scotland , from old experience and observation . 
The following extract , kindly supplied by Mr MacDonald of the Register House , may interest those whose taste is akin to that of Jonathan Oldbuck of Monkbarns . 
Jonathan Oldenbuck , or Oldinbuck , by popular contraction Oldbuck , of Monkbarns , was the second son of a gentleman possessed of a small property in the neighbourhood of a thriving seaport town on the north-eastern coast of Scotland , which , for various reasons , we shall denominate Fairport . 
From this Jonathan 's mind revolted in the most irreconcilable manner . 
Jonathan , therefore , succeeded to the estate , and with it to the means of subsisting without the hated drudgery of the law . 
His wishes were very moderate ; and as the rent of his small property rose with the improvement of the country , it soon greatly exceeded his wants and expenditure ; and though too indolent to make money , he was by no means insensible to the pleasure of beholding it accumulate . 
The burghers of the town near which he lived regarded him with a sort of envy , as one who affected to divide himself from their rank in society , and whose studies and pleasures seemed to them alike incomprehensible . 
The country gentlemen were generally above him in fortune , and beneath him in intellect , and , excepting one with whom he lived in habits of intimacy , had little intercourse with Mr Oldbuck of Monkbarns . 
He had , however , the usual resources , the company of the clergyman , and of the doctor , when he chose to request it , and also his own pursuits and pleasures , being in correspondence with most of the virtuosi of his time , who , like himself , measured decayed entrenchments , made plans of ruined castles , read illegible inscriptions , and wrote essays on medals in the proportion of twelve pages to each letter of the legend . 
During the time of dinner , Mr Oldbuck , actuated by the same curiosity which his fellow-traveller had entertained on his account , made some advances , which his age and station entitled him to do in a more direct manner , towards ascertaining the name , destination , and quality of his young companion . 
His name , the young gentleman said , was Lovel . 
`` He had no pretensions , '' he said , `` to call himself a whelp of that litter ; his father was a north-of-England gentleman . 
Here he paused ; and Mr Oldbuck having pushed his inquiries as far as good manners permitted , was obliged to change the conversation . 
Mr Oldbuck was habitually parsimonious , but in no respects mean ; his first thought was to save his fellow-traveller any part of the expense of the entertainment , which he supposed must be in his situation more or less inconvenient . 
He therefore took an opportunity of settling privately with Mr Mackitchinson . 
The mutual satisfaction which they found in each other 's society induced Mr Oldbuck to propose , and Lovel willingly to accept , a scheme for travelling together to the end of their journey . 
Mr Oldbuck intimated a wish to pay two-thirds of the hire of a post-chaise , saying , that a proportional quantity of room was necessary to his accommodation ; but this Mr Lovel resolutely declined . 
Their expense then was mutual , unless when Lovel occasionally slipt a shilling into the hand of a growling postilion ; for Oldbuck , tenacious of ancient customs , never extended his guerdon beyond eighteen-pence a-stage . 
Lovel probably expected that his travelling companion would have invited him to dinner on his arrival ; but his consciousness of a want of ready preparation for unexpected guests , and perhaps some other reasons , prevented Oldbuck from paying him that attention . 
The taste of Mr Oldbuck did not disturb these monuments of an art now unknown , and he was the less tempted so to do , as it must necessarily have broken the heart of the old gardener . 
Mr Oldbuck immediately rose , and advanced to greet his travelling acquaintance with a hearty shake of the hand . 
`` By my faith , '' said he , `` I began to think you had changed your mind , and found the stupid people of Fairport so tiresome , that you judged them unworthy of your talents , and had taken French leave , as my old friend and brother antiquary , Mac-Cribb did , when he went off with one of my Syrian medals . '' 
-- But come , let me show you the way into my sanctum sanctorum , my cell I may call it , for , except two idle hussies of womankind , -LRB- by this contemptuous phrase , borrowed from his brother antiquary , the cynic Anthony a Wood , Mr Oldbuck was used to denote the fair sex in general , and his sister and niece in particular , -RRB- that , on some idle pretext of relationship , have established themselves in my premises , I live here as much a Cænobite as my predecessor , John o ' the Girnell , whose grave I will show you by and by . '' 
Mr Oldbuck had , by this time , attained the top of the winding stair which led to his own apartment , and opening a door , and pushing aside a piece of tapestry with which it was covered , his first exclamation was , `` What are you about here , you sluts ? '' 
A dirty barefooted chambermaid threw down her duster , detected in the heinous fact of arranging the sanctum sanctorum , and fled out of an opposite door from the face of her incensed master . 
A genteel-looking young woman , who was superintending the operation , stood her ground , but with some timidity . 
-LRB- Mr Oldbuck hated putting to rights as much as Dr Orkborne , or any other professed student . -RRB- 
Behind Mr Oldbuck 's seat , -LRB- which was an ancient leathern-covered easy-chair , worn smooth by constant use , -RRB- was a huge oaken cabinet , decorated at each corner with Dutch cherubs , having their little duckwings displayed , and great jolter-headed visages placed between them . 
The rest of the room was panelled , or wainscotted , with black oak , against which hung two or three portraits in armour , being characters in Scottish history , favourites of Mr Oldbuck , and as many in tie-wigs and laced coats , staring representatives of his own ancestors . 
It had mightily the air of such a stick as the Highland reapers use to walk with on their annual peregrinations from their mountains ; but Mr Oldbuck was strongly tempted to believe , that , as its shape was singular , it might have been one of the clubs with which the monks armed their peasants in lieu of more martial weapons , whence , he observed , the villains were called Colve-carles , or Kolb-kerls , that is , Clavigeri , or club-bearers . 
For the truth of this custom , he quoted the chronicle of Antwerp and that of St Martin ; against which authorities Lovel had nothing to oppose , having never heard of them till that moment . 
Mr Oldbuck next exhibited thumb-screws , which had given the Covenanters of former days the cramp in their joints , and a collar with the name of a fellow convicted of theft , whose services , as the inscription bore , had been adjudged to a neighbouring baron , in lieu of the modern Scottish punishment , which , as Oldbuck said , sends such culprits to enrich England by their labour , and themselves by their dexterity . 
Many and various were the other curiosities which he showed ; but it was chiefly upon his books that he prided himself , repeating , with a complacent air , as he led the way to the crowded and dusty shelves , the verses of old Chaucer -- `` For he would rather have , at his bed-head , A twenty books , clothed in black or red , Of Aristotle , or his philosophy , Than robes rich , rebeck , or saltery . '' 
This pithy motto he delivered , shaking his head , and giving each guttural the true Anglo-Saxon enunciation , which is now forgotten in the southern parts of this realm . 
Mr Oldbuck did not follow these collectors in such excess of expenditure ; but , taking a pleasure in the personal labour of forming his library , saved his purse at the expense of his time and toil . 
He was no encourager of that ingenious race of peripatetic middle-men , who , trafficking between the obscure keeper of a stall and the eager amateur , make their profit at once of the ignorance of the former , and the dear-bought skill and taste of the latter . 
Lovel was not a little amused at hearing the old gentleman run on in this manner , and , however incapable of entering into the full merits of what he beheld , he admired , as much as could have been expected , the various treasures which Oldbuck exhibited . 
Mr Oldbuck , for example , piqued himself especially in possessing an unique broadside , entitled and called ` Strange and Wonderful News from Chipping-Norton , in the County of Oxon , of certain dreadful Apparitions which were seen in the Air on the 26th of July , 1610 , at Half an Hour after Nine o'Clock at Noon , and continued till Eleven , in which Time was seen Appearances of several flaming Swords , strange Motions of the superior Orbs ; with the unusual Sparkling of the Stars , with their dreadful Continuations : With the Account of the Opening of the Heavens , and strange Appearances therein disclosing themselves , with several other prodigious Circumstances not heard of in any Age , to the great Amazement of the Beholders , as it was communicated in a Letter to one Mr Colley , living in West Smithfield , and attested by Thomas Brown , Elizabeth Greenaway , and Anne Gutheridge , who were Spectators of the dreadful Apparitions : And if any one would be further satisfied of the Truth of this Relation , let them repair to Mr Nightingale 's , at the Bear Inn , in West Smithfield , and they may be satisfied . ' 
So saying , Mr Oldbuck unlocked a drawer , and took out a bundle of keys , then pulled aside a piece of the tapestry which concealed the door of a small closet , into which he descended by four stone steps , and , after some tinkling among bottles and cans , produced two long-stalked wine-glasses with bell mouths , such as are seen in Teniers ' pieces , and a small bottle of what he called rich racy canary , with a little bit of diet-cake , on a small silver server of exquisite old workmanship . 
`` I will say nothing of the server , '' he remarked , `` though it is said to have been wrought by the old mad Florentine , Benvenuto Cellini . 
After a libation so suitable to the amusement in which they had been engaged , Lovel rose to take his leave , and Mr Oldbuck prepared to give him his company a part of the way , and show him something worthy of his curiosity on his return to Fairport . 
Mr Oldbuck failed not to make Lovel remark , that the planters of those days were possessed of the modern secret of preventing the roots of the fruit-trees from penetrating the till , and compelling them to spread in a lateral direction , by placing paving-stones beneath the trees when first planted , so as to interpose between their fibres and the subsoil . 
`` This old fellow , '' he said , `` which was blown down last summer , and still , though half reclined on the ground , is covered with fruit , has been , as you may see , accommodated with such a barrier between his roots and the unkindly till . 
While he was thus speaking , he led the way briskly through one or two rich pasture meadows to an open heath or common , and so to the top of a gentle eminence . 
`` Here , '' he said , `` Mr Lovel , is a truly remarkable spot . '' 
`` It commands a fine view , '' said his companion , looking around him . 
-- From this very Prætorium '' -- A voice from behind interrupted his ecstatic description -- `` Prætorian here , Prætorian there , I mind the bigging o ` t. '' Both at once turned round , Lovel with surprise , and Oldbuck with mingled surprise and indignation , at so uncivil an interruption . 
He had the exterior appearance of a mendicant . 
A slouched hat of huge dimensions ; a long white beard , which mingled with his grizzled hair , an aged , but strongly marked and expressive countenance , hardened , by climate and exposure , to a right brickdust complexion ; a long blue gown , with a pewter badge on the right arm ; two or three wallets , or bags , slung across his shoulder , for holding the different kinds of meal , when he received his charity in kind from those who were but a degree richer than himself , -- all these marked at once a beggar by profession , and one of that privileged class which are called in Scotland the King 's Bedes-men , or , vulgarly , Blue-gowns . 
said Oldbuck , hoping , perhaps , that his ears had betrayed their duty ; `` What were you speaking about ? '' 
For , gentle reader , if thou hast ever beheld the visage of a damsel of sixteen , whose romance of true love has been blown up by an untimely discovery , or of a child of ten years , whose castle of cards has been blown down by a malicious companion , I can safely aver to you , that Jonathan Oldbuck of Monkbarns looked neither more wise nor less disconcerted . 
`` There is some mistake about this , '' he said , abruptly turning away from the mendicant . 
`` Never mind the old rogue , '' said Mr Oldbuck ; `` do n't suppose I think the worse of you for your profession ; they are only prejudiced fools and coxcombs that do so . 
Then turning to Oldbuck -- `` I am awa to the manse , your honour . 
Oldbuck started as from a dream ; and , in a hurried tone , where vexation strove with a wish to conceal it , paying , at the same time , a tribute to Edie 's smooth , greasy , unlined hat , he said , `` Go down , go down to Monkbarns -- let them give you some dinner -- or stay ; if you do go to the manse , or to Knockwinnock , ye need say nothing about that foolish story of yours . '' 
`` Provoking scoundrel , '' muttered the indignant Antiquary between his teeth , -- `` I 'll have the hangman 's lash and his back acquainted for this ! '' 
`` Troth , I am thinking sae , '' continued his tormentor , who seemed to have pleasure in rubbing the galled wound , `` troth , I aye thought sae ; and it 's no sae lang since I said to Luckie Gemmels , ` Never think you , luckie , ' said I , ` that his honour , Monkbarns , would hae done sic a daft-like thing , as to gie grund weel worth fifty shillings an acre , for a mailing that would be dear o ' a pund Scots . 
said Oldbuck ; and then in a more mild tone , as one that was conscious his reputation lay at the mercy of his antagonist , he added -- `` Away with you down to Monkbarns , and when I come back , I 'll send ye a bottle of ale to the kitchen . '' 
This was uttered with the true mendicant whine , as , setting his pike-staff before him , he began to move in the direction of Monkbarns -- `` But did your honour , '' turning round , `` ever get back the siller ye gae to the travelling packman for the bodle ? '' 
And so saying , the old beggar moved off , relieving Mr Oldbuck of recollections which were any thing rather than agreeable . 
So saying , our heroes parted , Mr Oldbuck to return to his hospitium at Monkbarns , and Lovel to pursue his way to Fairport , where he arrived without farther adventure . 
The theatre at Fairport had opened , but no Mr Lovel appeared on the boards , nor was there any thing in the habits or deportment of the young gentleman so named , which authorized Mr Oldbuck 's conjecture that his fellow-traveller was a candidate for the public favour . 
Regular were the Antiquary 's inquiries at an old-fashioned barber who dressed the only three wigs in the parish , which , in defiance of taxes and times , were still subjected to the operation of powdering and frizzling , and who for that purpose divided his time among the three employers whom fashion had yet left him -- regular , I say , were Mr Oldbuck 's inquiries at this personage concerning the news of the little theatre at Fairport , expecting every day to hear of Mr Lovel 's appearance ; on which occasion the old gentleman had determined to put himself to charges in honour of his young friend , and not only to go to the play himself , but to carry his womankind along with him . 
These are not the virtues of a stage-struck hero , thought Oldbuck to himself ; and , however habitually pertinacious in his opinions , he must have been compelled to abandon that which he had formed in the present instance , but for a part of Caxon 's communication . 
Nothing , however , excepting this single circumstance , occurred to confirm Mr Oldbuck 's supposition , and it remained a high and doubtful question , what a well-informed young man , without friends , connexions , or employment of any kind , could have to do as a resident at Fairport . 
We have said that Mr Oldbuck kept little company with the surrounding gentlemen , excepting with one person only . 
But , in his more advanced years , as he became too lazy or unwieldy for field-sports , he supplied them by now and then reading Scottish history ; and , having gradually acquired a taste for antiquities , though neither very deep nor very correct , he became a crony of his neighbour , Mr Oldbuck of Monkbarns , and a joint labourer with him in his antiquarian pursuits . 
The faith of Sir Arthur , as an antiquary , was boundless , and Mr Oldbuck -LRB- notwithstanding the affair of the Prætorium at the Kaim of Kinprunes -RRB- was much more scrupulous in receiving legends as current and authentic coin . 
Now Oldbuck , a shrewd and suspicious man , and no respecter of divine hereditary right , was apt to cavil at this sacred list , and to affirm , that the procession of the posterity of Fergus through the pages of Scottish history , was as vain and unsubstantial as the gleamy pageant of the descendants of Banquo through the cavern of Hecate . 
Oldbuck was upon principle a stanch Presbyterian , a ruling elder of the kirk , and a friend to revolution principles and Protestant succession , while Sir Arthur was the very reverse of all this . 
It therefore often happened , that bickerings hot broke out between them , in which Oldbuck was not always able to suppress his caustic humour , while it would sometimes occur to the Baronet , that the descendant of a German printer , whose sires had `` sought the base fellowship of paltry burghers , '' forgot himself , and took an unlicensed freedom of debate , considering the rank and ancient descent of his antagonist . 
This , with the old feud of the coach-horses , and the seizure of his manor-place and tower of strength by Mr Oldbuck 's father , would at times rush upon his mind , and inflame at once his cheeks and his arguments . 
And , lastly , as Mr Oldbuck thought his worthy friend and compeer was , in some respects , little better than a fool , he was apt to come more near communicating to him that unfavourable opinion , than the rules of modern politeness warrant . 
In such cases , they often parted in deep dudgeon , and with something like a resolution to forbear each other 's company in future : `` But with the morning calm reflection came ; '' and as each was sensible that the society of the other had become , through habit , essential to his comfort , the breach was speedily made up between them . 
On such occasions , Oldbuck , considering that the Baronet 's pettishness resembled that of a child , usually showed his superior sense by compassionately making the first advances to reconciliation . 
She was well aware how necessary Mr Oldbuck was to her father 's amusement and comfort , and seldom failed to interpose with effect , when the office of a mediator between them was rendered necessary , by the satirical shrewdness of the one , or the assumed superiority of the other . 
Under Isabella 's mild influence , the wrongs of Queen Mary were forgotten by her father , and Mr Oldbuck forgave the blasphemy which reviled the memory of King William . 
However , as she used in general to take her father 's part playfully in these disputes , Oldbuck was wont to call Isabella his fair enemy , though in fact he made more account of her than any other of her sex , of whom , as we have seen , he was no admirer . 
Sir Arthur always wished to borrow ; Mr Oldbuck was not always willing to lend . 
Mr Oldbuck , per contra , always wished to be repaid with regularity ; Sir Arthur was not always , nor indeed often , prepared to gratify this reasonable desire ; and , in accomplishing an arrangement between tendencies so opposite , little miffs would occasionally take place . 
`` Mr Oldbuck , my love , invites us to dinner on Tuesday the 17th , '' said the Baronet , pausing ; `` he really seems to forget that he has not of late conducted himself so civilly towards me as might have been expected . '' 
`` Dear sir , you have so many advantages over poor Mr Oldbuck , that no wonder it should put him a little out of humour ; but I know he has much respect for your person and your conversation ; nothing would give him more pain than to be wanting in any real attention . '' 
You may observe that he never has any advantage of me in dispute , unless when he avails himself of a sort of pettifogging intimacy with dates , names , and trifling matters of fact , a tiresome and frivolous accuracy of memory which is entirely owing to his mechanical descent . '' 
`` He must find it convenient in historical investigation , I should think , sir ? '' 
`` It leads to an uncivil and positive mode of disputing ; and nothing seems more unreasonable than to hear him impugn even Bellenden 's rare translation of Hector Boece , which I have the satisfaction to possess , and which is a black-letter folio of great value , upon the authority of some old scrap of parchment which he has saved from its deserved destiny of being cut up into tailors ' measures . 
So this important matter being adjusted , Miss Wardour intimated `` her own and Sir Arthur 's compliments , and that they would have the honour of waiting upon Mr Oldbuck . 
Miss Wardour takes this opportunity to renew her hostility with Mr Oldbuck , on account of his late long absence from Knockwinnock , where his visits give so much pleasure . '' 
Mr Oldbuck received him at the Palmer 's - port in his complete brown suit , grey silk stockings , and wig powdered with all the skill of the veteran Caxon , who , having smelt out the dinner , had taken care not to finish his job till the hour of eating approached . 
The face , which , like that of the ancient statues of Vesta , was thus crowned with towers , was large and long , and peaked at nose and chin , and bore , in other respects , such a ludicrous resemblance to the physiognomy of Mr Jonathan Oldbuck , that Lovel , had they not appeared at once , like Sebastian and Viola in the last scene of the `` Twelfth Night , '' might have supposed that the figure before him was his old friend masquerading in female attire . 
Rigid in his economy , Mr Oldbuck kept no maleservant . 
This he disguised under the pretext that the masculine sex was too noble to be employed in those acts of personal servitude , which , in all early periods of society , were uniformly imposed on the female . 
`` Why , '' would he say , `` did the boy , Tam Rintherout , whom , at my wise sister 's instigation , I , with equal wisdom , took upon trial -- why did he pilfer apples , take birds ' nests , break glasses , and ultimately steal my spectacles , except that he felt that noble emulation which swells in the bosom of the masculine sex , which has conducted him to Flanders with a musket on his shoulder , and doubtless will promote him to a glorious halbert , or even to the gallows ? 
The dining-table was attended by Jenny ; but an old superintendent , a sort of female butler , stood by the side-board , and underwent the burden of bearing several reproofs from Mr Oldbuck , and innuendos , not so much marked , but not less cutting , from his sister . 
There was the relishing Solan goose , whose smell is so powerful that he is never cooked within doors . 
Blood-raw he proved to be on this occasion , so that Oldbuck half-threatened to throw the greasy sea-fowl at the head of the negligent housekeeper , who acted as priestess in presenting this odoriferous offering . 
`` I knew we should succeed here , '' said Oldbuck exultingly , `` for Davie Dibble , the gardener , -LRB- an old bachelor like myself , -RRB- takes care the rascally women do not dishonour our vegetables . 
`` Why , I say , Mr Oldbuck , '' replied the knight , `` that , so far as I am capable of judging , we ought to resist cum toto corpore regni , -- as the phrase is , unless I have altogether forgotten my Latin -- an enemy who comes to propose to us a Whiggish sort of government , a republican system , and who is aided and abetted by a sort of fanatics of the worst kind in our own bowels . 
`` And yet , with all my courage , Mr Oldbuck , I am glad to hear our people are getting under arms . '' 
When dinner was over , and the decanters placed on the table , Mr Oldbuck proposed the King 's health in a bumper , which was readily acceded to both by Lovel and the Baronet , the Jacobitism of the latter being now a sort of speculative opinion merely , -- the shadow of a shade . 
`` I am avised of the contrary , '' said Oldbuck . 
`` I say the Pikar , Pihar , Piochtar , Piaghter , or Peughtar , '' vociferated Oldbuck ; `` they spoke a Gothic dialect '' -- `` Genuine Celtic , '' again asseverated the knight . 
`` There is but one word , '' said the Baronet , `` but , in spite of Mr Oldbuck 's pertinacity , it is decisive of the question . '' 
`` Yes , in my favour , '' said Oldbuck : `` Mr Lovel , you shall be judge -- I have the learned Pinkerton on my side . '' 
vociferated Oldbuck . 
`` The head of the wall , '' echoed Oldbuck . 
`` Not a whit , not a whit , '' said Oldbuck ; `` men fight best in a narrow ring -- an inch is as good as a mile for a home-thrust . '' 
`` A childish legend , '' said Oldbuck , `` invented to give consequence to trumpery womankind . 
Half of them have the Celtic patronymic Mac prefixed -- Mac , id est filius -- what do you say to that , Mr Oldbuck ? 
`` I am surprised to hear you , Mr Oldbuck ; you know , or ought to know , that the list of these potentates was copied , by Henry Maule of Melgum , from the Chronicles of Loch-Leven and Saint Andrews , and put forth by him in his short but satisfactory history of the Picts , printed by Robert Freebairn of Edinburgh , and sold by him at his shop in the Parliament-close , in the year of God seventeen hundred and five , or six , I am not precisely certain which -- but I have a copy at home that stands next to my twelvemo copy of the Scots Acts , and ranges on the shelf with them very well -- What say you to that , Mr Oldbuck ? '' 
Why , I laugh at Harry Maule and his history , '' answered Oldbuck , `` and thereby comply with his request , of giving it entertainment according to its merits . '' 
`` Henry Maule of Melgum was a gentleman , Mr Oldbuck . '' 
`` I presume he had no advantage of me in that particular , '' replied the Antiquary , somewhat tartly . 
`` Permit me , Mr Oldbuck -- he was a gentleman of high family , and ancient descent , and therefore '' -- `` The descendant of a Westphalian printer should speak of him with deference ? 
`` Mighty well -- mighty well , Mr Oldbuck -- I wish you a good evening -- Mr a -- a -- a -- Shovel -- I wish you a very good evening . '' 
said Oldbuck , briefly apostrophizing Lovel ; `` but I must not let him go in this mad-like way neither . '' 
So saying , he pushed off after the retreating Baronet , whom he traced by the clang of several doors which he opened in search of the apartment for tea , and slammed with force behind him at every disappointment . 
It retarded the pace of the irritated Baronet , if it did not abate his resentment , and Mr Oldbuck , better acquainted with the locale , got up with him as he had got his grasp upon the handle of the drawing-room door . 
`` Stay a minute , Sir Arthur , '' said Oldbuck , opposing his abrupt entrance ; `` do n't be quite so hasty , my good old friend -- I was a little too rude with you about Sir Gamelyn -- why , he is an old acquaintance of mine , man , and a favourite -- he kept company with Bruce and Wallace -- and , I 'll be sworn on a black-letter Bible , only subscribed the Ragman-roll with the legitimate and justifiable intention of circumventing the false Southern -- 't was right Scottish craft , my good knight -- hundreds did it -- come , come , forget and forgive -- confess we have given the young fellow here a right to think us two testy old fools . '' 
`` Speak for yourself , Mr Jonathan Oldbuck , '' said Sir Arthur , with much majesty . 
`` A-well , a-well -- a wilful man must have his way . '' 
With that the door opened , and into the drawing-room marched the tall gaunt form of Sir Arthur , followed by Lovel and Mr Oldbuck , the countenances of all three a little discomposed . 
Sir Arthur readily assented to this proposal , which suited the angry mood in which he found himself ; and having , agreeably to the established custom in cases of pet , refused the refreshment of tea and coffee , he tucked his daughter under his arm ; and , after taking a ceremonious leave of the ladies , and a very dry one of Oldbuck -- off he marched . 
Oldbuck proceeded in his studies for the best part of an hour , uninterrupted by the ladies , who each , in profound silence , pursued some female employment . 
answered Oldbuck ; `` what reason has an old battered powder-puff like you to be easy in your mind , more than all the rest of the world besides ? '' 
The word operated like electricity on Oldbuck . 
said Oldbuck , starting up in great alarm -- `` not that bauble ! '' 
flinging away a little pocket almanack which his niece offered him -- `` Great God ! 
-- It was brought , consulted , and added greatly to his agitation . 
`` It would be unpleasant , '' he said , `` to be joined by that young fellow , whom Mr Oldbuck had taken the freedom to introduce them to . '' 
Oldbuck was the foremost and most earnest , pressing forward with unwonted desperation to the very brink of the crag , and extending his head -LRB- his hat and wig secured by a handkerchief under his chin -RRB- over the dizzy height , with an air of determination which made his more timorous assistants tremble . 
`` Haud a care , haud a care , Monkbarns , '' cried Caxon , clinging to the skirts of his patron , and withholding him from danger as far as his strength permitted -- `` God 's sake , haud a care ! 
`` I see them , '' said Oldbuck , `` I see them low down on that flat stone -- Hilli-hilloa , hilli-ho-a ! '' 
While Oldbuck ran on in this way , Sir Arthur was safely wrapped in the close embraces of his daughter , who , assuming that authority which the circumstances demanded , ordered some of the assistants to convey him to the chariot , promising to follow in a few minutes . 
said Oldbuck , as the vehicle once more ascended . 
`` Have a care indeed , '' echoed Oldbuck ; `` What ! 
Oldbuck thrust something into his hand -- Ochiltree looked at it by the torch-light , and returned it . 
Oldbuck laid the hand of strong possession on Lovel -- `` Deil a stride ye 's go to Fairport this night , young man -- you must go home with me to Monkbarns . 
`` Why -- I like to see the gathering and growling of a coming storm -- or , in your own classical language , Mr Oldbuck , suave mari magno -- and so forth -- but here we reach the turn to Fairport . 
`` I could have sworn it , '' said Oldbuck , laughing , but obviously much relieved , `` I could have sworn it -- the lazy monkey did not care if we were all drowned together -- why did you say she went out ? '' 
The Antiquary 's countenance became clouded , though he was too well bred to give way , in the presence of a stranger , to his displeased surprise at the disappearance of the viands on which he had reckoned with absolute certainty . 
But his sister understood these looks of ire . 
Oldbuck replied , catching the same tone , `` Worthy man ! 
Oldbuck half-whistled , half-hummed , the end of the old Scottish ditty , `` O , first they eated the white puddings , And then they eated the black , O , And thought the gudeman unto himsell , The deil clink down wi ' that , O ! '' 
His sister hastened to silence his murmurs , by proposing some of the relics of the dinner . 
He spoke of another bottle of wine , but recommended in preference a glass of brandy which was really excellent . 
As no entreaties could prevail on Lovel to indue the velvet night-cap and branched morning-gown of his host , Oldbuck , who pretended to a little knowledge of the medical art , insisted on his going to bed as soon as possible , and proposed to dispatch a messenger -LRB- the indefatigable Caxon -RRB- to Fairport early in the morning , to procure him a change of clothes . 
This was the first intimation Miss Oldbuck had received that the young stranger was to be their guest for the night ; and such was the surprise with which she was struck by a proposal so uncommon , that , had the superincumbent weight of her headdress , such as we before described , been less preponderant , her grey locks must have started up on end , and hurled it from its position . 
But the howling of the wind , and pattering of the rain against the windows , with his knowledge of the preceding fatigues of the evening , must have prohibited Oldbuck , even had he entertained less regard for his young friend than he really felt , from permitting him to depart . 
Besides , he was piqued in honour to show that he himself was not governed by womankind -- `` Sit ye down , sit ye down , sit ye down , man , '' he reiterated ; `` an ye part so , I would I might never draw a cork again , and here comes out one from a prime bottle of -- strong ale -- right anno domini -- none of your Wassia Quassia decoctions , but brewed of Monkbarns barley -- John of the Girnel never drew a better flagon to entertain a wandering minstrel , or palmer , with the freshest news from Palestine . 
`` Sister Grizel , this is abominable , '' interrupted Oldbuck ; `` I vow to Heaven ye might have raised the ghosts of every abbot of Trotcosey , since the days of Waldimir , in the time you have been detailing the introduction to this single spectre -- Learn to be succinct in your narrative -- Imitate the concise style of old Aubrey , an experienced ghostseer , who entered his memoranda on these subjects in a terse business-like manner ; exempli gratia -- ` At Cirencester , 5th March , 1670 , was an apparition -- Being demanded whether good spirit or bad , made no answer , but instantly disappeared with a curious perfume , and a melodious twang . ' 
It was something about a cart I fancy , for the ghaist cried aye , Carter , carter '' -- `` Carta , you transformer of languages , '' cried Oldbuck ; `` if my ancestor had learned no other language in the other world , at least he would not forget the Latinity for which he was so famous while in this . '' 
`` Tenues secessit in auras , '' quoth Oldbuck . 
When they reached the Green Room , as it was called , Oldbuck placed the candle on the toilet-table , before a huge mirror with a black japanned frame , surrounded by dressing-boxes of the same , and looked around him with something of a disturbed expression of countenance . 
`` I am seldom in this apartment , '' he said , `` and never without yielding to a melancholy feeling -- not , of course , on account of the childish nonsense that Grizel was telling you , but owing to circumstances of an early and unhappy attachment . 
-- So saying , he shook Lovel cordially by the hand , wished him good night , and took his leave . 
Step after step Lovel could trace his host 's retreat along the various passages , and each door which he closed behind him fell with a sound more distant and dead . 
It seemed as if the prolific and rich invention of old Chaucer had animated the Flemish artist with its profusion , and Oldbuck had accordingly caused the following verses , from that ancient and excellent poet , to be embroidered in Gothic letters , on a sort of border which he had added to the tapestry : -- Lo ! 
Everich tree well from his fellow grew , With branches broad laden with leaves new , That sprongen out against the sonne sheene , Some golden red , and some a glad bright green . 
There was something of embarrassment as well as of grave surprise in her look when Oldbuck presented him , and , perhaps , upon second thoughts , the one was assumed to cover the other . 
He would not relinquish a pursuit which had already cost him such pains . 
Plans , suiting the romantic temper of the brain that entertained them , chased each other through his head , thick and irregular as the motes of the sun-beam , and long after he had laid himself to rest , continued to prevent the repose which he greatly needed . 
Then , wearied by the uncertainty and difficulties with which each scheme appeared to be attended , he bent up his mind to the strong effort of shaking off his love , `` like dew-drops from the lion 's mane , '' and resuming those studies and that career of life which his unrequited affection had so long and so fruitlessly interrupted . 
In this last resolution , he endeavoured to fortify himself by every argument which pride , as well as reason , could suggest . 
`` She shall not suppose , '' he said , `` that , presuming on an accidental service to her or to her father , I am desirous to intrude myself upon that notice , to which , personally , she considered me as having no title . 
When he had for some time brooded over this sturdy resolution , exhausted nature at length gave way , and , despite of wrath , doubt , and anxiety , he sunk into slumber . 
Then Miss Wardour was a syren , or a bird of Paradise ; her father a triton , or a sea-gull ; and Oldbuck alternately a porpoise and a cormorant . 
These agreeable imaginations were varied by all the usual vagaries of a feverish dream ; the air refused to bear the visionary , the water seemed to burn him -- the rocks felt like down-pillows as he was dashed against them -- whatever he undertook failed in some strange and unexpected manner -- and whatever attracted his attention , underwent , as he attempted to investigate it , some wild and wonderful metamorphosis , while his mind continued all the while in some degree conscious of the delusion , from which it in vain struggled to free itself by awaking -- feverish symptoms all , with which those who are haunted by the night-hag , whom the learned call Ephialtes , are but too well acquainted . 
At length these crude phantasmata arranged themselves into something more regular , if indeed the imagination of Lovel , after he awoke , -LRB- for it was by no means the faculty in which his mind was least rich , -RRB- did not gradually , insensibly , and unintentionally , arrange in better order the scene , of which his sleep presented , it may be , a less distinct outline . 
Or it is possible that his feverish agitation may have assisted him in forming the vision . 
We must now request our readers to adjourn to the breakfast-parlour of Mr Oldbuck , who , despising the modern slops of tea and coffee , was substantially regaling himself , more majorum , with cold roast-beef , and a glass of a sort of beverage called mum , a species of fat ale , brewed from wheat and bitter herbs , of which the present generation only know the name by its occurrence in revenue acts of parliament , coupled with cider , perry , and other excisable commodities . 
`` A man of Mr Oldbuck 's learning , madam , '' answered the questioned party , `` would not be exposed to the inconvenience sustained by the Highland gentleman you mentioned last night . '' 
thundered Oldbuck ; `` d'ye suppose you 're making a haggis -- or do you think that a spirit , though he be formed of air , can be expelled by a receipt against wind ? 
-- I believe , '' said Oldbuck , as he shuffled them to and fro , -- `` I believe they make themselves wings like grashoppers , and fly away bodily -- but here , in the meanwhile , look at that little treasure . '' 
So saying , he put into his hand a case made of oak , fenced at the corner with silver roses and studs -- `` Pr ` ythee , undo this button , '' said he , as he observed Lovel fumbling at the clasp ; -- he did so , the lid opened , and discovered a thin quarto curiously bound in black shagreen -- `` There , Mr Lovel -- there is the work I mentioned to you last night -- the rare quarto of the Augsburg Confession , the foundation at once and the bulwark of the Reformation , drawn up by the learned and venerable Melancthon , defended by the Elector of Saxony , and the other valiant hearts who stood up for their faith , even against the front of a powerful and victorious emperor , and imprinted by the scarcely less venerable and praiseworthy Aldobrand Oldenbuck , my happy progenitor , during the yet more tyrannical attempts of Philip II . 
`` By no means ; pray , proceed , Mr. Oldbuck ; I listen with uncommon interest . '' 
`` I beg your pardon , '' said Lovel ; `` I am going to appear very silly and changeable in your eyes , Mr Oldbuck , but you seemed to think Sir Arthur might in civility expect a call from me ? '' 
`` Amen , amen , quo ' the Earl Marshall , '' answered Oldbuck , as he exchanged his slippers for a pair of stout walking shoes , with cutikins , as he called them , of black cloth . 
He only interrupted the walk by a slight deviation to the tomb of John o ' the Girnel , remembered as the last bailiff of the abbey , who had resided at Monkbarns . 
Beneath an old oak-tree upon a hillock , sloping pleasantly to the south , and catching a distant view of the sea over two or three rich enclosures , and the Musselcrag , lay a moss-grown stone , and , in memory of the departed worthy , it bore an inscription , of which , as Mr Oldbuck affirmed , -LRB- though many doubted , -RRB- the defaced characters could be distinctly traced to the following effect : -- Heir lyeth John o ' ye Girnell , Erth has ye nit and heuen ye kirnell . 
she said , or rather screamed , to Oldbuck ; `` caller haddocks and whitings -- a bannock-fluke and a cock-padle . '' 
`` And I hope they 'll never work again in my time , '' said Oldbuck . 
`` It would have been long , '' said Oldbuck , with much self-complacency , `` ere my womankind could have made such a reasonable bargain with that old skinflint , though they sometimes wrangle with her for an hour together under my study window , like three sea-gulls screaming and sputtering in a gale of wind . 
With our readers ' permission , we will outstep the slow , though sturdy pace of the Antiquary , whose halts , as he turned round to his companion at every moment to point out something remarkable in the landscape , or to enforce some favourite topic more emphatically than the exercise of walking permitted , delayed their progress considerably . 
While she was in this agitation of spirits , she suddenly observed Oldbuck and Lovel entering the court . 
She drew instantly so far back from the window , that she could , without being seen , observe how the Antiquary paused in front of the building , and , pointing to the various scutcheons of its former owners , seemed in the act of bestowing upon Lovel much curious and erudite information , which , from the absent look of his auditor , Isabella might shrewdly guess was entirely thrown away . 
`` Indifferently well , Mr Oldbuck ; but , I am afraid , not quite able to receive your congratulations , or to pay -- to pay -- Mr Lovel his thanks for his unparalleled exertions . '' 
`` Why , the deuce , '' interrupted Oldbuck , `` what sort of a qualification is that ? 
Miss Wardour shook her head -- `` But indifferent , I fear , Mr Oldbuck ; but there lie some specimens which have lately been sent down . '' 
In the meantime , Lovel , forced as it were by this secession of Oldbuck , into a sort of tête-à-tête with Miss Wardour , took an opportunity of addressing her in a low and interrupted tone of voice . 
`` Mr Lovel , '' answered Miss Wardour , observing the same tone of caution , `` I trust you will not -- I am sure you are incapable of abusing the advantages given to you by the services you have rendered us , which , as they affect my father , can never be sufficiently acknowledged or repaid -- Could Mr Lovel see me without his own peace being affected -- could he see me as a friend -- as a sister -- no man will be -- and , from all I have ever heard of Mr Lovel , ought to be , more welcome ; but '' -- Oldbuck 's anathema against the preposition but was internally echoed by Lovel -- `` Forgive me , if I interrupt you , Miss Wardour -- you need not fear my intruding upon a subject where I have been already severely repressed -- but do not add to the severity of repelling my sentiments the rigour of obliging me to disavow them . '' 
A servant at this moment announced , that Sir Arthur desired to speak with Mr Oldbuck in his dressing-room . 
`` Welcome , Mr Oldbuck , '' he said ; `` I trust you have come better off than I have done from the inclemency of yesterday evening ? '' 
quoth Oldbuck ; `` I do though , under his favour -- Why , old Dr H -- nProbably Dr Hutton , the celebrated geologist told me , when I was in Edinburgh , that we should never find copper enough , judging from the specimens I showed him , to make a pair of sixpenny kneebuckles -- and I can not see that those samples on the table below differ much in quality . '' 
`` You have no great interest in the matter , Mr Oldbuck , '' said the Baronet . 
`` I understand , '' he at lenght said , `` that the young gentleman , to whose gallantry and presence of mind we were so much indebted last night , has favoured me with a visit -- I am distressed that I am unable to see him , or indeed any one , but an old friend like you , Mr Oldbuck . '' 
Oldbuck told the circumstances of their becoming known to each other . 
I was not aware of that , '' answered Oldbuck , somewhat surprised . 
said Oldbuck , -- `` and why did not you recognise him when I introduced you ? '' 
`` If it had been with his mother instead of himself , '' answered Oldbuck , with his usual dry causticity of humour , `` I could see an excellent reason for it . 
`` I know the story , '' said Oldbuck , `` and I was telling it to Lovel this moment , with some of the wise maxims and consequences which it has engrafted on your family politics . 
As the Antiquary made this liberal promise , he took his leave of Miss Wardour and her father , eager to commence operations upon Mr Lovel . 
`` Well , Mr Oldbuck , it may be so ; but as yet I resemble you more in your practice than in your theory , for I can not help being deeply interested in the fate of the family we have just left . '' 
`` And well you may , '' replied Oldbuck ; `` Sir Arthur 's embarrassments have of late become so many and so pressing , that I am surprised you have not heard of them -- And then his absurd and expensive operations carried on by this High-German landlouper , Dousterswivel '' -- `` I think I have seen that person , when , by some rare chance , I happened to be in the coffee-room at Fairport -- a tall , beetle-browed , awkward-built man , who entered upon scientific subjects , as it appeared to my ignorance at least , with more assurance than knowledge , was very arbitrary in laying down and asserting his opinions , and mixed the terms of science with a strange jargon of mysticism ; a simple youth whispered me that he was an Illuminé , and carried on an intercourse with the invisible world . '' 
`` I am surprised that you , Mr Oldbuck , should have encouraged Sir Arthur by your example . '' 
`` Why , '' said Oldbuck , dropping his large grizzled eye-brow , `` I am something surprised and ashamed at it myself ; it was not the lucre of gain -- nobody cares less for money -LRB- to be a prudent man -RRB- than I do -- but I thought I might risk this small sum . 
The account of Sir Arthur 's unhappy adventure had led Oldbuck somewhat aside from his purpose of catechising Lovel concerning the cause of his residence at Fairport . 
`` I own it , '' said Lovel , blushing deeply -- `` I believe you are right , Mr Oldbuck , and I ought to sink in your esteem for attaching a moment 's consequence to such a frivolity ; but I was tossed by contradictory wishes and resolutions , and you know how slight a line will tow a boat when afloat on the billows , though a cable would hardly move her when pulled up on the beach . '' 
`` Pardon me , young man , '' said Oldbuck , laying his hand kindly on his shoulder , and making a full halt -- '' sufflamina -- a little patience if you please . 
`` Nay , then , '' said Oldbuck , removing his hand , and turning again to the road , `` if you are so true a philosopher as to think you have money enough , there 's no more to be said -- I can not pretend to be entitled to advise you -- you have attained the acmé -- the summit of perfection . 
replied Oldbuck , knowingly , -- `` I begin to understand your application of my ancestor 's motto -- you are a candidate for public favour , though not in the way I first suspected , -- you are ambitious to shine as a literary character , and you hope to merit favour by labour and perseverance ? '' 
said Mr Oldbuck , pausing , and mechanically fumbling in his pocket -- `` that is true -- I would wish to do something -- but you would not like to publish by subscription ? '' 
`` Truly , '' said Oldbuck , -LRB- with a sly look to his companion , -RRB- `` I think our estate was gracious that kept us out of hearing of that controversy . 
Leaving Mr Oldbuck and his friend to enjoy their hard bargain of fish , we beg leave to transport the reader to the back-parlour of the postmaster 's house at Fairport , where his wife , he himself being absent , was employed in assorting for delivery the letters which had come by the Edinburgh post . 
`` Let me see -- let me see , '' said Oldbuck , putting on his spectacles , and examining the crumpled copy of regulations to which Davie appealed . 
Ye didna gang sae near wi ' Johnnie Howie , when '' -- Lovel , who , sitting on the supposed Prætorium , had glanced over the contents of the packet , now put an end to the altercation by paying Davie 's demand , and then turning to Mr Oldbuck , with a look of much agitation , he excused himself from returning with him to Monkbarns that evening . 
`` I must instantly go to Fairport , and perhaps leave it on a moment 's notice ; your kindness , Mr Oldbuck , I never can forget . '' 
`` Of a very chequered complexion , '' answered his friend -- `` Farewell -- in good or bad fortune I will not forget your regard . '' 
`` I am much obliged , Mr Oldbuck , but I am amply provided , '' said his mysterious young friend . 
So saying , he shook the Antiquary 's hand warmly , turned from him , and walked rapidly towards the town , `` staying no longer question . '' 
`` Very extraordinary indeed , '' said Oldbuck ; `` but there 's something about this lad I can never fathom ; and yet I can not for my heart think ill of him neither . 
`` Do so , do so , Edie ; '' and , rummaging for some time in his huge waistcoat pocket till he found the object of his search , the Antiquary added , `` there 's sixpence to ye to buy sneeshin . '' 
Having formed this manful resolution , Mr Oldbuck equipped himself for the expedition with his thick walking-shoes and gold-headed cane , muttering the while the words of Falstaff which we have chosen for the motto of this chapter ; for the Antiquary was himself rather surprised at the degree of attachment which he could not but acknowledge he entertained for this stranger . 
A walk to Fairport had become somewhat of an adventure with Mr Oldbuck , and one which he did not often care to undertake . 
He hated greetings in the market-place ; and there were generally loiterers in the streets to persecute him either about the news of the day , or about some petty pieces of business . 
So on this occasion , he had no sooner entered the streets of Fairport , than it was `` Good-morrow , Mr Oldbuck -- a sight o ' you 's gude for sair een -- what d'ye think of the news in the Sun the day ? 
`` Mr Oldbuck , '' said the town-clerk , -LRB- a more important person , who came in front and ventured to stop the old gentleman , -RRB- `` the provost , understanding you were in town , begs on no account that you 'll quit it without seeing him ; he wants to speak to ye about bringing the water frae the Fairwell-spring through a part o ' your lands . '' 
She now opened the door to Mr Oldbuck , and her surprise at seeing him brought tears into her eyes , which she could hardly restrain . 
My poor gentleman is , I am afraid , very unwell ; and O , Mr Oldbuck , he 'll see neither doctor , nor minister , nor writer ! 
said Oldbuck . 
`` O dear , Mr Oldbuck , not ane ; if he wadna receive them when he was weel and sprightly , what chance is there of ony body in Fairport looking in upon him now ? '' 
The good landlady showed Mr Oldbuck up her narrow staircase , warning him of every turn , and lamenting all the while that he was laid under the necessity of mounting up so high . 
The little apartment was neat and clean , and decently furnished -- ornamented too by such relics of her youthful arts of sempstress-ship as Mrs Hadoway had retained ; but it was close , overheated , and , as it appeared to Oldbuck , an unwholesome situation for a young person in delicate health , an observation which ripened his resolution touching a project that had already occurred to him in Lovel 's behalf . 
Oldbuck was shocked at the change which had taken place in his personal appearance . 
His cheek and brow had assumed a ghastly white , except where a round bright spot of hectic red formed a strong and painful contrast , totally different from the general cast of hale and hardy complexion which had formerly overspread and somewhat embrowned his countenance . 
Oldbuck observed , that the dress he wore belonged to a deep mourning suit , and a coat of the same colour hung on a chair near to him . 
`` Yes , Mr Oldbuck ; of almost the only friend I could ever boast of possessing . '' 
And permit me to add , you , Mr Oldbuck , have least reason of many men to take so gloomy a view of life -- you have a competent and easy fortune -- are generally respected -- may , in your own phrase , vacare musis , indulge yourself in the researches to which your taste addicts you -- you may form your own society without doors , and within you have the affectionate and sedulous attention of the nearest relatives . '' 
Your washing '' -- `` Hold , my dear Mr Oldbuck , '' interposed Lovel , unable to repress a smile ; `` and before your hospitality settles all my accommodations , let me thank you most sincerely for so kind an offer -- it is not at present in my power to accept of it ; but very likely , before I bid adieu to Scotland , I shall find an opportunity to pay you a visit of some length . '' 
Mr Oldbuck 's countenance fell . 
`` You are concerned in this matter , Mr Oldbuck , '' said Lovel , after glancing over the billet ; and handed it to the Antiquary as he spoke . 
In this vehicle were pent up , first , the stately figure of Mr Oldbuck himself ; secondly , the scarce less portly person of the Reverend Mr Blattergowl , minister of Trotcosey , the parish in which Monkbarns and Knockwinnock were both situated . 
Here renewed greetings passed ; the young ladies shook hands ; and Oldbuck , completely in his element , placed himself as guide and Cicerone at the head of the party , who were now to advance on foot towards the object of their curiosity . 
He took care to detain Lovel close beside him as the best listener of the party , and occasionally glanced a word of explanation and instruction to Miss Wardour and Mary M'Intyre , who followed next in order . 
Oldbuck now took upon himself the full authority of Cicerone , and anxiously directed the company not to go a foot-breadth off the track which he pointed out to them , if they wished to enjoy in full perfection what they came to see . 
answered Oldbuck ; `` I ought to have known what it was to give you advantage over me -- But here is what will stop your career of satire , for you are an admirer of nature I know . '' 
In fact , when they had followed him through a breach in a low , ancient , and ruinous wall , they came suddenly upon a scene equally unexpected and interesting . 
`` There was the retreat of learning in the days of darkness , Mr Lovel , '' said Oldbuck , around whom the company had now grouped themselves while they admired the unexpected opening of a prospect so romantic ; `` there reposed the sages who were aweary of the world , and devoted either to that which was to come , or to the service of the generations who should follow them in this . 
The Antiquary , somewhat in the situation of a woodcock caught in his own springe , turned short round and coughed , to excuse a slight blush as he mustered his answer -- `` As to the Apostle of Scottish Reformation '' -- But Miss Wardour broke in to interrupt a conversation so dangerous . 
`` Pray , who was the author you quoted , Mr Oldbuck ? '' 
So saying , Mr Oldbuck led the way down the bank , by a steep but secure path , which soon placed them on the verdant meadow where the ruins stood . 
`` True , my fair foe , '' said Oldbuck ; `` this was a paradise where no Eve was admitted , and we may wonder the rather by what chance the good fathers came to lose it . '' 
With such criticisms on the occupations of those by whom the ruins had been formerly possessed , they wandered for some time from one moss-grown shrine to another , under the guidance of Oldbuck , who explained , with much plausibility , the ground-plan of the edifice , and read and expounded to the company the various mouldering inscriptions which yet were to be traced upon the tombs of the dead , or under the vacant niches of the sainted images . 
''' The question was somewhat puzzling -- Sir Arthur looked upward , as if hoping to be inspired with an answer -- Oldbuck shoved back his wig -- the clergyman was of opinion that his parishioners were too deeply impressed with the true presbyterian doctrine to preserve any records concerning the papistical cumberers of the land , offshoots as they were of the great overshadowing tree of iniquity , whose roots are in the bowels of the seven hills of abomination -- Lovel thought the question was best resolved by considering what are the events which leave the deepest impression on the minds of the common people -- `` These , '' he contended , `` were not such as resemble the gradual progress of a fertilizing river , but the headlong and precipitous fury of some portentous flood . 
When such are the facts most alive in the memory of the common people , we can not wonder , '' he concluded , `` that the ferocious warrior is remembered , and the peaceful abbots are abandoned to forgetfulness and oblivion . '' 
exclaimed Oldbuck . 
tell us about that , '' said Oldbuck , `` for these are secrets worth knowing . '' 
goot Mr Oldenbuck , '' replied the adept , shaking his head mysteriously , `` you was very hard to believe ; but if you had seen de great huge pieces of de plate so massive , Sir Arthur -- so fine fashion , Miss Wardour -- and de silver cross dat we did find -LRB- dat was Schroepfer and my ownself -RRB- for de Herr Freygraff , as you call de Baron Von Blunderhaus , I do believe you would have believed then . '' 
`` I am glad of that , '' said Oldbuck ; `` I have a friend -LRB- with a side-glance to Lovel -RRB- who is peculiarly favoured by the visits of Queen Mab . '' 
`` They would cast away their coals then , '' said Oldbuck ; `` but , '' continued he , in a whisper to Lovel , `` were they to pillory him for one of the most impudent rascals that ever wagged a tongue , they would square the punishment more accurately with his deserts . 
-- -LRB- `` I would choose a cat and nine tails for your occasions , '' whispered Oldbuck apart , -RRB- -- `` and you put it in the hands of a philosopher -- paf ! 
The feast was spread fronde super viridi , as Oldbuck expressed himself , under a huge old tree , called the Prior 's Oak , and the company sitting down around it did ample honour to the contents of the basket . 
`` My friend Mr Oldbuck will now be prepared , Mr Dousterswivel , to listen with more respect to the stories you have told us of the late discoveries in Germany by the brethren of your association . '' 
`` To say the truth , Mr Dousterswivel , '' answered Miss Wardour , `` the romantic predominated in the legend so much above the probable , that it was impossible for a lover of fairy-land like me to avoid lending a few touches to make it perfect in its kind -- But here it is , and if you do not incline to leave this shade till the heat of the day has somewhat declined , and will have sympathy with my bad composition , perhaps Sir Arthur or Mr Oldbuck will read it to us . '' 
`` Nor I , '' said Oldbuck , `` for I have forgot my spectacles -- but here is Lovel , with sharp eyes , and a good voice ; for Mr Blattergowl , I know , never reads any thing , lest he should be suspected of reading his sermons . '' 
The task was therefore imposed upon Lovel , who received , with some trepidation , as Miss Wardour delivered with a little embarrassment , a paper containing the lines traced by that fair hand , the possession of which he coveted as the highest blessing the earth could offer to him . 
But there was a necessity of suppressing his emotions ; and , after glancing over the manuscript , as if to become acquainted with the character , he collected himself , and read the company the following tale . 
Oldbuck alone curled up his nose , and observed , that Miss Wardour 's skill was something like that of the alchemists , for she had contrived to extract a sound and valuable moral out of a very trumpery and ridiculous legend . 
`` And to a new one also , my trusty Trojan , '' said Oldbuck , `` Mr Lovel , this is my nephew , Captain M'Intyre -- Hector , I recommend Mr Lovel to your acquaintance . '' 
The young soldier fixed his keen eye upon Lovel , and paid his compliment with more reserve than cordiality ; and as our acquaintance thought his coldness almost supercilious , he was equally frigid and haughty in making the necessary return to it ; and thus a prejudice seemed to arise between them at the very commencement of their acquaintance . 
The heart-burning which these reflections occasioned proved very indifferent seasoning to the dry antiquarian discussions with which Oldbuck , who continued to demand his particular attention , was unremittingly persecuting him ; and he underwent , with fits of impatience that amounted almost to loathing , a course of lectures upon monastic architecture , in all its styles , from the massive Saxon to the florid Gothic , and from that to the mixed and composite architecture of James the First 's time , when , according to Oldbuck , all orders were confounded , and columns of various descriptions arose side by side , or were piled above each other , as if symmetry had been forgotten , and the elemental principles of art resolved into their primitive confusion . 
`` What can be more cutting to the heart than the sight of evils , '' said Oldbuck , in rapturous enthusiasm , `` which we are compelled to behold , while we do not possess the power of remedying them ? '' 
By such attacks as these , Oldbuck , unconscious of the torture he was giving , compelled Lovel to give him a share of his attention , -- as a skilful angler , by means of his line , maintains an influence over the most frantic movements of his agonized prey . 
Miss Wardour , and her self-elected knight-companion , rather preceded the others in the narrow path , when the young lady apparently became desirous to unite herself with the rest of the party , and , to break off her tête-à-tête with the young officer , fairly made a pause until Mr Oldbuck came up . 
`` I wished to ask you a question , Mr Oldbuck , concerning the date of these interesting ruins . '' 
He raked up the names of all the priors who had ruled the institution , of the nobles who had bestowed lands upon it , and of the monarchs who had slept their last sleep among its roofless courts . 
As a train which takes fire is sure to light another , if there be such in the vicinity , the Baronet , catching at the name of one of his ancestors which occurred in Oldbuck 's disquisition , entered upon an account of his wars , his conquests , and his trophies ; and worthy Dr Blattergowl was induced , from the mention of a grant of lands , cum decimis inclusis tam vicariis quam garbalibus , et nunquam antea separatis , to enter into a long explanation concerning the interpretation given by the Teind Court in the consideration of such a clause , which had occurred in a process for localling his last augmentation of stipend . 
The orators , like three racers , each pressed forward to the goal , without much regarding how each crossed and jostled his competitors . 
Mr Oldbuck harangued , the Baronet declaimed , Mr Blattergowl prosed and laid down the law , while the Latin forms of feudal grants were mingled with the jargon of blazonry , and the yet more barbarous phraseology of the Teind Court of Scotland . 
`` He was , '' exclaimed Oldbuck , speaking of the Prior Adhemar , `` indeed an exemplary prelate ; and , from his strictness of morals , rigid execution of penance , joined to the charitable disposition of his mind , and the infirmities endured by his great age and ascetic habits '' -- Here he chanced to cough , and Sir Arthur burst in , or rather continued -- `` was called popularly Hell-in-Harness ; he carried a shield , gules with a sable fess , which we have since disused , and was slain at the battle of Vernoil , in France , after killing six of the English with his own '' -- `` Decreet of certification , '' proceeded the clergyman , in that prolonged , steady , prosing tone , which , however overpowered at first by the vehemence of competition , promised , in the long run , to obtain the ascendency in this strife of narrators ; `` Decreet of certification having gone out , and parties being held as confessed , the proof seemed to be held as concluded , when their lawyer moved to have it opened up , on the allegation that they had witnesses to bring forward , that they had been in the habit of carrying the ewes to lamb on the teind-free land ; which was a mere evasion , for '' -- But here the Baronet and Mr Oldbuck having recovered their wind , and continued their respective harangues , the three strands of the conversation , to speak the language of a rope-work , were again twined together into one undistinguishable string of confusion . 
`` There is something strange in this , '' said Oldbuck to himself , `` but I will not readily give up my phoenix of post-chaise companions -- all his actions , language , and bearing , are those of a gentleman . '' 
`` Come , come , '' exclaimed Oldbuck , `` what is the meaning of all this ? 
Lovel had next to part with Oldbuck , who , during this interval , had , with Caxon 's assistance , been arranging his disordered periwig , and brushing his coat , which exhibited some marks of the rude path they had traversed . 
said Oldbuck , `` you are not going to leave us on account of that foolish Hector 's indiscreet curiosity and vehemence ? 
`` I shall certainly , '' said Lovel , `` visit Mr Oldbuck when it suits me , without paying the least respect to his nephew 's threats or irritable feelings . 
`` What if you should inform Mr Oldbuck ? '' 
About a week after the adventures commemorated in our last chapter , Mr Oldbuck , descending to his breakfast-parlour , found that his womankind were not upon duty , his toast not made , and the silver jug , which wont to receive his libations of mum , not duly aired for its reception . 
`` This confounded hot-brained boy , '' he said to himself , `` now that he begins to get out of danger , I can tolerate this life no longer -- All goes to sixes and sevens -- an universal saturnalia seems to be proclaimed in my peaceful and orderly family . 
-- Here he again began to hollow aloud , `` Jenny , where 's Miss Oldbuck ? '' 
Here Miss Oldbuck entered the parlour , at the door of which Oldbuck was carrying on this conversation , he bellowing downward to Jenny , and she again screaming upward in reply . 
In fact , Mr Oldbuck had suffered in mind extremely while his nephew was in actual danger , and now felt himself at liberty , upon his returning health , to indulge in complaints respecting the trouble he had been put to , and the interruption of his antiquarian labours . 
Listened to , therefore , in respectful silence , by his niece and sister , he unloaded his discontent in such grumblings as we have rehearsed , venting many a sarcasm against womankind , soldiers , dogs , and guns , all which implements of noise , discord , and tumult , as he called them , he professed to hold in utter abomination . 
This expectoration of spleen was suddenly interrupted by the noise of a carriage without , when , shaking off all sullenness at the sound , Oldbuck ran nimbly up stairs and down stairs , for both operations were necessary , ere he could receive Miss Wardour and her father at the door of his mansion . 
For of all confidents to be selected as the depositary of love affairs , -- and such she naturally supposed must have been the subject of communication , next to Edie Ochiltree , -- Oldbuck seemed the most uncouth and extraordinary ; nor could she sufficiently admire or fret at the extraordinary combination of circumstances which thus threw a secret of such a delicate nature into the possession of persons so unfitted to be intrusted with it . 
She had next to fear the mode of Oldbuck 's entering upon the affair with her father , for such she doubted not , was his intention . 
It was therefore with great anxiety that she heard her father request a private interview , and observed Oldbuck readily arise , and show the way to his library . 
`` Mr Oldbuck , '' said Sir Arthur , when they had , after a due exchange of ceremonies , fairly seated themselves in the sanctum sanctorum of the Antiquary , -- `` you , who know so much of my family matters , may probably be surprised at the question I am about to put to you . '' 
`` Why , Sir Arthur , if it relates to money , I am very sorry , but '' -- `` It does relate to money matters , Mr Oldbuck . '' 
`` Really then , Sir Arthur , '' continued the Antiquary , `` in the present state of the money-market -- and stocks being so low '' -- `` You mistake my meaning , Mr Oldbuck , '' said the Baronet ; `` I wished to ask your advice about laying out a large sum of money to advantage . '' 
Mr Oldbuck , who had already been grasping in idea the sum , principal and interest , of a debt which he had long regarded as wellnigh desperate , was so much astounded at the tables being so unexpectedly turned upon him , that he could only re-echo , in an accent of woe and surprise , the words , `` Advance one hundred pounds ! '' 
There was a pause -- either Oldbuck 's nether-jaw had not recovered its position , so as to enable him to utter a negative , or his curiosity kept him silent . 
And , I assure you , Mr Oldbuck , that in entering fully upon this topic , it is my purpose to show my confidence in you , and my sense of your kindness on many former occasions . '' 
Mr Oldbuck professed his sense of obligation , but carefully avoided committing himself by any promise of farther assistance . 
`` Mr Dousterswivel , '' said Sir Arthur , `` having discovered '' -- Here Oldbuck broke in , his eyes sparkling with indignation . 
`` Well , '' replied Oldbuck , `` but you must tell me the when -- the where -- the how . '' 
said Oldbuck , `` and what means of discovery did you employ ? '' 
`` Well , Mr Oldbuck , I am obliged to you for your indifferent opinion of my discernment ; but I think you will give me credit for having seen what I say I saw . '' 
`` Well then , '' replied the Baronet , `` as there is a heaven above us , Mr Oldbuck , I saw , with my own eyes , these coins dug out of the chancel of St Ruth at midnight -- And as to Dousterswivel , although the discovery be owing to his science , yet , to tell the truth , I do not think he would have had firmness of mind to have gone through with it if I had not been beside him . '' 
said Oldbuck , in the tone used when one wishes to hear the end of a story before making any comment . 
said Oldbuck ; `` an accomplice hid among them , I suppose ? '' 
`` Not a jot , '' said the Baronet ; `` the sounds , though of a hideous and preternatural character , rather resembled those of a man who sneezes violently than any other -- one deep groan I certainly heard besides -- and Dousterswivel assures me , that he beheld the spirit Peolphan , the Great Hunter of the North , -LRB- look for him in your Nicolaus Remigius , or Petrus Thyracus , Mr Oldbuck , -RRB- who mimicked the motion of snuff-taking and its effects . '' 
`` Ay , ay , '' rejoined Oldbuck , `` you mean , I suppose , Mair and Boece , the Jachin and Boaz , not of history , but of falsification and forgery . 
`` Why , then , Mr Oldbuck , '' said Sir Arthur , `` not to awaken old disputes , I suppose you think , that because I believe in the ancient history of my country , I have neither eyes nor ears to ascertain what modern events pass before me ? '' 
`` Certainly , Mr Oldbuck ; I think my confidence in you on these occasions leaves no room to doubt that . '' 
It had been by no means a part of the project of Dousterswivel to let Mr Oldbuck into his supposed mystery . 
He had relied upon Sir Arthur 's obtaining the necessary accommodation without any discussion as to the nature of the application , and only waited below for the purpose of possessing himself of the deposit as soon as possible , for he foresaw that his career was drawing to a close . 
But when summoned to the presence of Sir Arthur and Mr Oldbuck , he resolved gallantly to put confidence in his powers of impudence , of which , the reader may have observed , his natural share was very liberal . 
`` More ponderous than any of the metal we shall make by it , I fear , '' answered Oldbuck . 
Sir Arthur Wardour cast an intimidated glance at Oldbuck , who , especially when present , held , notwithstanding their frequent difference of opinion , no ordinary influence over his sentiments . 
`` Being a horn , '' said Oldbuck , `` does indeed strengthen your argument . 
And this present horn , '' he continued , rubbing it upon his sleeve , `` is a curious and venerable relic , and no doubt was intended to prove a cornucopia , or horn of plenty , to some one or other ; but whether to the adept or his patron may be justly doubted . '' 
Oldbuck 's obstinate disbelief led him strongly to suspect the imposture of Dousterswivel , and the adept 's mode of keeping his ground was less resolute than he had expected . 
Yet he did not entirely give him up . 
`` Mr Oldbuck , '' said the Baronet , `` you do Mr Dousterswivel less than justice . 
`` We will put that to a fair trial , '' said the Antiquary ; and the Baronet 's equipage being ordered , Miss Wardour received an intimation from her father , that she was to remain at Monkbarns until his return from an airing . 
Dousterswivel maintained a sulky silence , brooding at once over disappointed expectation and the risk of punishment ; Sir Arthur , whose golden dreams had been gradually fading away , surveyed , in gloomy prospect , the impending difficulties of his situation ; and Oldbuck , who perceived that his having so far interfered in his neighbour 's affairs gave the Baronet a right to expect some actual and efficient assistance , sadly pondered to what extent it would be necessary to draw open the strings of his purse . 
Thus each being wrapped in his own unpleasant ruminations , there was hardly a word said on either side , until they reached the Four Horse-shoes , by which sign the little inn was distinguished . 
said Oldbuck , -- `` so you exchanged it with a miner ? 
-- and , opening it , he showed the coins . 
`` You may now guess , '' said Oldbuck , turning to Sir Arthur , `` to whose good offices you were indebted the other night . 
`` And I have nothing to say against it , '' said Oldbuck ; `` it was not unusual to hide treasure in the tombs of the deceased -- many instances might be quoted of that from Bartholinus and others . '' 
''' Oldbuck , with his spectacles on his nose , had already knelt down on the monument , and was tracing , partly with his eye , partly with his finger , the mouldered devices upon the effigy of the deceased warrior . 
Oldbuck , almost unable to credit his eyes , lifted one piece of silver after another . 
Sir Arthur now promised the assistants a handsome recompense for their trouble , and began to busy himself about the mode of conveying this rich windfall to the Castle of Knockwinnock , when the adept , recovering from his surprise , which had equalled that exhibited by any other individual of the party , twitched his sleeve , and having offered his humble congratulations , turned next to Oldbuck with an air of triumph . 
my dear friend , '' said Oldbuck , `` you are too wise to believe in the influence of a trumpery crown-piece , beat out thin , and a parcel of scratches upon it . 
`` In troth , please your honour , '' said Edie , who put in his word on all occasions , `` I think , since Mr Dunkerswivel has had sae muckle merit in discovering a ' the gear , the least ye can do is to gie him that o ' t that 's left behind for his labour , for doubtless he that kend where to find sae muckle will hae nae difficulty to find mair . '' 
His suspicions hesitated between Oldbuck and Sir Arthur Wardour . 
The language of Oldbuck also intimated a conviction of his knavery , which Sir Arthur heard without making any animated defence . 
`` Caxon , '' answered Oldbuck , `` thou art a mere periwig-maker -- Had I asked Ochiltree the question , he would have had a legend ready made to my hand . '' 
`` My business , '' replied Caxon , with more animation than he commonly displayed , `` is with the outside of your honour 's head , as ye are accustomed to say . '' 
He then took out his memorandum-book and wrote down , `` Kelso convoy -- said to be a step and a half ower the threshold . 
Having made this entry , he resumed -- `` And truly , as to this custom of the landlord attending the body of the peasant , I approve it , Caxon . 
`` And besides , '' added Caxon , slily , encouraged by his patron 's approbation , `` they say too that the Catholic priests in thae times gat something for ganging about to burials . '' 
`` Now , Monkbarns , '' said his sister , on his entering the parlour , `` ye maunna be angry . '' 
said Oldbuck , in alarm of some impending bad news , and arguing upon the supplicating tone of the ladies , as a fortress apprehends an attack from the very first flourish of the trumpet which announces the summons ; -- `` What 's all this ? 
interjected Oldbuck . 
said Oldbuck , `` shaped such as that your dog threw down ? '' 
The Antiquary broke forth into unrepressed ecstasy , shook his nephew cordially by the hand , thanked him an hundred times , and showed the ring to his sister and niece , the latter of whom had the tact to give it sufficient admiration ; but Miss Griselda -LRB- though she had the same affection for her nephew -RRB- had not address enough to follow the lead . 
exclaimed Oldbuck ; `` it is the very spirit of the borough has infected us all ; I think I have smelled the smoke these two days , that the wind has stuck , like a remora , in the north-east -- and its prejudices fly farther than its vapours . 
The most remarkable proof of this peace-offering being quite acceptable , was that while the Antiquary was in full declamation , Juno , who held him in awe , according to the remarkable instinct by which dogs instantly discover those who like or dislike them , had peeped several times into the room , and encountering nothing very forbidding in his aspect , had at length presumed to introduce her full person , and finally , becoming bold by impunity , she actually ate up Mr Oldbuck 's toast , as , looking first at one , then at another of his audience , he repeated with self-complacency , ` Weave the warp and weave the woof , ' -- `` You remember the passage in the Fatal Sisters , which , by the way , is not so fine as in the original -- But , hey-day ! 
-- -LRB- So saying , he shook his fist at Juno , who scoured out of the parlour . -RRB- 
This error being acknowledged and pardoned , Oldbuck resumed his disquisition . 
said the Antiquary , his brow darkening with wrath . 
`` But do you recollect , now , '' said Oldbuck , setting his teeth firmly together , and speaking without opening them , which was his custom when contradicted -- `` Do you recollect , now , any of these verses you thought so beautiful and interesting -- being a capital judge , no doubt , of such things ? '' 
Hector 's brow now grew red in his turn . 
`` Sir , '' he said , `` I do n't understand the meaning of Mancipia and Serfs , but I conceive such names are very improperly applied to Scotch Highlanders . 
My ancestors , Mr Oldbuck '' -- `` Were great and gallant chiefs , I dare say , Hector ; and really I did not mean to give you such immense offence in treating a point of remote antiquity , a subject on which I always am myself cool , deliberate , and unimpassioned . 
Very hard this , thought M'Intyre , that he will speak with such glee of every thing which is ancient , excepting my family . 
-- Then , after some efforts at recollection , he added aloud , `` Yes , sir , -- I think I do remember some lines ; but you do not understand the Gaelic language . '' 
`` I shall prove a wretched interpreter , '' said M'Intyre , running over the original , well garnished with aghes , aughs , and oughs , and similar gutturals , and then coughing and hawking as if the translation stuck in his throat . 
`` Like M'Alpin 's drone and small pipes , I suppose , '' said Oldbuck . 
exclaimed Oldbuck . 
Not Sancho , when his master interrupted his account of the combatants of Pentapolin with the naked arm , to advance in person to the charge of the flock of sheep , stood more confounded than Oldbuck at this sudden escapade of his nephew . 
When Oldbuck entered this house of mourning , he was received by a general and silent inclination of the head , and according to the fashion of Scotland on such occasions , wine and spirits and bread were offered round to the guests . 
Oldbuck had repeated recourse to his snuff-box to conceal the tears which , despite his shrewd and caustic temper , were apt to start on such occasions . 
As the general amazement subsided , Mr Oldbuck , whose heart bled to witness what he considered as the errings of the enfeebled intellect struggling with the torpid chill of age and of sorrow , observed to the clergyman that it was time to proceed with the ceremony . 
With better intention than judgment , the friends , who considered this as an act of duty on the part of the living , and of decency towards the deceased , would have proceeded to enforce their request , had not Oldbuck interfered between the distressed father and his well-meaning tormentors , and informed them , that he himself , as landlord and master to the deceased , `` would carry his head to the grave . '' 
And such is the temper of the Scottish common people , that , by this instance of compliance with their customs , and respect for their persons , Mr Oldbuck gained more popularity than by all the sums which he had yearly distributed in the parish for purposes of private or general charity . 
Monkbarns would probably have remonstrated against this superfluous expense , had he been consulted ; but , in doing so , he would have given more offence than he gained popularity by condescending to perform the office of chief mourner . 
Of this he was quite aware , and wisely withheld rebuke , where rebuke and advice would have been equally unavailing . 
The procession to the churchyard , at about half-a-mile 's distance , was made with the mournful solemnity usual on these occasions , -- the body was consigned to its parent earth , -- and when the labour of the gravediggers had filled up the trench , and covered it with fresh sod , Mr Oldbuck , taking his hat off , saluted the assistants , who had stood by in melancholy silence , and with that adieu dispersed the mourners . 
The clergyman offered our Antiquary his company to walk homeward ; but Mr Oldbuck had been so much struck with the deportment of the fisherman and his mother , that , moved by compassion , and perhaps also , in some degree , by that curiosity which induces us to seek out even what gives us pain to witness , he preferred a solitary walk by the coast , for the purpose of again visiting the cottage as he passed . 
Without taking more notice of Oldbuck he proceeded in his labour ; and the Antiquary , to whom the display of human nature under the influence of agitating passions was never indifferent , stood beside him , in silent attention , as if watching the progress of the work . 
Thus speaking , he went to gather together his instruments and attempt to resume his labour , but Oldbuck took him kindly by the arm . 
`` Come , come , '' he said , `` Saunders , there is no work for you this day -- I 'll send down Shavings the carpenter to mend the boat , and he may put the day 's work into my account -- and you had better not come out to-morrow , but stay to comfort your family under this dispensation , and the gardener will bring you some vegetables and meal from Monkbarns . '' 
Oldbuck , beaten from the pride of his affected cynicism , would not willingly have had any one by upon that occasion to quote to him his favourite maxims of the Stoic philosophy . 
The large drops fell fast from his own eyes , as he begged the father , who was now melted at recollecting the bravery and generous sentiments of his son , to forbear useless sorrow , and led him by the arm towards his own home , where another scene awaited our Antiquary . 
As he entered , the first person whom he beheld was Lord Glenallan . 
Mutual surprise was in their countenances as they saluted each other , with haughty reserve on the part of Mr Oldbuck , and embarrassment on that of the Earl . 
said Mr Oldbuck . 
`` Yes -- much changed from what he was when he knew Mr Oldbuck . '' 
Frequently did she blame me , Mr Oldbuck , for indulging my levity at your expense -- may I now presume you will excuse the gay freedoms which then offended you ? 
`` My lord , you are fully pardoned , '' said Mr Oldbuck . 
`` Mr Oldbuck , you judge harshly . '' 
`` You are deceived , Mr Oldbuck , into conclusions which are not just , however naturally they flow from the circumstances . 
For myself , Mr Oldbuck , '' pursued this unhappy man , `` from that moment I considered myself as blotted out of the book of the living , and as having nothing left to do with this world . 
But , Mr Oldbuck , if ever , during these twenty years , there crawled upon earth a living being deserving of your pity , I have been that man . 
`` Mr Oldbuck , '' answered the Earl , `` as I could never have foreseen the nature of that confession which I have heard this day , I need not say , that I had no formed plan of consulting you or any one upon affairs , the tendency of which I could not even have suspected . 
You are that support , Mr Oldbuck . 
`` You shall seek none of them in vain , my lord , '' said Oldbuck , `` so far as my slender ability extends ; and I am honoured by the preference , whether it arises from choice or is prompted by chance . 
`` Then , my lord , '' said Oldbuck , `` our first business must be to put the information of the old woman , Elspeth , into a regular and authenticated form . '' 
`` Then , my lord , '' said the Antiquary , whom the interest of the moment elevated above points of expense and convenience , which had generally more than enough of weight with him , `` I would propose to your lordship , instead of returning , fatigued as you are , so far as to Glenallan-house , or taking the more uncomfortable alternative of going to a bad inn at Fairport , to alarm all the busy bodies of the town -- I would propose , I say , that you should be my guest at Monkbarns for this night -- By to-morrow these poor people will have renewed their out-of-doors vocation , for sorrow with them affords no respite from labour , and we will visit the old woman , Elspeth , alone , and take down her examination . '' 
After a formal apology for the encroachment , Lord Glenallan agreed to go with him , and underwent with patience in their return home the whole history of John of the Girnell , a legend which Mr Oldbuck was never known to spare any one who crossed his threshold . 
To these , the inmates of his household , Oldbuck presented the Earl of Glenallan , who underwent , with meek and subdued civility , the prosing speeches of the honest divine , and the lengthened apologies of Miss Griselda Oldbuck , which her brother in vain endeavoured to abridge . 
Mr Oldbuck accompanied his guest to the Green Room , which had been hastily prepared for his reception . 
He looked around with an air of painful recollection . 
`` I think , '' at length he observed , `` I think , Mr Oldbuck , that I have been in this apartment before . '' 
`` Yes , my lord , '' answered Oldbuck , `` upon occasion of an excursion hither from Knockwinnock -- and since we are upon a subject so melancholy , you may perhaps remember whose taste supplied these lines from Chaucer , which now form the motto of the tapestry . '' 
`` I guess , '' said the Earl , `` though I can not recollect -- She excelled me , indeed , in literary taste and information , as in every thing else , and it is one of the mysterious dispensations of Providence , Mr Oldbuck , that a creature so excellent in mind and body should have been cut off in so miserable a manner , merely from her having formed a fatal attachment to such a wretch as I am . '' 
Mr Oldbuck did not attempt an answer to this burst of the grief which lay ever nearest to the heart of his guest , but , pressing Lord Glenallan 's hand with one of his own , and drawing the other across his shaggy eyelashes , as if to brush away a mist that intercepted his sight , he left the Earl at liberty to arrange himself previous to dinner . 
The bluntness of Oldbuck the tiresome apologetic harangues of his sister , the pedantry of the divine , and the vivacity of the young soldier , which savoured much more of the camp than of the court , were all new to a nobleman who had lived in a retired and melancholy state for so many years , that the manners of the world seemed to him equally strange and unpleasing . 
Oldbuck then took up the subject of Ossian , Macpherson , and Mac-Cribb ; but Lord Glenallan had never so much as heard of any of the three , so little conversant had he been with modern literature . 
Oldbuck was far from carrying his detestation of its principles to such a length . 
`` There were many men in the first Constituent Assembly , '' he said , `` who held sound Whiggish doctrines , and were for settling the Constitution with a proper provision for the liberties of the people . 
And if a set of furious madmen were now in possession of the government , it was , '' he continued , `` what often happened in great revolutions , where extreme measures are adopted in the fury of the moment , and the state resembles an agitated pendulum which swings from side to side for some time ere it can acquire its due and perpendicular station . 
`` What would I give , '' said he apart to Oldbuck , as they rose to join the ladies in the drawing-room , `` what would I give to have a son of such spirit as that young gentleman ! 
`` But you forget one horrible circumstance , Mr Oldbuck , '' said the Earl , in an agitated voice . 
`` If you would have my free opinion , my lord , '' answered Mr Oldbuck , `` and will not catch too rapidly at it as matter of hope , I would say , that it is very possible the child yet lives . 
As he spoke , the Earl of Glenallan grew extremely pale , and had nearly fallen from his chair . 
The new and unexpected light which Mr Oldbuck had thrown upon the melancholy history of his family had almost overpowered him . 
`` You think , then , Mr Oldbuck , -- for you are capable of thinking , which I am not , -- you think , then , that it is possible -- that is , not impossible -- my child may yet live ? '' 
So saying , Mr Oldbuck opened a drawer of the cabinet of his ancestor , Aldobrand , and produced a bundle of papers tied with a black ribband , and labelled , Examinations , & c. taken by Jonathan Oldbuck , J. P. upon the 18th of February , 17 -- ; a little under was written , in a small hand , Eheu Evelina ! 
`` Your lordship , '' said Mr Oldbuck , `` had better not read these at present . 
`` It shall be done , '' replied Lord Glenallan , catching eagerly at the hope held out to him , the first he had nourished for many years ; `` I will write to a faithful steward of my father , who acted in the same capacity under my brother Neville -- but , Mr Oldbuck , I am not my brother 's heir . '' 
`` He had not , Mr Oldbuck , '' replied Lord Glenallan ; `` but my brother adopted views in politics , and a form of religion , alien from those which had been always held by our house . 
Our tempers had long differed , nor did my unhappy mother always think him sufficiently observant to her . 
`` It is most likely ; and the man being a Protestant -- how far it is safe to intrust him '' -- `` I should hope , my lord , '' said Oldbuck , gravely , `` that a Protestant may be as trustworthy as a Catholic . 
`` I have not the least doubt of what you say , Mr Oldbuck , '' replied the Earl , `` nor do I speak out of bigotry or intolerance ; but probably the Protestant steward will favour the Protestant heir rather than the Catholic -- if , indeed , my son has been bred in his father 's faith -- or , alas ! 
`` We must look close into this , '' said Oldbuck , `` before committing ourselves . 
`` That 's one lucky consequence of the French Revolution , my lord -- you must allow that , at least , '' said Oldbuck ; `` but no offence , I will act as warmly in your affairs as if I were of your own faith in politics and religion . 
`` My no-supper is literal , Mr Oldbuck ; but I will attend you at your meal with pleasure . '' 
-- Or , it might be Whackens-burgh , from the Saxon Whacken , to strike with the hand , as doubtless the skirmishes near a place of such apparent consequence must have legitimated such a derivation , '' & c. & c. & c. I will be more merciful to my readers than Oldbuck was to his guest ; for , considering his opportunities of gaining patient attention from a person of such consequence as Lord Glenallan were not many , he used , or rather abused , the present to the uttermost . 
ejaculated Oldbuck , `` these great men use one 's house and time as if they were their own property . 
`` Not I , Caxon , '' said Oldbuck -- `` fire away as if you were Captain Coquet 's whole platoon , -- I can stand it . '' 
Before breakfast , Lord Glenallan , who appeared in better spirits than he had evinced in the former evening , went particularly through the various circumstances of evidence which the exertions of Oldbuck had formerly collected ; and pointing out the means which he possessed of completing the proof of his marriage , expressed his resolution instantly to go through the painful task of collecting and restoring the evidence concerning the birth of Eveline Neville , which Elspeth had stated to be in his mother 's possession . 
`` And yet , Mr Oldbuck , '' he said , `` I feel like a man who receives important tidings ere he is yet fully awake , and doubt whether they refer to actual life , or are not rather a continuation of his dream . 
Mr Oldbuck paused a moment , and then answered with firmness -- `` No , my lord , I can not think you have any reason to suspect the truth of what she has told you last , from no apparent impulse but the urgency of conscience . 
`` I can not express to you , '' he said , `` Mr Oldbuck , how much your countenance and co-operation in this dark and most melancholy business gives me relief and confidence . 
`` Your lordship 's carriage , I believe , '' said Oldbuck , stepping to the window . 
Captain M'Intyre 's eyes sparkled , and he was profuse in grateful acknowledgments ; while Oldbuck , on the other hand , seizing the Earl 's sleeve , endeavoured to intercept a present which boded no good to his corn-chest and hay-lost . 
`` You must command us all at present , Mr Oldbuck , '' said the Earl politely , `` but I trust you will not ultimately prevent my gratifying my young friend in some way that may afford him pleasure ? '' 
`` Any thing useful , my lord , '' said Oldbuck , `` but no curriculum -- I protest he might as rationally propose to keep a quadriga at once -- And now I think of it , what is that old post-chaise from Fairport come jingling here for ? 
Having received a brief account of the mendicant , and of the accusation brought against him , which Oldbuck did not hesitate to ascribe to the malice of Dousterswivel , Lord Glenallan asked , whether the individual in question had not been a soldier formerly ? 
`` All this is an exact picture of the man , '' returned Oldbuck . 
`` I fear , my lord , '' said Oldbuck , `` he would have difficulty in reconciling his vagrant habits to the acceptance of your bounty , at least I know the experiment has been tried without effect . 
Mr Oldbuck was sensible of the Earl 's attention to his nephew ; Miss M'Intyre was pleased because her brother was gratified ; and Miss Griselda Oldbuck looked forward with glee to the potting of whole bags of moor-fowl and black game , of which Mr Blattergowl was a professed admirer . 
But the panegyric was cut short , for Oldbuck and his nephew deposited themselves in the Fairport hack , which , with one horse trotting , and the other urged to a canter , creaked , jingled , and hobbled towards that celebrated seaport , in a manner that formed a strong contrast to the rapidity and smoothness with which Lord Glenallan 's equipage had seemed to vanish from their eyes . 
-- `` Good morning to you , gentlemen , '' said the magistrate ; `` you find me toiling in my usual vocation -- looking after the iniquities of the people -- labouring for the respublica , Mr Oldbuck -- serving the King our master , Captain M'Intyre , -- for I suppose you know I have taken up the sword ? '' 
`` I rejoice we have such zealous defenders , Bailie , '' replied Mr Oldbuck ; `` and I dare say Hector will gratify you by communicating his opinion on your progress in this new calling . 
`` And , '' replied Oldbuck , `` you are tenacious of the opportunity of making the very most of such as occur . 
`` Right ; for , in beating him , '' observed Oldbuck , `` the bedesman must have shown his gratitude to the king by thumping his enemy ; and in robbing him , he would only have plundered an Egyptian , whose wealth it is lawful to spoil . 
`` Well , but , Bailie , '' continued Oldbuck , `` you have no objection to let me try him ? '' 
`` A good squire that wench for a gouty champion , '' observed Oldbuck . 
Oldbuck had approached him without being observed , and roused him out of his musing , by saying kindly , `` I am sorry , Edie , to see you so much cast down about this matter . '' 
The mendicant started , dried his eyes very hastily with the sleeve of his gown , and , endeavouring to recover his usual tone of indifference and jocularity , answered , but with a voice more tremulous than usual , `` I might weel hae judged , Monkbarns , it was you , or the like o ' you , was coming in to disturb me -- for it 's ae great advantage o ' prisons and courts o ' justice , that ye may greet your een out an ye like , and nane o ' the folk that 's concerned about them will ever ask you what it 's for . '' 
`` Well , Edie , '' replied Oldbuck , `` I hope your present cause of distress is not so bad but it may be removed . '' 
continued Oldbuck . 
`` That 's just what I want you to explain to me , '' said Oldbuck ; `` for I am positive you knew it was there . '' 
Oldbuck walked once or twice up and down the room in profound thought , endeavouring to find some plausible reason for transactions of a nature so mysterious , but his ingenuity was totally at fault . 
He then placed himself before the prisoner . 
`` I thought as much , '' said Oldbuck . 
said the beggar , shaking his head , `` I doubt the bird 's flown that laid thae golden eggs -- for I winna ca ' her goose , though that 's the gait it stands in the story-buick -- But I 'll keep my day , Monkbarns ; ye ` se no loss a penny by me -- And troth I wad fain be out again , now the weather 's fine -- and then I hae the best chance o ' hearing the first news o ' my friends . '' 
said the mendicant , as Oldbuck left the room . 
The Antiquary found the magistrate , exhausted with the fatigues of the drill , reposing in his gouty chair , humming the air , `` How merrily we live that soldiers be ! '' 
He ordered a similar refreshment for Oldbuck , who declined it , observing , that , not being a military man , he did not feel inclined to break his habit of keeping regular hours for meals -- `` Soldiers like you , Bailie , must snatch their food as they find means and time . 
`` But , '' said Oldbuck , `` I am shocked to hear you talk of him in the preterite tense . '' 
Here Hector entered , exclaiming as he came in , `` I believe it 's all a damned lie -- I ca n't find the least authority for it , but general rumour . '' 
`` And pray , Mr Hector , '' said his uncle , `` if it had been true , whose fault would it have been that Lovel was on board ? '' 
said his uncle ; `` I should not have thought of that . '' 
`` Well , well , '' said Oldbuck , `` I am glad you have the grace to be ashamed of it . 
`` We can bear witness to that , '' said the tormenting Antiquary , who was delighted with the hank this incident had given him over the young sportsman : `` One word more , Hector , and ` We 'll hang a seal-skin on thy recreant limbs . ' 
`` But , Mr Oldbuck , if the state is concerned , I , who do the whole drudgery business here , really have a title to be consulted , and until I am '' -- `` Hush ! 
`` I will , instantly , when I am master of it , '' replied Oldbuck -- `` I hate the trouble of managing such matters myself -- Remember , however , I did not say decidedly a plot against the state ; I only say , I hope to discover , by this man 's means , a foul plot . '' 
`` Well , Mr Oldbuck , every body in Fairport is always willing to oblige you -- and besides , I know that you are a prudent man , and one that would be as unwilling to lose forty , as four hundred merks . 
`` And I will vouch for Edie Ochiltree , meo periculo , in like manner , '' said Oldbuck . 
When this ceremony had been performed , the Antiquary communicated to Edie the joyful tidings that he was once more at liberty , and directed him to make the best of his way to Monkbarns-house , to which he himself returned with his nephew , after having perfected their good work . 
`` Well , sir , I 'm sure I 'm sorry to disturb you , '' said his nephew , still handling his fowling-piece ; `` but it 's a capital gun ; it 's a Joe Manton , that cost forty guineas . '' 
Miss M'Intyre , gratefully attached to her uncle , and passionately fond of her brother , was , on such occasions , the usual envoy of reconciliation . 
She hastened to meet her uncle on his return , before he entered the parlour . 
`` No , uncle ; but Juno 's master is in such fear of your joking him about the seal -- I assure you , he feels it much more than you would wish -- it 's very silly of him , to be sure ; but then you can turn every body so sharply into ridicule '' -- `` Well , my dear , '' answered Oldbuck , propitiated by the compliment , `` I will rein in my satire , and , if possible , speak no more of the phoca -- I will not even speak of sealing a letter , but say umph , and give a nod to you when I want the wax-light -- I am not monitoribus asper , but , Heaven knows , the most mild , quiet , and easy of human beings , whom sister , niece , and nephew , guide just as best pleases them . '' 
With this little panegyric on his own docility , Mr Oldbuck entered the parlour , and proposed to his nephew a walk to the Mussel-crag . 
`` I have some questions to ask of a woman at Mucklebackit 's cottage , '' he observed , `` and I would willingly have a sensible witness with me -- so , for fault of a better , Hector , I must be contented with you . '' 
answered M'Intyre , feeling somewhat alarmed at the prospect of a long tête-à-tête with his uncle . 
`` Upon my word , young man , you turn me over to pretty companions , and I am quite sensible of your politeness , '' replied Mr Oldbuck . 
The poor woman 's sense of her loss , if not diminished , was become at least mitigated by the inevitable necessity of attending to the means of supporting her family ; and her salutation to Oldbuck was made in an odd mixture , between the usual language of solicitation with which she plied her customers , and the tone of lamentation for her recent calamity . 
said Oldbuck , pausing ; `` I got into disgrace with my womankind for making a bad bargain with her before . 
And he held out the money to her ; but Maggie drew back her hand . 
`` This old woman , '' said Oldbuck , `` sent you on a message to the Earl of Glenallan , did she not ? '' 
`` Not at all , not at all , '' said Oldbuck , resuming the subject of his disquisition -- `` The human mind is to be treated like a skein of ravelled silk , where you must cautiously secure one free end before you can make any progress in disentangling it . '' 
As the Antiquary lifted the latch of the hut , he was surprised to hear the shrill tremulous voice of Elspeth chanting forth an old ballad in a wild and doleful recitative . 
`` It 's a historical ballad , '' said Oldbuck eagerly , `` a genuine and undoubted fragment of minstrelsy ! 
-- And as he spoke , she sung : `` They saddled a hundred milk-white steeds , They hae bridled a hundred black , With a chafron of steel on each horse 's head , And a good knight upon his back . '' 
exclaimed the Antiquary , -- `` equivalent , perhaps , to cheveron -- the word 's worth a dollar , '' -- and down it went in his red book . 
said Oldbuck ; `` you observe your Gaelic ancestors were not held in high repute formerly by the Lowland warriors . '' 
`` I wish , '' said Oldbuck , `` she would resume that canticle , or legendary fragment -- I always suspected there was a skirmish of cavalry before the main battle of the Harlaw . '' 
`` I hae heard , '' said the mendicant , taking his cue from what Oldbuck had told him of the family history , -- `` I hae heard , cummer , that some ill tongue suld hae come between the Earl , that 's Lord Geraldin , and his young bride . '' 
`` No , wretched beldam , '' exclaimed Oldbuck , who could keep silence no longer , `` they drank the poison that you and your wicked mistress prepared for them . '' 
`` Impossible , '' said Oldbuck , hastily advancing , as did his nephew . 
said Edie , as he looked on the lifeless body ; `` but , oh ! 
`` We must call in the neighbours , '' said Oldbuck , when he had somewhat recovered his horror and astonishment , `` and give warning of this additional calamity -- I wish she could have been brought to a confession . 
Oldbuck promised his assistance for the funeral . 
`` You shall have some whisky , '' answered Oldbuck , `` the rather that you have preserved the proper word for that ancient custom of watching the dead . 
While Oldbuck was giving some farther directions , and promising assistance , a servant of Sir Arthur 's came riding very hard along the sands , and stopped his horse when he saw the Antiquary . 
`` There had something , '' he said , `` very particular happened at the Castle , '' -LRB- he could not , or would not , explain what , -RRB- `` and Miss Wardour had sent him off express to Monkbarns , to beg that Mr Oldbuck would come to them without a moment 's delay . '' 
`` I am afraid , '' said the Antiquary , `` his course also is drawing to a close -- What can I do ? '' 
exclaimed Hector , with his characteristic impatience , -- `` get on the horse , and turn his head homeward -- you will be at Knockwinnock Castle in ten minutes . '' 
`` He is quite a free goer , '' said the servant , dismounting to adjust the girths and stirrups , -- `` he only pulls a little if he feels a dead weight on him . '' 
`` I should soon be a dead weight off him , my friend , '' said the Antiquary . 
Oldbuck stood astonished at this last act of temerity . 
he cried , `` or have you forgotten what is said by Quintus Curtius , with whom , as a soldier , you must needs be familiar , Nobilis equus umbra quidem virgæ regitur ; ignavus ne calcari quidem excitari potest ; which plainly shows that spurs are useless in every case , and , I may add , dangerous in most ? '' 
`` There they go , well matched , '' said Oldbuck , looking after them as they started , -- `` a mad horse and a wild boy , the two most unruly creatures in Christendom ! 
Murmuring to himself such scraps of cynical philosophy , our Antiquary paced the sands towards Knockwinnock ; but it is necessary we should outstrip him , for the purpose of explaining the reasons of his being so anxiously summoned thither . 
The reader may conceive the amazement of Miss Wardour , when , instead of undergoing an investigation concerning the addresses of Lovel , as she had expected from the long conference of her father with Mr Oldbuck , upon the morning of the fated day when the treasure was discovered , the conversation of Sir Arthur announced an imagination heated with the hopes of possessing the most unbounded wealth . 
`` Yes ; I believe he did -- it is a fine pass we are come to , when the affection of an Oldbuck is of consequence to a Wardour ! 
He then spoke to the messenger , who , upon his arrival , had laid aside all thoughts of making a good by-job out of the deforcement , and accepted Mr Oldbuck 's assurances that the horse and taxed-cart should be safely returned in the course of two or three hours . 
And , after a whisper of five minutes , he gave him a slip of paper , on receiving which , the messenger mounted his horse , and , with one of his assistants , rode away pretty sharply . 
In the meantime , Oldbuck , taking his nephew by the arm , led him into the house , and they were ushered into the presence of Sir Arthur Wardour , who , in a flutter between wounded pride , agonized apprehension , and vain attempts to disguise both under a show of indifference , exhibited a spectacle of painful interest . 
`` Happy to see you , Mr Oldbuck -- always happy to see my friends in fair weather or foul , '' said the poor Baronet , struggling not for composure , but for gaiety , an affectation which was strongly contrasted by the nervous and protracted grasp of his hand , and the agitation of his whole demeanour ; `` I am happy to see you -- You are riding , I see -- I hope in this confusion your horses are taken good care of -- I always like to have my friends ' horses looked after -- Egad , they will have all my care now , for you see they are like to leave me none of my own -- he ! 
eh , Mr Oldbuck ? '' 
Sir Arthur was about to ring the bell , when Mr Oldbuck said , `` My nephew came on your own grey horse , Sir Arthur . '' 
Good Heaven , thought Oldbuck , how is this man altered from the formal stolidity of his usual manner ! 
-- That I should have been such a miserable dolt -- such an infatuated idiot -- such a beast , endowed with thrice a beast 's stupidity , to be led and driven and spur-galled by such a rascal , and under such ridiculous pretences -- Mr Oldbuck , I could tear myself when I think of it . '' 
-- then d -- n the household-goods , horses , and so forth -- I will go to prison a happy man , Mr Oldbuck -- I hope in Heaven there 's a reasonable chance of his being hanged ? '' 
`` Why , pretty fair , '' said Oldbuck , willing to encourage this diversion , in hopes it might mitigate the feelings which seemed like to overset the poor man 's understanding ; `` honester men have stretched a rope , or the law has been sadly cheated -- But this unhappy business of yours -- can nothing be done ? 
Miss Wardour had by this time entered the apartment , and fixing her eyes on Mr Oldbuck , as if she meant to read her fate in his looks , easily perceived , from the change in his eye and the dropping of his nether-jaw , how little was to be hoped . 
`` We are then irremediably ruined , Mr Oldbuck ? '' 
-- I am like a sheep which I have seen fall down a precipice , or drop down from sickness -- if you had not seen a single raven or hooded crow for a fortnight before , he will not lie on the heather ten minutes before half-a-dozen will be picking out his eyes , -LRB- and he drew his hand over his own , -RRB- and tearing at his heart-strings before the poor devil has time to die . 
But that d -- d longscented vulture that dogged me so long -- you have got him fast , I hope ? '' 
`` The messenger is returned , Mr Oldbuck . '' 
`` Foolish boy , be quiet , '' said Oldbuck , `` and come with me into the room -- the man is doing his miserable duty , and you will only make matters worse by opposing him . 
`` I go with my father , Mr Oldbuck , '' said Miss Wardour firmly -- `` I have prepared his clothes and my own -- I suppose we shall have the use of the carriage ? '' 
At the first landing-place , Sir Arthur made an agonized pause ; and as he observed the Antiquary look at him anxiously , he said with assumed dignity -- `` Yes , Mr Oldbuck , the descendant of an ancient line -- the representative of Richard Redhand and Gamelyn de Guardover , may be pardoned a sigh when he leaves the castle of his fathers thus poorly escorted . 
When I was sent to the Tower with my late father , in the year 1745 , it was upon a charge becoming our birth -- upon an accusation of high treason , Mr Oldbuck -- we were escorted from Highgate by a troop of life-guards , and committed upon a secretary of state 's warrant ; and now , here I am , in my old age , dragged from my household by a miserable creature like that , -LRB- pointing to the messenger , -RRB- and for a paltry concern of pounds , shillings , and pence . '' 
`` At least , '' said Oldbuck , `` you have now the company of a dutiful daughter , and a sincere friend , if you will permit me to say so , and that may be some consolation , even without the certainty that there can be no hanging , drawing , or quartering , on the present occasion . 
He delivered the letter to Oldbuck , shook Sir Arthur heartily by the hand , and wished Miss Wardour joy , with all the frankness of Highland congratulation . 
Within the envelope was a letter addressed to Jonathan Oldbuck , Esq. of Monkbarns , of the following purport : -- `` Dear Sir , -- To you , as my father 's proved and valued friend , I venture to address myself , being detained here by military duty of a very pressing nature . 
The Antiquary hastily broke the seal of the enclosure , the contents of which gave him equal surprise and pleasure . 
When he had in some measure composed himself after such unexpected tidings , he inspected the other papers carefully , which all related to business -- put the bills into his pocket-book , and wrote a short acknowledgment to be dispatched by that day 's post , for he was extremely methodical in money matters ; -- and , lastly , fraught with all the importance of disclosure , he descended to the parlour . 
`` Sweepclean , '' said he , as he entered , to the officer who stood respectfully at the door , `` you must sweep yourself clean out of Knockwinnock Castle with all your followers , tag-rag and bob-tail . 
`` They who employed thee , '' replied Oldbuck , `` as thou full well dost know . 
At the request of Oldbuck , Edie Ochiltree was permitted to sit by the sideboard in a great leathern chair , which was placed in some measure behind a screen . 
`` Ay , a siege laid by Saunders Sweepclean the bailiff , and raised by Edie Ochiltree the gaberlunzie , par nobile fratrum , '' said Oldbuck , `` and well pitted against each other in respectability . 
`` O , Mr Oldbuck , '' said Sir Arthur , `` you must remember his name frequently in the newspapers -- a very distinguished young officer indeed . 
interrupted Oldbuck , -- `` I fear that 's past praying for . 
answered Oldbuck -- `` Bah ! '' 
`` Not according to the old school , '' said Oldbuck ; `` but , as I said before , the practice of the modern seems in this case the most prudential , though , I think , scarcely the most interesting . 
said Oldbuck , reflecting a moment . 
said Oldbuck , catching at the light which the name of the vessel seemed to throw on the mysterious chest of treasure . 
`` I see it all , '' said Oldbuck , `` as plain as the legend on a medal of high preservation -- the box in which the bullion was found belonged to the gunbrig , and the treasure to my phoenix ? '' 
`` I must say he has chosen his confident well , '' said Oldbuck , `` though somewhat strangely . '' 
`` This was a very romantic , foolish exploit , '' said Oldbuck -- `` why not trust me , or any other friend ? '' 
`` Then how , '' said Oldbuck , `` should Sir Arthur have come there unless the German had brought him ? '' 
said Oldbuck , his recollection recurring to the earlier part of his acquaintance with Lovel ; `` and this young fellow , who was putting hundreds on so strange a hazard , I must be recommending a subscription to him , and paying his bill at the Ferry ! 
he continued , grasping his pikestaff with great emphasis , `` an I had as gude pith as I hae gude-will , and a gude cause , I should gie some o'them a day 's kemping . '' 
said Oldbuck , starting up , -- `` get out of the room , womankind that you are , till I get my things on -- And , hark ye , bring me my sword . '' 
cried his sister , offering a Roman falchion of brass with the one hand , with the other an Andrea Ferrara without a handle . 
`` Womankind , '' said Oldbuck , in great agitation , `` be composed , and do not give way to vain terror -- Are you sure they are come ? '' 
`` Give me , '' said Oldbuck , `` the sword which my father wore in the year forty-five -- it hath no belt or baldrick -- but we 'll make shift . '' 
So saying , he thrust the weapon through the cover of his breeches pocket . 
exclaimed Oldbuck -- `` where is your double-barrelled gun , that was never out of your hand when there was no occasion for such vanities ? '' 
Sir Arthur was probably of a different opinion ; for , dressed in his lieutenancy uniform , he was also on the road to Fairport , and called in his way to take Mr Oldbuck with him , having had his original opinion of his sagacity much confirmed by late events . 
And in spite of all the entreaties of the womankind that the Antiquary would stay to garrison Monkbarns , Mr Oldbuck , with his nephew , instantly accepted Sir Arthur 's offer . 
Such was the scene of general confusion , when Sir Arthur Wardour , Oldbuck , and Hector , made their way with difficulty into the principal square , where the town-house is situated . 
Oldbuck gave a conscious look to Sir Arthur , who returned it with one equally sheepish , and a shrug of the shoulders . 
`` For God 's sake , who is that young gentleman who is so strikingly like '' -- `` Like the unfortunate Eveline , '' interrupted Oldbuck . 
said Oldbuck , `` do not give too hasty way to such a presumption -- what probability is there ? '' 
And , determined to make still farther investigation before yielding his entire conviction to so strange a tale , he sought out Major Neville , and found him expediting the necessary measures for dispersing the force which had been assembled . 
`` You have a claim on me , Mr Oldbuck , were my business more urgent , '' said Neville , `` for having passed myself upon you under a false name , and rewarding your hospitality by injuring your nephew . '' 
`` You served him as he deserved , '' said Oldbuck ; `` though , by the way , he showed as much good sense as spirit to-day -- Egad , if he would rub up his learning , and read Cæsar and Polybius , and the Stratagemata Polyæni , I think he would rise in the army , and I will certainly lend him a lift . '' 
-- I trust you do not think the misfortune of my birth a fit subject '' -- `` By no means , young man , '' answered the Antiquary , interrupting him , -- `` I believe I know more of your birth than you do yourself -- and , to convince you of it , you were educated and known as a natural son of Geraldin Neville of Neville 's - burgh , in Yorkshire , and , I presume , as his destined heir ? '' 
`` I know , Mr Oldbuck , that you would not ask these questions on a point of such delicacy for the gratification of idle curiosity . 
`` Raro antecedentem scelestum , or , as I may here say , scelestam , '' said Oldbuck , `` deseruit pæna -- even Epicureans admitted that -- and what did you do upon this ? '' 
said Oldbuck . 
The Antiquary then went through the strange and melancholy circumstances concerning his mother 's death . 
`` I have no doubt , '' he said , `` that your uncle wished the report to be believed , that the child of this unhappy marriage was no more -- perhaps he might himself have an eye to the inheritance of his brother -- he was then a gay wild young man -- But of all intentions against your person , however much the evil conscience of Elspeth might lead her to suspect him from the agitation in which he appeared , Teresa 's story and your own fully acquit him . 
