First and foremost was Jack Chase , our noble First Captain of the Top . 
Jack was a frank and charming man . 
I thanked my sweet stars , that kind fortune had placed me near him , though under him , in the frigate ; and from the outset Jack and I were fast friends . 
Wherever you may be now rolling over the blue billows , dear Jack ! 
Jack was a gentleman . 
What though his hand was hard , so was not his heart , too often the case with soft palms . 
His manners were easy and free ; none of the boisterousness , so common to tars ; and he had a polite , courteous way of saluting you , if it were only to borrow your knife . 
Jack had read all the verses of Byron , and all the romances of Scott . 
But Jack , he was better than a hundred common mortals ; Jack was a whole phalanx , an entire army ; Jack was a thousand strong ; Jack would have done honor to the Queen of England 's drawing-room ; Jack must have been a by-blow of some British Admiral of the Blue . 
His whole demeanor was in strong contrast to that of one of the Captains of the fore-top . 
And one hot afternoon , during a calm , when the fore-top Captain , like many others , was standing still and yawning on the spar-deck ; Jack Chase , his own countryman , came up to him , and pointing at his open mouth , politely inquired , whether that was the way they caught fliesin Her Britannic Majesty 's ship , the Audacious?After that , we heard no more of the craft . 
Nevertheless , I had not long been a member of this fraternity of fine fellows , ere I discovered that Jack Chase , our captain , was -- like all prime favorites and oracles among men -- a little bit of a dictator ; not peremptorily , or annoyingly so , but amusingly intent on egotistically mending our manners and improving our taste , so that we might reflect credit upon our tutor . 
Now , with all his soul , Jack abominated this Tubbs . 
He said he was vulgar , an upstart -- Devil take him , he 's been in a whaler . 
But like many men , who have been where youhave n't been ; or seen what youhave n't seen ; Tubbs , on account of his whaling experiences , absolutely affected to look down upon Jack , even as Jack did upon him ; and this it was that so enraged our noble captain . 
Jack 's courteous manner , however , very soon relieved his embarrassment ; but it is no use to be courteous to somemen in this world . 
Jack stood it some time ; but when Tubbs came down upon men-of-war , and particularly upon main-top-men , his sense of propriety was so outraged , that he lanched into Tubbs like a forty-two pounder . 
This outburst on the part of my noble friend Jack made me shake all over , spite of my padded surtout ; and caused me to offer up devout thanksgivings , that in no evil hour had I divulged the fact of having myself served in a whaler ; for having previously marked the prevailing prejudice of men-of-war 's men to that much-maligned class of mariners , I had wisely held my peace concerning stove boats on the coast of Japan . 
Here , I must frankly tell a story about Jack , which , as touching his honor and integrity , I am sure , will not work against him , in any charitable man 's estimation . 
On this present cruise of the frigate Neversink , Jack had deserted ; and after a certain interval , had been captured . 
But with what purpose had he deserted ? 
He abandoned the frigate from far higher and nobler , nay , glorious motives . 
Though bowing to naval discipline afloat ; yet ashore , he was a stickler for the Rights of Man , and the liberties of the world . 
He went to draw a partisan blade in the civil commotions of Peru ; and befriend , heart and soul , what he deemed the cause of the Right . 
At the time , his disappearance excited the utmost astonishment among the officers , who had little suspected him of any such conduct as deserting . 
Jack , my great man of the main-top , gone ! '' 
`` Jack Chase cut and run ! '' 
`` It must have been all for love , then ; the signoritas have turned his head . '' 
`` Jack Chase not to be found ? '' 
Months passed away , and nothing was heard of Jack ; till at last , the frigate came to anchor on the coast , alongside of a Peruvian sloop of war . 
`` It is even so , Don Sereno , '' said Jack Chase , proudly folding his gold-laced coat-sleeves across his chest -- `` and as there is no resisting the frigate , I comply . 
With that he turned ; and entering the cutter , was pulled back to the frigate , and stepped up to Captain Claret , where that gentleman stood on the quarter-deck . 
`` Your servant , my fine Don , '' said the Captain , ironically lifting his chapeau , but regarding Jack at the same time with a look of intense displeasure . 
`` Your most devoted and penitent Captain of the Main-top , sir ; and one who , in his very humility of contrition is yet proud to call Captain Claret his commander , '' said Jack , making a glorious bow , and then tragically flinging overboard his Peruvian sword . 
So Jack went forward among crowds of admiring tars , who swore by his nut-brown beard , which had amazingly lengthened and spread during his absence . 
They divided his laced hat and coat among them ; and on their shoulders , carried him in triumph along the gun-deck . 
Mad Jack is in his saddle on the sea . 
Thatis his home ; he would not care much , if another Flood came and overflowed the dry land ; for what would it do but float his good ship higher and higher and carry his proud nation 's flag round the globe , over the very capitals of all hostile states ! 
Five feet nine is his mark , in his socks ; and not weighing over eleven stone before dinner . 
Like so many ship 's shrouds , his muscles and tendons are all set true , trim , and taut ; he is braced up fore and aft , like a ship on the wind . 
His broad chest is a bulk-head , that dams off the gale ; and his nose is an aquiline , that divides it in two , like a keel . 
His loud , lusty lungs are two belfries , full of all manner of chimes ; but you only hear his deepest bray , in the height of some tempest -- like the great bell of St. Paul 's , which only sounds when the King or the Devil is dead . 
So far as his efficiency as a seaofficer was concerned , on shore at least , Jack might bouse awayas much as he pleased ; but afloat it will not do at all . 
Now , if he only followed the wise example set by those ships of the desert , the camels ; and while in port , drank for the thirst past , the thirst present , and the thirst to come -- so that he might cross the ocean sober ; Mad Jack would get along pretty well . 
Still better , if he would but eschew brandy altogether ; and only drink of the limpid white-wine of the rills and the brooks . 
My noble Captain , Jack Chase , rather patronized Lemsford , and he would stoutly take his part against scores of adversaries . 
And upon my word , noble Jack , with his native-born good sense , taste , and humanity , was not ill qualified to play the true part of a Quarterly Review ; -- which is , to give quarter at last , however severe the critique . 
Now Lemsford 's great care , anxiety , and endless source of tribulation was the preservation of his manuscripts . 
He had a little box , about the size of a small dressing-case , and secured with a lock , in which he kept his papers and stationery . 
This box , of course , he could not keep in his bag or hammock , for , in either case , he would only be able to get at it once in the twenty-four hours . 
So when not using it , he was obliged to hide it out of sight , where he could . 
And of all places in the world , a ship of war , above her hold , least abounds in secret nooks . 
Theallusion to the poet Lemsford in a previous chapter , leads me to speak of our mutual friends , Nord and Williams , who , with Lemsford himself , Jack Chase , and my comrades of the main-top , comprised almost the only persons with whom I unreservedly consorted while on board the frigate . 
-- numbering , among the rest , my noble Captain Jack Chase . 
Jack Chase , the President of the Club , frequently remonstrated against this breach of good manners ; but the steady-cookhad somehow contracted the habit , and it proved incurable . 
For a time , Jack Chase , out of a polite nervousness touching myself , as a newly-elected member of the club , would frequently endeavor to excuse to me the vulgarity of Shanks . 
`` Jack Jewel ? '' 
JACK CHASE ... PERCY ROYAL-MAST . 
Percy Royal-Mast ... Jack Chase . 
But at the first appearance of that universal favorite , Jack Chase , in the chivalric character of `` Percy Royal-Mast , '' the whole audience simultaneously rose to their feet , and greeted him with three hearty cheers , that almost took the main-top-sail aback . 
Ah Jack , that was a tenstroke indeed ! 
The unwonted spectacle of the row of gun-room officers mingling with `` the people '' in applauding a mere seaman like Jack Chase , filled me at the time with the most pleasurable emotions . 
It is a sweet thing , thought I , to see these officers confess a human brotherhood with us , after all ; a sweet thing to mark their cordial appreciation of the manly merits of my matchless Jack . 
Mad Jack waited some time for a lull , ere he gave an order so perilous to be executed . 
The truth of this seemed evinced in the case of Mad Jack , during the gale , and especially at that perilous moment when he countermanded the Captain 's order at the helm . 
Hence , at sea , Mad Jack tried to make a point of keeping sober , though in very fine weather he was sometimes betrayed into a glass too many . 
At this Jack Chase would sometimes make merry . 
`` Come , boys , do n't hang back , '' he would say ; `` come , let us go hear the parson talk about his Lord High Admiral Plato , and Commodore Socrates . '' 
Save my noble captain , Jack Chase , he proved himself the most entertaining , I had almost said the most companionable man in the mess . 
Breakfast over , he and I were reclining in the main-top -- where , by permission of my noble master , Jack Chase , I had invited him -- when , of a sudden , we heard a cannonading . 
and he ran down the rigging to the batteries ; but just as he touched the gun-deck , gun No. 20 -- his literary strong-box -- went off with a terrific report . 
`` Well , my after-guard Virgil , '' said Jack Chase to him , as he slowly returned up the rigging , `` did you get it ? 
`` Glorious Jack ! '' 
cried Lemsford , running up and snatching him by the hand , `` say that again , Jack ! 
By all the Homers , Jack , you have made my soul mount like a balloon ! 
Jack , I 'm a poor devil of a poet . 
Not two months before I shipped aboard here , I published a volume of poems , very aggressive on the world , Jack . 
I published it , Jack , and the cursed publisher sued me for damages ; my friends looked sheepish ; one or two who liked it were non-committal ; and as for the addle-pated mob and rabble , they thought they had found out a fool . 
Blast them , Jack , what they call the public is a monster , like the idol we saw in Owhyhee , with the head of a jackass , the body of a baboon , and the tail of a scorpion ! '' 
`` I do n't like that , '' said Jack ; `` when I 'm ashore , I myself am part of the public . '' 
`` Your pardon , Jack ; you are not . 
The public is one thing , Jack , and the people another . '' 
`` You are right , '' said Jack ; `` right as this leg . 
He was a fine little Scot , who , from the premature loss of the hair on the top of his head , always went by the name of Baldy . 
This baldness was no doubt , in great part , attributable to the same cause that early thins the locks of most man-of-war 's - men -- namely , the hard , unyielding , and ponderous man-of-war and navyregulation tarpaulin hat , which , when new , is stiff enough to sit upon , and indeed , in lieu of his thumb , sometimes serves the common sailor for a bench . 
While this was being said , poor Baldy -- his hat off , his face streaming with perspiration -- was franticly exerting himself , piling up the ponderous folds of canvass in the middle of the yard ; ever and anon glancing at victorious Jack Chase , hard at work at the main-topsail-yard before him . 
exclaimed Jack Chase , who stood by ; `` Purser 's Steward , you are Mark Antony over the body of Julius Cæsar . '' 
he exclaimed , suddenly seizing the boot , and exhibiting it on high , `` look , my noble tars , if you have tears , prepare to shed them now . 
exclaimed a fore-top-man , `` do n't that ` ere bunch of old swabs belong to Jack Chase 's pet ? 
Wehad not lain in Rio long , when in the innermost recesses of the mighty soul of my noble Captain of the Top -- incomparable Jack Chase -- the deliberate opinion was formed , and rock-founded , that our ship 's company must have at least one day 's `` liberty '' to go ashore ere we weighed anchor for home . 
After canvassing the matter throughly with several old quarter-masters and other dignified sea-fencibles , Jack , hat in hand , made his appearance , one fine evening , at the mast , and , waiting till Captain Claret drew nigh , bowed , and addressed him in his own off-hand , polished , and poetical style . 
As Jack thus rounded off with a snatch from Shakspeare , he saluted the Captain with a gallant flourish of his tarpaulin , and then , bringing the rim to his mouth , with his head bowed , and his body thrown into a fine negligent attitude , stood a picture of eloquent but passive appeal . 
asked the Captain , evasively , and trying to conceal his admiration of Jack by affecting some haughtiness . 
sir , '' sighed Jack , `` why do the thirsty camels of the desert desire to lap the waters of the fountain and roll in the green grass of the oasis ? 
And so saying , Jack once more brought his hat-rim to his mouth , and slightly bending forward , stood mute . 
Attracted by the scene between Captain Claret and so well-known and admired a commoner as Jack Chase , he approached , and assuming for the moment an air of pleasant condescension -- never shown to his noble barons the officers of the ward-room -- he said , with a smile , `` Well , Jack , you and your shipmates are after some favor , I suppose -- a day 's liberty , is it not ? '' 
Whether it was the horizontal setting sun , streaming along the deck , that blinded Jack , or whether it was in sun-wor-shipping homage of the mighty Commodore , there is no telling ; but just at this juncture noble Jack was standing reverentially holding his hat to his brow , like a man with weak eyes . 
`` Valiant Commodore , '' said he , at last , `` this audience is indeed an honor underserved . 
cunning Jack ! '' 
`` I think we must give them liberty , '' he added , turning to Captain Claret ; who thereupon , waving Jack further off , fell into confidential discourse with his superior . 
`` Well , Jack , we will see about it , '' at last cried the Commodore , advancing . 
But Jack was noways cast down by the Captain 's coldness ; he felt safe enough ; so he proceeded to offer his acknowledgments . 
``` Kind gentlemen , '' ' he sighed , ``` your pains are registered where every day I turn the leaf to read ' -- Macbeth , valiant Commodore and Captain ! 
And long and lingeringly bowing to the two noble officers , Jack backed away from their presence , still shading his eyes with the broad rim of his hat . 
`` Jack Chase forever ! '' 
cried his shipmates , as he carried the grateful news of liberty to them on the forecastle . 
`` Who can talk to Commodores like our matchless Jack ! '' 
Itwas the next morning after matchless Jack 's interview with the Commodore and Captain , that a little incident occurred , soon forgotten by the crew at large , but long remembered by the few seamen who were in the habit of closely scrutinizing every-day proceedings . 
Hence it was , perhaps , that , though noble Jack had carried the day captive in his audience at the mast , yet more than thirty-six hours elapsed ere any thing official was heard of the `` liberty '' his shipmates so earnestly coveted . 
`` It 's turned out all gammon , Jack , '' said one . 
cried another , `` he bamboozled you , Jack . '' 
`` Lay on your oars a while , '' answered Jack , `` and we shall see ; we 've struck for liberty , and liberty we 'll have ! 
In a paroxysm of delight , a young mizzen-top-man , standing by at the time , whipped the tarpaulin from his head , and smashed it like a pancake on the deck . 
he shouted , leaping down into the berth-deck after his bag . 
With Jack Chase and a few other discreet and gentlemanly top-men , I went ashore on the first day , with the first quarter-watch . 
Had they all been as punctual as Jack Chase 's party , the whole quarter-watch of liberty-men had been safe on board the frigate at the expiration of the twenty-four hours . 
cried Jack Chase , coming up the t ' - gallant rigging from the top-sail yard . 
`` Crown , he means , noble Jack , '' said a top-man . 
asked Jack . 
laughed Jack , now seeing into the joke , and willing to humor it ; `` though I 'm born a Briton , boys , yet , by the mast ! 
`` A riddle , noble Jack . '' 
Here 's mine ; '' and so saying , Jack , removing his tarpaulin , exhibited a bald spot , just about the bigness of a crown-piece , on the summit of his curly and classical head . 
`` We must beat them with such a breeze , dear Jack , '' said I to our noble Captain of the Top . 
`` But the same breeze blows for John Bull , remember , '' replied Jack , who , being a Briton , perhaps favored the Englishman more than the Neversink . 
cried Jack , gazing over the top-rail ; then , flinging forth his arm , recited , ``` Aslope , and gliding on the leeward side , The bounding vessel cuts the roaring tide . 
Did you ever read him ? 
`` And you , also , noble Jack , '' said I , `` what are you but a sailor ? '' 
`` You 're merry , my boy , '' said Jack , looking up with a glance like that of a sentimental archangel doomed to drag out his eternity in disgrace . 
I 've that here , White-Jacket '' -- touching his forehead -- `` which , under happier skies -- perhaps in you solitary star there , peeping down from those clouds -- might have made a Homer of me . 
`` Out of sight , ahead , to be sure , sir , '' muttered Jack Chase , in the top . 
Precisely thus stood the question : whether we beat them , or whether they beat us , no mortal can tell to this hour , since we never saw them again ; but for one , White-Jacket will lay his two hands on the bow-chasers of the Neversink , and take his ship 's oath that we Yankees carried the day . 
Taking heart , perhaps , from Colbrook 's example , Jack Chase interposed , and in a manly but carefully respectful manner , in substance repeated the corporal 's remark , adding that he had never found me wanting in the top . 
Jack Ketch , youalso are experienced in these things ! 
Often Jack Chase , an enthusiastic admirer of sea-scenery , would direct our attention to the moonlight on the waves , by fine snatches from his catalogue of poets . 
I shall never forget the lyric air with which , one morning , at dawn of day , when all the East was flushed with red and gold , he stood leaning against the top-mast shrouds , and , stretching his bold hand over the sea , exclaimed , `` Here comes Aurora : top-mates , see ! '' 
And , in a liquid , long-lingering tone , he recited the lines , `` Commodore Camoens , White-Jacket . 
Upon these occasions Jack Chase was often called out , and regaled us , in his own free and noble style , with the `` Spanish Ladies '' -- a favorite thing with British man-of-war 's - men -- and many other salt-sea ballads and ditties , including , `` Sir Patrick Spens was the best sail or That ever sailed the sea . '' 
Amonginnumerable `` yarns and twisters '' reeled off in our main-top during our pleasant run to the North , none could match those of Jack Chase , our captain . 
Never was there better company than ever-glorious Jack . 
The things which most men only read of , or dream about , he had seen and experienced . 
He had been a dashing smuggler in his day , and could tell of a long nine-pounder rammed home with wads of French silks ; of cartridges stuffed with the finest gunpowder tea ; of cannister-shot full of West India sweet-meats ; of sailor frocks and trowsers , quilted inside with costly laces ; and table legs , hollow as musket barrels , compactly stowed with rare drugs and spices . 
But more than all , Jack could tell of the battle of Navarino , for he had been a captain of one of the main-deck guns on board Admiral Codrington 's flag-ship , the Asia . 
Were mine the style of stout old Chapman 's Homer , even then I would scarce venture to give noble Jack 's own version of this fight , wherein , on the 20th of October , A.D. 1827 , thirty-two sail of Englishmen , Frenchmen , and Russians , attacked and vanquished in the Levant an Ottoman fleet of three ships-of-the line , twenty-five frigates , and a swarm of fire ships and hornet craft . 
`` We bayed to be at them , '' said Jack ; `` and when we didopen fire , we were like dolphin among the flying-fish . 
`` Though you tormented the Turks at Navarino , noble Jack , yet you came off yourself with only the loss of a splinter , it seems , '' said a top-man , glancing at our captain 's maimed hand . 
`` How , Jack ? '' 
He was seated on a cheese of wadsat the time , and after the dust of the powdered bulwarks had blown away , I noticed he yet sat still , his eyes wide open . 
cried I , and I clapped him on the back ; but he fell on his face at my feet . 
I touched his heart , and found he was dead . 
There was not a little finger mark on him . '' 
`` Noble Jack , I know you never brag , but tell us what you did yourself that day ? '' 
but I thought , by the way you pull a lock-string on board here , and look along the sight , that you can steer a shot about right -- hey , Jack ? '' 
`` It was the Admiral of the Fleet -- God Almighty -- who directed the shot that dismasted the Turkish Admiral , '' said Jack ; `` I only pointed the gun . '' 
`` But how did you feel , Jack , when the musket-ball carried away one of your hooks there ? '' 
Now , this Jack Chase had a heart in him like a mastodon 's . 
I have seen him weep when a man has been flogged at the gangway ; yet , in relating the story of the Battle of Navarino , he plainly showed that he held the God of the blessed Bible to have been the British Commodore in the Levant , on the bloody 20th of October , A.D. 1827 . 
said Jack Chase , helping himself to a slice of beef , and sandwiching it between two large biscuits -- `` Gunner 's mate ! 
`` Take your back away from that ` ere gun-carriage , will ye now , Jack Chase ? '' 
cried Priming , in reply , just then Jack happening to lean up against it . 
he replied . 
`` And if he does , you will mess alone , gunner 's mate , '' said Jack Chase . 
growled Priming , irritably rubbing his head with the handle of his sheath-knife . 
`` You are an old bear , gunner 's mate , '' said Jack Chase . 
`` I am an old Turk , '' he replied , drawing the flat blade of his knife between his teeth , thereby producing a whetting , grating sound . 
`` Let him alone , let him alone , men , '' said Jack Chase . 
`` Look out he do n't bite , though , '' said Priming , snapping his teeth ; and with that he rolled off , growling as he went . 
`` Look aloft , '' whispered Jack Chase . 
Uponexamining Shenly 's bag , a will was found , scratched in pencil , upon a blank leaf in the middle of his Bible ; or , to use the phrase of one of the seamen , in the midships , atween the Bible and Testament , where the Pothecary -LRB- Apocrypha -RRB- uses to be . 
Mad Jack had the trumpt ; and no sooner was this incipient mutiny reported to him , than he jumped right down among the mob , and fearlessly mingling with them , exclaimed , `` What do you mean , men ? 
His gallant , off-handed , confident manner , recognizing no attempt at mutiny , operated upon the sailors like magic . 
My noble captain , Jack Chase , was indignant . 
Not even all the special favors he had received from Captain Claret , and the plenary pardon extended to him for his desertion into the Peruvian service , could restrain the expression of his feelings . 
But in his cooler moments , Jack was a wise man ; he at last deemed it but wisdom to succumb . 
When he went to the barber he almost drew tears from his eyes . 
Seating himself mournfully on the match-tub , he looked sideways , and said to the barber , who was slitheringhis sheep-shears in readiness to begin : `` My friend , I trust your scissors are consecrated . 
think of it ; '' and mournfully he laid his deep-dyed , russet cheek upon his hand . 
Here noble Jack 's feelings overcame him ; he drooped from the animated attitude into which his enthusiasm had momentarily transported him ; his proud head sunk upon his chest , and his long , sad beard almost grazed the deck . 
sighed Jack . 
So when this barber , who was the only tender-hearted one of his tribe , had kneeled , been absolved , and then blessed , Jack gave up his beard into his hands , and the barber , clipping it off with a sigh , held it high aloft , and , parodying the style of the boatswain 's mates , cried aloud , `` D'ye hear , fore and aft ? 
This is the beard of our matchless Jack Chase , the noble captain of this frigate 's main-top ! '' 
Of all the crew , this Ushant was most beloved by my glorious Captain , Jack Chase , who one day pointed him out to me as the old man was slowly coming down the rigging from the fore-top . 
and must not old Ushant have been living in Chaucer 's time , that Chaucer could draw his portrait so well ? '' 
`` Sir , '' said the Captain of the Forecastle , `` did old Ushant ever refuse doing his duty ? 
did he ever yet miss his muster ? 
But , sir , old Ushant 's beard is his own ! '' 
thrillingly whispered Jack Chase , who stood by , `` it 's only a halter ; I 'll strike him ! '' 
cried Jack . 
and with moist eyes Jack forced his way to one side . 
This Landless was a favorite with the officers , among whom he went by the name of `` Happy Jack . '' 
And Jack Chase , old Ushant , and several more fine tars that might be added , sufficiently attest , that in the Neversink at least , there was more than one noble man-of-war 's - man who almost redeemed all the rest . 
Headed by Jack Chase , the quarter-watch were reclining in the top , talking about the shore delights into which they intended to plunge , while our captain often broke in with allusions to similar conversations when he was on board the English line-of-battle ship , the Asia , drawing nigh to Portsmouth , in England , after the battle of Navarino . 
Suddenly an order was given to set the main-top-gallant-stun ' - sail , and the halyards not being rove , Jack Chase assigned to me that duty . 
How I swayed and swung the hearty hand of Jack Chase , and nipped it to mine with a Carrick bend ; yea , and kissed that noble hand of my liege lord and captain of my top , my sea-tutor and sire ? 
And over the starry waves , and broad out into the blandly blue and boundless night , spiced with strange sweets from the long-sought land -- the whole long cruise predestinated ours , though often in tempest-time we almost refused to believe in that far-distant shore -- straight out into that fragrant night , ever-noble Jack Chase , matchless and unmatchable Jack Chase stretches forth his bannered hand , and , pointing shoreward , cries : `` For the last time , hear Camoens , boys ! '' 
