Frederick Brandon was a Tennessean also . 
He had seen something of our American world -- had been once among the Eastern States and cities , and had passed more than once before over the route which we now pursued . 
He knew every headland , every plantation , and , as it seemed to me , every person along the river . 
He was about five years my senior , and had been better taught than myself in almost every possible respect . 
I necessarily deferred to him ; I was pleased and proud to do so . 
I had every confidence in his affection , and his superior knowledge and judgment , and felt that he could enlighten me on a thousand subjects , of which my information was distressingly small . 
He was the person to do so without mortifying my self-esteem , having as little vanity and arrogance as I ever met in any person whose claims were so considerable . 
To him , New Orleans was no novelty , though always a great attraction . 
He had a sister who had been married some seven years before to a wealthy Creole of the city , and frequent visits , and an occasional residence with her , had made all its places familiar . 
He was the man , over all others , to spy out all the secrets and explore all the haunts of a great metropolis . 
He possessed a lively curiosity , with an unexcitable temperament -- a rather rare combination -- and was prompt and active always , without showing either eagerness or hurry . 
His nerves seemed to be wrought of steel . 
I flattered myself that I grew rather popular , and Brandon assured me that such was the case . 
One delightful morning in January found Frederick Brandon and myself eagerly engaged in discussing our habits for the bal masqueof Madame Marie de Berniere . 
Brandon then revealed to me his own relations with the widow . 
`` If woman , '' said he , `` were always her own mistress -- were she not too commonly influenced by what is called the world , and what she considers its friendships -- I might easily persuade myself to indulge in a hope which might seem to others unbecoming . 
I had no doubt of his success , and I told him so . 
I felt sure that few women could withstand him . 
Something has already been said of his character . 
His personal claims were not a whit behind those of his intellect . 
It is true that Frederick Brandon had little wealth ; but what of this , if that of Marie de Berniere could suffice for both ? 
I felt sure , and spoke confidently of his success . 
He heard me patiently . 
`` I do not certainly underrate my hopes , '' said he ; `` but I am very sure that I do not overrate my fears . 
Still , I am disposed to think that , prudent and cool in all other matters , Frederick Brandon had hurried into this attachment with all the impulse of the boy , just freed from the leash at twenty-one . 
All men have their rashnesses , and this was his . 
I doubt whether Frederick Brandon perceived these peculiarities at all , or they may have seemed to him only so many additional beauties . 
I had the honor to present Madame Chateauneuve , while Frederick Brandon followed us . 
Such , however , was far from being the case with Frederick Brandon . 
He came to me a little after midnight . 
The clocks throughout the house had all been silenced ; and , half wearied , I was stealing a glance at my watch concealed within the folds of my vest , when he laid his hand upon my arm . 
I turned , with a guilty consciousness , and he saw what I was doing . 
said he , `` looking at your watch . 
At these words , Frederick turned , and advanced towards her . 
She took his arm promptly , as soon as offered , and they disappeared among the groups . 
`` Ah , Frederick ! 
But there was this one difficulty about the matter , which struck and staggered Brandon , and it was that what she said indicated a foregone conclusion , and seemed to have reference to some recent dialogue which had already taken place between the parties . 
Brandon himself , though profoundly indignant at the baseness of the manœuvre by which she had been imposed upon , restrained the warmer expression of his own feelings , and sought by every means in his power to soothe the agitation under which she so visibly labored . 
But his efforts did not wholly succeed . 
Thiswas the substance of what I got from Brandon , of what had taken place between Marie de Berniere and himself . 
It is probable I should not so soon have been permitted to know the progress he had made , had it not been for the present difficulty , in which my assistance was required . 
I told him of the Egyptian whom I had accosted , and confounded with himself -- of his not noticing my address , and eluding my pursuit . 
`` He , then , is the intruder , '' was Brandon 's reply ; `` for I certainly have not been near you , not even in the room , since we parted , when I left you looking at your watch . 
His habit seemed the fac-simileof that of Brandon . 
His person , in bulk and height , was precisely like . 
There , too , might be seen a triangle hanging from his left arm , while his right hand grasped a scroll of unrolled papyrus ; items not necessary to the costume , but about which I remember to have observed that Brandon was particularly solicitous . 
Brandon instantly approached him . 
His anxiety , in regard to the lady of his love ; the doubt lest she should be in any way compromised ; the vexatious reflection that the other had listened to a precious confession , meant only for his own ear ; nay , the painful conviction that the stranger , himself , in the character of Brandon , had drawn forth this confession -- these considerations had all combined to warm my friend with resentments which none but he could have so well suppressed , and which were struggling energetically for utterance within his bosom . 
Brandon led him aside , I following closely . 
This was said in a whisper ; and without the pause of a second , Frederick disappeared . 
Meanwhile , Brandon had sought his mistress . 
She received him with an eagerness proportioned to her anxiety . 
He communicated what had taken place between himself and the stranger . 
`` Say but the word , dear Marie , '' was the whisper of Frederick Brandon , `` and I will fling him from the window . '' 
He was the person to have done it without a word . 
But the fair hostess declined his proffered service . 
Frederick , '' she answered , with a delighted smile ; `` no ; that would only spoil the assembly . 
You will wait upon us , Frederick , at the door . '' 
By the time that Brandon got back to the spot where he had left me with the stranger , there was quite a smart little excitement in the assembly . 
At length Brandon made his appearance , and relieved me of my trust . 
He communicated to the stranger the consent of Madame de Berniere to receive him in private , and with no more words , they proceeded together in the direction of the chamber assigned for interview . 
When we reached the door where Madame de Berniere awaited the stranger , both himself and Brandon entered the room . 
In a moment after , however , a tapping from within caused me to open it , and Brandon came out ; the stranger having positively refused to unmask as long as he was present . 
A single word apparently , spoken by Madame de Berniere rather loudly , then engaged our attention ; and Brandon turned quickly to the door ; but paused , in consequence of the silence that followed . 
The whole thing was over in a moment , and , in the next , not waiting for me to open the door , Frederick Brandon drove it from its fastenings with a single application of his foot . 
How had he escaped ? 
The windows were all closed ; he had not passed by us , that was certain . 
She was already raised and supported , in the arms of Brandon . 
Not a word escaped him , and but for the pallor upon his cheeks , and the great blue corded vein upon his forehead -- swollen to a deformity -- and but for the close compression of his lips , none would have thought that he suffered any but the most ordinary emotion ; his calls for help were so calmly spoken -- his orders so deliberately given -- his nerves so firm -- his strength so entirely unshaken ! 
He raised and bore the fair victim to a sofa . 
Her lips were livid -- bloodless quite -- her eyes open wide , and glaring upon us , but set and glassy , with a terrible vacancy of gaze , that declared , much more emphatically than any speech , the degree of terror and affright to which she had been so unaccountably subjected . 
Some hours elapsed before she recovered her consciousness , during which period it was for some time doubtful if life remained or not , within her heart . 
Meanwhile , the company had departed -- all but one or two near kinswomen , and Madame de Chateauneuve and Frederick Brandon , who refused to leave her until she had recovered consciousness . 
This she did , about daylight ; but more than a day elapsed before she had recovered her reason . 
Among these , as a matter of course , and most conspicuous , were Brandon and his sister . 
There were sufficient motives for Madame de Chateauneuve , the sister of Frederick Brandon , lingering after all the rest , in attendance upon her suffering friend . 
Her visits , in turn , became less frequent , and it was only occasionally that she made her appearance in the chamber of the invalid ; and this , too , quite as frequently in compliance with the requisition of Frederick , as because of her own desires or sense of duty . 
I had already broached the subject of the bal masque , and the fright , to Frederick , but he either was unwilling or unable to give me any clue to the mystery . 
He had been permitted a private interview with Madame de Berniere , yet neither that nor those which his sister had enjoyed , had resulted in any discoveries . 
It is certain that , for some weeks after the affair , nothing was known , positively , to Frederick Brandon or his sister , calculated to satisfy their doubts or make them confident of their knowledge . 
In all this time , Frederick Brandon was sufficiently miserable . 
I conversed with him frequently , anxious to feel , yet without seeking to probe , the condition of his mind . 
But his unwonted taciturnity spoke volumes , when I remembered his character and disposition . 
He had been latterly suffered to see Marie de Berniere on several occasions , but for a brief space only at every visit . 
At these times her treatment of Frederick had been distinguished by a marked regard ; though she spoke but little with him , and then only on indifferent topics . 
Frequent sighs broke from her during these interviews , and her eye perused him always with fondness , and dwelt with a sad and significant earnestness on the deep , devoted glances which spoke from his . 
All this was enough to trouble my friend ; but his mind , if disturbed and unhappy , was by no means disordered . 
He said to me , returning one day from a visit to the dwelling of Marie -- `` I may as well confide to you , William , that I was engaged to her . 
`` Foul play , Frederick ! 
To discover who he is , is the first important matter . 
I take for granted that he is an enemy of mine -- most probably he is an admirer of Marie . 
Do you remember his manner when we first encountered him ? 
His haughty carriage -- scornful gesture -- the cold insolence of his tone -- the dry brevity of his answers -- all full of defiance ? 
And you regard him as a rival ? '' 
He has evidently a design upon her , and it is equally apparent that he possesses a strange power over her . 
What is this power , and who is he ? 
Frederick Brandoneagerly obeyed the summons of his mistress . 
The reluctance of Frederick arose entirely from his sympathy for her situation . 
He dared not add to her distress by urging his own anxieties . 
She felt the delicacy of his consideration , and , at length , though with a very decided effort , she began the conference -- `` Frederick ! 
She proceeded : -- `` I have summoned you , dear Frederick , to an interview which could not always be deferred . 
And yet , I shrink -- oh , Frederick , how I shrink and tremble at the necessity which compels me -- though my heart breaks under it -- to tell you that we must rend apart and forever the links which bind us , and which every feeling of my soul would only persuade me , in spite of all necessities , to bind and rivet more surely and more tenderly than ever ! '' 
It is with no shame , dear Frederick , that I confess to loving you , as I never thought to love mortal man ; as I never loved mortal man before . 
Seeing that she paused , Frederick replied : -- `` I can only wonder , but not answer you , dear Marie . 
Were it not so , dear Frederick , would I have the courage , the heart , the strength for this ! '' 
`` Was it in your arms that I lay then , Frederick ? '' 
He answered by pressing her hand within his , and the tears then gushed from her eyes as from a fountain suddenly relieved . 
For a few moments he was silent , subdued by a sympathy which he found it difficult to keep from the exhibition of a feminine weakness like her own . 
she exclaimed , looking round her with shows of expectation and terror in her countenance : `` Forbear , Frederick , you know not what you say , or whom you threaten . 
Frederick , do you not believe that the spirits of the dead may reappear on earth -- may seek those whom they have known -- may speak words of rebuke and warning and terror to the living -- may threaten and denounce -- may decree , as in my case , that hearts shall be torn asunder , and hopes be trampled into nothing -- hopes , the fondest and sweetest that ever dawned upon the soul of woman ! 
-- Frederick , do you believe all this ? '' 
she cried ; `` speak to me , dear Frederick , and tell me if you believe these things . '' 
Frederick , dear Frederick -- that Egyptian -- '' `` Ha ! '' 
Frederick supported her head , and his lips were pressed tenderly upon her brow . 
She pushed him from her . 
Oh , Frederick , this was forbidden . 
`` He it was -- the Egyptian ! 
He said it ! 
He ! 
He knew all ! 
He told me all ! 
Told me , Frederick , of things of which you knew nothing . 
These secrets , Frederick , shall be yours also . 
For the meditated crime is for us a crime already committed , Frederick . 
`` But not like mine , Frederick . 
`` But this is now impossible , Frederick ! 
Frederick , meanwhile , with his elbow resting upon the pillow , had shaded his eyes also . 
He was in deep and anxious contemplation -- suffering greatly from misgiving of various kinds , and brooding upon what he had already heard . 
He had already , in some degree , prepared his mind ; and his future purposes had also , though vaguely and entirely a shadow , been presented to his vision . 
At length the silence was broken by his companion . 
`` You think me a foolish creature , Frederick -- deceived by my own fears and superstitions . 
He took her hand tenderly within his own , and she began her narrative as follows : -- `` Youknow my early history , Frederick , as much of it as need to be known in connection with my present narrative . 
Here Frederick Brandon , with a fierce ejaculation , started to his feet and paced the apartment . 
He drew nigh , resumed his seat beside her , and took her hand silently within his own . 
He schooled himself with a firmness perfectly astonishing ; for his heart was like a volcano , ready to flame and overflow . 
A terrible feeling took possession of my bosom , and here , O Frederick , my crime begins . 
But from that dreadful moment , Frederick ! 
-- She paused , and Brandon was conscious that her hand , which had previously lain upon his own , now grasped his fingers convulsively . 
He looked into her face . 
He began to be alarmed . 
he exclaimed , in accents of apprehension . 
`` Nay , Frederick , fear nothing . 
Turn your eyes away , dear Frederick . 
Here she suddenly caught both of Brandon 's hands within her own , and bent round eagerly to look into his face . 
Thanks , my Frederick . 
`` Yes , Frederick , I conceal nothing . 
He turned in the direction pointed out , fixed his eyes curiously upon it , but said nothing . 
dear Frederick , who shall say when he is received to mercy -- when he is acquitted of his guilt -- and when his penance shall suffice for atonement ? '' 
Brandon smiled slightly , quietly remarking -- `` It struck me as coming from a theologian . '' 
`` Alas , Frederick ! 
did he not show me those awful features , but too well remembered , at once of death and life ? 
Besides , Frederick , did he not unveil to me my own terrible secret -- the meditated crime , which was to precipitate him from life to judgment , and which my lips had never before confided to any mortal keeping ? '' 
Brandon again rose from his seat and paced the apartment in silence . 
And now -- '' Brandon approached and whispered to her . 
She would have continued , but he arrested her . 
She remained silent , and he continued to pace the floor ; his eye seeming to wander about the chamber in a manner which at length struck the attention of Marie de Berniere , and filled her with new anxieties . 
But he motioned her to continue , and she suddenly resumed -- `` How could I question this visitation ? 
You see for yourself , dear Frederick , that we must part -- '' `` A moment ! 
Did he only state the fact , or did he exhibit such a knowledge of details ? 
There , said he , could that closet but speak , which beheld you prepare the poison -- that mantle which saw you place the bottle upon it , in readiness for the dinner-hour -- that casement from which you finally cast it forth -- those plants below which received it , or that pillow which heard your ineffectual prayer for pardon ! 
Oh , Frederick , he knew every movement of my soul ! '' 
The eye of Brandon brightened , and he muttered to himself -- `` Every movement of your person , rather . 
The spectre only proves that he knows too much ! '' 
She did not distinguish what he said . 
`` Speak to me , Frederick ! 
But as he continued to walk the floor in silence , her agony of soul became too great for endurance , and raising herself from the couch , with a strength which was due wholly to her excited feelings , she darted forward and seized him by the arm , arresting his further movement almost by violence . 
He took her tenderly in his embrace , and carried her back to the couch . 
When she was again composed , he began -- `` It is not to be expected , dear Marie , that I , who have loved you so long and so fervently , should give you up without a struggle . 
`` Ah , Frederick , but this isolation need not be yours ! 
Frederick , is this wise in you to ask ? 
`` At all events , '' said he , `` suffer me to see you to-morrow , and once or twice afterwards . 
He pressed tenderly the hand which she gave him ; and when he had disappeared , a passion of tears relieved , temporarily , the sorrows of the poor heart , that , suffering grievously before , was compelled , in secret , to admit that its worst miseries were never felt till now . 
Theparticulars of this remarkable interview were given to me by Frederick that very night . 
`` And what think youof all this , Frederick -- does it stagger you ? '' 
`` But , if it be a piece of jugglery , Frederick , how do you account for the ghost 's possession of Marie 's secret ? '' 
But as much of this discussion was necessarily renewed between Frederick and Marie de Berniere , I forbear , in this place , to bring it forward , and will not anticipate any of the schemes or philosophies of my companion . 
I strolled about town , listless but anxious , and saw nothing of Frederick till next day . 
In the mean time he had again seen his betrothed , as he had promised . 
He found her alone , as sad , probably , as before , but something calmer , and in better strength for the interview . 
`` Marie , '' said Frederick , `` I have brought you a letter from my sister . 
can you think so , Frederick ? '' 
Frederick sat beside her ; as she read , his eyes alternately gazing upon her and upon the vacant walls of the apartment . 
The letter was , in reality , his own . 
He had his motive for making a statement aloud which was at variance with the fact . 
She drew the writing-materials to her side , and penned a single sentence , addressed to Madame de Chateauneuve , which Frederick conveyed , without reading , to his pocket . 
She suffered him , at the same time , without seeming to note the action , to gather up and conceal the billet which he had brought . 
It was long before they separated ; and Frederick fancied that he had gained something towards his object , when he left Marie in much better spirits than before , and with something like a hope glistening in her eyes , which her lips as mournfully persisted in denying to his ears . 
That afternoon Frederick came to me . 
This was Brandon . 
His disguise was admirable . 
I complimented him upon his skill in masquerading . 
`` So much , '' said he , `` for the habits of us wandering youth in New Orleans . 
He was followed by a porter bearing a trunk , which contained a sufficient wardrobe for us both , but adapted to our new change of habit . 
Brandon was at great pains with me , and we set forth , the porter carrying the trunk . 
Brandon ate nothing . 
He disappeared while I was smoking a cigar in the bar-room , and was gone for half an hour . 
He brought with him , on his return , another porter , to whom the trunk was given in charge . 
Brandon soon drew me to the window , which was small , and furnished with heavy blinds . 
`` Look , '' said he , as he threw open the shutter ; `` there is the dwelling of Madame de Berniere obliquely opposite , and at a reasonable distance . 
Of the long and serious conversation which I had that night with Frederick Brandon , I shall say nothing ; as much of the material was necessarily employed the next day in his conference with Marie de Berniere . 
The friends alighted and entered the house , where Brandon was in waiting to receive them . 
He saw them approaching from the window , but did not dare to descend and assist them , as he was unwilling that any watchful or suspicious eye might detect his presence on this occasion . 
His plan of operations was one which must fail without the nicest precautions , and , as he observed to me the night before , `` Whether I am to play against man or devil , it is evident that my opponent is an old and adroit manager of the cards . 
`` You have provoked my doubts and curiosity , Frederick , to such a degree that I could not sleep last night . 
Tell me , then , Frederick , what is it that you know , or wherefore and whom do you suspect ? '' 
`` But that face of death , Frederick -- those fearful and glassy eyes , which stared into my own , freezing me to my very soul ; that voice , so entirely the same ; that ghastly aspect , and over all , the revelation of that terrible secret which I had fondly imagined was buried and obliterated in the insane thought in which it had existence . '' 
`` But do you , then , not believe at all in ghosts , Frederick ? '' 
`` Alas , Frederick ! 
`` Not to him ! 
You meditated a crime against him , it is true ; but as you did not execute your offence , as he did not suffer from it , your real crime was against the Deity . 
`` But he may execute the vengeance of the good God , Frederick ? '' 
Frederick , no ! '' 
Rather '' -- `` Forbear , Frederick , forbear ! 
`` But in truth , dear Marie , he comes from neither ! 
He is but a vulgar ghost of mortal manufacture . 
You perceive that he does not come at all until we are engaged to be married . 
A pause ensued , in which Frederick Brandon appeared to await her answer . 
`` You are reasoning , Frederick , as men are apt to reason in ordinary concerns . 
`` But the peculiar revelation which is made by this messenger , Frederick ? '' 
Itmust not be supposed that Frederick Brandon was allowed to pursue this long analysis without frequent interruptions from his fair companion ; frequent questionings , doubts , and suggestions occurred during his progress , which we have not thought necessary to put on record . 
In all his conversation , Brandon was properly heedful of all her feelings and distresses . 
He had schooled his mind to progress , and , calm himself , mentally -- whatever might be the emotions feverishly working in his heart , he had been able to address himself to the woman whom he loved , with a care that never once forgot the physician in the philosopher . 
But your argument , Frederick , with some exceptions , relates only to general speculations upon the merely probable or possible in such an affair . 
`` Frederick , you confound me . '' 
`` Surely , Frederick , I have so prayed and so spoken in my prayers . '' 
Oh , Frederick ! 
`` In the name of Heaven , Frederick , what is it that you suspect ? '' 
`` But who can this be , Frederick ? 
I see that you have your suspicions of him , also . '' 
It is not improbable , however , that I shall lead you to him hereafter , by irresistible conclusions . 
`` Will I not , Frederick ? '' 
`` But why this , Frederick ; and why are you so particular about the hours of nine and eleven ? '' 
`` Oh , willingly , Frederick . 
I have really only given the heads of this long and important conference -- just enough to show how thorough were the investigations of Brandon -- in what way he was preparing to work -- how cool were his speculations -- with what severity he probed the argument -- and what determined earnestness distinguished his character . 
The reader will conjecture them from a first appreciation of Brandon 's manliness , and of the warmth and soul of Marie . 
It is enough now , if I add that the result of the conference was to awaken in the fair widow suspicions not dissimilar to those of Brandon , in regard to this mystery . 
His ingenious analysis seemed to prove already that she had been made the dupe of her fears . 
Her indignation was greatly awakened by the idea that a gross and brutal imposition had been practised upon her senses ; and the gratitude which she felt for him who had done thus much for her enlightenment , added greatly to the strength of those sympathies which she had felt for him before . 
She frankly promised to obey him in all respects , and with a last exhortation to be wary , to show no eagerness or agitation , and express no suspicions , he assisted her to the carriage , when she was accompanied by Madame de Chateauneuve to the dwelling within whose walls harbored the whole secret of her painful and absorbing mystery . 
WhileFrederick Brandon was thus conferring with and counselling his mistress , I had been doing the small part which he had assigned me . 
It was eight o'clock in the evening when Frederick came , and I saw immediately that much had taken place , in the mean time , of a definite character . 
At length she was persuaded to see Frederick , who waited for her in the parlor . 
She descended to him , and he received her with a degree of composure , which , considering her distress , appeared to her rather unfeeling . 
She seemed to reproach him with it . 
`` You seem not to know how much I suffer , Frederick . 
Frederick , I have learned enough to satisfy us both , even you , who are naturally so skeptical . '' 
You could scarcely guess everything Frederick . '' 
O , Frederick , this is mere vanity . '' 
`` Frederick , Frederick -- of what use to repeat ? 
`` I too , '' answered Frederick , with a smile -- `` I too Marie , claim to know your thoughts quite as well as the spectre . 
`` Do not mock me , Frederick . '' 
he eagerly demanded . 
At a sign from Marie , the box containing them was handed him by his sister , while Marie , herself , delivered to him the little strangelooking key which opened it . 
Frederick , at once , examined the contents of the box , and seemed satisfied . 
He relocked it and secured the key . 
All is useless , Frederick ! 
Take my word for it , Frederick , and spare me the revelation . '' 
`` Hold , Frederick . '' 
But when I knowhow completely you are the victim of his arts and your own imagination , I can not easily restrain myself . 
That , alone , Frederick , proved the approach of something unearthly . '' 
Frederick , this incredulity is dreadful . 
`` Believe me , Frederick , it was exactly the voice of Colonel de Berniere ! '' 
`` He certainly said that , also , Frederick . '' 
`` See you not , then , that he leaves the grave only to repeat things which poor living mortals can say just as well ? '' 
if that were all , Frederick ; but what if he read my secret thoughts ? '' 
You must not take it amiss , Frederick , if , compelled as I am to show you everything that was said to me , I reveal to you those thoughts and purposes of my own , which I had otherwise never spoken of to you . 
You must know , then , that , among other things , the being said thus -- I give it nearly in his own language : -- `` You are even now meditating , '' said he , `` to bestow a fortune on the man for whom you feel a passion . 
asked Frederick , in a subdued voice . 
`` Forgive me , Frederick , but I had , more than a month ago ; and when I felt that there was an impassable gulf between us , I came to the resolution to do so . 
`` But how should he know , Frederick , that I had designed to convey to you this property ? '' 
It had been artfully prepared , as if after a conference with herself , and was a seemingly ingenious disclaimer , on the part of Brandon , of the fortune which -LRB- it was alleged -RRB- she had proposed to bestow upon him , while declaring her purpose to retire from the world . 
`` How could you know , Frederick , that I had any such design ? '' 
`` What further shall I do , Frederick ? 
Convince me of what you suspect , dear Frederick , if you love me , if you would in truth preserve me for yourself . '' 
He caught her in a fervent embrace . 
The conversation was continued much longer ; but its results will suffice our purposes , contained in the closing directions of Brandon . 
Meanwhile , Frederick Brandon was busy making all the necessary preparations for the further object which he had in view . 
As soon as Marie de Berniere had left the city , he came to me . 
After a little further conversation , which I need not report , Frederick once more disappeared . 
With dark , he returned , bringing some small articles with him , which he did not show to me . 
He was in excellent spirits . 
Doing or contemplating work , he had the energy and eye of an eagle ; and his conversation rose frequently into passionate bursts of eloquence . 
A wonderful capacity for labor and a rare enthusiasm of temperament were his great secrets , in connection with a quality of calm , calculating thought , which is quite as rare in such association . 
At the appointed time we sat out for the region devoted to exploration -- I carrying the bag , he the box and some small bundles , all concealed under our cloaks . 
As soon as the light was fairly kindled , and before taking another step , Frederick proceeded to thrust a steel awl into the wood of the outer entrance , just above the bolt of the lock , so that nobody could enter from without even if in possession of a key . 
`` The communications between the several rooms , '' said Frederick , `` may not be by secret avenues . 
Frederick made me remark the fact that the wall was lined and panelled throughout with black cypress , instead of being plastered ; the panelling was heavy , with great massive mouldings of wood , while the stair-flight left no space beneath , but was closed in , and seemed to form a spacious closet , or series of closets , all of which was done in a heavy panelling , the same as the wall . 
`` We may examine these hereafter , '' said Frederick . 
On reaching the second floor , Frederick bade me observe that the walls continued to be heavily panelled as below ; but we did not linger to examine them . 
But it was evident that Frederick surveyed the scene with a deep , as with a silent , interest . 
Frederick held up the lamp and looked around him without a word , but with evident curiosity and a full heart . 
At length , he spoke -- `` My poor Marie ! 
His voice faltered . 
I fancied that I could see a big tear gathering in his eye , but he turned from me at the moment . 
`` Love , '' he continued -- `` tears -- are not inconsistent with manhood . 
`` The joinery , '' said Frederick , resuming -- `` has been well done . 
I held the lantern ; and , with his thin spatula , my friend , on his knees , proceeded to insinuate the blade between the heavy plate-moulding , and the rest of the panel . 
He commenced at the fireplace , working backwards , to the rear of the building . 
After a few moments , he said -- `` It is here ! 
`` Now , '' said he , `` let us mount these chairs , and probe the corresponding plate above . 
Thus saying , Frederick proceeded with a large spatula to feel his way along the perpendicular lines of panel . 
`` A secret which is suspected to exist , '' said he , as he worked , `` is already more than half revealed . 
His spatula was employed , but none was felt . 
But it was quite enough for Frederick , that he found the knife-blade to work with comparative freedom up and down , everywhere , except in one place . 
`` You see , '' he observed , `` that it binds here.This is about four feet from the floor , and tolerably convenient to the hand . 
Throwing fully open the door of the lantern , so that the light should be as ample as it could afford , Frederick kneeled upon the hearth , never troubling himself with fear of soot and ashes , and thrust his head and light into the vaulted chimney-place . 
Here he worked for some time with patience and in silence . 
At length he called me . 
`` You perceive , '' said he , `` that once know where the opening lies , and a person standing outside can not miss it . 
I obeyed him . 
`` Look , '' said he , `` does the door open ? '' 
It stood wide , but dark , before me , while the light was still in Frederick 's hands and up the chimney . 
Frederick did not immediately leave the fireplace after I made my report . 
He was employed , with a probe , feeling the secret opening , and examining the opposite side of the wall also . 
Certainly , he was the most remarkably cool person in the world , having , at the same time , such powerful passions . 
He exhibited no sort of surprise at the result . 
In fact , he had calculated on it as confidently as on a solved problem . 
When he came forth , he proceeded to inspect the opening , about which , as I had never seen a secret door , or any similar machinery , I was excessively curious . 
The lantern was thrust into the recess , and Frederick -- peering eagerly , all the while , over his shoulder -- examined it closely , looking particularly to the flooring of the recess . 
Kneeling down , Frederick felt around the floor of the closet . 
He drew my attention to the fact that it was separated entirely from the walls around it ; was separated equally from the floor of the chamber , and from the beams of the dwelling . 
He next showed me four stout cords , fully an inch in diameter , working in grooves against the chimney ; and the opposite wall , which was of plank , smoothed , but not panelled as in that of the chamber . 
Standing upon a chair , he discovered the tackle and pulleys above , and a stouter rope connected with them , the end of which was passed down through a central groove in the chimney , which , in the centre , was perpendicularly recessed so as to afford additional space to the person within the cavity . 
`` The rope , '' said he , `` finds its way to the lower story , by which the ghost works his way up . 
After a brief search he called to me . 
Barely passing his hand over the region where he suspected it to lie , Frederick discovered and tried it . 
The aperture at once unfolded itself to his gaze . 
Frederick passed into the closet , and in a moment after said to me -- `` Here is a discovery with a vengeance . 
Frederick made other discoveries , but we need not linger in detailing them , as they were all simply dependent upon the main facts in our possession . 
Emerging from the inner recess , and carefully closing the door behind him , Frederick paused for a few moments , as if for rest and reflection . 
At length he said -- `` It is now necessary that I should go below , and see from what sort of Tartarus our afflicted ghost emerges nightly . 
Once down , Frederick drew up the platform , upon which I descended in like manner . 
Frederick took good note of these avenues , which he conceived to have been the work of the Spaniards , when they held possession of the city , and that they showed traces of the Spanish Inquisition . 
While here , Frederick Brandon said to me -- `` You think we have seen all ; but look here . 
He did so , and was about to press the spring , when he paused . 
He paused for consideration , but after a little while said -- `` I will risk it . 
He did so , and found himself in a school-room , filled with desks and benches ; books lay about confusedly , and it was evident that the room had been only recently employed for the purposes of instruction . 
Frederick did not pursue his researches in this quarter . 
`` Enough , '' said he , `` for the present . 
Frederick ate very heartily , and drank freely . 
`` I must eat and drink , '' said he , `` whenever engaged on such labors as have lately troubled me . 
He did eminent justice to our repast . 
This over , he said -- `` Now , William , the question is , what is to be done with this ghost ? 
`` But who is he , Frederick ? 
But Frederick shook his head . 
said I , seeing Frederick moving to the secret passage . 
We swallowed a bowl of coffee each , on our return , and Frederick soon after tumbled into bed . 
Spite of the coffee , which had been made strong , he was instantly asleep , and slept like a top . 
But Frederick was awake with the dawn , and off . 
What he did that day I know not ; but he was busy . 
At night he came again ; and again , that night , we penetrated the dwelling of Marie , and the secret entrance . 
Frederick worked like a hero ; as none , indeed , but a hero or a genius can work . 
All his preparations completed for the proper reception of the ghost , the next step of Frederick Brandon was to recall Marie de Berniere from her plantation to her town residence ; and then to compel the spectre to reappear . 
To effect these objects , he prepared to dispatch his sister , Madame de Chateauneuve , on a visit to his betrothed . 
Accordingly , Frederick set to work to compose a letter to Marie , which I was permitted to read as he wrote . 
Frederick loves me , and would wish to cure me of my fears , to cure me for himself . 
He has provided this death-mask -- he has placed this costume of the Egyptian here -- he -- ' Who will prove that we did not put them there ? '' 
But she may possibly reason thus in respect to this secret passage , still under the bias of a superstition which is in full possession , and tenacious of its hold : ` Old houses , Frederick himself has told me , are not unfrequently thus provided with secret passages . 
He has suspected the presence of one in my house , which is one of the oldest of the old city ; one of the most massive , and particularly susceptible of use in this manner . 
His conjecture has been verified by his search . 
This proves nothing against the spectre , unless you can show that , because a ghost is independent of such aids , he will scorn to appear in a dwelling which offers him such unnecessary facilities . ' 
A weekhad fully elapsed after this conversation , when one evening Frederick Brandon said to me : -- `` My sister returned this morning to the city . 
A little after we had awakened , Frederick ventured out , but soon returned . 
`` They ca n't arrive , '' said he , `` before mid-day , and the servants and carriage will come first . 
`` She is withdrawing the key from the lock , '' said Frederick , `` as I counselled her through my sister . '' 
Frederick now carefully trimmed the lamp , shutting the door of it as soon as it was done . 
In the brief moments , when the light was cast upon his countenance , I saw that his face was very pale , but all the muscles were rigid , and the mouth was silently and firmly compressed . 
`` Should your conjectures and suspicions , after all , prove unfounded -- should there be a realghost , Frederick ! '' 
Frederick felt the movement . 
`` If you are drowsy , '' said he , `` indulge yourself . 
I was awakened suddenly by Frederick 's grasp upon my shoulder , and by the subsiding tinkle of the little bell within my ears . 
Frederick rose , his movements quite measured and necessarily deliberate . 
We both moved with caution , he leading the way , surmounting boxes and cradle , and without any casualty , we extricated ourselves , and emerged from the closet . 
I carried the lamp , Frederick the keys , and we proceeded at once , along the passage to the door of Marie 's chamber . 
I opened the lantern door ; and Frederick applied the key to the lock . 
Frederick , however , coolly took the lantern from my hand ; and , going to the toilet , lighted the two waxen candles which stood upon it . 
Frederick 's face was fearfully pale ; but he said nothing . 
His lips were rigidly caught by his teeth . 
I readily conjectured all his emotions . 
Should he have failed ! 
Should there be no detection -- no human victim -- all the fancies , and the superstitions of the woman whom he so much loved , would be confirmed , fatally , to all his hopes . 
He seized one of the candles in his hand , raised it aloft , saw that the secret door was fully fastened , and at once proceeded to the chimney . 
A moment after , he laughed aloud , somewhat hysterically , and the next moment , thrusting the candle into my hands , he stooped into the fireplace and drew down the ghost , by a pair of very well-made mortal legs , from the recesses of the chimney . 
he said , with great deliberation . 
The vigorous grasp of Frederick assisted his movements , and dragged him from his hiding-place . 
He stood upon the hearth , speechless , immovable ; and when I thrust the candle towards his face , the suspicions of my friend were all confirmed . 
He offered no resistance , as drawing a stout cord from his pocket , Frederick prepared to secure his arms behind him . 
But here Madame de Berniere interposed -- `` Frederick , for my sake , spare him this -- '' Frederick paused without answering , and looking with searching eyes into the face of the culprit , seemed to ask himself , by the brief examination , whether he ought to , or could safely forbear the precaution which he had meditated . 
`` He is an Italian ! '' 
said he to me , in an under tone , but sufficiently loud for the Father to hear . 
`` And this , '' said Frederick , `` is one of a race that boasted such names as Scipio and Cicero , Cato and Julius Cæsar . 
The eye of Frederick seemed to indicate what he wished as well to myself as to Paul Roquetti . 
Frederick came behind him , bringing one of the candles . 
Frederick placed his candle on the front window of the passage overlooking the street . 
He touched his repeater . 
`` We shall soon have visitors , '' said he ; `` the light is a signal . '' 
`` In -- to your mistress , '' said Frederick , sternly . 
There was no questioning that eagle glance , those stern simple tones with which he commanded her . 
`` Be seated , sir , '' said Frederick , in tones of command , rather than entreaty , pointing at the same time to one of the chairs . 
`` Down , sir , '' said Frederick , `` and be in readiness to answer the door . '' 
He pressed forward . 
`` See to the priest , '' said Frederick , and with the words , with but a bound , he sprang upon the mulatto , grasped him by the throat , wheeled him about , and plunged him headlong down the steps , just as the scoundrel was drawing a knife from his bosom . 
`` It is my sister and Monsieur de Chateauneuve , '' said Frederick . 
Again Andres made his appearance coming up , but the vigilant eye of Frederick beheld him , and ordered him down again . 
A brief conversation aside , between Frederick and Monsieur de Chateauneuve , sent the latter off . 
Meanwhile , the two ladies had retired to the chamber of Madame de Berniere , leaving Father Paul in the keeping of Frederick and myself . 
Frederick , finally , as he became chafed at the pertinacity of the mulatto , pulled a pair of pistols from his coat , and sternly assured him that if he appeared again before he was summoned , he should be rewarded with an ounce of lead . 
The Archbishop then spoke to Frederick , whom he had met before , and knew . 
But Frederick said , quickly -- `` No , sir ; he is in your hands . 
The former lady requested us now to enter the room , while Frederick laid bare the secret avenues within and beneath its walls . 
`` You will be confounded , '' said Frederick , `` at the extent of these ramifications , and the wonderful power for harm which this man exercised . '' 
We need not follow the party , as Frederick unfolded the secret avenues , and showed all the clues . 
Frederick smiled , and said to the Archbishop -- `` Do you know one Louise Porterier , living in the street -- ? '' 
`` Perhaps not , and yet -- '' Frederick looked to Marie . 
She smiled to him gratefully . 
As Frederick had predicted , Louise Porterier disappeared , with all her family , in two weeks after . 
Three days after the eventful discovery , which concluded the claims of the ghost , Frederick had an interview with Marie de Berniere . 
`` Frederick , '' she said , `` look at this . 
This was all she said ; he opened his arms , and she buried her face , sobbing audibly , in his bosom . 
