called out Capt. Stephen Spike , of the half-rigged , brigantine Swash , or Molly Swash , as was her registered name , to his mate -- `` we shall be dropping out as soon as the tide makes , and I intend to get through the Gate , at least , on the next flood . 
The grum top-chain voice of Captain Spike had nothing there to mingle with , or interrupt its harsh tones , and it instantly brought on deck Harry Mulford , the mate in question , apparently eager to receive his orders . 
`` Did you hail , Captain Spike ? '' 
`` What are your orders , Capt. Spike ? '' 
`` You have an uncommonly sober crew , Capt. Spike , '' answered the young man , with great calmness . 
`` May I inquire if you ever saw me , the least in the world , under the influence of liquor , Capt. Spike ? '' 
`` Does Rose Budd think herself consumptive , Capt. Spike ? '' 
Mulford almost nauseated the expression of his commander 's countenance while Spike uttered the last words . 
Spike had been on the point of walking up the wharf , but he now so far changed his purpose as actually to jump on board of the brig and spring up alongside of his mate , on the taffrail , in order to get a better look at the steamer . 
Mulford , who loathed so much in his commander , was actually glad of this , Spike 's rare merit as a seaman forming a sort of attraction that held him , as it might be against his own will , bound to his service . 
exclaimed the master , his manner and voice actually humanized , in air and sound at least , by this unexpected view of something new in his calling -- `` What willthey do next ? '' 
A long , low , expressive whistle from Spike succeeded this remark , the colours of the steamer going up to the end of a gaff on the sternmost of her schooner-rigged masts , just as Mulford ceased speaking . 
`` It would be somewhat singular , Capt , Spike , '' he said , `` if a vessel belonging to any nation should be seized as a pirate . 
`` Then let her carry a national flag , and be d -- d to her , '' answered Spike fiercely . 
`` That 's a droll-looking revenue cutter , after all , Capt. Spike , '' he said -- `` a craft better fitted to go in a fleet , as a look-out vessel , than to chase a smuggler in-shore . '' 
Spike muttered something between his teeth , and jumped down on deck , seemingly dismissing the subject of the revenue entirely from his mind . 
His old , coarse , authoritative manner returned , and he again spoke to his mate about Rose Budd , her aunt , the `` ladies ' cabin , '' the `` young flood , '' and `` casting off , '' as soon as the last made . 
As Spike uttered this order , his foot was on the planksheer of the bulwarks , in the act of passing to the wharf again . 
On reaching the shore , he turned and looked intently at the revenue steamer , and his lips moved , as if he were secretly uttering maledictions on her . 
We say maledictions , as the expression of his fierce ill-favoured countenance too plainly showed that they could not be blessings . 
The opportunity soon occurred , Spike having satisfied himself with the second look at the steamer . 
`` I hope you do n't mean to sail again without a second mate , Capt. Spike ? '' 
he said . 
Saying this in a sufficiently positive manner , Capt. Stephen Spike rolled up the wharf , much as a ship goes off before the wind , now inclining to the right , and then again to the left . 
But , as has been said , Spike was a temperance man , as respects all under his orders at least , if not strictly so in practice himself . 
This , indeed , composed their great merit ; an advantage that Spike well knew how to appreciate . 
The arrangement was unusual , and Spike had several times hinted that there was a history connected with that cabin ; though what the history was Mulford never could induce him to relate . 
Now , all was regular in the way of records , bills of sale , and other documents ; Stephen Spike appearing in both the capacities just named . 
Her fore-topsail -- or fore - tawsail as Spike called it -- was loose , the fasts were singled , and a spring had been carried to a post in the wharf , that was well forward of the starboard bow , and the brig 's head turned to the southwest , or down the stream , and consequently facing the young flood . 
The vehicle was soon on the wharf , and in its door soon appeared the short , sturdy figure of Capt. Spike , backing out , much as a bear descends a tree . 
Spike had tact enough to understand he would be out of his element in assisting females along that plank , and he was busy in sending what he called `` the old lady 's dunnage '' on board , and in discharging the cabman . 
As soon as this was done , he sprang into the main-channels , and thence vidthe bulwarks , on deck , ordering the plank to be hauled aboard . 
Spike bestirred himself , giving his orders in a way to denote he had been long accustomed to exercise authority on the deck of a vessel , and knew his calling to its minutiæ . 
The only ostensible difference between his deportment to-day and on any ordinary occasion , perhaps , was in the circumstance that he now seemed anxious to get clear of the wharf , and that in a way which might have attracted notice in any suspicious and attentive observer . 
It is possible that such a one was not very distant , and that Spike was aware of his presence , for a respectable-looking , well-dressed , middle-aged man hadcome down one of the adjacent streets , to a spot within a hundred yards of the wharf , and stood silently watching the movements of the brig , as he leaned against a fence . 
The want of houses in that quarter enabled any person to see this stranger from the deck of the Swash , but no one on board her seemed to regard him at all , unless it might be the master . 
Her people clapped on this , and gave way to their craft , which , being comparatively light , was easily moved , and was very manageable . 
In the meanwhile , Spike and his people were not idle . 
At sea , Spike knew better than to trust to this arrangement ; but in fine weather , and close in with the land , he found it convenient to have this sail haul out and brail like a ship 's spanker . 
Spike was on the taffrail , overhauling the main-sheet , and Mulford was near him , casting the fore-topsail braces from the pins , preparatory to clapping on the halyards . 
`` I do not think either would be likely to do us much harm , Capt. Spike . '' 
They call me ready-money Stephen , round among the ship-chandlers and caulkers . 
Spike ordered the mate to clap on the outhauler , and spread that broad sheet of canvas at once to the little breeze there was . 
Mulford now passed forward to set the jibs , and to get the topsail on the craft , leaving Spike on the taffrail , keenly eyeing the strangers , who , by this time , had got down nearly to the end of the wharf , at the berth so lately occupied by the Swash . 
demanded Spike , in return . 
The man on the wharf seemed to be familiar with this sort of sea-wit , and he made no answer , but continued that close scrutiny of the brig , by turning his eyes in all directions , now looking below , and now aloft , which had in truth occasioned Spike 's principal cause for uneasiness . 
`` Is not that Capt. Stephen Spike , of the brigantine Molly Swash ? '' 
called out the little , dumpling-looking person , in a cracked , dwarfish sort of a voice , that was admirably adapted to his appearance . 
Our captain fairly started ; turned full toward the speaker ; regarded him intently for a moment ; and gulped the words he was about to utter , like one confounded . 
As he gazed , however , at little dumpy , examining his bow-legs , red broad cheeks , and coarse snub nose , he seemed to regain his self-command , as if satisfied the dead had not really returned to life . 
he asked , by way of answer . 
Stephen Spike and I sailed together twenty years since , and I hope to live to sail with him again . '' 
`` Yousail with Stephen Spike ? 
Have you forgotten little Jack Tier , Capt. Spike ? '' 
Spike looked astonished , and well he might , for he had supposed Jack to be dead fully fifteen years . 
Time and hard service had greatly altered him , but the general resemblance in figure , stature , and waddle , certainly remained . 
Notwithstanding , the Jack Tier that Spike remembered was quite a different person from this Jack Tier . 
Spike had many reasons for wishing Jack Tier were not resuscitated in this extraordinary manner , and some for being glad to see him . 
It is always convenient to have one at your elbow who thoroughly understands you , and Spike would have lowered a boat and sent it to the wharf to bring Jack off , were it not for the gentleman who was so inquisitive about pilots . 
This circumstance alone would soon have put an end to the conversation , had not Spike 's pausing to reflect brought about the same result , as mentioned . 
Let Cap'n Spike alone for dat ! 
He won ` erful at accommodation ! 
It 's enough for us that Capt. Spike has ordered them all to stay forward among the men , which is always done on board well disciplined vessels . 
Perhaps the exquisite neatness that Mulford maintained about everything that came under his care , and that included everything on deck , or above-board , and about which neatness Spike occasionally muttered an oath , as so much senseless trouble , contributed somewhat to Rose 's pleasure ; but her admiration would scarcely have been less with anything that had sails , and seemed to move through the water with a power approaching that of volition . 
Spike never took a pilot when he could avoid it , and his mind was too much occupied with his duty , in that critical navigation , to share at all in the conversation of his passengers , though he did endeavour to make himself agreeable to Rose , by an occasional remark , when a favourable opportunity offered . 
But all this was lost on Spike . 
He remembered the shore as it had been twenty years before , and he saw what it was now , but little did he care for the change . 
On the whole , he rather preferred the Grecian Temples , over which the ravens would have been compelled to fly , had there been any ravens in that neighbourhood , to the old-fashioned and highly respectable residence that once alone occupied the spot . 
The point he did understand , however , and on the merits of which he had something to say , was a little farther ahead . 
This spot Spike understood perfectly , and it was not likely that he should pass it without communicating a portion of his knowledge to Rose . 
`` There , Miss Rose , '' he said , with a didactic sort of air , pointing with his short , thick finger at the little bay which was just opening to their view ; `` there 's as neat a cove as a craft need bring up in . 
`` Are we near the Gate , Capt. Spike ? '' 
asked Rose , the fine bloom on her cheek lessening a little , under the apprehension that formidable name is apt to awaken in the breasts of the inexperienced . 
`` I wish , Capt. Spike , I could teach you to give that place its proper and polite name . 
`` Well , that 's new to me , '' cried Spike . 
`` Yes , '' said Spike sentimentally , `` I 'm quite of Miss Rose 's way of thinking -- straining at gnats is very ill-manners , especially at table . 
Spike was aft , where he could command a view of everything forward , and Mulford stood on the quarter-deck , to look after the head-braces . 
`` See all clear , '' called out Spike . 
There was Spike , levelling a spy-glass at a boat that was pulling swiftly out of the north channel , and shooting like an arrow directly athwart the brig 's bows into the main passage of the Gate . 
He stepped to the captain 's elbow . 
`` Just take a look at them chaps , Mr. Mulford , '' said Spike , handing his mate the glass . 
`` They seem in a hurry , '' answered Harry , as he adjusted the glass to his eye , `` and will go through the Gate in less time than it will take to mention the circumstance . '' 
`` We 're forereaching too near the Hog 's Back , Capt. Spike , '' roared the boatswain , from forward . 
`` Ready about -- hard a lee , '' shouted Spike . 
While Spike 's attention had been thus diverted by the boat , the brig had got into the strongest of the current , which , by setting her fast to windward , had trebled the power of the air , and this was shooting her over toward one of the greatest dangers of the passage on a flood tide . 
Spike breathed again , but his head was still full of the boat . 
The danger he had just escaped as Scylla met him as Charybdis . 
If we know him to be a thief , shall we not lay hands on him ? 
Weleft the brigantine of Capt. Spike in a very critical situation , and the master himself in great confusion of mind . 
It was in escaping this danger , and in recovering the command of his vessel , that Spike now manifested the sort of stuff of which he was really made , in emergencies of this sort . 
The yards were all sharp up when the accident occurred , and springing to the lee braces , just as a man winks when his eye is menaced , he seized the weather fore-brace with his own hands , and began to round in the yard , shouting out to the man at the wheel to `` port his helm '' at the same time . 
called out Spike to Mulford , the instant he saw he had regained his seat in the saddle . 
cried out Spike , impatiently , as the rod reappeared . 
The mate remained perched up on the pump , in order to comply , while Spike and his people , who now breathed more freely again , improved the leisure to brace up and haul aft , to the new course . 
`` So much the better , '' answered Spike . 
As for Spike , his gallantry , notwithstanding , was upset for some hours , and glad enough was he when he saw all three of his passengers quit the deck to go below . 
`` There , Mulford , '' growled Spike , pointing ahead of the brig , to an object on the water that was about half a mile ahead of them , `` there 's that bloody boat -- d'ye see ? 
`` I know no harm of her , Capt. Spike , and hope I never shall . '' 
`` You have no fears of the man who calls himself Jack Tier , Capt. Spike ? '' 
The best thing in the known history of Spike was the fact that his steward had sailed with him for more than twenty years . 
Where he had picked up Josh no one could say , but Josh and himself , and neither chose to be very communicative on the subject . 
`` I say , Josh , '' asked Spike , `` do you happen to remember such a hand aboard here as one Jack Tier ? '' 
His beam was won ` erful for his length , altogedder -- what you call jolly-boat , or bum-boat build , and was only good afore'e wind , Cap'n Spike . '' 
`` Was he good for anything aboard ship , Josh ? 
Spike mused a moment -- then he rolled the tobacco over in his mouth , and added , in the way a man speaks when his mind is made up -- `` Ay ay ! 
All this Spike and his mate discussed together , while the people were clearing the decks , and making the preparations that are customary on board a vessel before she gets into rough water . 
But Spike kept harping on the boat , and `` the pilot-looking chap who was in her . '' 
`` Ay , ay , Madam Budd , '' put in Spike , `` I 'll answer for that . 
Captain Spike , did you ever beat the wind in a long voyage ? '' 
`` I ca n't say I ever did , Mrs. Budd , '' answered Spike , looking grimly around , to ascertain if any one dared to smile at his passenger 's mistake ; `` especially for so long a pull as from New York to Liverpool . '' 
Even Spike was dumfounded at this , and there is no knowing what he might have said , had not an old sea-dog , who had just come out of the fore-topmast cross-trees , come aft , and , hitching up his trowsers with one hand while he touched his hat with the other , said with immoveable gravity , `` The revenue-steamer has brought up just under the fort , Capt. Spike . '' 
Spike gave a long , low whistle , after his fashion , and he walked away from the females , with the air of a man who wanted room to think in . 
`` Keep the brig off , '' called out Spike , `` and let her ware -- we 're too busy to tack just now . '' 
As this change brought the brig before the wind , and Spike was in no hurry to luff up on the other tack , the Swash soon ran over a mile of the distance she had already made , putting her back that much on her way to the Neck . 
`` Man overboard , '' answered Spike -- `` you hav ` nt seen his hat , have you ? '' 
`` I think we may get in our mainsail on the strength of this , Mr. Mulford , '' said Spike . 
` Here is a skiff trying to get alongside of us , Capt. Spike , '' called out the boatswain . 
cried Spike , springing over to the opposite side of the deck to take a look for himself . 
To his infinite satisfaction he perceived that Tier was alone in the skiff , with the exception of a negro , who pulled its sculls , and that this was a very different boat from that which had glanced through Hell Gate , like an arrow darting from its bow . 
`` Luff , and shake your topsail , '' called out Spike . 
The meeting between Spike and his quondam steward 's mate was a little remarkable . 
We can not say that Spike 's hard , red , selfish countenance betrayed any great feeling , though such was not the case with Jack Tier 's . 
exclaimed Spike , in a half-patronizing , half-hesitating way -- and you want to try the old craft ag ` in . 
asked Spike . 
This conversation had taken place in the gangway , a somewhat public place , and Spike beckoned to his recruit to walk aft , where he might be questioned without being overheard . 
demanded Spike . 
`` I saw nothing of the sort , Capt. Spike , and knows nothing consarning him . '' 
`` What sort of a boat was he in , and where did he get it ? '' 
Jack started , and seemed sorry he had said so much ; while Spike eyed him keenly . 
he got nothin ' from me , Capt. Spike , that 'll ever do the brig a morsel of harm ! '' 
The succeeding movements of Spike appeared to be much influenced by what he had just heard . 
Notwithstanding these demonstrations of a wish to work to windward , Spike was really in no hurry . 
He had made up his mind to pass the steamer in the dark , if possible , and the night promised to favour him ; but , in order to do this , it might be necessary not to come in sight of her at all ; or , at least , not until the obscurity should in some measure conceal his rig and character . 
In consequence of this plan , the Swash made no great progress , even after she had got sail on her , on her old course . 
Off the pitch of the point , nearly mid-channel , had the steamer anchored , a fact of which Spike had made certain , by going aloft himself , and reconnoitering her over the land , before it had got to be too dark to do so . 
He entertained no manner of doubt that this vessel was in waiting for him , and he well knew there was good reason for it ; but he would not return and attempt the passage to sea by way of Sandy Hook . 
His manner of regarding the whole matter was cool and judicious . 
The distance to the Hook was too great to be made in such short nights ere the return of day , and he had no manner of doubt he was watched for in that direction , as well as in this . 
Then he was particularly unwilling to show his craft at all in front of the town , even in the night . 
Moreover , he had ways of his own for effecting his purposes , and this was the very spot and time to put them in execution . 
While these things were floating in his mind , Mrs. Budd and her handsome niece were making preparations for passing the night , aided by Biddy Noon . 
The effect , however , gave Spike great satisfaction , since it kept her out of sight , and left him more at liberty to carry out his own plans . 
Under this sail she worked like a top , and Spike sometimes fancied she travelled too fast for his purposes , the night air having thickened the canvas as usual , until it `` held the wind as a bottle holds water . '' 
She soon found Spike , who was bustling around the deck , now looking around to see that his brig was kept in the channel , now and then issuing an order to complete her disguise . 
`` Captain Spike , what canbe the meaning of all these changes ? 
`` Yes , Rosy dear , Captain Spike is right . 
But do n't you mean to navigate at all in the night , Captain Spike ? 
`` Captain Spike , '' said the boatswain , who had been set to look-out for that particular change -- `` the brig begins to feel the new tide , and sets to windward . '' 
Spike had gone forward , and posted himself on the weather-side of the forecastle , where he could get the clearest look ahead , and there he remained most of the time , leaving Mulford on the quarter-deck , to work the vessel , Perceiving this , she managed to get near the mate , without attracting her aunt 's attention , and at the same time out of ear-shot . 
Captain Spike , for some reason or other , is uneasy , and would rather not have anything to say to her . 
He has the greatest aversion to speaking the smallest craft when on a coast . '' 
`` And that 's the reason he has undressed his Molly , as he calls her , that he might not be known . '' 
It is probable she did this so much the sooner because Spike kept her a little off the wind , with a view of not passing too near the steamer . 
On the latter , and in that quarter , rose a bluff of considerable elevation , with deep water quite near it ; and , under the shadows of that bluff , Spike intended to perform his nicest evolutions . 
He saw that the revenue vessel had let her fires go down , and that she was entirely without steam . 
Under canvas , he had no doubt of beating her hand over hand , could he once fairly get to windward ; and then she was at anchor , and would lose some time in getting under way , should she even commence a pursuit . 
All this Spike very well understood , and largely calculated on . 
In effect he was not deceived ; the look-outs on board the revenue craft could trace little of the vessel that was approaching beyond the spars and sails which rose above the shores , and these seemed to be the spars and sails of a common foretopsail schooner . 
Spike was only great in a crisis , and then merely as a seaman . 
He understood his calling to its minutiæ , and he understood the Molly Swash better than he understood any other craft that floated . 
For more than twenty years had he sailed her , and the careful parent does not better understand the humours of the child , than he understood exactly what might be expected from his brig. His satisfaction sensibly increased , therefore , as she stole along the land , toward the angle mentioned , without a sound audible but the gentle gurgling of the water , stirred by the stem , and which sounded like the ripple of the gentlest wave , as it washes the shingle of some placid beach . 
Spike was now so near the land , that he could perceive the tide was beginning to aid him , and that his weatherly set was getting to be considerable . 
Delighted at this , he walked aft , and told Mulford to go about again as soon as the vessel had sufficient way to make sure of her in stays . 
The mate inquired if he did not think the revenue people might suspect something , unless they stood further out toward mid-channel , but Spike reminded him that they would be apt to think the schooner was working up under the southern shore , because the ebb first made there . 
whispered Spike to his mate . 
`` Whom do you suppose him to be , Captain Spike ? '' 
`` Who , -- a feller that lives by his own wicked deeds . 
No matter who he is . 
At any rate , he is not the man to outwit the Molly Swash , and her old , stupid , foolish master and owner , Stephen Spike . 
Spike tacked his vessel himself now , and got her head up so high that she brought the steamer on her lee quarter , and looked away toward the island which lies northwardly from the Point , and quite near to which all vessels of any draught of water are compelled to pass , even with the fairest winds . 
`` Shake the reef out of the mainsail , Mr. Mulford , '' said Spike , when the Swash was fairly in motion again on this advantageous tack . 
`` Do you dress the brig , as well as undress her , o'mights ; Captain Spike ? '' 
`` Sway upon that fore-yard , '' said Spike , unmoved by this summons -- `` start it , start it at once . '' 
`` The steamer hails us again , Captain Spike . '' 
It appeared to Spike , indeed , that practice was making her perfect ; and , as for Biddy , the spirit of emulation became so powerful in her bosom , that , if anything , she actually outshrieked her mistress . 
Captain Spike , '' exclaimed the agitated widow , `` do not -- do not , if you love me , do not let them fire again ! '' 
Spike understood the sounds that reached him , among which was the call of the boatswain , and he bestirred himself accordingly . 
Experienced as he was in chases and all sorts of nautical artifices , he very well knew that his situation was sufficiently critical . 
It would have been so , with a steamer at his heels , in the open ocean ; but , situated as he was , he was compelled to steer but one course , and to accept the wind on that course as it might offer . 
If he varied at all in his direction it was only in a trifling way , though he did make some of these variations . 
Every moment was now precious , however , and he endeavoured to improve the time to the utmost . 
He knew that he could greatly outsail the revenue vessel , under canvas , and some time would be necessary to enable her to get up her steam ; half an hour at the very least . 
`` Send the booms on the yards , and set stun ` sails at once , Mr. Mulford , '' said Spike , the instant the more regular canvas was spread forward . 
`` Are we not looking up too high , Captain Spike ? 
`` Do you really think it possible to get away from that craft , which can always make a fair wind of it , in these narrow waters , Captain Spike ? '' 
Spike had his Providence as well as a priest , and we dare say he often counted on its succour , with quite as rational grounds of dependence as many of the pharisees who are constantly exclaiming , `` The Temple of the Lord , the Temple of the Lord are these . '' 
Spike was a capital pilot . 
He insisted if he could once gain sight of the spar that was moored on those rocks for a buoy , he should run with great confidence . 
The two lights were of great assistance , of course ; but the revenue vessel could see these lights as well as the brig , and she , doubtless , had an excellent pilot on board . 
By the time the studding-sails were set on board the Swash , the steamer was aweigh , and her long line of peculiar sails became visible . 
Unfortunately for men who were in a hurry , she lay so much within the bluff as to get the wind scant , and her commander thought it necessary to make a stretch over to the southern shore , before he attempted to lay his course . 
When he was ready to tack , an operation of some time with a vessel of her great length , the Swash was barely visible in the obscurity , gliding off upon a slack bowline , at a rate which nothing but the damp night air , the ballast-trim of the vessel , united to her excellent sailing qualities , could have produced with so light a breeze . 
In that time , in truth , by actual superiority in sailing , by her greater state of preparation , and by the distance saved by a bold navigation , she had gained fully a league on her pursuer . 
She saw the light of the steamer 's chimneys , and could form some opinion of her distance and position . 
Such as it was , Spike saw he was getting , in that smooth water , quite eight knots out of his craft , and he made his calculations thereon . 
As yet , and possibly for half an hour longer , he was gaining , and might hope to continue to gain on the steamer . 
Then her turn would come . 
Though no great traveller , it was not to be expected that , favoured by smooth water and the breeze , her speed would be less than ten knots , while there was no hope of increasing his own without an increase of the wind . 
The Sound was now several miles in width , and Spike , at first , proposed to his mate , to keep off dead before the wind , and by crossing over to the north shore , let the steamer pass ahead , and continue a bootless chase to the eastward . 
`` What you say is true enough , Mr. Mulford , '' answered Spike , after a moment of profound reflection , `` and every foot that they come nearer , the less will be our chance . 
`` Ay , ay , I know the spot ; and everything is favourable -- try that , Captain Spike ; I 'll answer for it that we go clear . '' 
Spike did try it . 
For a considerable time longer he stood on , keeping as close to the land as he thought it safe to run , and carrying everything that would draw . 
But the steamer was on his heels , evidently gaining fast . 
Her chimneys gave out flames , and there was every sign that her people were in earnest . 
Spike took a look , and throwing down the instrument , in a way to endanger it , he ordered the studding-sails taken in . 
In five minutes more Spike tacked , to keep under the western side of the harbour , and out of sight as long as possible , and because he thought the breeze drew down fresher where he was than more out in the bay . 
About a quarter of an hour after Spike hauled up , the burning chimneys came again into view . 
Spike ordered everything taken in but the trysail , under which the brig was left to set slowly over toward the western side of the harbour . 
He now rubbed his hands with delight , and pointed out to Mulford the circumstance that the steamer kept on her course directly athwart the harbour 's mouth ! 
Half an hour later , she was so near the entrance of the estuary , as to enable the look-outs aloft to ascertain that the coast was clear , when Spike ordered the helm to be put up , and the brig to be kept away to her course . 
`` We stopped in this bit of a harbour for the night , Miss Rose , that is all ; '' said Spike , observing that his fair passenger was looking about her , in some little surprise , at finding the vessel so near the land , and seemingly so much out of her proper position . 
Offend Spike he did not dare to do , more especially under present circumstances ; and mislead Rose he would not do . 
`` It is convenient , Captain Spike , '' she coolly answered for Mulford , `` to have stopping-places , for vessels that are wearied , and I remember the time when my uncle used to tell me of such matters , very much in the same vein ; but , it was before I was twelve years old . '' 
Spike hemmed , and he looked a little foolish , but Clench , the boatswain , coming aft to say something to him in confidence , just at that moment , he was enabled to avoid the awkwardness of attempting to explain . 
`` Either of themwould have been further west , by this time , Captain Spike , '' returned the doubting , but watchful boatswain . 
Spike growled out his assent to the possibility of such a conjecture , and promised vigilance . 
This satisfied his subordinate for the moment , and he walked forward , or to the place where he belonged . 
`` Good morning , Captain Spike , '' she cried -- `` Are we in the offing , yet ? 
You 'll admire it , as I admire it , when you come to know it better ; and as your poor uncle admired it , and as Captain Spike admires it , too . 
`` But , aunty , there isno pilot in the Swash -- for Captain Spike refused to take one on board . '' 
child ; you do n't know what you 're saying ; but you 'll overlook it , I hope , Captain Spike , for Rose is quick , and will soon learn to know better . 
But , Captain Spike , you must let me know when we are about to get off the Sound , for I know that the pilot is always sent ashore with his letters , before the vessel gets off the Sound . '' 
It is hydropathy on a large scale , as Captain Spike says ; and when he gets us into blue water , he has promised that you shall have all the benefits of the treatment . '' 
`` And Captain Spike , then , was consulted in my case ? '' 
`` He was , my dear , and you have every reason to be grateful to him . 
He was the first to discover a change in your appearance , and to suggest a sea voyage . 
Marine Hydropathy , he said , he was sure would get you up again ; for Captain Spike thinks your constitution good at the bottom , though the high colour you have proves too high a state of habitual excitement . '' 
`` Then it would seem that Doctor Spike was the principal adviser in my case ! '' 
`` I own that he was , Rosy dear . 
Captain Spike was brought up by your uncle , who has often told me what a thorough seaman he was . 
` There 's Spike , now , ' he said to me one day , ` he can almost make his brig talk ' -- this very brig too , your uncle meant , Rosy , and , of course , one of the best vessels in the world to take hydropathy in . '' 
Her short but frequent conferences with Mulford were fast opening her eyes , not to say her heart , and she was beginning to see Captain Spike in his true character , which was that of a great scoundrel . 
It is true , that the mate had not long judged his commander quite so harshly ; but had rather seen his beautiful brig , and her rare qualities , in her owner and commander , than the man himself ; but jealousy had quickened his observation of late , and Stephen Spike had lost ground sensibly with Harry Mulford , within the last week . 
Two or three times before , the young man had thought of seeking another berth , on account of certain distrusts of Spike 's occupations ; but he was poor , and so long as he remained in the Swash , Harry 's opportunities of meeting Rose were greatly increased . 
This circumstance , indeed , was the secret of his still being in the `` Molly , '' as Spike usually called his craft ; the last voyage having excited suspicions that were rather of a delicate nature . 
Then the young man really loved the brig , which , if she could not be literally made to talk , could be made to do almost everything else . 
Twenty times since they sailed , short as that time was , had Mulford contrived to get so near to Rose , as to talk with her , unheard by others . 
It is true , that he seldom ventured to do this , so long as the captain was in sight , but Spike was often below , and opportunities were constantly occurring . 
Rose had taken the alarm , and fully comprehending her aunt 's mental imbecility , her situation was already giving her great uneasiness . 
She had some undefined hopes from the revenue steamer ; though , strangely enough as it appeared to her , her youngest and most approved suitor betrayed a strong desire to escape from that craft , at the very moment he was expressing his apprehensions on account of her presence in the brig. This contradiction arose from a certain esprit de corps , which seldom fails , more or less , to identify the mariner with his ship . 
They found Spike and his mate sweeping the eastern part of the Sound with their glasses , with a view to look out for enemies ; or , what to them , just then , was much the same thing , government craft . 
In this occupation , Rose was a little vexed to see that Mulford was almost as much interested as Spike himself , the love of his vessel seemingly overcoming his love for her , if not his love of the right -- she knew of no reason , however , why the captain should dread any other vessel , and felt sufficiently provoked to question him a little on the subject , if it were only to let him see that the niece was not as completely his dupe as the aunt . 
exclaimed Spike , a little startled , and a good deal surprised at this straight-forward question -- `` Fear , Miss Rose ! 
`` I s ` pose , however , Miss Rose , '' put in Spike , who saw that the niece would soon get the better of the aunt ; -- `` I s ` pose , Miss Rose , that you 'll acknowledge that America is at war with Mexico ? '' 
`` I am sorry to say that such is the fact , but I remember to have heard you say , yourself , Captain Spike , when my aunt was induced to undertake this voyage , that you did not consider there was the smallest danger from any Mexicans . '' 
`` Yes , you did , Captain Spike , '' added the aunt -- `` you did say there was no danger from Mexicans . '' 
`` The steamer from which we ran , last evening , and which actually fired off a cannon at us , was not Mexican , but American , '' said Rose , with a pointed manner that put Spike to his trumps . 
You see , Miss Rose -- you see , Madam Budd -- '' Spike ever found it most convenient to address his mystifying discourse to the aunt , in preference to addressing it to the niece -- `` You see , Madam Budd , the master of that craft and I are old cronies -- sailed together when boys , and set great store by each other . 
We met only last evening , just a ` ter I had left your own agreeable mansion , Madam Budd , and says he , ` Spike , when do you sail ? ' 
` Do you go by the Hook , or by Hell-Gate -- ' '' `` Hurl-Gate , Captain Spike , if you please -- or Whirl-Gate , which some people think is the true sound ; but the other way of saying it is awful . '' 
Nor can I tell you why Spike is so much in earnest in holding the revenue vessel at arm 's length ; I know he dislikes all such craft , as a matter of course , but I can see no particular reason for it just now . 
I can see no sufficient reason , beyond native antipathy , why Captain Spike should wish to avoid any craft , for it is humbug his dread of a Mexican , and least of all , here , in Long Island Sound . 
He had made one or two voyages as a second mate , when chance threw him in Spike 's way , who , pleased with some evidences of coolness and skill , that he had shown in a foreign port , on the occasion of another loss , took him as his first officer ; in which situation he had remained ever since , partly from choice and partly from necessity . 
It was this money , taken in connection with the credulous imbecility of the aunt , that had awakened the cupidity , and excited the hopes of Spike . 
After a life of lawless adventure , one that had been chequered by every shade of luck , he found himself growing old , with his brig growing old with him , and little left beside his vessel and the sort of half cargo that was in her hold . 
Rose heard Mulford 's explanation favourably , as indeed she heard most of that which came from him , but did not renew the discourse , Spike 's conference with the boatswain just then terminating . 
`` Shall we then have twooffings , this voyage , Captain Spike ? '' 
On the Sound , is the first great change that befalls a vessel as she goes to sea ; then comes the offing ; next the pilot is discharged -- then -- then -- what comes next , Captain Spike ? '' 
His departures , and his offings and his -- '' `` Land-falls , '' added Spike , perceiving that the ship-master 's relict was a little at fault . 
`` Yes ; yes , Madam Budd -- there are such accidents truly , and serious things be they to encounter , '' answered Spike , hemming a little to clear his throat , as was much his practice whenever the widow ran into any unusually extravagant blunder ; `` yes , serious things to encounter . 
Spike and Mulford had their attention drawn to the vessel , and the conversation dropped . 
After dinner , Spike took his siesta . 
He slept in a little state-room that stood on the starboard side of the quarter-deck , quite aft ; as Mulford did in one on the larboard . 
This sort of cuddy , Spike termed his `` coach-house . '' 
The captain had no sooner gone into his state-room , and closed its window , movements that were understood by Mulford , than the latter took occasion to intimate to Rose , by means of Jack Tier , the state of things on deck , when the young man was favoured with the young lady 's company . 
Do you know , Harry , that I suspect he has strong feelings towards Captain Spike ; though whether of like or dislike , friendship or enmity , I am at a loss to say . '' 
`` And why do you think that he has any feeling at all ? 
I have heard Spike say he left the fellow ashore , somewhere down on the Spanish Main , or in the Islands , quite twenty years since ; but a sailor would scarce carry a grudge so long a time , for such a thing as that . '' 
`` Perhaps she does , '' returned Rose , smiling again -- `` seeing all its attractions through the claims of Captain Spike . '' 
`` I think half the danger from him gone , now that you seem so much on your guard . 
Spike was in high spirits , for his brig had got on famously that day , and there was nothing in sight to the eastward . 
He made no doubt , as he had told his mate , that the steamer had gone into the Vineyard Sound , and that she was bound over the shoals . 
`` They want to make political capital out of her , '' he added , using one of the slang phrases , that the `` business habits '' of the American people are so rapidly incorporating with the common language of the country -- `` They want to make political capital out of her , Harry , and must show her off to the Boston folk , who are full of notions . 
`` Clear nights are desirable , and most of all at sea , Captain Spike , '' returned the relict , in her best , complacent manner , `` whether it be to run offa coast , or to run ona coast . 
Captain Spike rolled his tobacco over in his mouth , and cast a furtive glance at the mate , but he did not presume to hazard any further manifestations of his disposition to laugh . 
`` Yes , Madam Budd , '' he answered , `` it is quite as you say , and I am only surprised where you have picked up so much of what I call useful nautical knowledge . '' 
`` And take in our departure , Captain Spike -- '' added the widow , with a very intelligent smile . 
`` Was he your uncle , Captain Spike ? '' 
`` That 's quite true , Miss Rose , '' rejoined Spike , attempting a bow , which ended in a sort of jerk . 
Spike could hardly stand this , and he had to hail the top-gallant-yard again , in order to keep the command of his muscles , for he saw by the pretty frown that was gathering on the brow of Rose , that she was regarding the matter a little seriously . 
`` There 's a light , of course , sir , on Montauk , is there not , Captain Spike ? '' 
It seems there were three ships of them together , in an awful tempest directly off the land -- '' `` That was comfortable , any how , '' cried Spike ; -- `` if it must blow hard , let it come off the land , say I. '' `` Yes , sir , it was directly off the land , as my poor husband always said , which made it so much the worse you must know , Rosy ; though Captain Spike 's gallant spirit would rather encounter danger than not . 
`` The ladies do get in a gale , sometimes , over their tea , '' said Spike gallantly . 
Spike had betrayed uneasiness , as his brig came up with Montauk ; but the coast seemed clear , with not even a distant sail in sight , and he came aft , rubbing his hands with delight , speaking cheerfully . 
`` All right , Mr. Mulford , '' he cried -- `` everything ship-shape and brister-fashion -- not even a smack fishing hereaway , which is a little remarkable . 
It was no longer possible for Spike 's hopes to deceive him . 
As the brig went foaming on towards the ocean , however , the black speck was soon brought out of the range of the orb of day , and Spike 's glass was instantly levelled at it . 
He 'll soon be after us , Captain Spike , at racing speed . '' 
Half an hour satisfied both Spike and Mulford that , by giving the cutter the advantage of one point in a freer wind , she would certainly get alongside of them , and the alternative was therefore to keep off . 
`` A starn chase is a long chase , all the world over , '' cried Spike -- `` edge away , sir ; edge away , sir , and bring the cutter well on our quarter . '' 
demanded Spike , fiercely ; for the very mention of a sail , at that moment , aroused all his ire . 
There remained but a single alternative from capture by one or by the other , -- and that Spike adopted instantly . 
He kept his brig dead away , setting studding-sails on both sides . 
This was not bad advice , were there any certainly that Spike would stand on , of which , however , he had no intention . 
The night set in dark and cloudy ; and , the instant that Spike saw , by means of the flaming chimney , that the steamer had wore , and was going to the eastward of Blok , his plan was laid . 
Calling to Mulford , he communicated it to him , and was glad to find that his intelligent mate was of his own way of thinking . 
The schooner was one of the fastest in the service , and had been placed under Montauk , as described , in the confident expectation of her being able to compete with even the Molly Swash successfully , more especially if brought upon a bowline . 
The manner of Spike 's escape was simple enough , and without any necromancy . 
While the steamer , on the one hand , was standing away to the northward and eastward , in order to head him off , and the schooner was edging in with the island , in order to prevent his beating up to windward of it , within its shadows , the brig had run close round the northern margin of the land , and hauled up to leeward of the island , passing between it and the steamer . 
Spike stood to the westward , until he was certain of having the island fairly between him and his pursuers , when he went about , and filled away on his course , running out to sea again on an easy bowline . 
At sunrise the next day he was fifty miles to the southward and eastward of Montauk ; the schooner was going into New London , her officers and people quite chop-fallen ; and the steamer was paddling up the Sound , her captain being fully persuaded that the runaways had returned in the direction from which they had come , and might yet be picked up in that quarter . 
By this time the brig had got within the influence of the trades ; and , it being the intention of Spike to pass to the southward of Cuba , he had so far profited by the westerly winds , as to get well to the eastward of the Mona Passage , the strait through which he intended to shape his course on making the islands . 
In all other respects , always excepting the man at the wheel , who stood within a fathom of Rose , Spike had the quarter-deck to himself , and did not fail to pace its weather-side with an air that denoted the master and owner . 
`` The weather is moderate , Madam Budd ; quite moderate , '' observed Spike , a sentimental turn coming over him at the moment . 
It is probable that Spike himself had some similar gleamings of the difficulties of his position , for he looked a little troubled , though still resolute . 
It was the first time he had ever lain yard-arm and yard-arm with a widow , and he had long entertained a fancy that such a situation was trying to the best of men . 
`` Yes , Madam Budd , yes , '' he said , `` exper ` ence and sense carry weight with 'em , wherever they go . 
The reader is not to do injustice to the captain 's widow , however , by supposing for a moment that she was actually so weak as to feel any tenderness for a man like Spike , which would be doing a great wrong to both her taste and her judgment , as Rose well knew , even while most annoyed by the conversation she could not but overhear . 
As for Rose , to own the truth , her aunt did not give her a thought , as yet , notwithstanding Spike was getting to be so sentimental . 
`` It need not be terminated , Captain Spike , so long as friendship exists in the human heart . '' 
`` That is a very decided word , Captain Spike , and should never be mentioned to a woman 's ear lightly . '' 
what hewant of lub , or what lub want of him!Well , I do t ` ink Captain Spike bowse his jib out pretty ` arly dis mornin ' . '' 
Captain Spike soon got over the effects of his effort , and the confusion of the relict did not last any material length of time . 
As the former had gone so far , however , he thought the present an occasion as good as another to bring matters to a crisis . 
`` Fie , Captain Spike , gentlemen should never allude to ladies knowing any thing about love . 
`` Captain Spike , you amaze me ! 
You , Stephen Spike , and an old friend of her uncle 's , wishing to marry his niece ! '' 
Now the relict had not one spark of tenderness herself in behalf of Spike ; while she did love Rose better than any human being , her own self excepted . 
What is the most extraordinary , neither she nor Spike ever ascertained that their whole dialogue had been overheard . 
Spike continued to pace the quarter-deck for several minutes , scarce knowing what to think of the relict 's manner , when his attention was suddenly drawn to other matters by the familiar cry of `` sail-ho ! '' 
He had slung a glass , and Spike was unusually anxious to know the result of his examination . 
he called out as soon as the mate announced that he saw the strange vessel . 
Although she had so naturally supposed that Spike 's attentions had been intended for herself , she was rather mortified than hurt on discovering her mistake . 
The meal passed off without any scene , notwithstanding , and Spike soon re-appeared on deck , still masticating the last mouthful like a man in a hurry , and a good deal à l' Américaine . 
demanded Spike , in a voice of thunder . 
`` What a fuss ' e cap ` in make ` bout dat sail , '' grumbled Josh , who had been in the brig so long that he sometimes took liberties with even Spike himself . 
`` Spike is not our master , and we can come and go as we may see fit . '' 
`` Well , Mr. Mulford , well , '' called out Spike at the head of the cabin stairs , `` what news from the coffee ? '' 
While below , Spike had caused certain purchases to be got aloft , and the main-hatch was open and the men collected around it , in readiness to proceed with the work . 
Of all this Spike appeared to be fully aware , for he quitted the work several times before it was finished , in order to take a look at the stranger , and at the land . 
`` And why should any vessel wish to molest us on our passage , Captain Spike ? '' 
As Spike concluded , he gave his mate a knowing wink , which the other understood to mean that he expected himself some of the unusual profit to which he alluded . 
Without making any sort of reply , or encouraging the confidence by even a smile , he levelled his glass at the stranger , as did Spike , the instant he ceased to grin . 
`` That is a singular taste , for an American , Captain Spike , unless you think , now our guns are mounted , we can handle a Mexican , '' returned Mulford coldly . 
Mulford did not reply , though the earnest manner in which Spike expressed himself , helped to increase his distrust touching the nature of the voyage . 
That worthy was called aft , and for half an hour he and Spike were conversing apart , keeping their eyes fastened on the strange vessel most of the time . 
Spike thought she was a frigate ; but Mulford still inclined to the opinion that she was one of the new ships ; perhaps a real corvette , or with a light spar-deck over her batteries . 
Still she was a large ship , and the manner that she ploughed through the brine , close-hauled as she was , extorted admiration even from Spike . 
On this hint , Spike turned the hands up , and began to shorten sail . 
`` The Molly Swash , of New York , Stephen Spike , master . '' 
Spike was sullen enough on receiving this order , but there was no help for it . 
He was now in the jaws of the lion , and his wisest course was to submit to the penalties of his position with the best grace he could . 
The necessary orders were consequently given , and the brig no sooner got room than she came by the wind and backed her topsail . 
The cruiser went about , and passing to windward , backed her main-topsail just forward of the Swash 's beam . 
As the cutter approached , Spike went to the gangway to receive the strangers . 
Although there will be frequent occasion to mention this cruiser , the circumstances are of so recent occurrence , that we do not choose to give either her name , or that of any one belonging to her . 
As much of the rest of our story as the reader please may be taken for gospel ; but we tell him frankly , that we have thought it most expedient to adopt assumed names , in connection with this vessel and all her officers . 
There are good reasons for so doing ; and , among others , is that of abstaining from arming a cliqueto calumniate her commander , -LRB- who , by the way , like another commander in the Gulf that might be named , and who has actually been exposed to the sort of tracasserieto which there is allusion , is one of the very ablest men in the service , -RRB- in order to put another in his place . 
`` Your servant , sir , '' said Wallace , touching his cap in reply to Spike 's somewhat awkward bow . 
`` Your brig is the Molly Swash , Stephen Spike , bound from New York to Key West and a market . '' 
inquired Spike . 
Spike looked distrustfully at his new acquaintance , but went for his vessel 's papers without any very apparent hesitation . 
Spike now led the way below , Wallace following , leaving the midshipman on deck , who had fallen into conversation with the relict and her pretty niece . 
`` The cargo is somewhat singular to come from New York , going to Key West , my dear Spike ? '' 
`` He must be a flush old chap to be able to do that , Spike . '' 
I rather think he is . 
Do you know that he is spendin ' , accordin ' to approved accounts , at this blessed moment , as much as half a million a day ? 
why that is only at the rate of $ 187,000,000 per annum ; a mere trifle , Spike , that is scarce worth mentioning among us mariners . '' 
Spike seemed embarrassed , though not to a degree to awaken suspicion in his companion . 
`` I never sold cargo at sea , long as I 've sailed and owned a craft , '' he answered , as if uncertain what to do . 
Wallance now indolently arose and ascended to the quarter-deck , followed by Spike , who continued to press the flour on him , as if anxious to make money . 
Nine men could never eat ten barrels of flour , my dear Spike , you will see for yourself , with the quantity of excellent bread we carry . 
Wallace was a good deal surprised at this application , and Spike was quite as much provoked . 
As for Mulford , he watched the interview from a distance , a great deal more interested in its result than he cared to have known , more especially to his commanding officer . 
`` Mrs. Budd means that you 've a full riggedcraft , '' put in Spike , anxious to have a voice in the conference , `` this vessel being only a half-rigged brig. '' `` Oh ! 
At this moment the ship hailed , and the lieutenant took a hasty leave of Spike , motioned to the midshipman to precede him , and followed the latter into his boat . 
Spike saw his visiter off in person , tending the side and offering the man-ropes with his own hands . 
`` There you go , and joy go with you , '' muttered Spike , as he descended from the gangway . 
Spike did not profit by this opening , however , but he sent several men aloft forward , where they appeared to be getting ready to send down the upper yards and the topgallant-mast . 
As she did this the canvas was fluttering aboard her , in the process of making sail , and Mull held a short discourse with Spike . 
Notwithstanding the natural and common-place manner in which this separation took place , there was much distrust on board each vessel , and a good deal of consummate management on the part of Spike . 
The latter knew that every foot the sloop-of-war went on her course , carried her just so far to leeward , placing his own brig , in-so-much , dead to windward of her . 
As the Swash 's best point of sailing , relatively considered , was close-hauled , this was giving to Spike a great security against any change of purpose on the part of the vessel of war . 
Although his people were aloft and actually sent down the topgallant-mast , it was only to send it up again , the spar being of admirable toughness , and as sound as the day it was cut . 
`` The sloop-of-war is going round the south side of Cuba , Captain Spike , '' answered the mate , `` and I have understood you to say that you intended to go by the same passage . '' 
`` A body may change his mind , and no murder . 
`` That would greatly prolong the passage , Captain Spike , -- a week at least . '' 
Spike was as good as his word . 
As soon as he thought the sloop-of-war was far enough to leeward , or when she was hull down , he filled away and made sail on the wind to get nearer to Porto Rico . 
The more they reasoned on the matter , the more unlikely it seemed to them that Spike could be really carrying a cargo of flour from New York to Key West , in the expectation of disposing of it to the United States ' contractors , and the more out of the way did he seem to be in running through the Mona Passage . 
But Spike had no intention to give the Poughkeepsie the desired opportunity . 
As has been stated , he stood off to the southward on a wind , and completely doubled the eastern end of Jamaica , when he put his helm up , and went , with favouring wind and current , toward the northward and westward . 
The consequence was , that he did not fall in with the Poughkeepsie at all , which vessel was keeping a sharp look-out for him in the neighbourhood of Cape St. Antonio and the Isle of Pines , at the very moment he was running down the coast of Yucatan . 
Then , indeed , Spike took a step that greatly surprised his mate . 
The latter was directed to bring all his instruments , charts , & c. , and place them in the captain 's state-room , where it was understood they were to remain until the brig got into port . 
Spike was but an indifferent navigator , while Mulford was one of a higher order than common . 
At first , Mulford naturally enough suspected that Spike intended to push for some Mexican port , by thus blinding his eyes as to the position of the vessel . 
From the eastern extremity of Yucatan , the Mexican coast trends to the westward , and even to the south of west , for a long distance , whereas the course steered by Spike was north , easterly . 
Nor was the sequestration of the mate 's instruments the only suspicious act of Spike . 
He caused the brig 's paint to be entirely altered , and even went so far toward disguising her , as to make some changes aloft . 
All this was done as the vessel passed swiftly on her course , and everything had been effected , apparently to the captain 's satisfaction , when the cry of `` land-ho ! '' 
I believe Spike to be thoroughly unprincipled ; still he knows he can go so far and no further , and has a wholesome dread of the law . 
But Spike is as much concerned at the circumstance that the lamps are not lighted , as any of us can be . 
Look , he is about to visit the building in the boat , accompanied by two of his oldest sea-dogs . '' 
`` Why might we not raise the anchor , and sail out of this place , leaving Spike ashore ? '' 
No , Rose : you , and your aunt , and Biddy , however , might land at these buildings , and refuse to return , Spike having no authority over his passengers . '' 
`` Still he would have the powerto make us come back to his brig. Look , he has left the vessel 's side , and is going directly toward the light-house . '' 
In less than five minutes after he had landed , Spike himself was seen in the lantern , in the act of lighting its lamps . 
Soon after Spike returned on board , and the anchor-watch was set . 
Mulford was on deck with the appearance of the sun ; but he found that Spike had preceded him , had gone ashore again , had extinguished the lamps , and was coming alongside of the brig on his return . 
`` You were right about your sail , last night , a ` ter all , Mr. Mulford , '' said Spike , on coming aft . 
As Spike pointed toward the light-house while speaking , the mate changed his position a little , and saw that a schooner was coming down toward the islets before the wind . 
She advanced a step eagerly toward the open window of Spike 's state-room , then compressed her full , rich under-lip with the ivory of her upper teeth , and stood a single instant , a beautiful statue of irresolution instigated by spirit . 
After ascertaining this fact , a glance at the open chart , which lay on Spike 's desk , satisfied him that the vessel was anchored within the group of the Dry Tortugas , or at the western termination of the well-known , formidable , and extensive Florida Reef . 
He had never been in that part of the world before , but had heard enough in sea-gossip , and had read enough in books , to be at once apprised of the true character of their situation . 
There was little time for speculation , Spike soon bringing the strange schooner directly alongside of the brig. The two vessels immediately became a scene of activity , one discharging , and the other receiving the flour as fast as it could be struck out of the hold of the Swash and lowered upon the deck of the schooner . 
Mulford , however , had practised a little artifice , as the stranger entered the haven , which drew down upon him an anathema or two from Spike , as soon as they were alone . 
When Spike returned to his own vessel , he was accompanied by a dark-looking , well-dressed , and decidedly gentleman-like personage , whom he addressed indifferently , in his very imperfect Spanish , as Don Wan , -LRB- Don Juan , or John , -RRB- or Señor Montefalderon . 
This was so natural in a seaman , that Spike , while he noted the proceeding , took it in good part . 
He even called out to his mate , from his own quarter-deck , to admire this or that point in the schooner 's construction . 
This one fact of itself doubled his distrust of the character of Spike 's proceedings . 
Spike had , once or twice , given his opinion that the weather was treacherous , and urged the people of both crafts to extraordinary exertions , in order that the vessels might get clear of each other as soon as possible . 
At the moment when the flour-barrel burst , Spike was below , in close conference with his Spanish , or Mexican guest ; and the wreck being so soon cleared away , it is probable that he never heard of the accident . 
Spike now sent a boat , with orders to drop a kedge about a hundred yards from the place where his own brig lay . 
`` Mr. Mulford , '' said Spike , `` I do not like the state of the atmosphere . 
`` You surely do not imagine , Captain Spike , that the sun will be any nearer to that fiery streak , as you call it , when he is about to set , than he is at this moment ? '' 
Mulford had a profound respect for Spike 's seamanship , whatever he might think of his principles . 
Spike carried his precautions so far , as to have the mainsail lowered , it ordinarily brailing at that season of the year , with a standing gaff . 
While you have been absent I have overheard a conversation between this Spanish gentleman and Spike , that shows the last is in treaty with the other for the sale of the brig. Spike extolled his vessel to the skies , while Don Wan , as he calls him , complains that the brig is old , and can not last long ; to which Spike answered ` to be sure she is old , Señor Montefalderon , but she will last as long as your war , and under a bold captain might be made to return her cost a hundred fold ! ' 
`` But this would be treason on the part of Spike ! '' 
`` Not more so than supplying the enemy with gunpowder , as he has just been doing . 
I have ascertained the reason he was so unwilling to be overhauled by the revenue steamer , as well as the reason why the revenue steamer wished so earnestly to overhaul us . 
`` He has been at New York , this very summer , I know , '' continued Rose , `` for he spoke of his visit , and made such other remarks , as leaves no doubt that Spike expected to find him here , on this very day of the month . 
He also paid Spike a large sum of money in doubloons , and took back the bag to his schooner , when he had done so , after showing the captain enough was left to pay for the brig could they only agree on the terms of their bargain . '' 
`` Ay , ay ; it is all plain enough now , Spike has determined on a desperate push for fortune , and foreseeing it might not soon be in his power to return to New York in safety , he has included his designs on you and your fortune , in the plot . '' 
`` It would be a fortune to Spike , Rose ; and I shall be honest enough to own it would be a fortune to me . 
Spike is poor , like myself ; and the brig is not only getting to be very old , but she has been losing money for the last twelve months . '' 
Unfortunately , neither Rose , nor her aunt , nor Biddy , nor Jack Tier had seen the barrel of powder , and neither could testify as to the true character of Spike 's connection with the schooner . 
It was manifestly necessary , therefore , independently of the risks that might be run by `` bearding the lion in his den , '' to proceed with great intelligence and caution . 
The young man leaped off the gun , gave a loud call to Spike , at the companion-way , and sprang forward to call all hands . 
Mulford met Spike at the cabin door , and pointed toward the fiery column , that was booming down upon the anchorage , with a velocity and direction that would now admit of no misinterpretation . 
Notwithstanding the circumstance of Spike 's precaution had greatly lessened the danger , every man on the deck of the Swash believed the brig was gone when the gust struck her . 
The timely precautions of Spike had saved his brig , and great was his joy thereat . 
In the midst of the infernal din of the tornado , screams had ascended from the cabin , and the instant he could quit the deck with propriety , Mulford sprang below , in order to ascertain their cause . 
Just as they emerged from the companion-way , Spike was hailing the forecastle . 
`` Forecastle , there , '' he cried , standing on the trunk himself as he did so , and moving from side to side , as if to catch a glimpse of some object ahead . 
The old salt forward , however , had much the best chance , for he stepped on the heel of the bowsprit , and walked as far out as the knight-heads , to command the whole view ahead of the brig. There he stood half a minute , looking first on one side of the head-gear , then the other , when he gave his trousers a hitch , put a fresh quid in his mouth , and called out in a voice almost as hoarse as the tempest , that had just gone by , `` The schooner has gone down at her anchor , sir . 
Even Señor Montefalderon , a quiet , gentleman-like person , altogether superior in deportment to the bustle and fuss that usually marks the manners of persons in trade , was disturbed ; for to him the blow was heavy indeed . 
Whether he were acting for himself , or was an agent of the Mexican government , the loss was much the same . 
`` Tom is right enough , '' put in Spike , rather coolly for the circumstances -- `` that there schooner of yourn has foundered , Don Wan , as any one can see . 
for so the Mexican politely called his companion . 
As there was a very general desire among those on the quarter-deck to go to the assistance of the schooner , Spike ordered both boats manned , jumping into the yawl himself , accompanied by Don Juan Montefalderon , and telling Mulford to follow with the larger craft , bringing with him as many of the females as might choose to accompany him . 
With the buoy for a guide , Spike had no difficulty in finding the spot where the schooner lay . 
Spike seized a boat-hook , and made an effort to catch the clothes of the nearest body , but ineffectually , both sinking to the sands beneath , lifeless , and without motion . 
Spike , who knew nothing of such matters , undertook to direct everything , and , instead of having recourse to warmth and gentle treatment , he ordered the bodies to be rolled on a cask , suspended them by the heels , and resorted to a sort of practice that might have destroyed well men , instead of resuscitating those in whom the vital spark was dormant , if not actually extinct . 
`` Well , Señor , '' said Spike , `` I hope this little accident will not prevent our final trade . 
Spike started , and he mused in silence some little time , ere he again spoke . 
`` I had forgotten , '' he at length answered . 
`` You can have them , '' answered Don Juan , quietly , a good deal surprised that Spike should deem it necessary to offer him any part of the sum he might find . 
This concluded the bargain , every word of which was heard by Rose , and every word of which she did not fail to communicate to Mulford , the moment there was an opportunity . 
The young man heard it with great interest , telling Rose that he should do all he could to assist in raising the schooner , in the hope that something might turn up to enable him to escape in her , taking off Rose and her aunt . 
As for his carrying her into a Mexican port , let them trust him for that ! 
Spike caused all hands to be called , and immediately set about the important business he had before him . 
No doubt he found it inexplicable , that persons like Rose and Mulford should , seemingly , be united with one like Spike ; but he was too well bred , and , indeed , too effectually mystified , to push the subject further than might be discreet . 
Spike moved his brig , and moored her , head and stern , alongside of the wreck , before the people got their breakfasts . 
When the men had dined , Spike brought one of his purchases to the windlass , and the other to the capstan , though not until each was bowsed taut by hand ; a few minutes having brought the strain so far on everything , as to enable a seaman , like Spike , to form some judgment of the likelihood that his preventers and purchases would stand . 
Aided by the long levers afforded by the spars , the work advanced so rapidly , that , in just one hour 's time after his people had begun to heave , Spike had the pleasure to see the schooner standing upright , alongside of his own brig , though still sunk to the bottom . 
These slings were the chains of the schooner , one of which went under her keel , while for the other the captain trusted to the strength of the two hawse-holes , having passed the cable out of one and in at the other , in a way to serve his purposes , as has just been stated . 
When all was ready , Spike mustered his crew , and made a speech . 
He told the men that he was about a job that was out of the usual line of their duty , and that he knew they had a right to expect extra pay for such extra work . 
The schooner contained money , and his object was to get at it . 
If he succeeded , their reward would be a doubloon a man , which would be earning more than a month 's wages by twenty-four hours ' work . 
This last , some ten or twelve tons in weight , was in fact the principal difficulty , and alone induced Spike to have any doubts about his eventual success . 
There was no foreseeing the result until he had made a trial , however ; and the order was again given to `` heave away . '' 
Spike kept a watchful eye on his spars , and the extra supports he had given them . 
He was moving , the whole time , from point to point , feeling shrouds and back-stays , and preventers , in order to ascertain the degree of strain on each , or examining how the purchases stood . 
Such was the state of things , when Spike called out to `` heave and pall , '' that he might take a look at the condition of the wreck . 
It was to this end , consequently , that Spike 's efforts had been latterly directed , though they had only in part succeeded . 
The schooner possessed a good deal of sheer , as it is termed ; or , her two extremities rose nearly a foot above her centre , when on an even keel . 
This had brought her extremities first to the surface , and it was the additional weight which had consequently been brought into the air that had so much increased the strain , and induced Spike to pause . 
To raise the keel that inch by means of the purchases , Spike well knew would cost him more labour , and would incur more risk than all that had been done previously , and he paused before he would attempt it . 
Spike ascertained by actual measurement how much was wanted to bring the coamings of the main-hatch above the water , until which , he knew , pumping and bailing would be useless . 
He found it was quite an inch , and was at a great loss to know how that inch should be obtained . 
Mulford advised another trial with the handspikes and bars , but to this Spike would not consent . 
Spike was delighted with this project , and gave the necessary orders on the spot . 
Spike and Mulford noted the effect . 
After close watching at the outlets for some time , Spike was convinced that the schooner was slowly rising , the intense strain that still came from the brig producing that effect as the vessel gradually became lighter . 
Spike now thought it was time to take a look at the state of things on deck . 
Here , to his joy , he ascertained that the coamings had actually risen a little above the water . 
The reader is not to suppose by this rising of the vessel , that she had become sufficiently buoyant , in consequence of the water that had run out of her , to float of herself . 
This was far from being the case ; but the constant upward pressure from the brig , which , on mechanical principles , tended constantly to bring that craft upright , had the effect to lift the schooner as the latter was gradually relieved from the weight that pressed her toward the bottom . 
At the same time gangs were sent to the pumps , though Spike still depended for getting rid of the water somewhat on the auger -- the carpenter continuing to bore and plug his holes as new opportunities offered , and the old outlets became useless . 
Spike 's next material advantage was obtained by means of the cargo . 
Spike had just directed the people to get their suppers as the Mexican came on board . 
It was scarcely possible to bring together two men impelled by motives more distinct than Spike and this gentleman . 
Don Juan understood Spike completely , and quite justly appreciated not only his character , but his capabilities . 
`` You do n't understand human natur ' yet , altogether , I see , Don Wan , '' answered Spike , chuckling and winking . 
Spike did not answer in words , but he leered upon his companion , and he winked . 
Spike then informed his companion , in confidence , that he and Rose were affianced , though without the aunt 's knowledge , -- that he intended to marry the niece the moment he reached a Mexican port with the brig , and that it was their joint intention to settle in the country . 
He added that the affair required management , as his intended had property , and expected more , and he begged Don Juan to aid him , as things drew near to a crisis . 
Spike profited by the circumstance to continue the work of lightening the schooner . 
He had no longer any doubt on the subject of Spike 's treason , and had it not been for Rose , he would not have hesitated a moment about making off in the light-house boat for Key West , in order to report all that had passed to the authorities . 
It is true , Mrs. Budd was no longer Spike 's dupe ; but under any circumstances she was a difficult subject to manage , and most especially so in all matters that related to the sea . 
It was quite nine o'clock when the Señor Montefalderon and Spike returned from burying the dead . 
No sooner did the last put his foot on the deck of his own vessel , than he felt the fall of one of the purchases which had been employed in raising the schooner . 
It was so far slack as to satisfy him that the latter now floated by her own buoyancy , though it might be well to let all stand until morning , for the purposes of security . 
Thus apprised of the condition of the two vessels , he gave the welcome order to `` knock off for the night . '' 
Even Spike and Mulford took the rest they needed , the cook alone being left to look out for the changes in the weather . 
The hard-breathing of Spike could be heard through the open windows of his state-room , and this was positively the only sound that was audible . 
She saw him lying near his galley , in as profound a sleep as any of the crew . 
This she felt to be wrong , and she felt alarmed , though she knew not why . 
Some one must be aroused , and her tastes , feelings , and judgment , all pointed to Harry Mulford as the person she ought to awaken . 
Moving lightly to the place , Rose laid her own little , soft hand on the arm of the young man , when the latter was on his feet in an instant . 
Rose explained the state of the brig , and the feeling which induced her to awaken him . 
They talked of Spike , the brig , and her cargo , and of the delusion of the captain 's widow . 
Rose related the tenor of the conversation she had overheard between the two parties , Don Juan and Don Esteban , and the mate no longer doubted that it was Spike 's intention to sell the brig to the enemy . 
Mulford walked aft to meet the stranger at the gangway , and was relieved , rather than otherwise , at finding that Spike was already on the quarter-deck . 
Should the vessel of war seize the brig , he could rejoice at it , but so strong were his professional ideas of duty to the craft he sailed in , that he did not find it in his heart to say aught against her . 
Were any mishap to befall it , or were justice to be done , he preferred that it might be done under Spike 's own supervision , rather than under his . 
`` Call all hands , Mr. Mulford , '' said Spike , as they met . 
This question was put to the strangers , Spike standing on his gangway-ladder to ask it , while the mate was summoning the crew . 
No sooner had he and Spike confronted each other , than each gave a little start , like that of recognition , and the lieutenant spoke . 
It is the Molly Swash , of New York , bound to Key West , and a market ; and I have the honour to see Captain Stephen Spike again . '' 
It was Mr. Wallace , the second lieutenant of the sloop-of-war that had boarded the brig in the Mona Passage , and to avoid whom Spike had gone to the southward of Jamaica . 
`` Well , I 'm glad to see you again , Captain Spike , '' cried Wallace , after the greetings were passed , `` if it be only to ask where you flew to , the day we left you in the Mona Passage ? 
`` No , we 've kept above water the whole time , lieutenant , '' answered Spike , heartily ; `` and that is more than can be said of the poor fellow alongside of us . 
The schooner was no lower in the water than when the men had knocked off work the previous night ; and Spike set the people at the pumps and their bailing again , as the most effectual method of preventing their making any indiscreet communications to the man-of-war 's men . 
About this time the relict appeared on deck , when Spike gallantly introduced the lieutenant anew to his passengers . 
It is true he knew no name to use , but that was of little moment , as he called the officer `` the lieutenant , '' and nothing else . 
`` Captain Spike is of opinion , lieutenant , that our cast-anchor here is excellent , and I know the value of a good cast-anchor place ; for my poor Mr. Budd was a sea-faring man , and taught me almost as much of your noble profession as he knew himself . '' 
The lieutenant 's tact let him see that Señor Montefalderon was a person of a very different calibre from Spike , as well as of different habits ; and he did not choose to indulge in the quiet irony that formed so large an ingredient in his own character , with this new acquaintance . 
He spoke Spanish himself , with tolerable fluency , and a conversation now occurred between the two , which was maintained for some time with spirit and a very manifest courtesy . 
This dialogue between Wallace and the Spaniard gave Spike a little leisure for reflection . 
As the day advanced the cruiser came more and more plainly in view , and his first business was to take a good survey of her . 
She might have been three leagues distant , but approaching with a very light breeze , at the rate of something less than two knots in the hour . 
Unless there was some one on board her who was acquainted with the channels of the Dry Tortugas , Spike felt little apprehension of the ship 's getting very near to him ; but he very well understood that , with the sort of artillery that was in modern use among vessels of war , he would hardly be safe could the cruiser get within a league . 
That near Uncle Sam 's craft might certainly come without encountering the hazards of the channels , and within that distance she would be likely to get in the course of the morning , should he have the complaisance to wait for her . 
The gig was some little distance from the Swash , when Wallace rose and asked to see Spike , with whom he had a word to say at parting . 
`` If I let him , '' muttered Spike between his teeth , `` I shall be a poor , miserable cast-anchor devil , that 's all . '' 
As for Spike , he sat down on the plank-sheer where he had stood , and remained there ruminating intently for two or three minutes . 
When he descended to the deck his mind was fully made up . 
His first act was to give some private orders to the boatswain , after which he withdrew to the cabin , whither he summoned Tier , without delay . 
`` Time does that for all of us , Captain Spike , '' returned Tier coolly . 
As Spike concluded , he put into Tier 's hand one of the doubloons that he had received from Señor Montefalderon , in payment for the powder . 
I now begin to know Captain Spike , my old commander again , and see that he 's more like himself than I had just thought him . 
Spike was surprised , but he was too much bent on his projects to heed trifles . 
Nothing more passed between these two worthies , who now parted , Jack to make his arrangements , and Spike to `` tell his yarn , '' as he termed the operation in his own mind , to Mrs. Budd , Rose , and Biddy . 
In this opinion she was sustained by Biddy ; and it was the knowledge of this opinion that induced Spike to propose the tent . 
`` Are you sure , Captain Spike , it is not a desert island ? '' 
`` And suchfriends , Miss Rose , '' exclaimed Spike , a little sentimentally for him , `` friends that would undergo hunger and thirst themselves , before you should want for any comforts . '' 
To do Spike justice , he was aware of this circumstance , or he might have hesitated about exposing females to the ordinary annoyances of one of these spots . 
We owe something to Captain Spike 's care , and can not quit him too unceremoniously ; but as soon as he is at liberty to go into a harbour , I will engage him to do so , and we can return home by land -- unless , indeed , the brig intends to make the home voyage herself . '' 
Nor do I like your Captain Spike , who seems to me anything but an agreeable gentleman . '' 
In the end , he will resemble Captain Spike . '' 
`` Yes , aunty , I 've heard that before , '' said Rose , springing up , in order to change the discourse ; `` but Harry Mulford will never become like Stephen Spike . 
He 's a cousin of your most intimate friend , and she brought him to the house ; and one could n't offend Mary Mulford , by telling her we did n't like her cousin . '' 
As if to atone for the passing rebellion of her feelings , she threw her arms around her aunt 's neck ; after which she walked away , along the beach , ruminating on her present situation , and of the best means of extricating their party from the power of Spike . 
She was not ignorant of the nature of a vessel of war , or of the impropriety of unprotected females placing themselves on board of one ; but gentlemen of character , like the officers of the ship in sight , could hardly be wanting in the feelings of their caste ; and anything was better than to return voluntarily within the power of Spike . 
Spike noted all these movements , and he took his measures accordingly . 
Spike 's object was to reduce this water sufficiently to enable him to descend into the state-room which Señor Montefalderon had occupied , and bring away the doubloons that alone kept him in the vicinity of so ticklish a neighbour as the Poughkeepsie . 
Spike most apprehended a movement upon him in the boats , and he had almost made up his mind , should such an enterprise be attempted , to try his hand in beating it off with his guns . 
Spike saw that a collision of some sort or other must speedily occur , and he determined to take the boatswain with him , and descend into the cabin of the schooner in quest of the gold . 
When the story had again been told , Spike and his boatswain went on board the schooner , and , undressing , they prepared to descend into the cabin . 
Spike and his companion found the water in the cabin very much deeper than they had supposed . 
In this Spike himself finally succeeded , he being much better acquainted with cabins and their fixtures , than the boatswain . 
`` The boats might be glad to get back again , '' muttered Spike . 
They succeeded at last , and Spike led the way by wading into the small apartment . 
Spike and his boatswain differed as to the place which had just been described to them , as men will differ even in the account of events that pass directly before their eyes . 
exclaimed Spike . 
`` That gun was a heavy fellow , Captain Spike , '' returned the boatswain ; `` and it sounded in my ears as if ' t was shotted . '' 
`` I believe here 's one of the bags , Captain Spike , '' said the boatswain , making a dip , and coming up with one-half of the desired treasure in his fist . 
`` By George , I 've grabbed him , sir ; and the other bag ca n't be far off . '' 
As the boatswain was obeying this order , a second gun was heard , and Spike thought that the noise made by the near passage of a large shot was audible also . 
He called out to Ben to `` bear a hand , as the ship seems in ` arnest . '' 
`` Hand it over to me at once , '' said Spike , stretching out his unoccupied hand to receive the prize ; `` we have little time to lose . '' 
Down went Spike , and the length of time he was under water , proved how much he was in earnest . 
Up he came at length , and with no better luck than his companion . 
He had got hold of the bag , satisfied himself by feeling its outside that it contained the doubloons , and hauled with all his strength , but it would not come . 
Spike assented , and the boatswain rummaged about for a piece of small rope to suit his purpose . 
answered Spike ; `` let 's know at once . '' 
`` Have you heard the guns , Captain Spike ? '' 
demanded Spike , a good deal startled . 
Though excessively provoked at the mate 's cool manner of replying , Spike saw that he might lose all by being too tenacious about securing the remainder of the doubloons . 
This said , Spike tumbled into his boat , and was pulled ashore . 
Spike was met by Jack Tier on the beach of the little island . 
`` No , Captain Spike , no . 
`` Then she at least can go aboard the brig , '' exclaimed Spike , with a sudden animation , and an expression of countenance that Jack did not at all like . 
`` You be d -- d , '' cried Spike , fiercely ; `` when your opinion is wanted , I 'll ask for it . 
`` I 'm fifty-three -- that I 'll own without making faces at it , '' returned Jack , meekly ; `` and , Stephen Spike , you logged fifty-six your last birthday , or a false entry was made . '' 
Under such circumstances Spike did not deem it expedient to utter that which was uppermost in his mind , but , turning short upon Tier , he directed a tremendous blow directly between his eyes . 
Spike did not stop to pick the assistant steward up , for another gun was fired at that very instant , and Mrs. Budd and Biddy renewed their screams . 
Instead of pausing to kick the prostrate Tier , as had just before been his intention , the captain entered the tent . 
A scene that was sufficiently absurd met the view of Spike , when he found himself in the presence of the females . 
`` We must be off , '' cried Spike , somewhat unceremoniously . 
Already the captain had carried her half the distance between the tent and the boat , in the last of which , a minute more would have deposited his victim , when a severe blow on the back of his head caused Spike to stumble , and he permitted Rose to escape from his grasp , in the effort to save himself from a fall . 
Spike muttered an oath too revolting for our pages ; but it was such a curse as none but an old salt could give vent to , and that in the bitterness of his fiercest wrath . 
Spike suspected the truth , for he had heard of these `` Pazans , '' as he called them , and he watched the booming , leaping progress of the eight-inch shell that this gun threw , with the apprehension that unknown danger is apt to excite . 
As jet succeeded jet , each rising nearer and nearer to his brig , the interval of time between them seeming fearfully to diminish , he muttered oath upon oath . 
The last leap that the shell made on the water was at about a quarter of a mile 's distance of the islet on which his people had deposited at least a hundred and fifty barrels of his spurious flour : - thence it flew , as it might be without an effort , with a grand and stately bound into the very centre of the barrels , exploding at the moment it struck . 
Rose stood confounded , nor was Jack Tier in a much better state of mind , though he still kept the pistol levelled , and menaced Spike . 
He recollected that piles of the barrels encumbered the decks of his vessel , and he rushed to the boat , nearly frantic with haste , ordering the men to pull for their lives . 
In less than five minutes he was alongside , and on the deck of the Swash -- his first order being to -- `` Tumble every barrel of this bloody powder into the sea , men . 
Remonstrance on the part of Señor Montefalderon would have been useless , had he been disposed to make it ; but , sooth to say , he was as ready to get rid of the powder as any there , after the specimen he had just witnessed of the power of a Paixhan gun . 
Perceiving that Spike was luffing up through one of the passages nearest the reef , which would carry him clear of the group , a long distance to windward of the point where he could only effect the same object , the commander of the sloop-of-war opened his fire in good earnest , hoping to shoot away something material on board the Swash , before she could get beyond the reach of his shot . 
Half a generation since , a ship of the rate -- we do not say of the size -- of the vessel which was in chase of Spike and his craft , would not have had it in her power to molest an enemy at the distance these two vessels were now apart . 
Her quick intellect comprehended the peculiar nature of the risk that was incurred by having the flour-barrels on deck , and she could not but see the manner in which Spike and his men were tumbling them into the water , as the quickest manner of getting rid of them . 
As for Spike and his people , we have already mentioned their efforts to get rid of the powder . 
No shell was fired for some little time after the new order was issued , and Spike and his people began to hope these terrific missiles had ceased their annoyance . 
The men cheered , finding their voices for the first time since the danger had seemed so imminent , and Spike was heard animating them to their duty . 
Spike saw by its undeviating course that this shell was booming terrifically toward his brig , and a cry to `` look out for the shell , '' caused the work to be suspended . 
Of the last , three or four fell into the water so near the vessel as to cast their spray on her decks . 
shouted Spike . 
Spike alone watched the course of the missile . 
`` Luff , Mr. Mulford -- luff you may , sir , '' cried Spike . 
The schooner also rode at her anchors , very much as she had been abandoned by Spike . 
`` Stephen Spike is a capital willian ! '' 
exclaimed Jack , smelling at a ladle filled with his soup -- `` a capital willian , I call him . 
To think , at his time of life , of such a handsome and pleasant young thing as this Rose Budd ; and then to try to get her by underhand means , and by making a fool of her silly old aunt . 
Yes , Stephen Spike is a prodigious willian , as his best friend must own ! 
Well , I gave him a thump on the head that he 'll not forget this v ` y' ge . 
For running away , when hard chased , Stephen Spike has n't his equal on ` arth . 
But , he 's a great willian -- a prodigious willian ! 
I can not say I actually wish him hanged ; but I would rather have him hanged than see him get pretty Rose in his power . 
It seems Stephen could not get it . 
That 's odd , too , for he 's great at grabbin ' gold . 
It was well done , and Stephen is a perfect sailor ; but he says Mulford is the same . 
Mulford has too much , and Spike has too little . 
For him to think of carryin ' off a gal of nineteen ! 
I say he 's fifty-six , if he 's a day . 
How fond he used to be of this very soup ! 
If I 've seen him eat a quart of it , I 've seen him eat a puncheon full of it , in my time . 
There 's a great deal to admire , and a great deal to like in Stephen Spike , but he 's a reg ` lar willian . 
I dare say he fancies himself a smart , jaunty youth ag ` in , as I can remember him ; a lad of twenty , which was about his years when I first saw him , by the sign that I was very little turned of fifteen myself . 
Spike wascomely then , though I acknowledge he 's a willian . 
I can see him now , with his deep blue roundabout , his bell-mouthed trowsers , both of fine cloth -- too fine for such a willian -- but fine it was , and much did it become him . '' 
Some associations connected with Spike 's fruitless attempts to obtain it must have formed its principal interest with this singular being , as he muttered his captain 's name each time in passing , though he said no more audibly . 
The concerns of the dinner carried him back and forth ; and in his last visit to the tent , he began to set a small table -- one that had been brought for the convenience of Mrs. Budd and her niece , from the brig , and which of course still remained on the islet . 
Stephen had a hankerin ' a ` ter it , but he did not get it . 
That Spike 's a willian , and the gold was too good for him . 
He has no conscience at all to think of a gal of nineteen ! 
And one fit for his betters , in the bargain . 
The time hasbeen when Stephen Spike might have pretended to Rose Budd 's equal . 
But Spike carries on business on too large a scale , and many 's the time I 've told him so . 
I could have forgiven him anything but this attempt on Rose Budd ; and he 's altogether too old for that , to say nothing of other people 's rights . 
The boat of the light-house , that in which Spike had landed in quest of Rose , was lying alongside of the schooner , and sufficiently explained the manner in which the mate had left the brig. This boat , in fact , had been fastened astern , in the hurry of getting from under the sloop-of-war 's fire , and Mulford had taken the opportunity of the consternation and frantic efforts produced by the explosion of the last shell thrown , to descend from his station on the coach-house into this boat , to cut the painter , and to let the Swash glide away from him . 
Had he been seen , however , it is very little probable that Spike would have lost a moment of time , in the attempt to recover either . 
But he was not seen , and it was the general opinion on board the Swash , for quite an hour , that her handsome mate had been knocked overboard and killed , by a fragment of the shell that had seemed to explode almost in the ears of her people . 
When the reef was doubled , however , and Spike made his preparations for meeting the rough water , he hove to , and ordered his own yawl , which was also towing astern , to be hauled up alongside , in order to be hoisted in . 
Mulford was much liked by the crew , and he was highly valued by Spike , on account of his seamanship and integrity , this latter being a quality that is just as necessary for one of the captain 's character to meet with in those he trusts as to any other man . 
But Spike thought differently of the cause of Mulford 's disappearance , from his crew . 
He ascribed it altogether to love for Rose , when , in truth , it ought in justice to have been quite as much imputed to a determination to sail no longer with a man who was clearly guilty of treason . 
Of smuggling , Mulford had long suspected Spike , though he had no direct proof of the fact ; but now he could not doubt that he was not only engaged in supplying the enemy with the munitions of war , but was actually bargaining to sell his brig for a hostile cruiser , and possibly to transfer himself and crew along with her . 
She had received him with tears , and a betrayal of emotion that gave him every encouragement , and now she did not deny her preference . 
Rose never doubted of obtaining her aunt 's consent in due time , all her prejudices being in favour of the sea and sailors ; and should she not , she would soon be her own mistress , and at liberty to dispose of herself and her pretty little fortune as she might choose . 
But a cypher as she was , in all questions of real moment , Mrs. Budd was not a person likely to throw any real obstacle in the way of the young people 's wishes ; the true grounds of whose present apprehensions were all to be referred to Spike , his intentions , and his well-known perseverance . 
`` I hope we shall soon be able to quit this place , '' she said ; `` for I confess to some dread of Captain Spike 's return . '' 
`` Captain Stephen Spike has greatly disappointed me , '' observed the aunt , gravely . 
I could have sworn he was an honest , frank , well-meaning sailor -- a character , of all others , that I love ; but it has turned out otherwise . '' 
`` He 's a willian ! '' 
She could easily get clear of the sloop-of-war , with the start she had , and Spike is a man that never yet abandoned a doubloon , when he knew where one was to be found . '' 
`` Stephen Spike is like all his fellow-creatures , '' put in Jack Tier , pointedly . 
`` He has his faults , and he has his virtues . '' 
All her top-hamper had been taken down by Spike , and nothing remained but the plainest and most readily-managed gear . 
`` Better leave it for Spike , '' said Jack unexpectedly . 
`` Should he come back , and find the doubloons , he may be satisfied , and not look for the schooner . 
On the other hand , when the vessel is missing , he will think that the money is in her . 
Better leave it for old Stephen . '' 
Mulford had been in great apprehension of the re-appearance of the Swash all that day ; for it was about the time when Spike would be apt to return , in the event of his escaping from the sloop-of-war , and he dreaded Rose 's again falling into the hands of a man so desperate . 
Spike , by this time , must be convinced that his business in the Gulf was known ; and one who had openly thrown off his service , as his mate had done , would unquestionably be regarded as a traitor to hisinterests , whatever might be the relation in which he would stand to the laws of the country . 
`` We are now rid of that infamous Spike , and may hope never to see his face more . '' 
`` Stephen Spike has his good p ` ints as well as another , '' said Jack Tier , abruptly . 
`` I know that he is an old shipmate of yours , Tier , and that you can not forget how he once stood connected with you , and am sorry I have said so much against him , '' answered Rose , expressing her concern even more by her looks and tones , than by her words . 
Jack was mollified by this , and he let his feeling be seen , though he said no more than to mutter , `` He 's a willian ! '' 
`` Stephen Spike is a capital seaman , and that is something in any man , '' observed the relict of Captain Budd . 
`` He learned his trade from one who was every way qualified to teach him , and it 's no wonder he should be expert . 
Mulford had gleaned many of the leading facts connected with the channels , and the navigation of those waters , from Spike and the older seamen of the brig , during the time they had been lying at the Tortugas . 
By conversations of this nature , and by consulting the charts , which Spike did not affect to conceal after the name of his port became known , the young man , in fact , had so far made himself master of the subject , as to have tolerably accurate notions of the courses , distances , and general peculiarities of the reef . 
Without a question , but for his interference , the pretty Rose Budd would , at that moment , have been the prisoner of Spike , and most probably the victim of his design to compel her to marry him . 
`` All men are not Stephen Spikes , '' said Rose , earnestly , `` and least of all is Harry Mulford to be reckoned as one of his sort . 
All that need now be said , is to add , that Jack did most of the talking , that his past life was the principal theme , and that the terrible Stephen Spike , he from whom they were now so desirous of escaping , was largely mixed up with the adventures recounted . 
Jack was excessively provoked at this accident , for he had foreseen the possibility of having recourse to that boat yet , in order to escape from Spike . 
Biddy produced from her pockets , however , a whole biscuit , a large bunch of excellent raisins that she had filched from the steward 's stores , and two apples , -- the last being the remains of some fruit that Spike had procured a month earlier in New York . 
She was running through the passage , no doubt with a view to proceed to the Dry Tortugas , to look after the schooner , Spike having the hope that he had dodged his pursuers on the coast of Cuba . 
`` It is hardly possible that Spike should not see the vessel here in the northern board , '' Mulford observed to Tier , who had been examining the ship with him . 
Spike is no dawdler with serious business before him . '' 
`` He 's a willain ! '' 
As Rose , however , had related to him the scene that took place on the islet , at the moment when Spike was departing , the mate supposed that Jack still felt a portion of the resentment that such a collision would be apt to create . 
From the expression of Jack 's countenance at that instant , it struck him Spike might not be exactly safe , should accident put it in the power of the former to do him an injury . 
Hitherto , it was not probable that they had been seen , and by using due caution , the chances of Spike 's overlooking them altogether amounted nearly to certainty . 
Though Spike could not expect to meet his old acquaintance here , after the chase he had so lately led her , down on the opposite coast , he might and would have his misgivings , and Mulford thought it was his intention to haul up close round the northern angle of the reef , and maintain his advantage of the wind , over the stranger . 
It was too late , however , to attempt a change , since the appearance of human beings in such a place would be certain to draw the brig 's glasses on them , and the glasses must at once let Spike know who they were . 
The vessel was now so near that Mulford plainly saw the boatswain get upon the coach-house , or little hurricane-house deck , where Spike stood examining the ship with his glass , and point out the boat , where it lay at the side of the rock . 
By the aid of the glass , Spike doubtless recognised their persons , and the fact was announced to the men , by way of stimulating their exertions . 
By this time the Swash had her boat in the water , manned with four powerful oars , Spike steering it in his own person . 
Our young mate placed Tier in the bows , to point out the deepest water , and kept his sail a rap full , in order to get ahead as fast as possible . 
Ahead he did get , but it was on a course that soon brought him out in the open water of the main passage through the reef , leaving Spike materially astern . 
The latter now rose in his boat , and made a signal with his hat , which the boatswain perfectly understood . 
The latter caused the brig to ware short round on her heel , and boarded his foretack in chase , hauling up into the passage as soon as he could again round the reef . 
But the Swash had her guns , and it was probable they would be used rather than he should escape . 
The new course brought the fugitives nearly at right angles to that steered by Spike , who stood directly on , as if conscious that , sooner or later , such a rencounter must occur . 
It would seem that the tide was setting through the passage , for when the boat of Mulford again reached the reef , it was considerably to windward of the channel out of which she had issued , and opposite to another which offered very opportunely for her entrance . 
She at least could not follow him among the rocks , let Spike , in his boat , proceed as he might . 
According to appearances , Spike was not likely to be very successful . 
He was obliged to diverge from his course , in order to go into the main passage at the very point where Mulford had just before done the same thing , and pull along the reef to windward , in order to get into the new channel , into which the boat he was pursuing had just entered . 
Mulford 's boat seemed to fly , and glided ahead at least three feet to that of Spike 's two . 
That circumstance was as follows : In running a mile and a half over the reef , in the manner described , Mulford had left the boat of Spike quite half a mile astern . 
Had Spike followed , doubled the same shoal , and kept away again in the same channel as had been done by the boat he chased , all his hopes of success must have vanished at once . 
In consequence of this short cut , therefore , Spike was actually crossing out into Mulford 's new channel , just as the latter had handsomely cleared the mouth of the opening through which he effected his purpose . 
Not a word was spoken , however , but Mulford went by , leaving Spike about a hundred yards astern . 
He seized a musket , and raised it to his shoulder , nay , was in the act of taking aim at his mate , when Rose , who watched his movements , threw herself before Harry , and if she did not actually save his life , at least prevented Spike 's attempt on it for that occasion . 
Spike muttered a few bitter curses , and told his men to lay on their oars . 
`` It 's well for the runaway , '' he added , `` that the gal put herself between us , else would his grog have been stopped for ever . 
I 've long suspected this ; but had I been sure of it , the Gulf Stream would have had the keeping of his body , the first dark night we were in it together . 
This last occurrence induced Spike to pull slowly ahead , in quest of another short passage to cut the fugitives off ; but no such opening offered . 
exclaimed Spike . 
For himself he had no hope -- he knew Spike 's character too well for that ; but he did not apprehend any great immediate danger to his companions . 
Spike had a coarse , brutal admiration for Rose ! 
but her expected fortune , which was believed to be of more amount than was actually the case , was a sort of pledge that he would not willingly put himself in a situation that would prevent the possibility of enjoying it . 
This was done quietly , and with very few words on the part of Spike . 
On the contrary , never had Stephen Spike seemed more calm , or under better self-command . 
He smiled , and saluted Mrs. Budd , just as if nothing unpleasant had occurred , and alluded to the sharpness of the chase with facetiousness and seeming good-humour . 
asked Spike , as the boats began to pass down the channel to return to the brig -- two of the Swash 's men taking their seats in that which had been captured , along with their commander , while the other two got a tow from the use of the sail . 
A solitary cap of the coral rose above the water two or three feet , close to the channel , and was the rock to which Spike alluded . 
`` Mr. Mulford , do me the favour to step up here , '' said Spike , leading the way on to the rock himself . 
Mulford silently complied , fully expecting that Spike intended to blow his brains out , and willing the bloody deed should be done in a way to be as little shocking to Rose as circumstances would allow . 
But Spike manifested no such intention . 
A more refined cruelty was uppermost in his mind ; and his revenge was calculated , and took care to fortify itself with some of the quibbles and artifices of the law . 
He might not be exactly right in his legal reservations , but he did not the less rely on their virtue . 
`` Hark ` e , Mr. Mulford , '' said Spike , sharply , as soon as both were on the rock , `` you have run from my brig , thereby showing your distaste for her ; and I 've no disposition to keep a man who wishes to quit me . 
`` You will not have the cruelty to abandon me on this naked rock , Captain Spike , and that without a morsel of food , or a drop of water . '' 
Spike was getting angry , and he entered the boat again , without perceiving that Rose had left it . 
Light of foot , and resolute of spirit , the beautiful girl , handsomer than ever perhaps , by her excited feelings and dishevelled hair , had sprung on the rock , as Spike stepped into the boat forward , and when the latter turned round , after loosening the sail , he found he was drifting away from the very being who was the object of all his efforts . 
Mulford , believing that Rose was to be abandoned as well as himself , received the noble girl in his arms , though ready to implore Spike , on his knees , to return and at least to take her off . 
But Spike wanted no solicitation on that point . 
He returned of his own accord , and had just reached the rock again when a report of a gun drew all eyes toward the brig. The Swash had again run out of the passage , and was beating up , close to the reef as she dared to go , with a signal flying . 
Spike looked at Rose , a moment , in doubt . 
Spike watched the movements of the young man with jealous vigilance , and no sooner was Rose placed on her seat , than he motioned significantly to the mate to quit the boat . 
`` I can not and will not voluntarily , Captain Spike , '' answered Harry , calmly . 
Had Mulford been disposed to resist , these two men could not very easily have ejected him from the boat , if they could have done it at all ; but he knew there were others in reserve , and feared that blood might be shed , in the irritated state of Spike , in the presence of Rose . 
Her condition occupied her aunt and Biddy , and Spike was enabled to reach his brig without any further interruption . 
As respects the two vessels , the arrival of Spike on board his own was not a moment too soon . 
But Spike soon determined not to leave a point so delicate as that of his own and his vessel 's security to be decided by a mere superiority in the way of heels . 
The Florida Reef , with all its dangers , windings , and rocks , was as well known to him as the entrances to the port of New York . 
The brig was not flying light , it is true , but she was merely in good ballast trim , and passages would be available to her , into which the Poughkeepsie would not dare to venture . 
One of these lesser channels was favourably placed to further the escape of Spike , and he shoved the brig into it after the struggle had lasted less than an hour . 
This passage offered a shorter cut to the south side of the reef than the main channel , and the sloop-of-war , doubtless perceiving the uselessness of pursuit , under such circumstances , wore round on her heel , and came down through the main channel again , just entering the open water , near the spot where the schooner had sunk , as the sun was setting . 
Did her grandsire leave her seven hundred pound ? 
Ay , and her father is make her a petter penny . 
I know the young gentlewoman ; she has good gifts . 
As for Spike , he had no intention of going to the southward of the Florida Reef again until his business called him there . 
The lost bag of doubloons was still gleaming before his imagination , and no sooner did the Poughkeepsie bear up , than he shortened sail , standing back and forth in his narrow and crooked channel , rather losing ground than gaining , though he took great pains not to let his artifice be seen . 
When the Poughkeepsie was so far to the northward as to render it safe , he took in everything but one or two of his lowest sails , and followed easily in the same direction . 
As the sloop-of-war carried her light and loftier sails , she remained visible to the people of the Swash long after the Swash had ceased to be visible to her . 
Profiting by this circumstance , Spike entered the main channel again some time before it was dark , and selected a safe anchorage there that was well known to him ; a spot where sufficient sand had collected on the coral to make good holding ground , and where a vessel would be nearly embayed , though always to windward of her channel going out , by the formation of the reef . 
Here he anchored , in order to wait until morning ere he ventured further north . 
During the whole of that dreadful day , Rose had remained in her cabin , disconsolate , nearly unable , as she was absolutely unwilling to converse . 
Now it was that she felt the total insufficiency of a mind feeble as that of her aunt 's to administer consolation to misery like her own . 
Spike passed and repassed him fifty times , without even an angry look , or a word of abuse ; and the deputy-steward dropped quietly into the duties of his office , without meeting with either reproach or hindrance . 
The only allusion , indeed , that was made to his recent adventures , took place in a conversation that was held on the subject in the galley , the interlocutors being Jack himself , Josh , the steward , and Simon , the cook . 
Accordin ' to some rule , Stephen Spike not a werry honest man ; but accordin ' to ` nudder some , he as good as any body else . '' 
As a friend of Stephen Spike 's I would do it ; for it must be a terrible thing to die with such a murder on one 's soul . 
If Cap ` in Spike once knew we 've lent a hand in sich a job , he 'd never overlook it . 
`` Spike usually does that , you know . 
I knows Cap ` in Spike well ; t ` ree time I endebber to run myself , and each time he bring me up wid a round turn ; so , now-a-days , I nebber t ` inks of sich a projeck any longer . '' 
If you do know Stephen Spike well , Josh , I know him better . '' 
These blacks were well enough disposed to rescue an innocent and unoffending man from the atrocious death to which Spike had condemned his mate , but neither lost sight of his own security and interest . 
They promised Tier not to betray him , however ; and he had the fullest confidence in their pledges . 
This opportunity was much increased by Spike 's hailing him , while on the yard , and ordering him to take a good look at the sloop-of-war , and at the same time to ascertain if any boats were `` prowlin ' about , in order to make a set upon us in the night . '' 
This fact was communicated to Spike in the usual way . 
The latter seemed pleased , and he answered in a hearty manner , just as if no difficulty had ever occurred between him and the steward 's assistant . 
Spike seemed struck with the truth of this suggestion ; and he soon sent a glass aloft by the signal-halyards . 
While thus employed , the brig was secured for the night , her decks were cleared , and the people were ordered to get their suppers , previously to setting an anchor-watch , and turning-in for the night . 
No one heeded the movements of Tier , -- for Spike had gone into his own state-room , -- with the exception of Josh and Simon . 
It had been a present to Spike from one who was careful in his selections of such objects , and who had accidentally been under a serious obligation to the captain . 
Knowing the importance of a good look , as regards the boats , Spike had brought this particular instrument , of which , in common , he was very chary , from his own state-room , and sent it aloft , in order that Jack might have every available opportunity of ascertaining his facts . 
A second look satisfied him he was right ; and he next clearly traced the last channel in which they had endeavoured to escape from Spike , or that in which the boat had been taken . 
In short , the utmost malice of Spike could not have selected , for the immolation of his victim , a more suitable place . 
At first , Jack thought the young man was actually endeavouring to get nearer to her , though it must have been a forlorn hope that should again place him in the hands of Spike . 
It gleamed brightly in that solitary place ; and the steward was much afraid it would be seen by some one on deck , get to be reported to Spike , and lead to Harry 's destruction after all . 
It was Spike 's voice , and came up to him short and quick . 
demanded Spike . 
Spike and the Señor Montefalderon were under the coach-house , no one else appearing on any part of the quarter-deck . 
As for the females , they chose to remain in their own cabin , where Spike was well pleased to leave them . 
Spike looked dark and thoughtful . 
`` Well , Jack , '' resumed Spike , after the pause , `` can you tell us anything of the doubloons ? 
Another pause , during which Señor Montefalderon and Captain Spike looked significantly at each other . 
`` I hope you do n't doubt , Captain Spike , my having sailed in the brig , not only in old times , but in her best times . '' 
Jack seemed hurt as he put this question , and Spike appeared in doubt . 
I 'm as good for an anchor-watch as any man in the brig , Captain Spike . '' 
Jack might have been a little offended at Spike 's compliments , but he was certainly not sorry to find him so good-natured , after all that had passed . 
Spike had , of his own accord , given to him and his two associates , Simon and Josh , the care of the brig between midnight and morning . 
Half an hour would place him out of harm 's way ; especially as I happen to know the course Spike means to steer in the morning . '' 
Spike is getting desperate , and you will be safer with the young mate than with so great an old willian . 
As for Spike , I despise him too much to fear him . 
He must soon go into port somewhere , and at the first place where he touches we shall quit him . 
He dare not detain us -- nay , he can not -- and I do not fear him . 
When Spike ordered the anchor-watches , he had great care to spare his crew as much as possible , for the next day was likely to be one of great toil to them . 
He intended to get the schooner up again , if possible ; and though he might not actually pump her out so as to cause her to float , enough water was to be removed to enable him to get at the doubloons . 
The situation of the bread-locker was known , and as soon as the cabin was sufficiently freed from water to enable one to move about in it , Spike did not doubt his being able to get at the gold . 
With his resources and ingenuity , the matter in his own mind was reduced to one of toil and time . 
Eight-and-forty hours , and some hard labour , he doubted not would effect all he cared for . 
In setting the anchor-watches for the night , therefore , Stephen Spike bethought him as much of the morrow as of the present moment . 
By eight o'clock the vessel lay in a profound quiet , Señor Montefalderon pacing the quarter-deck alone , while the deep breathing of Spike was to be heard issuing through the open window of his state-room ; a window which it may be well to say to the uninitiated , opened in-board , or toward the deck , and not outboard , or toward the sea . 
`` I tell you , Jack , you does n't know Cap ` in Spike as well as I does , '' Josh said , in continuance of the discourse . 
`` No , you does n't know him at all as well as I does . 
If he finds out that anybody has quit dis brig dis werry night , woful will come ! 
I knows Cap ` in Spike , and does n't want to fall in athwart his hawse any more . '' 
Should Captain Spike miss the boat , and lay any trap to catch us , you can just light this here bit of lantern and hang it over the brig 's bows , where he 'll not be likely to see it , that we may know matters are going wrong , and give the craft a wide berth . '' 
It no great matter to answer a hail , or to light a lantern and sling him over de bows ; and if Captain Spike want to know who did it , let him find out . '' 
Here both negroes laughed heartily , manifesting so little care to suppress their mirth , that Rose trembled lest their noise should awaken Spike . 
`` I know Spike well , '' said Jack , in answer to a remonstrance from the impatient Rose concerning his delay : `` A single flap of that canvas would wake him up , with the brig anchored , while he would sleep through a salute of heavy guns if it came in regular course . 
Quick ears has old Stephen , and it 's best to humour them . 
It was blowing a good breeze , and Jack Tier had no sooner got the sail on the boat , than away it started at a speed that would have soon distanced Spike in his yawl , and with his best oarsmen . 
The germ of goodness had been implanted early in him , and was nursed with tenderness and care , until , self-willed , and governed by passion ; he had thrown off the connections of youth and childhood , to connect himself with Spike -- a connection that had left him what he was . 
Captain Spike is a mighty great sailor , anyway . '' 
`` He 's a willian ! '' 
Captain Spike will be in no very good humour to receive you and me on board ag ` in , if he should find out what sort of a trip we 've been making hereaway . '' 
Time wont stand still , Biddy , to suit the wishes of lovers ; and Stephen Spike is a man not to be trifled with . 
Duty , and perhaps my own safety , tells me to let Captain Mull know what Spike is about with the Swash ; and I shall not hesitate a moment about doing it , after all that has passed . 
I must go back to the brig. Miss Rose , there , knows that my business is with Stephen Spike , and with him only . '' 
`` And I have been taken from that rock , to be given up to the tender mercies of Spike again ? '' 
On no account would I consent to place you in the hands of Spike again -- death would be preferable to that , Harry ! '' 
`` And on no account can or will I consent to place youagain in the hands of Spike , Rose , '' answered the young man . 
`` Spike 's a willian ! '' 
If you return to the Swash , I shall go on board with you , and throw defiance into the very teeth of Spike . 
For half an hour everything was urged by each that feeling , affection , delicacy , or distrust of Spike could well urge , and Mulford was slowly getting the best of the argument , as well he might , the truth being mostly of his side . 
Spike had no object to gain by ill-treating Mrs. Budd ; and the probability certainly was that he would get rid of her as soon as he could , and in the most easy manner . 
Yes , Harry , if Jack Tier will be of the party , I will trust my aunt to Biddy , and go with you to Key West , in order to escape from Spike . '' 
Spike broke into your chest this a ` ternoon , and made me hold the tools while he was doing it . 
He found the bag , and overhauled it -- a hundred and seven half , eleven quarter , and one full-grown eagle , was the count . 
When he had done the job , he put all back ag ` in , a ` ter giving me the full-grown eagle for my share of the plunder , and told me to say nothing of what I had seen . 
I did say nothing , but I did a good bit of work , for , while he was at supper . 
It was too late to pause , however , and the sheet was slowly eased off , Jack hauling on the brail at the same time ; the object being to prevent the sail 's flapping , and the sound reaching the ears of Spike . 
He had just succeeded , when the whole party was startled , some of them almost petrified , indeed , by a hail from the quarter-deck in the well-known , deep tones of Spike . 
Receiving no answer , he immediately repeated , in a shorter , quicker call , `` Forecastle , there ? '' 
Jack did as ordered , and soon stood beneath the coach-house deck with Spike , who had come out of his state-room , heated and uneasy at he knew not what . 
I hope , Captain Spike , I can take the liberty of an old shipmate , however , and say one thing to you , which is this -- look out for the Poughkeepsie , which is very likely to be on your heels when you least expect her . '' 
Here 's a rock close aboard on us , to which we 're comin ' fast -- just off here , on our weather-bow , that looks to me like the place where you landed a ` ter that swim , and where we had stowed ourselves when Stephen Spike made us out , and gave chase . '' 
`` It is surprising to me , Jack , that you should have any fancy to stick by a man of Spike 's character . 
He is a precious rascal , as we all can see , now , and you are rather an honest sort of fellow . '' 
So it is with me and Stephen Spike . 
WhyI stand by him is my own secret ; but stand by him I do and will . '' 
`` Spike intends to come and look for this wreck , you tell me , Jack ; in the hope of getting at the doubloons it contains ? '' 
`` Ay , to let him know where he will be likely to fall in with the Molly Swash and her traitor master , Stephen Spike , '' cried Jack Tier . 
Stephen Spike will show 'em how to thread the channels of a reef . '' 
muttered Jack -- `` a reg ` lar willian is Stephen Spike ! '' 
`` If a villain , why do you so evidently wish to keep him out of the hands of the law ? 
Let him be captured and punished , as his crimes require . '' 
`` Hark ` e , Mr. Mulford , I 've sailed in the brig longer than you , and know 'd her in her comeliest and best days -- when she was young , and blooming , and lovely to the eye , as the young creature at your side -- and it would go to my heart to have anything happen to her . 
Then , I 've know 'd Stephen a long time , too , and old shipmates get a feelin ' for each other , sooner or later . 
I tell you now , honestly , Mr. Mulford , Captain Adam Mull shall never make a prisoner of Stephen Spike , if I can prevent it . '' 
`` Though we can see her , she can not see us . 
The two vessels were so far apart that one could not be seen from the other , and there was little hope that the Poughkeepsie would detect Spike at his toil on the wreck ; but the mate fully expected that the ship would go into the anchorage , among the islets , in order to ascertain what had become of the schooner . 
This usually happens on such occasions , and although Spike had endeavoured to prevent it , when his brig lay in this bay , he had not been entirely successful . 
Then Mulford still apprehended Spike . 
Now , the worst enemy of Stephen Spike must own that his brig never quits port with unsettled bills . 
Stephen has his faults , like other mortals ; but he has his good p ` ints , too . '' 
`` Still praising Spike , my good Jack , '' cried the mate , a little provoked at this pertinacity in the deputy-steward , in sticking to his ship and his shipmate . 
I feel it to be a duty , however , as one who may know more of the law than yourself , as well as more of Stephen Spike , to tell you that he is engaged in a treasonable commerce with the enemy , and that he , and all who voluntarily remain with him , knowing this fact , may be made to swing for it . '' 
Stephen Spike has a halter round his neck , as you say yourself , and it 's necessary for me to be there to look to ` t . 
Mulford told Rose of his hopes and fears , while he visited at the house of her aunt , previously to sailing , and the manner in which his suspicions had been first awakened in reference to the intentions of Spike -- intentions , so far as they were connected with an admiration of his old commander 's niece , and possibly in connection also with the little fortune she was known to possess , but not in reference to the bold project to which he had , in fact , resorted . 
Harry confessed his jealousy of one youth whom he dreaded far more even than he had ever dreaded Spike , and whose apparent favour with Rose , and actual favour with her aunt , had given him many a sleepless night . 
`` Even Spike admits that you are what he calls ` a prime seaman . ' 
How she became the dupe of Spike , indeed , is to me unaccountable ; for in all that relates to health , she is , in general , both acute and skilful . '' 
`` Spike is a man of more art than he appears to be to superficial observers . 
I find that fellow 's attachment to Spike very extraordinary , Rose . 
We have not been accomplices in Spike 's treasons , and can not be made to answer for them . '' 
There was n't time , Mr. Mulford , to get the boat out , and the mast stepped , afore we should have been within reach of canister , and Stephen Spike would not have spared that , in order to get you again within his power . '' 
I suppose our case is now hopeless , and that we shall all be soon on board the brig again ; for Spike will hardly think of abandoning me again on an island provisioned and fitted as is this ! '' 
`` It 's not so sartain , sir , that you fall into his hands at all , '' put in Jack . 
Spike has come in here a ` ter the schooner 's chain , that he dropped into the water when he made sail from the sloop-of-war , at the time he was here afore , and is not expectin ' to find us here . 
No -- no -- he thinks we are beatin ' up toward Key West this very minute , if , indeed , he has missed us at all . ' 
T is possible he believes the boat has got adrift by accident , and has no thought of our bein ' out of the brig. '' `` That is impossible , Jack . 
Recollect , Spike will not be apt to look into Miss Rose 's state-room or my berth , to see if all this is true . 
It is my calculation that Spike believes both Miss Rose and myself on board the Molly at this very moment . '' 
`` And the boat -- what can he suppose has become of the boat ? '' 
All this served very much to lessen the uneasiness of Mulford and Rose , as it went far to prove that Spike had not come to the Dry Tortugas in quest of them , as , at first , both had very naturally supposed . 
It might , indeed , turn out that his sole object was to obtain this anchor and chain , with a view to use them in raising the ill-fated vessel that had now twice gone to the bottom . 
`` You will hardly leave us yet , Jack , '' said Rose , with a manner and emphasis that did not fail to strike her betrothed lover , though he could in no way account for either . 
That Rose should not wish to be left alone with him in that solitary place was natural enough ; or , might rather be referred to education and the peculiar notions of her sex ; but he could not understand why so much importance should be attached to the presence of a being of Jack Tier 's mould and character . 
If not convinced , she was evidently silenced , while Harry was left to wonder and surmise , as best he might . 
The work went on rapidly , and Mulford observed to Rose that he did not think it was the intention of Spike to remain long at the Tortugas , inasmuch as his brig was riding by a very short range of cable . 
His apprehensions that Spike would obtain all he wanted , and be off before he could rejoin him , increased at each instant , and he did not scruple to announce an intention to take the boat and go alongside of the Swash at every hazard , rather than be left . 
`` It would cause the destruction of Harry , as Spike would not believe you had not found him , without an examination of this house . '' 
And that is Spike himself coming down the brig 's side this instant . '' 
`` Spike may wish to keep the light burning , for once before , you will remember , he had it kindled after the keeper was removed . 
One was known to be Spike , however , and the other , it was conjectured , must be Don Juan Montefalderon , from the circumstance of his being in the place of honour . 
Spike was now plainly to be discerned by means of the lantern which he carried in his own hands , He gave some orders , in his customary authoritative way , and in a high key , after which he led the way from the wharf , walking side by side with the Señor Montefalderon . 
These two last came up within a yard of the door of the house , where they paused , enabling those within not only to see their persons and the working of their countenances , but to hear all that was said ; this last the more especially , since Spike never thought it necessary to keep his powerful voice within moderate limits . 
`` It 's hardly worth while , Don Wan , for you to go into the light-house , '' said Spike . 
`` Women have tender looks but tough hearts , '' answered Spike , carelessly , though Mulford felt certain , by the tone of his voice , that great bitterness of feeling lay smothered beneath the affected indifference of his manner ; `` few die of love . '' 
The two now separated , Spike going into the light-house , little in a hurry , while Don Juan Montefalderon walked round the building to its rear in quest of the grave . 
Mulford waited a moment for Spike to get a short distance up the stairs of the high tower he had to ascend , when placing the arm of Rose within his own , he opened the door in the rear of the house , and walked boldly toward the Mexican . 
To her and Jack Tier , who is yonder , under the shadows of the house , I owe my not being the victim of Spike 's cruelty . '' 
We are then to understand that the absence of Rose and Jack from the brig is not known to Spike . '' 
He has alluded to both , once or twice to-day , as being ill below ; but would you not do well to retire within the shade of the dwelling , lest a glance from the lantern might let those in it know that I am not alone . '' 
According to his account of the matter , Spike had immediately called upon the people to explain the loss of the boat . 
Tier was not interrogated on this occasion , it being understood he had gone below and turned in , after having the look-out for fully half the night . 
The result was , that Spike bestowed a few hearty curses , as usual , on the clumsiness of Jack Tier , and seemed to forget all about the matter . 
`` As for Rose , her keeping her room , under the circumstances , was so very natural , that the Señor Montefalderon had been completely deceived , as , from his tranquillity on this point , there was no question was the case with Spike also . 
As respects the brig and her movements , Spike had got under way as soon as there was light enough to find his course , and had run through the passage . 
This little sail was made , if made at all , in the direction of the Dry Tortugas , but so completely was all suspicion at rest in the minds of those on the quarter-deck of the Swash , that neither Spike nor the Mexican had the least idea what it was . 
When the circumstance was reported to the former , he answered that it was probably some small wrecker , of which many were hovering about the reef , and added , laughingly , though in a way to prove how little he thought seriously on the subject at all , `` who knows but the light-house boat has fallen into their hands , and that they 've made sail on her ; if they have , my word for it , that she goes , hull , spars , rigging , canvas , and cargo , all in a lump , for salvage . '' 
This induced Spike to heave-to , lower a boat , and to go in person to examine the condition of the wreck . 
When they were completed , Spike returned on board , run up his boat , and squared away for the Dry Tortugas . 
The brig had come solely for the chain and anchor mentioned , and having secured them , it was Spike 's intention to get under way and beat up to the wreck again as soon as the moon rose . 
As for the sloop-of-war , he believed she had given him up ; for by this time she must know that she had no chance with the brig , so long as the latter kept near the reef , and that she ran the constant hazard of shipwreck , while playing so near the dangers herself . 
Before the Señor Montefalderon exhausted all he had to communicate , he was interrupted by Jack Tier with a singular proposition . 
Jack 's great desire was to get on board the Swash ; and he now begged the Mexican to let Mulford take the yawl and scull him off to the brig , and return to the islet before Spike and his companions should descend from the lantern of the light-house . 
No one took such precise note of what was going on ; as to be able to contradict him ; and as to Spike and the men with him , they would probably never hear anything about it . 
`` Nevertheless , Don Henrique , '' he concluded , for the voice of Spike was just then heard as he was descending the stairs of the light-house , `` nevertheless , Don Henrique , there is one thing that your people , brave , energetic , and powerful as I acknowledge them to be , would do well to remember , and it is this -- no nation of the numbers of ours can be , or ever was conquered , unless by the force of political combinations . 
As Spike descended to the door of the light-house , Harry , Rose , and Jack Tier retired within that of the dwelling . 
The light from the lantern fell upon the wharf , and he could see the boat from the window where he stood , with Spike standing nearly over it , waiting for the men to get his own yawl ready . 
It is true , the captain 's back was toward the dangerous object , and the planks of the bridge were partly between him and it ; but there was a serious danger that was solely averted by the circumstance that Spike was so earnestly dilating on some subject to Don Juan , as to look only at that gentleman 's face . 
He let it be plainly seen how much he despised Spike , and how irksome to him was the intercourse he was obliged to maintain , and to which he only submitted through a sense of duty . 
No noise or clamour was heard , such as Spike would certainly have made , had he detected the deception that had been practised on himself . 
Until Spike was fairly off , he would not trust himself to sleep ; but there was no sufficient reason why Rose should not endeavour to repair the evil of a broken night 's rest , like that which had been passed in the boat . 
The mate consequently knew that his watch could not be long before Spike would quit the neighbourhood -- a circumstance pregnant with immense relief to him , at least . 
The desertion of Jack , after coming so far with her , had pained our heroine in a way we can not at present explain ; but go he would , probably feeling assured there was no longer any necessity for his continuance with the lovers , in order to prevail on Rose to escape from Spike . 
Determined not to lose an inch of distance unnecessarily , Spike luffed close up to the wind , making an effort to pass out to windward of the light . 
In order to do this , however , it became necessary for him to make two short tacks within the haven , which brought him far enough to the southward and eastward to effect his purpose . 
While this was doing , the mate , who perfectly understood the object of the manœuvres , passed to the side of the light-house that was opposite to that on which the dwelling was placed , with a view to get a better sight of the vessel as she stood out to sea . 
It would seem that , in this respect , Mulford trusted without his host , for as the vessel drew near , he perceived that six or eight figures were on the guns of the Swash , or in her rigging , gesticulating eagerly , and seemingly pointing to the very spot where he stood . 
When the brig got fairly abeam of the light , she would not be a hundred yards distant from it , and fearful to complete the exposure of his person , which he had so inadvertently and unexpectedly commenced , our mate drew up close to the wall of the light-house , against which he sustained himself in a position as immovable as possible . 
This movement had been seen by a single seaman on board the Swash , and the man happened to be one of those who had landed with Spike only two hours before . 
His name was Barlow . 
`` Captain Spike , sir , '' called out Barlow , who was coiling up rigging on the forecastle , and was consequently obliged to call out so loud as to be heard by all on board , `` yonder is a man at the foot of the light-house . '' 
Spike himself sprang into the lee main-chains , where his view was unobstructed , and where Mulford saw and recognised him , even better than he was seen and recognised in his own person . 
exclaimed Spike , in the way one a little bewildered by an announcement expresses his surprise . 
`` Livingit can not be , '' answered Spike , though he gulped at the words the next moment . 
Even Spike was not free from this illusion , and his knees shook beneath him , there where he stood , in the channels of a vessel that he had handled like a top in so many gales and tempests . 
With him , however , the illusion was neither absolute nor lasting . 
A second thought told him it could scarcely be so , and then he found his voice . 
called out Spike , in a voice of thunder , loud enough to startle even Mrs. Budd and Biddy in their berths . 
`` There ' t is , Cap ` in Spike , '' said Josh , passing the piece up through the rigging , `` but ' t will no more shoot thatthing , than one of our carronades would blow up Gibraltar . '' 
By this time Spike was very determined , his lips being compressed and his teeth set , as he took the gun and cocked it . 
Then he hailed . 
cried Spike -- `` Living or dead , answer or I fire . '' 
Spike dropped the muzzle to its aim , and fired . 
But Spike disregarded all . 
This time he was resolved that his aim should be better , and he was inveterately deliberate in getting it . 
Just as he pulled the trigger , however , Don Juan Montefalderon touched his elbow , the piece was fired , and there stood the immovable figure as before , fixed against the tower . 
Spike was turning angrily to chide his Mexican friend for deranging his aim , when the report of an answering musket came back like an echo . 
Even Spike was so far astonished as to spring in upon deck , and , for a single instant , not a man was to be seen above the monkey-rail of the brig. Then Spike recovered himself and jumped upon a gun . 
His first look was toward the light-house , now on the vessel 's lee-quarter ; but the spot where had so lately been seen the form of Mulford , showed nothing but the glittering brightness of the whitewashed stones ! 
Spike himself might have had other misgivings , and believed that he had seen the living form of his intended victim , but for the extraordinary and ghost-like echo of his last discharge . 
There was nothing visible , or intelligible , from which that fire could have come , and he was perfectly bewildered by the whole occurrence . 
An intention to round-to , as soon as through the passage , down boat and land , which had been promptly conceived when he found that his first aim had failed , was as suddenly abandoned , and he gave the command to board fore-tack ; '' immediately after , his call was to `` pack on the brig , '' and not without a little tremour in his voice , as soon as he perceived that the figure had vanished . 
I had imprudently trusted myself on the other side of the light-house , while the moon was behind clouds , and when they broke suddenly away , its light betrayed me to those on board the brig. Spike fired at me twice , without injuring me ; when , to my astonishment , an answering report was heard from the islet . 
`` The Molly Swash , Stephen Spike master and owner , bound to Key West and a market , with a cargo of eight hundred barrels of flour , and that of a quality so lively and pungent that it explodes like gunpowder ! 
While she was thus employed , Mulford gave the whole history of his connection with the brig , his indisposition to quit the latter , the full exposure of Spike 's treason , his own desertion , if desertion it could be called , the loss of the schooner , and his abandonment on the rock , and the manner in which he had been finally relieved . 
It was scarcely possible to relate all these matters , and altogether avoid allusions to the schemes of Spike in connection with Rose , and the relation in which our young man himself stood toward her . 
`` What is the trap you mean , sir -- though taking Stephen Spike alive , is sooner said than done . '' 
`` Our plan has been to catch him with our boats . 
It was , therefore , necessary to use head-work , and some man-of-war traverses , in order to lay hold of him . 
Spike will be lucky if he do not fall in with our third cutter , which is under the fourth lieutenant , should he stand on far on the same tack as that on which he left this place . 
Spike , for a seaman of his degree of education , was not particularly addicted to the weakness to which we have just alluded . 
Nevertheless , he was not altogether free from it ; and recent circumstances contributed to dispose him so much the more to admit a feeling which , like sin itself , is ever the most apt to insinuate itself at moments of extraordinary moral imbecility , and through the openings left by previous transgression . 
As his brig stood off from the light , the captain paced the deck , greatly disturbed by what had just passed , and unable to account for it . 
demanded Spike , looking suddenly and intently at his companion , while his mind was strangely agitated between hatred and dread . 
`` There is no occasion , señor , to be so particular , '' growled Spike , a little sullenly , in reply . 
While this dialogue was going on between Spike and his passenger , as they paced the quarter-deck , one quite as characteristic occurred in the galley , within twenty feet of them -- Simon , the cook , and Josh , the steward , being the interlocutors . 
Here Simon burst into such a fit of loud laughter , that it induced Spike himself to shove aside the galley-door , and thrust his own frowning visage into the dark hole within , to inquire the cause . 
demanded Spike , angrily . 
`` Well , I seed him , Cap ` in Spike ; and what a body sees , he is acquainted wid . '' 
A gleam of suspicion that these blacks were acquainted with some fact that it might be well for him to know , shot across the mind of Spike ; but he was turned from further inquiry by a remark of Don Juan , who intimated that the mirth of such persons never had much meaning to it , expressing at the same time a desire to pursue the more important subject in which they were engaged . 
`` Cap ` in Spike t ` ink data ghost ! '' 
While Spike himself , and every man in his brig who belonged forward , had strong misgivings as to the earthly character of the figure they had seen at the foot of the light-house , these negroes laughed at their delusion , because they happened to be in the secret of Mulford 's escape from the rock , and of that of his actual presence at the Tortugas . 
Spike himself lay down in his clothes , as he had done ever since Mulford had left him ; and the brig continued to toss the spray from her bows , as she bore gallantly up against the trades , working her way to windward . 
At this hour Spike appeared on deck again , where , for the first time since their interview on the morning of Harry 's and Rose 's escape , he laid his eyes on Jack Tier . 
Spike approached near the person of the steward , whom he surveyed from head to foot , with a sort of contemptuous superiority , ere he spoke . 
`` If you had had the boat astarn , Captain Spike , an order would have been given to cut it adrift the first time the brig made sail on the wind . '' 
Spike looked hard at the little steward , but he made no further allusion to his being off duty , or to his failing to stand pilot to the brig as she came through the passage in quest of the schooner 's remains . 
The fact was , that he had discovered the mast-heads himself , just as he was on the point of ordering Jack to be called , having allowed him to remain in his berth to the last moment after his watch , according to a species of implied faith that is seldom disregarded among seamen . 
`` Come aft , Jack , '' resumed Spike , after a considerable pause , during the whole of which he had stood regarding the little steward as if studying his person , and through that his character . 
repeated Tier , in an under tone , as he followed the captain to the place mentioned . 
`` Ay , come hither , '' resumed Spike , seating himself at his ease on the trunk , while Jack stood near by , his arms still folded , and his rotund little form as immovable , under the plunges that the lively brig made into the head-seas that she was obliged to meet , as if a timber-head in the vessel itself . 
`` No wonder for that , Captain Spike ; for the last twenty years I 've scarce passed a twelvemonth ashore ; and what I did before that , no one can better tell than yourself , since we was ten good years shipmates . '' 
Ten good and happy years did we sail together , Captain Spike ; and all that time in this very -- '' `` Hush -- h-u-s-h , man , hush ! 
`` If you was with me in the brig , Jack , at the time you mention , '' continued Spike , after another long and thoughtful pause , `` you must remember many little things that I do n't wish to have known ; especially while Mrs. Budd and her handsome niece is aboard here . '' 
`` I understand you , Captain Spike . 
`` I ca n't answer for the minds and fancies of young women , Captain Spike . 
`` Stephen Spike , '' said Jack , solemnly , but on so low a key that it entirely changed his usually harsh and cracked voice to one that sounded soft , if not absolutely pleasant , `` do you never think of hereafter ? 
Spike started to his feet , gazing at Jack intently ; then he wiped the perspiration from his face , and began to pace the deck rapidly , muttering to himself -- `` this has been a most accursed night ! 
This was done soon after the sun had risen , and Spike now ordered all hands called , and began his operations in earnest . 
By sounding carefully around the schooner when last here , he had ascertained her situation to his entire satisfaction . 
On these great premises Spike had laid the foundation of the practical problem he intended to solve . 
All that Spike and the Señor Montefalderon now aimed at , was to obtain the doubloons , which the former thought could be got at in the following manner . 
He knew that it would be much easier handling the wreck , so far as its gravity was concerned , while the hull continued submerged . 
He also knew that one end could be raised with a comparatively trifling effort , so long as the other rested on the rock . 
Under these circumstances , therefore , he proposed merely to get slings around the after body of the schooner , as near her stern-post , indeed , as would be safe , and to raise that extremity of the vessel to the surface , leaving most of the weight of the craft to rest on the bows . 
Spike now carefully examined all his fastenings , looking to his cables as well as his mechanical power aloft , heaving in upon this , and veering out upon that , in order to bring the Molly square to her work ; after which he ordered the people to knock-off for their dinners . 
While Stephen Spike was thus employed on the wreck , matters and things were not neglected at the Tortugas . 
Mulford knew the plans of Spike by means of his own communications with the Señor Montefalderon . 
Spike will wait for light to commence operations , and several hours will be necessary to moor the brig , and get out the anchors with which he will think it necessary to stay his masts . 
Then he will hook on , and he may partly raise the hull before night return . 
More than this he can never do ; and it would not surprise me were he merely to get everything ready for heaving on his purchases to-morrow , and suspend further proceedings until the next day , in preference to having so heavy a strain on his spars all night . 
He has not the force , however , to carry on such duty to a very late hour ; and you may count with perfect security , Captain Mull , on his being found alongside of the wreck at sunrise the next day after to-morrow , in all probability with his anchors down , and fast to the wreck . 
When you chased her out of this very port , a few days since , you would have brought her up could you have kept her within range of those terrible shells ten minutes longer . '' 
Captain Mull had caused its lamps to be trimmed and lighted for the very reason that had induced Spike to do the same thing , and the dim star they presented was just struggling into existence , as it might be , as the briliance left by the setting sun was gradually diminished , and finally disappeared . 
Her sails were in soft contrast to the colour of the hull , and they offered the variety and divergence from straight lines which are thought necessary to perfect beauty . 
It was also of use by letting him know the range of the reef , though Captain Mull , unlike Spike , had determined to make one leg off to the northward and eastward until he had brought the light nearly to the horizon , and then to make another to the southward and eastward , believing that the last stretch would bring him to the reef , almost as far to windward as he desired to be . 
Captain Spike had found the mooring of his brig a much more difficult task , on this occasion , than on that of his former attempt to raise the schooner . 
Then he had to lift the wreck bodily , and he knew that laying the Swash a few feet further ahead or astern , could be of no great moment , inasmuch as the moment the schooner was off the bottom , she would swing in perpendicularly to the purchases . 
This point gave Spike more trouble than he had anticipated . 
Fully one half of the remainder of the day , even after he had begun to heave upon his purchases , was spent in rectifying mistakes in connection with this matter , and in getting up additional securities to his masts . 
In one respect Spike had , from the first , made a good disposition . 
The masts of the brig raked materially , and by bringing the head of the Swash in the direction of the schooner , he converted this fact , which might otherwise have been of great disadvantage , into a circumstance that was favourable . 
In ten minutes Spike found he had the weight of the schooner , so far as he should be obliged to sustain it at all , until the stern rose above the surface ; and he felt reasonably secure of the doubloons . 
Further than this he did not intend to make any experiment on her , the Señor Montefalderon having abandoned all idea of recovering the vessel itself , now so much of the cargo was lost . 
Spike began to have misgivings on account of his masts , and this so much the more because the wind appeared to haul a little further to the northward , and the weather to look unsettled . 
Spike was delighted with the success of this scheme , of which he was assured by a single experiment in heaving . 
After getting the spars well planted at their heels , he even ordered the men to slacken the purchases a little , and found that he could actually relieve the brig from the strain , by causing the wreck to be supported altogether by these shores . 
Spike , as has been just stated , was highly pleased with his own expedient , and he pointed it out with exultation to the Señor Montefalderon , as soon as it was completed . 
`` Your work seems ingeniously contrived to get up one extremity of the vessel , Don Esteban , '' returned the Mexican ; but are you quite certain that the doubloons are in her ? '' 
Spike assented , and Jack was summoned to the quarter-deck . 
said Spike , in a very nautical sort of style of addressing an inferior . 
asked Spike , impatiently . 
`` The sight of that craft has brought other thoughts than gold into my mind , Captain Spike , '' answered Jack , gravely , `` and it would be well for all us mariners , if we thought less of gold and more of the dangers we run . 
`` No , sir , I 've notdeceived you -- no , Captain Spike , no . 
All Spike 's expedients admirably answered the intended purposes . 
Spike now shouted to the men to `` pall ! '' 
then he directed the falls to be very gradually eased off , in order to ascertain if the shores would still do their duty . 
As the last were now nearly perpendicular , they were capable of bearing a very heavy weight , and Spike was so anxious to relieve his own brig from the strain she had been enduring , that he ordered the lashings of the blocks to be loosened , trusting to his shores to do their duty . 
The carpenter was ordered over on the wreck with his tools , while Spike , the Señor Montefalderon , and two men to row the boat and keep it steady , went in the yawl to watch the progress of the work . 
When all was ready , Spike gave the word , and the chips began to fly . 
Spike had breasted the yawl close up to the hole , where it was held by the men , while the captain himself passed the lantern and his own head into the opening to reconnoitre . 
It was a gloomy-looking place for a man to descend into at that hour , the light from the lantern being no great matter , and half the time it was shaded by the manner in which Spike was compelled to hold it . 
This order was given , and , during the delay it caused , Spike encouraged the carpenter to be cool , and above all to mind his footing . 
His own eagerness to get at the gold was so great that he kept his head in at the hole , completely cutting off the man within from all communication with the outer world . 
demanded Spike , a little sternly . 
`` It 's not the water , Captain Spike -- I wish they would come with the chisel . 
`` I am sure I heard something like a groan , Captain Spike . 
`` I am certain I heard another groan , Captain Spike . 
Spike uttered a terrible malediction on the miserable carpenter , one we do not care to repeat ; then he cast the light of the lantern full in the man 's face . 
The quivering flesh , the pallid face , and the whole countenance wrought up almost to a frenzy of terror , astonished , as well as alarmed him . 
Dolet me come out , Captain Spike . '' 
Spike himself , this time , heard what even hetook for a groan . 
Astonished , yet appalled , he thrust his shoulders into the aperture , as if to dare the demon that tormented him , and was met by the carpenter endeavouring to escape . 
repeated Spike , throwing himself back into the boat , and shouting to his men to `` see all clear of the wreck ! '' 
Even the Señor Montefalderon was disposed to abandon the doubloons , and he urged Spike to make the best of his way for Yucatan , to seek a friendly harbour . 
By renewing the lashings , everything would be ready to begin the work anew -- and this , Spike was resolved to attempt in the morning . 
`` This is a sad accident , Don Esteban , '' observed the Mexican , as he and Spike paced the quarter-deck together , just before the last turned in ; `` a sad accident ! 
`` Yes , he was a good fellow enough with a saw , or an adze , '' answered Spike , yawning . 
Spikewas sleeping hard in his berth , quite early on the following morning , before the return of light , indeed , when he suddenly started up , rubbed his eyes , and sprang upon deck like a man alarmed . 
He had heard , or fancied he had heard , a cry . 
A voice once well known and listened to , seemed to call him in the very portals of his ear . 
At first he had listened to its words in wonder , entranced like the bird by the snake , the tones recalling scenes and persons that had once possessed a strong control over his rude feelings . 
`` Stephen Spike , awake ! 
Awake , Stephen , awake ! '' 
Spike walked forward to look for the man charged with the anchor-watch . 
Spike had deferred more to Mulford than to any mate he had ever before employed ; but this was the deference due to superior information , manners , and origin . 
`` The dead are never seen leaning against walls in that manner , Stephen Spike , '' answered Jack , coolly , not even taking the trouble to uncoil his arms . 
`` I know the rock on which you chose to abandon him , Captain Spike . '' 
`` If so , how could he be living and at the Dry Tortugas . 
God was of her side , Stephen Spike ; and a body seldom fails with such a friend to support one . '' 
Spike was astounded at these words , and not less so at the cool and confident manner with which they were pronounced . 
Jack spoke in a certain dogmatical , oracular manner , it is true , one that might have lessened his authority with a person over whom he had less influence ; but this in no degree diminished its effect on Spike . 
Spike then slowly repeated . 
Spike did as was suggested . 
He went below , took a lamp that was always suspended , lighted in the main cabin , and , without ceremony , proceeded to Rose 's state-room , where he soon found that the bird had really flown . 
Spike was never particularly refined in his intercourse with females , but he now threw aside even its pretension . 
His rage was so great that he totally forgot his manhood , and lavished on both Mrs. Budd and Biddy epithets that were altogether inexcusable , and many of which it will not do to repeat . 
`` Come away -- come away , Stephen Spike , and do not stand wrangling with women , when you and your brig , and all that belongs to you , are in danger , '' called out Jack Tier from the companion-way . 
Spike was almost livid with rage , and ready to burst out in awful maledictions ; but at this summons he sprang to the ladder , and was on deck in a moment . 
At first , he felt a strong disposition to wreak his vengeance on Tier , but , fortunately for the latter , as the captain 's foot touched the quarter-deck , his eye fell on the Poughkeepsie , then within half a league of the Swash , standing in toward the reef , though fully half a mile to leeward . 
This spectre drove all other subjects from his mind , leaving the captain of the Swash in the only character in which he could be said to be respectable , or that of a seaman . 
Almost instinctively he called all hands , then he gave one brief minute to a survey of his situation . 
shouted Spike to the boatswain , who was the first man that appeared on deck . 
again shouted Spike , casting loose the main-brails as he did so ; `` loose the jibs ! '' 
From the time when Spike gave his first order , to that when all his canvas was spread , was just seven minutes . 
Spike knew the play of his craft was short legs , for she was so nimble in her movements that he believed she could go about in half the time that would be required for a vessel of the Poughkeepsie 's length . 
`` Ready about , '' was his cry , therefore , when less than a mile distant from the reef -- `` ready about , and let her go round . '' 
Still , she stayed beautifully , and both Spike and the boatswain shook their heads , as they saw her coming into the wind with her sails all lifting and the sheets flowing . 
exclaimed Spike . 
As the wind stood , it was possible to lay through the passage on an easy bowline , though the breeze , which was getting to be fresher than Spike wished it to be , promised to haul more to the southward of east , as the day advanced . 
The guns had been directed at the brig 's spars and sails , Captain Mull desiring no more than to capture his chase , and the destruction they produced aloft was such as to induce Spike and his men , at first , to imagine that the whole hamper above their heads was about to come clattering down on deck . 
This Spike saw at once , and he had recourse to the only expedient that remained ; which might possibly yet save him . 
Whither that channel led , what water it possessed , or whether it were not a shallow cul de sac , were all facts of which Spike was ignorant . 
Happily for the execution of Spike 's present design , nothing from aloft had fallen into the water , to impede the brig 's way . 
While the guns were getting ready , Spike stood on boldly , knowing it was neck or nothing , and beginning to feel a faint revival of hope , as he found himself getting further and further from his pursuers , and the rocks not fetching him up . 
While these things were in discussion , under the superintendence of the boatswain , and Spike was standing between the knight-heads , conning the craft , the sloop-of-war let fly the first of her hollow shot . 
Spike listened to them with eyes that fairly glared with fury . 
He ordered them back to their duty in a voice of thunder , tapping the breast of his jacket , where he was known to carry revolvers , with a significance that could convey but one meaning . 
Spike was a stern disciplinarian , relying on that and ample pay for the unlimited control he often found it necessary to exercise over his crew . 
On the present occasion , his people were profoundly alarmed , but habitual deference and submission to their leader counteracted the feeling , and held them in suspense . 
This was soon made apparent on trial , and Spike himself gave the matter up . 
He ordered the yawl to be lowered , got alongside , and to be prepared for the reception of the crew , by putting into it a small provision of food and water . 
Spike knew no more where he was going than the meanest man in his vessel . 
His sole aim was to get away from his pursuers , and to save his neck from the rope . 
He magnified the danger of punishment that he really ran , for he best knew the extent and nature of his crimes , of which the few that have been laid before the reader , while they might have been amongst the most prominent , as viewed through the statutes and international law , were far from the gravest he had committed in the eyes of morals . 
About this time the Señor Montefalderon went forward to confer with Spike . 
The calmness of this gentleman 's demeanour , the simplicity and coolness of his movements , denoted a conscience that saw no particular ground for alarm . 
He wished to escape captivity , that he might continue to serve his country , but no other apprehension troubled him . 
Spike 's answer was given in a low voice ; and it evidently came from a very husky throat . 
`` Speak lower , Don Wan , '' he said . 
Spike now turned his back on the Mexican , looking anxiously ahead , with the desire to get as far into the reef as possible with his brig , which he conned with great skill and coolness . 
The Señor Montefalderon left him . 
This movement was unseen by Spike , or he might have prevented it . 
His eyes were now riveted on the channel ahead . 
It had been fully his original intention to make off in the boat , the instant the brig struck , abandoning not only Don Juan , with Mrs. Budd and Biddy to their fates , but most of the crew . 
This served as a hint to others near at hand ; and man after man left his work to steal into the yawl , until every living being had disappeared from the deck of the Swash , Spike himself excepted . 
No sooner was her helm deserted than she broached-to , and Spike was in the act of denouncing the steerage , ignorant of its cause , when the brig was thrown , broadside-to , on a sharp , angular bed of rocks . 
The storm itself was scarcely more noisy and boisterous than was Spike , when he ascertained the manner in which his people had behaved . 
At first , he believed it was their plan to abandon him to his fate ; but , on rushing to the lee-gangway , Don Juan Montefalderon assured him that no such intention existed , and that he would not allow the boat to be cast off until the captain was received on board . 
This brief respite gave Spike a moment to care for his portion of the doubloons ; and he rushed to his state-room to secure them , together with his quadrant . 
So violent were some of the shocks with which she came down on the hard bed in which she was now cradled , that Spike expected to see her burst asunder , while he was yet on her decks . 
The cracking of timbers told him that all was over with the Swash , nor had he got back as far as the gangway with his prize , before he saw plainly that the vessel had broken her back , as it is termed , and that her plank-sheer was opening in a way that threatened to permit a separation of the craft into two sections , one forward and the other aft . 
Notwithstanding all these portentous proofs that the minutes of the Molly were numbered , and the danger that existed of his being abandoned by his crew , Spike paused a moment , ere he went over the vessel 's side , to take a hasty survey of the reef . 
His object was to get a general idea of the position of the breakers , with a view to avoid them . 
The brig had gone ashore fully two miles within the passage she had entered , and which , indeed , terminated at the very spot where she had struck . 
The Poughkeepsie was standing off and on , in the main channel , with her boats in the water , evidently preparing to carry the brig in that mode . 
The passage in which the Poughkeepsie was standing to and fro was clear of them , of course ; and about a mile and a half to the northward , Spike saw that he should be in open water , or altogether on the northern side of the reef , could he only get there . 
The result of the survey , short as it was , and it did not last a minute , was to give Spike something like a plan ; and when he went over the side , and got into the boat , it was with a determination to work his way out of the reef to its northern edge , as soon as possible , and then to skirt it as near as he could , in his flight toward the Dry Tortugas . 
Itwas high time that Captain Spike should arrive when his foot touched the bottom of the yawl . 
It was well , therefore , for Spike that he descended into the boat as he did , for another minute 's delay might have brought about his own destruction . 
Spike felt a chill at his heart when he looked about him and saw the condition of the yawl . 
So crowded were the stern-sheets into which he had descended , that it was with difficulty he found room to place his feet ; it being his intention to steer , Jack was ordered to get into the eyes of the boat , in order to give him a seat . 
Try it she must , however , and Spike , in a reluctant and hesitating manner , gave the final order to `` Shove off ! '' 
The yawl carried a lugg , as is usually the case with boats at sea , and the first blast of the breeze upon it satisfied Spike that his present enterprise was one of the most dangerous of any in which he had ever been engaged . 
The puffs of wind were quite as much as the boat would bear ; but this he did not mind , as he was running off before it , and there was little danger of the yawl capsizing with such a weight in her . 
As the yawl cleared the brig and began to feel the united power of the wind and waves , the following short dialogue occurred between the boatswain and Spike . 
But Spike neglected no precaution that experience or skill could suggest . 
He had chosen his spot with coolness and judgment . 
As the boat rose on the seas he looked eagerly ahead , and by giving it a timely sheer , he hit a sort of channel , where there was sufficient water to carry them clear of the rock , and where the breakers were less dangerous than in the shoaler places . 
`` This is no time to hesitate , men , '' said Spike , sternly . 
The doubloons alone remained , safe in a little locker where Spike had deposited them along with his own . 
demanded the captain , as soon as this imminent danger was passed , absolutely afraid to turn his eyes off the dangers ahead for a single instant . 
This information drew a deep groan from Spike , and the eye of every seaman in the boat was turned in melancholy on the object they were so fast leaving behind them . 
The men looked at each other in a way to express their feelings ; and the moment seemed favourable to Spike to confer with his confidential sea-dogs in private ; but more white water was also ahead , and it was necessary to pass through it , since no opening was visible by which to avoid it . 
He deferred his purpose , consequently , until this danger was escaped . 
On this occasion Spike saw but little opportunity to select a place to get through the breakers , though the spot , as a whole , was not of the most dangerous kind . 
The reader will understand that the preservation of the boat at all , in white water , was owing to the circumstance that the rocks all around it lay so near the surface of the sea as to prevent the possibility of agitating the element very seriously , and to the fact that she was near the lee side of the reef . 
As it was , however , the breakers she had to contend with were sufficiently formidable , and they brought with them the certainty that the boat was in imminent danger of striking the bottom at any moment . 
cried Spike , as the boat again plunged in among the white water . 
Something like a cheer burst out of the chest of Spike , when he saw deeper water around him , and fancied he could now trace a channel that would carry him quite beyond the extent of the reef . 
It was arrested , only half uttered , however , by a communication from the boatswain , who sat on a midship thwart , his arms folded , and his eye on the brig and the boats . 
Spike now ventured to look behind him , commanding an experienced hand to take the helm . 
In order to do this he was obliged to change places with the man he had selected to come aft , which brought him on a thwart alongside of the boatswain and one or two other of his confidants . 
Here a whispered conference took place , which lasted several minutes , Spike appearing to be giving instructions to the men . 
It appeared to Spike that so long as they remained on the reef , and could keep clear of breakers -- a most difficult thing , however -- they should fare better than if in deeper water , where the swell of the sea , and the combing of the waves , menaced so small and so deep-loaded a craft with serious danger . 
They were squeezed on to one end of the thwart by a couple of robust old sea-dogs , who were two of the very men with whom Spike had been in consultation . 
Spike had obtained a great ascendency over them by habit and authority , and his suggestions were now received as a sort of law . 
That Mulford was in her Spike made no doubt ; and the thought embittered even his present calamities . 
Spike made a sign to the boatswain , and commenced the execution of his dire project . 
Josh screamed , as he found himself going into the water , with a sort of confused consciousness of the truth ; and Spike called out to Simon to `` catch hold of his brother-nigger . '' 
The cook bent forward to obey , when a similar assault on hislegs from beneath the thwart , sent him headlong after Josh . 
The truth now flashed on him , and grasping two of the men in his front , who knew nothing of Spike 's dire scheme , he endeavoured to save himself by holding to their jackets . 
At this dread instant the boat glanced into the white water , shipping so much of the element as nearly to swamp her , and taking so wild a sheer as nearly to broach-to . 
This last circumstance probably saved her , fearful as was the danger for the moment . 
Spike got his helm up , the boat fell off , and away from the spot it flew , clearing the breakers , and reaching the northern wall-like margin of the reef at the next instant . 
Two or three held out their arms , and shouted to Spike to return and pick them up . 
This dreadful scene lasted but a single instant , for the waves dashed one after another from his feet , continually forcing them all , as they occasionally regained their footing , toward the margin of the reef , and finally washing them off it into deep water . 
But Spike 's projects were not yet completed . 
Both believed that they might follow wherever Spike dared to lead . 
But the fell designs of Spike extended to them , as well as to those whom he had already destroyed . 
Another consideration influenced Spike to persevere . 
The cutter had been overhauling him , hand over hand , but since the yawl was relieved of the weight of no less than eight men , the difference in the rate of sailing was manifestly diminished . 
A point was now reached in the trim of the yawl , when a very few hundreds in weight might make the most important change in her favour ; and this change the captain was determined to produce . 
By this time the cutter was in deep water , as well as himself , safe through all the dangers of the reef , and she was less than a quarter of a mile astern . 
On the whole , she was gaining , though so slowly as to require the most experienced eye to ascertain the fact . 
`` Madame Budd , '' said Spike , in a hypocritical tone , `` we are in great danger , and I shall have to ask you to change your seat . 
`` Certainly , Captain Spike , '' she answered , rising . 
Only take me to my poor , dear Rosy , Captain Spike , and everything shall be forgotten that has passed between us . 
All the time the good widow was making this speech , which she uttered in a solemn and oracular sort of manner , she was moving slowly toward the seat the men had prepared for her , in the middle of the boat , assisted with the greatest care and attention by the boatswain and another of Spike 's confidants . 
When on the second thwart from aft , and about to take her seat , the boatswain cast a look behind him , and Spike put the helm down . 
Even at that dread instant , it is probable that the miserable woman did not suspect the truth , for she grasped the hand of the boatswain with the tenacity of a vice , and , thus dragged on the surface of the boiling surges , she screamed aloud for Spike to save her . 
`` Cast off her hand , '' said Spike reproachfully , `` she 'll swamp the boat by her struggles -- get rid of her at once ! 
`` The boat has gained a good deal by that last discharge of cargo , '' said Spike to the boatswain , a minute after they had gotten rid of the struggling woman -- `` she is much more lively , and is getting nearer to her load-line . 
Come , good woman , '' turning to Biddy , with whom he did not think it worth his while to use much circumlocution , `` yourturn is next . 
`` Ay , pray away , '' answered Spike , his throat becoming dry and husky , for , strange to say , the submissive quiet of the Irish woman , so different from the struggle he had anticipated with her , rendered him more reluctant to proceed than he had hitherto been in all of that terrible day . 
As Biddy kneeled in the bottom of the stern-sheets , Spike looked behind him , for the double purpose of escaping the painful spectacle at his feet , and that of ascertaining how his pursuers came on . 
He was too deeply committed , however , to recede , and it was most desirable to get rid of poor Biddy , if it were for no other motive than to shut her mouth . 
Spike even fancied that some idea of what had passed was entertained by those in the cutter . 
Biddy arose from her knees , just as Spike withdrew his eyes from his pursuers . 
`` Jack Tier , '' called out Spike , some five minutes after Biddy was drowned , but not until another observation had made it plainly apparent to him that the man-of-war 's men still continued to draw nearer , being now not more than fair musket-shot astern . 
`` It is your turn , little Jack , '' said Spike , as if in a sort of sorrowful submission to a necessity that knew no law , `` we can not spare you the room . '' 
Before I go , however , Stephen Spike , I must leave you this letter . 
I forgive you , Stephen ; and should you live to escape from those who are now bent on hunting you to the death , let this day cause you no grief on my account . 
Spike now saw this well-planned project to avoid death , and regretted his own remissness in not making sure of Jack . 
`` There he is on the comb of that sea , rolling over like a keg ! '' 
`` He 's through it , '' answered Spike , `` and swimming with great strength and coolness . '' 
Spike had taken no share in the struggle , looking on in grim satisfaction , as the Father of Lies may be supposed to regard all human strife , hoping good to himself , let the result be what it might to others . 
A shout of `` There he is ! '' 
Another went through the body of Spike . 
The water that came on board apprised Spike fully of the state in which he was now placed , and by a desperate effort , he clutched the tiller , and got the yawl again before the wind . 
Little by little , his hold relaxed , until his hand relinquished its grasp altogether , and the wounded man sank into the bottom of the stern-sheets , unable to raise even his head . 
It contained but a single patient , and that was Spike . 
He was on his narrow bed , which was to be but the pucursor of a still narrower tenement , the grave . 
She held in her hand a coarse garment , one of Spike 's , in fact , which she seemed to be intently busy in mending ; although the work was of a quality that invited the use of the palm and sail-needle , rather than that of the thimble and the smaller implement known to seamstresses , the woman appeared awkward in her business , as if her coarse-looking and dark hands refused to lend themselves to an occupation so feminine . 
When I first knew Stephen , I 'd the sort of feelin 's you speak of , and was a very different creatur ' from what you see me to-day . 
`` I am not certain whether it would do him good or not to see this sight , '' she said , addressing the wife kindly , doubtful of the effect of her words even on the latter . 
`` Ay , she is there ; but never will his foot be put on board the Swash ag ` in . 
When he bought that brig I was still young , and agreeable to him ; and he gave her my maiden name , which was Mary , or Molly Swash . 
But that is all changed ; I wonder he did not change the name with his change of feelin 's . '' 
Yes , I knew Tier in the brig , and we were left ashore at the same time ; I , intentionally , I make no question ; he , because Stephen Spike was in a hurry , and did not choose to wait for a man . 
`` Whydid Captain Spike abandon you , Jack ; you have never told me that . '' 
`` Because he fancied another . 
And ever since that time he has been fancying others , instead of remembering me . 
Had he got you , Miss Rose , I think he would have been content for the rest of his days . '' 
`` Be certain , Jack , I should never have consented to marry Captain Spike . '' 
`` You 're well out of his hands , '' answered Jack , sighing heavily , which was the most feminine thing she had done during the whole conversation , `` well out of his hands -- and God be praised it is so . 
Few persons but a wife would have supposed our heroine could have been in any danger from a lover like Spike ; but Jack saw him with the eyes of her own youth , and of past recollections , rather than with those of truth . 
demanded Spike , with more strength of voice than could have been expected , after all that had passed . 
`` It is a hospital , Captain Spike , '' said Rose , gently drawing near the bed ; `` you have been hurt , and have been brought to Key West , and placed in the hospital . 
Spike continued to gaze at the strange-looking female , who was now his sole companion . 
Gradually his recollection returned , and with it the full consciousness of his situation . 
He might not have been fully aware of the absolute certainty of his approaching death , but he must have known that his wound was of a very grave character , and that the result might early prove fatal . 
Still that strange and unknown figure haunted him ; a figure that was so different from any he had ever seen before , and which , in spite of its present dress , seemed to belong quite as much to one sex as to the other . 
She was conscious that Spike 's eyes were on her ; and a lingering feeling of her sex told her how much time , exposure , and circumstances , had changed her person -- and she would gladly have hidden the defects in her appearance . 
Still there was something of her former self about Jack that bewildered Spike ; and his eyes continued fastened on her for quite a quarter of an hour in profound silence . 
Spike took the glass and drank , but the whole time his eyes were riveted on the strange nurse . 
When his thirst was appeased , he asked -- `` Who are you ? 
A long pause succeeded this announcement , which induced Spike to muse as intently as his condition would allow , though the truth did not yet flash on his understanding . 
But I never run , Stephen Spike . 
As for Spike himself , he was silent for some little time , not only from exhaustion , but because he suffered pain from his wound . 
Spike 's ideas were still a little confused ; but a silence and rest of a quarter of an hour cleared them materially . 
At the end of that time he again asked for water . 
When he had drunk , and Jack was once more seated , with his side-face toward him , at work with the needle , the captain gazed long and intently at this strange woman . 
It happened that the profile of Jack preserved more of the resemblance to her former self , than the full face ; and it was this resemblance that now attracted Spike 's attention , though not the smallest suspicion of the truth yet gleamed upon him . 
He saw something that was familiar , though he could not even tell what that something was , much less to what or whom it bore any resemblance . 
At length he spoke . 
`` I was told that Jack Tier was dead , '' he said ; `` that he took the fever , and was in his grave within eight-and-forty hours after we sailed . 
`` And what did they tell you of your own wife , Stephen Spike . 
`` It was a bad thing , '' answered Spike , who , like all other mortals , regarded his own past career , now that he stood on the edge of the grave , very differently from what he had regarded it in the hour of his health and strength . 
`` You liked her , then , Stephen Spike ? '' 
`` And was it an honest thing to sell an old and worn-out craft to any one , Stephen Spike ? '' 
Spike had a conscience that had become hard as iron by means of trade . 
He who traffics much , most especially if his dealings be on so small a scale as to render constant investigations of the minor qualities of things necessary , must be a very fortunate man , if he preserve his conscience in any better condition . 
When Jack made this allusion , therefore , the dying man -- for death was much nearer to Spike that even be supposed , though he no longer hoped for his own recovery -- when Jack made this allusion , then , the dying man was a good deal at a loss to comprehend it . 
`` And you regret that brig , Stephen Spike , lying as you do on your death-bed , more than anything else . '' 
`` Stephen Spike , '' she said , steadily , drawing near to the bed-side , `` you should be told the truth , when you are heard thus extolling the good looks of Rose Budd , with less than eight-and-forty hours of life remaining . 
Spike stared at the speaker intently ; and when her cracked voice ceased , his look was that of a man who was terrified as well as bewildered . 
This did not arise still from any gleamings of the real state of the case , but from the soreness with which his conscience pricked him , when he heard that his much-wronged wife was alive . 
He fancied , with a vivid and rapid glance at the probabilities , all that a woman abandoned would be likely to endure in the course of so many long and suffering years . 
Notwithstanding all this , and the many gleamings he had had of the facts during their late intercourse on board the brig , Spike did not guess at the truth . 
He appeared astounded , and his terror seemed to increase . 
`` Stephen Spike , '' resumed Jack , solemnly , `` Iam Mary Swash -- Iam your wife ! '' 
Spike started in his bed ; then he buried his face in the coverlet -- and he actually groaned . 
Spike had been received on board the sloop-of-war , sent into her sick bay , and put under the care of the surgeon and his assistants . 
Some went in quest of the doubloons of the schooner , and others to pick up anything valuable that might be discovered in the neighbourhood of the stranded brig. It may be mentioned here , that not much was ever obtained from the brigantine , with the exception of a few spars , the sails , and a little rigging ; but , in the end , the schooner was raised , by means of the chain Spike had placed around her , the cabin was ransacked , and the doubloons were recovered . 
He too well knew the character of Spike to believe he would quit the brig without taking the doubloons with him . 
Acquainted with the boat , he examined the little locker in the stern-sheets , and found the two bags , one of which was probably the lawful property of Captain Spike , while the other , in truth , belonged to the Mexican government . 
On representing the facts of the case to Captain Mull and the legal functionaries at Key West , it was determined to relinquish this money to the heirs of Spike , as , indeed , they must have done under process , there being no other claimant . 
The cargo had been purchased with Mexican funds ; and all that Spike or his heirs could claim , was the high freight for which he had undertaken the delicate office of transporting those forbidden articles , contraband of war , to the Dry Tortugas . 
He had frankly explained his whole connexion with Spike , not even attempting to conceal the reluctance he had felt to betray the brig after he had fully ascertained the fact of his commander 's treason . 
The manly gentlemen with whom he was now brought in contact entered into his feelings , and admitted that it was an office no one could desire , to turn against the craft in which he sailed . 
Her youth , beauty , and modesty , told largely in her favour ; and the simple , womanly affection she unconsciously betrayed in behalf of Harry , touched the heart of every observer . 
When the intelligence of her aunt 's fate reached her , the sorrow she manifested was so profound and natural , that every one sympathized with her grief . 
Nor would she be satisfied unless Mulford would consent to go in search of the bodies . 
It was different , however , with those , who were first sacrificed to Spike 's selfishness . 
She would have felt herself almost alone in the world , but for the youth to whom she had so recently , less than a week before , plighted her faith in wedlock . 
That new tie , it is true , was of sufficient importance to counteract many of the ordinary feelings of her situation ; and she now turned to it as the one which absorbed most of the future duties of her life . 
Still she missed the kindness , the solicitude , even the weaknesses of her aunt ; and the terrible manner in which Mrs. Budd had perished , made her shudder with horror whenever she thought of it . 
As has been already said , we now advance the time eight-and-forty hours , and again transfer the scene to that room in the hospital which was occupied by Spike . 
It is scarcely necessary to add that Stephen Spike , conscious of his vigour and strength , in command of his brig , and bent on the pursuits of worldly gains , or of personal gratification , was a very different person from him who now lay stretched on his pallet in the hospital of Key West , a dying man . 
By the side of his bed still sat his strange nurse , less peculiar in appearance , however , than when last seen by the reader . 
During the whole time which had elapsed between Jack 's revealing her true character , and the moment of which we are now writing , Spike had not once spoken to his wife . 
Often had she caught his eyes intently riveted on her , when he would turn them away , as she feared , in distaste ; and once or twice he groaned deeply , more like a man who suffered mental than bodily pain . 
`` It is hard upon a woman , Stephen , to turn her out , helpless , on a cold and selfish world , '' answered Jack , simply , much too honest to affect a reserve she did not feel . 
Spike now seemed disposed to say something , and she went to the side of his bed , followed by her companion , who kept a little in the back-ground , as if unwilling to let the emotion she really felt be seen , and , perhaps , conscious that her ungainly appearance did not aid her in recovering the lost affections of her husband . 
`` I have been a very wicked man , I fear , '' said Spike , earnestly . 
half whispered Spike -- `` my old captain 's widow . 
Then a gleaming of childhood shot into the recollection of Spike , and , clasping his hands , he tried to pray . 
The fault lay in himself , however , for a gracious ear was open , even over the death-bed of Stephen Spike , could that rude spirit only bring itself to ask for mercy in earnestness and truth . 
As his companions saw his struggles , they left him for a few minutes to his own thoughts . 
`` Molly , '' Spike at length uttered , in a faint tone , the voice of one conscious of being very near his end , `` I hope you will forgive me , Molly . 
`` It is hard for a woman to unsex herself , Stephen ; to throw off her very natur ' , as it might be , and to turn man . '' 
The forecastle and steward 's pantry , Stephen Spike , are poor schools to send women to l'arn language in . '' 
Say to me , so that I can hear you , ` I forget and forgive , Stephen . ' 
Her interest in her offending husband had never been entirely extinguished . 
She had remembered him , and often with woman 's kindness , in all her wanderings and sufferings , as the preceding parts of our narrative must show ; and though resentment had been mingled with the grief and mortification she felt at finding how much he still submitted to Rose 's superior charms , in a breast as really generous and humane as that of Jack Tier 's , such a feeling was not likely to endure in the midst of a scene like that she was now called to witness . 
The muscles of her countenance twitched , the hard-looking , tanned face began to lose its sternness , and every way she appeared like one profoundly disturbed . 
`` Turn to Him whose goodness and marcy may sarve you , Stephen , '' she said , in a milder and more feminine tone than she had used now for years , making her more like herself than either her husband or Rose had seen her since the commencement of the late voyage ; `` my sayin ' that I forget and forgive can not help a man on his deathbed . '' 
She drew nearer to the side of her husband 's pallet , knelt , took his hands , and said solemnly , `` Stephen Spike , from the bottom of my heart , I doforgive you ; and I shall pray to God that he will pardon your sins as freely and more marcifully than I now pardon all , and try to forget all that you have done to me . '' 
Spike clasped his hands , and again he tried to pray ; but the habits of a whole life are not to be thrown off at will ; and he who endeavours to regain , in his extremity , the moments that have been lost , will find , in bitter reality , that he has been heaping mountains on his own soul , by the mere practice of sin , which were never laid there by the original fall of his race . 
Jack , however , had disburthened her spirit of a load that had long oppressed it , and , burying her face in the rug , she wept . 
`` It was the Father of Lies that tempts all to do evil , Stephen , and not the brig which caused the sins . '' 
`` It is hopeless , poor Stephen . 
Spike groaned -- for the past , blended fearfully with the future , gleamed on his conscience with a brightness that appalled him . 
Stephen Spike was now made to feel the incubus-load , which perseverance in sin heaps on the breast of the reckless offender . 
In the midst of one of these revolting paroxysms , Spike breathed his last . 
A few hours later , his body was interred in the sands of the shore . 
Mulford did not return from his fruitless expedition in quest of the remains of Mrs. Budd , until after the death and interment of Spike . 
As nothing remained to be done at Key West , he and Rose accompanied by Jack Tier , took passage for Charleston in the first convenient vessel that offered . 
So marked is this tendency to forgetfulness , we should not be surprised to hear some of the Manhattanese pretend that our legend is nothing but a fiction , and deny the existence of the Molly , Captain Spike , and even of Biddy Noon . 
The strange , tiger-like affection that she bore for Spike , during twenty years of abandonment , has disappeared in regrets for his end . 
