By the voyageurs , and other French of that region , he was almost universally styled le Bourdon , or the `` Drone ; '' not , however , from his idleness or inactivity , but from the circumstance that he was notorious for laying his hands on the products of labour that proceeded from others . 
The whole family of griddle cakes , including those of buckwheat , Indian , rice and wheaten flour , were more or less dependent on the safe arrival of le Bourdon , for their popularity and welcome . 
The dress of le Bourdonwas well adapted to his pursuits and life . 
He wore a hunting-shirt and trowsers , made of thin stuff , which was dyed green , and trimmed with yellow fringe . 
The three others , indeed , had come in on different trails , and surprised le Bourdon in the midst of one of the most exciting exhibitions of his art -- an exhibition that awoke so much and so common an interest in the spectators , as at once to place its continuance for the moment above all other considerations . 
`` That comes from your puritan blood , '' answered le Bourdon , with a quiet smile , using surprisingly pure English for one in his class of life . 
Uncovering this , le Bourdon had brought his implements to view , previously to the moment when he was first seen by the reader . 
Then le Bourdon opened his small box , and took out of it a piece of honey-comb , that was circular in shape , and about an inch and a half in diameter . 
As le Bourdon moved stealthily among the flowers and their humming visiters , the eyes of the two red men followed his smallest movement , as the cat watches the mouse ; but Gershom was less attentive , thinking the whole curious enough , but preferring whiskey to all the honey on earth . 
At length le Bourdon found a bee to his mind , and watching the moment when the animal was sipping sweets from a head of white clover , he cautiously placed his blurred and green-looking tumbler over it , and made it his prisoner . 
As the bee was now intently occupied in filling itself , Buzzing Ben , or le Bourdon , did not hesitate about removing the glass . 
He even ventured to look around him , and to make another captive , which he placed over the comb , and managed as he had done with the first . 
Le Bourdon now signed for his companions to draw near . 
`` There they are , hard at work with the honey , '' he said , speaking in English , and pointing at the bees . 
The men complied , and le Bourdon was now all intense attention to his business . 
Without wasting his time in useless talk , le Bourdon now caught another bee , which was subjected to the same process as those first taken . 
`` I must ` angle ' for them chaps , '' repeated le Bourdon ; `` and if you will go with me , strangers , you shall soon see the nicest part of the business of bee-hunting . 
The same process was gone through with , as before , and le Bourdon was soon watching two bees that had plunged their heads down into the cells of the comb . 
Nor were they much the wiser after le Bourdon had taken his `` angle ; '' it requiring a sort of induction to which they were not accustomed , in order to put the several parts of his proceedings together , and to draw the inference . 
As for Gershom , he affected to be familiar with all that was going on , though he was just as ignorant as the Indians themselves . 
This little bit of hypocrisy was the homage he paid to his white blood ; it being very unseemly , according to his view of the matter , for a pale-face not to know more than a red-skin . 
At length one of them came out of his cell , and was evidently getting ready for his flight . 
After humming around the stump for an instant , away the insect flew , taking a course almost at right angles to that in which le Bourdon had expected to see it fly . 
It required half a minute for him to recollect that this little creature had gone off in a line nearly parallel to that which had been taken by the second of the bees , which he had seen quit his original position . 
But the second creature was also soon ready , and when it darted away le Bourdon , to his manifest delight , saw that it held its flight towards the point of the swamp , into , or overwhich two of his first captives had also gone . 
As this repository of sweets was the game le Bourdon had in view , it is easy to see how much he was pleased when the direction taken by the last of his bees gave him the necessary assurance that its home would certainly be found in that very point of dense wood . 
Collecting his implements , le Bourdon was soon ready , and , with a light elastic tread , he moved off towards the point of the wood , followed by the whole party . 
In a few minutes all were there , and the bee-hunter was busy in looking for his tree . 
Among the other implements of his calling , le Bourdon had a small spy-glass ; one scarcely larger than those that are used in theatres , but which was powerful and every way suited to its purposes . 
`` Stranger , '' said Gershom , when le Bourdon had taken out the first chip , `` perhaps you 'd better let medo that part of the job . 
The Indians were more delighted with le Bourdon 's ingenious mode of discovering the hive than with the richness of the prize ; while Ben , himself , and Gershom , manifested most satisfaction at the amount of the earnings . 
The day was too far advanced for that ; and le Bourdon -- certainly never was name less merited than this sobriquet , as applied to the active young bee-hunter -- but , le Bourdon , to give him his quaint appellation , offered the hospitalities of his own cabin to the strangers , promising to put them on their several paths the succeeding day , with a good store of honey in each knapsack . 
`` They do say there ar ' likely to be troublesome times , '' he continued , with simple earnestness , after having given the invitation to partake of his homely fare ; `` and I should like to hear what is going on in the world . 
-LSB- 2 -RSB- The `` chienté , '' or shanty of le Bourdon , stood quite near to the banks of the Kalamazoo , and in a most beautiful grove of the burr oak . 
Le Bourdon knew many of their warriors , and was much esteemed among them ; though he had never met with either of those whom chance now had thrown in his way . 
In general , he suffered little wrong from the red men , who wondered at his occupation , while they liked his character ; but he had sustained losses , and even ill treatment , from certain outcasts of the tribes , as well as from vagrant whites , who occasionally found their way to his temporary dwellings . 
On the present occasion , le Bourdon felt far more uneasiness from the circumstance of having his abode known to Gershom Waring , a countryman , and fellow-christian , in one sense , at least , than from its being known to the Chippewa and the Pottawattamie . 
It was not often that an armed man -- and le Bourdon seldom moved without his rifle -- has much to apprehend from the common brown bear of America . 
This was the second season that le Bourdon had occupied `` Castle Meal , '' as he himself called the shanty . 
There was one window of glass , which le Bourdon had brought in his canoe ; though it was a single sash of six small lights , that opened on hinges ; the exterior being protected by stout bars of riven oak , securely let into the logs . 
`` You set consid ` rable store by your honey , I guess , stranger , '' said Gershom , as le Bourdon unlocked the fastenings and removed the chain , `` if a body may judge by the kear -LRB- care -RRB- you take o n't ! 
returned le Bourdon , holding the door half-opened , while he turned his face towards the other , in expectation of the answer . 
`` I understand the matter , now , '' answered le Bourdon , composing his well-formed mouth in a sort of contemptuous smile . 
It is probable that le Bourdon lost a good deal of his interest in this flower of the wilderness , as soon as he learned she was so nearly related to the Whiskey Centre . 
Gershom was so very uninviting an object , and had so many palpable marks that he had fairly earned the nickname which , as it afterwards appeared , the western adventurers had given him , as well as his abode , wherever the last might be , that no one of decently sober habits could readily fancy anything belonging to him . 
At any rate , the bee-hunter now led the way into his cabin , whither he was followed without annecessary ceremony , by all three of his guests . 
These kegs were made by le Bourdon himself , who had acquired as much of the art as was necessary to that object . 
The woods always furnished the materials ; and a pile of staves that was placed beneath a neighbouring tree , sufficiently denoted that he did not yet deem that portion of his task completed . 
It was a material part of the bee-hunter 's craft to kill this animal , in particular ; and the trophies of his conflicts with them were proportionably numerous . 
On the pile already prepared , he usually slept . 
For this essential comfort , le Bourdon had made very liberal provision . 
He had a small oven , a sufficiently convenient fire-place , and a store-house , at hand ; all placed near the spring , and beneath the shade of a magnificent elm . 
In the store-house he kept his barrel of flour , his barrel of salt , a stock of smoked or dried meat , and that which the woodsman , if accustomed in early life to the settlements , prizes most highly , a half-barrel of pickled pork . 
But , we should be doing injustice to le Bourdon , were we in any manner to confound him with the `` dickering '' race . 
He was a bee-hunter quite as much through love of the wilderness , and love of adventure , as through love of gain . 
Profitable he had certainly found the employment , or he probably would not have pursued it ; but there was many a man who -- nay , most men , even in his own humble class in life -- would have deemed his liberal earnings too hardly obtained , when gained at the expeuse of all intercourse with their own kind . 
Under this feeling , we might call it habit also , le Bourdon now set himself at work to place on the table such food as he had at command and ready cooked . 
The meal which he soon pressed his guests to share with him , was composed of a good piece of cold boiled pork , which Ben had luckily cooked the day previously , some bear 's meat roasted , a fragment of venison steak , both lean and cold , and the remains of a duck that had been shot the day before , in the Kalamazoo , with bread , salt , and what was somewhat unusual in the wilderness , two or three onions , raw . 
`` Youare a Pottawattamie , and youa Chippewa , '' said le Bourdon , as he courteously handed to his two red guests pipes of their 's , that he had just stuffed with some of his own tobacco -- `` I believe you are a sort of cousins , though your tribes are called by different names . '' 
`` There is the spring , '' returned le Bourdon , gravely ; `` a gourd hangs against the tree . '' 
Gershom made a wry face , but he did not move . 
asked the bee-hunter , waiting , however , a decent interval , lest he might be supposed to betray a womanly curiosity . 
Elksfoot puffed away some time , before he saw fit to answer , reserving a salvo in behalf of his own dignity . 
Then he removed the pipe , shook off the ashes , pressed down the fire a little , gave a reviving draught or two , and quietly replied -- `` Ask my young brother -- he runner -- he know . '' 
He smoked on in quiet dignity , while the bee-hunter patiently waited for the moment when it might suit his younger guest to speak . 
Almost five minutes after Elksfoot had made the allusion mentioned , the Ojebway , or Chippewa , removed his pipe , also , and looking courteously round at his host , he said with emphasis -- `` Bad summer come soon . 
`` I had heard something of this , '' answered le Bourdon , with a saddened countenance , `` and was afraid it might happen . '' 
asked Pigeonswing , glancing at Gershom ; who , unable to forbear any longer , had gone to the spring to mix a cup from a small supply that still remained of the liquor with which he had left home . 
Le Bourdon smiled at this proof of Pigeonswing 's sagacity , though he felt a good deal of uneasiness at the purport of his discourse . 
`` You are right enough in that '' -- he answered -- `` but I 'm plenty of yankee , too . '' 
The Chippewa appeared to be disappointed ; perhaps he appeared sorry , too ; for le Bourdon 's frank and manly hospitality had disposed him to friendship instead of hostilities , while his admissions would rather put him in an antagonist position . 
It was probably with a kind motive that he pursued the discourse in a way to give his host some insight into the true condition of matters in that part of the world . 
`` Plenty Breetish in woods , '' he said , with marked deliberation and point . 
`` Let me know the truth , at once , Chippewa , '' exclaimed le Bourdon . 
By this time le Bourdon had somewhat cooled , and he became conscious of his indiscretion . 
He knew enough of the history of the past , to be fully aware that , in all periods of American history , the English , and , for that matter , the French , too , so long as they had possessions on this continent , never scrupled about employing the savages in their conflicts . 
Now , le Bourdon was fully aware that one of the surest pulses of approaching hostilities between England and America , was to be felt in the far west . 
Pigeonswing was well known to him by reputation ; and there was that about the man which awakened the most unpleasant apprehensions , and he felt an itching desire to learn all he could from him , without betraying any more of his own feelings , if that were possible . 
The commanding officer of that ill-starred garrison could not himself have been more astonished , when he was unexpectedly summoned to surrender by an enemy who appeared to start out of the earth , than was le Bourdon , at hearing this intelligence . 
If any thing that 's civil , speak ; if savage , Take , or lend _____ Notanother syllable did le Bourdon utter to the Chippewa , or the Chippewa to him , in that sitting , touching the important event just communicated . 
As the shades of evening began to gather , the Pottawattamie arose , shook the ashes from his pipe , gave a grunt , and uttered a word or two , by way of announcing his disposition to retire . 
Nothing occurred to disturb the occupants of `` Castle Meal , '' as le Bourdon laughingly called his cabin , until the return of day . 
The first afoot next morning was the bee-hunter himself , who arose and left his cabin just as the earliest streaks of day were appearing in the east . 
There was little of the dampness of the virgin woods ; and the morning air , though cool , as is ever the case , even in midsummer , in regions still covered with trees , was balmy ; and , at that particular spot , it came to the senses of le Bourdon loaded with the sweets of many a wide glade of his favourite white clover . 
Of course , he had placed his cabin near those spots where the insect he sought most abounded ; and a fragrant site it proved to be , in favourable conditions of the atmosphere . 
Waubkenewh grasped the hand of le Bourdon , and squeezed it firmly . 
Then he said , warily -- `` Take care -- Elkfoot friend of Blackbird ; like to look at Canada belt . 
Ask one question , answer him -- ask anoder , answer him , too . '' 
he demanded . 
All this was news to the bee-hunter , and it caused him to muse a moment , ere he proceeded . 
he then demanded . 
Understan ' dat , Bourdon ? '' 
For some reason that the bee-hunter could not yet fathom , the Chippewa was particularly anxious either to obtain his confidence , or to deceive him . 
Which he was attempting , was not yet quite apparent ; but that one or other was uppermost in his mind , Ben thought was beyond dispute . 
Le Bourdon grasped the hand of the Indian , and gave it a hearty squeeze . 
Then he said frankly , and like a man who no longer entertained any doubts -- `` I put faith in all you say , Chippewa . 
returned the Chippewa , smiling , and holding up two of his fingers , at the same time , by way of rebuke . 
Just then Gershom Waring came out of the cabin , gaping like a hound , and stretching his arms , as if fairly wearied with sleep . 
Le Bourdon had been busy with his pots , during the whole time this discourse was going on , and had warmed up a sufficiency of food to supply the wants of all his guests . 
In a few minutes each was busy quietly eating his morning 's meal , Gershom having taken his bitters aside , and , as he fancied , unobserved . 
This was not so much owing to niggardliness , as to a distrust of his having a sufficient supply of the liquor that long indulgence had made , in a measure , necessary to him , to last until he could get back to the barrels that were still to be found in his cabin , down on the shore of the lake . 
When each had risen , however , and by certain preliminary arrangements it was obvious that the two Indians intended to depart , the Pottawattamie advanced to le Bourdon , and thrust out a hand . 
`` Thankee '' -- he said , in the brief way in which he clipped his English -- `` Good supper -- good sleep -- good breakfast . 
The Pottawattamie then turned and thrust out a hand to each of the others , who met his offered leave-taking with apparent friendship . 
The bee-hunter observed that neither of the Indians said anything to the other touching the path he was about to travel , but that each seemed ready to pursue his own way as if entirely independent , and without the expectation of having a companion . 
After completing his adieus , the Pottawattamie threw his rifle into the hollow of his arm , felt at his belt , as if to settle it into its place , made some little disposition of his light summer covering , and moved off in a south-westerly direction , passing through the open glades , and almost equally unobstructed groves , as steady in his movements as if led by an instinct . 
`` There he goes , on a bee-line , '' said le Bourdon , as the straight form of the old savage disappeared at length , behind a thicket of trees . 
`` Bye 'm by come back and eat more honey -- bring sweet news , hope -- no Canada here , '' placing a finger on his heart -- `` all yankee . '' 
Pigeonswing waved his hand , cast a glance , half friendly , half contemptuously , at Whiskey Centre , and glided away . 
As Gershom manifested no intention to quit the place , le Bourdon set about the business of the hour , with as much method and coolness as if the other had not been present . 
But our bee-hunter was not without the means of accomplishing such an object , and he now busied himself in getting ready . 
As Gershom volunteered his assistance , together they toiled in apparent amity and confidence . 
The Kalamazoo is a crooked stream ; and it wound from the spot where le Bourdon had built his cabin , to a point within a hundred yards of the fallen tree , in which the bees had constructed their hive . 
Glad , indeed , was this fine animal to be released , bounding back and forth , and leaping about le Bourdon in a way to manifest his delight . 
He had been cared for in his kennel , and well cared for , too ; but there is no substitute for liberty , whether in man or beast , individuals or communities . 
When all was ready , le Bourdon and Gershom got into the canoe , whither the former now called his dog , using the name of `` Hive , '' an appellation that was doubtless derived from his own pursuit . 
Had not le Bourdon known the precise position of the fallen tree , and through that the probable position of his enemies , he would have placed the mastiff in advance , as a pioneer or scout ; but he deemed it necessary , under the actual circumstances , to hold him as a reserve , or a force to be directed whither occasion might require . 
With this arrangement , then , le Bourdon and Whiskey Centre advanced , side by side , each carrying two pieces , from the margin of the river towards the open land that commanded a view of the tree . 
The reader will remember that the bee-elm had stood on the edge of a dense thicket , or swamp , in which the trees grew to a size several times exceeding those of the oaks in the openings ; and le Bourdon had caused it to fall upon the open ground , in order to work at the honey with greater case to himself . 
`` Waal , '' said Gershom , in his drawling way , when le Bourdon had taken a long look with the glass , `` I do n't see much use in spy-glassin ' in that fashion . 
demanded le Bourdon . 
There is a lot on 'em there , too , and they seem to be comin ' and goin ' to the tree , like folks '' -- Gershom wouldput his noun of multitude into the plural , Nova-Anglice -- `` comin ' and goin ' like folks carryin ' water to a fire . 
But what are weto do , Bourdon ? 
The bee-hunter smiled at the coolness with which Gershom assigned to himself so large a portion of his property ; though he did not think it worth his while , just then , to `` demur to his declaration , '' as the lawyers might have it . 
`` Well , Bourdon , if you prefer that name ; though stranger is a name I like , it has sich an up and off sound to it . 
If I can believe my eyes , Bourdon , there is the muzzle of a bear to be seen , jist under that heavy hemlock -- here , where the bees seem thickest ! '' 
`` No doubt in the world , '' answered le Bourdon , coolly ; though he had taken the precaution to look to the priming of each of his pieces , as if he expected there would soon be occasion to use them . 
`` You take it easy , stranger -- Bourdon , I should say -- you take it easy ! 
exclaimed le Bourdon , who was not a little amused with Gershom 's account of his family , but who saw that the moment was now arrived when it would be necessary to substitute deeds for words . 
Their appearance was the signal for a general rally of the insects ; and by the time the foremost of the clumsy animals had reached the tree , the air above and around him was absolutely darkened by the cloud of bees that was collected to defend their treasures . 
Bruin trusted too much to the thickness of his hide and to the defences with which he was provided by nature , besides being too much incited by the love of honey , to regard the little heroes , but thrust his nose in at the hole , doubtless hoping to plunge it at once into the midst of a mass of the sweets . 
A growl , a start backwards , and a flourishing of the fore-paws , with sundry bites in the air , at once announced that he had met with greater resistance than he had anticipated . 
At this critical instant , when the bears seemed fatigued with their nearly frantic saltations , and violent blows upon nothing , le Bourdon deemed it wise to bring his forces into the combat . 
It is true , le Bourdon possessed several secrets , of more or less virtue , to drive off the bees when disposed to assault him , but no one that was as certain as a good fire , backed by a dense column of vapour . 
Various plants are thought to be so offensive to the insects , that they avoid even their odour ; and the bee-hunter had faith in one or two of them ; but none of the right sort happened now to be near , and he was obliged to trust , first to a powerful heat , and next to the vapour of damp wood . 
As there were axes , and wedges , and a beetle in the canoe , and Gershom was as expert with those implements as a master of fencing is with his foil , to say nothing of the skill of le Bourdon , the tree was soon laid open , and its ample stores of sweets exposed . 
The day had been one of toil , and when our two bordermen sat down near the spring , to take their evening meal , each felt glad that his work was done . 
`` I believe this must be the last hive I line , this summer , '' said le Bourdon , while eating his supper . 
That 's one reason I 've taken so mightily to you , Bourdon ; you 're not much at a pull , but you a n't downright afeard of a jug , neither . '' 
Le Bourdon , though not absolutely ` afraid of a jug , ' as Whiskey Centre had expressed it , was decidedly a temperate man ; drinking but seldom , and never to excess . 
To be sure , it was little to le Bourdon 's taste to make a companion of such a person as Whiskey Centre ; but there was no choice . 
His own immediate store of whiskey was quite exhausted , and le Bourdon kept the place in which his own small stock of brandy was secured , a profound secret . 
What was a little remarkable , Gershom grew less vulgar , even in his dialect , as he grew more sober , showing that in all respects he was becoming a greatly improved person . 
The bee-hunter had managed to conceal his jug of brandy , reduced by this time to little more than a quart , within an empty powder-keg , into which he had crammed a beaver-skin or two , that he had taken , as it might be incidentally , in the course of his rambles . 
Le Bourdon thought it possible they might now encounter wolves ; though he had left the carcase of the deer so suspended as to place it beyond the reach of most of the animals of the wilderness . 
Each of the men , however , carried a rifle ; and Hive was allowed to accompany them , by an act of grace on the part of his master . 
The bee-hunter had been conversing freely with his companion , who , he rejoiced to find , manifested far more common sense , not to say good sense , than he had previously shown ; and from whom he was deriving information touching the number of vessels , and the other movements on the lakes , that he fancied might be of use to himself when he started for Detroit . 
While thus engaged , and when distant only a hundred rods from the place where he had left the venison , le Bourdon was suddenly struck with the movements of the dog . 
Instead of doubling on his own tracks , and scenting right and left , as was the animal 's wont , he was now advancing cautiously , with his head low , seemingly feeling his way with his nose , as if there was a strong taint in the wind . 
`` Sartain as my name is Gershom , '' exclaimed Waring , just after he and Ben had come to a halt , in order to look around them -- `` yonder is an Injin ! 
`` I see him , '' answered le Bourdon , `` and am as much surprised as grieved to find him there . 
The bee-hunter assented to this proposal , remarking as they moved forward , that he did not think the stranger of the tribe just named ; though he admitted that the use of paint was so general and loose among these warriors , as to render it difficult to decide . 
That Pigeonswing had slain his late fellow-guest , le Bourdon had no doubt , and he sickened at the thought . 
Although he had himself dreaded a good deal from the hostility of the Pottawattamie , he could have wished this deed undone . 
It was true , that such a state of things might exist as to justify an Indian warrior , agreeably to his own notions , in taking the life of any one of a hostile tribe ; but le Bourdon wished it had been otherwise . 
A man of gentle and peaceable disposition himself , though of a profoundly enthusiastic temperament in his own peculiar way , he had ever avoided those scenes of disorder and bloodshed , which are of so frequent occurrence in the forest and on the prairies ; and this was actually the first instance in which he had ever beheld a human body that had fallen by human hands . 
Gershom had seen more of the peculiar life of the frontiers than his companion , in consequence of having lived so closely in contact with the `` fire-water ; '' but even hewas greatly shocked with the suddenness and nature of the Pottawattamie 's end . 
There 's that about the face of man , Bourdon , that skears the beasts ; and if a body can only muster courage to stare them full in the eye , one single human can drive before him a whull pack of wolves . '' 
So great was the interest that le Bourdon sometimes felt in his little companions , that , on three several occasions that very summer , be had spared hives after having found them , because he had ascertained that they were composed of young bees , and had not yet got sufficiently colonized , to render a new swarming more than a passing accident . 
With all this kindness of feeling towards his victims , Boden had nothing of the transcendental folly that usually accompanies the sentimentalism of the exaggerated , but his feelings and impulses were simple and direct though so often gentle and humane . 
`` A'ter all , '' suddenly exclaimed Waring , who had been examining the pile of kegs for some time in silence -- `` a ` ter all , Bourdon , your trade is an oncommon one ! 
Hearing from some voyageurs who had gone down the lake , that a bee-hunter was up the river , he had followed the stream in its windings until he fell in with le Bourdon . 
I see all you would say , Bourdon , and wonder I ever got my foot so deep into it , without thinkin ' of all , beforehand ! 
Now , you tell me you have two full barrels of whiskey -- '' `` Had , Bourdon -- had -- one of them is pretty nearly half used , I am afeard . '' 
I know as well as you do , Bourdon , that sobriety is a good thing , and dissipation a bad thing ; but it 's hard to give up all , at once . '' 
The excuses of his companion , however , caused le Bourdon to muse , more than might otherwise have been the case , on Whiskey Centre 's condition . 
As they drew nearer and nearer to the place where Gershom had left his wife and sister , le Bourdon detected in his companion signs of an interest in the welfare of the two last , as well as a certain feverish uneasiness lest all might not be well with them , that said something in favour of his heart , whatever might be urged against his prudence and care in leaving them alone in so exposed a situation . 
`` I 'm afeard a body do n't think as much as he ought to do , when liquor is in him , '' said Whiskey Centre , just as the canoe doubled the last point , and the hut came into view ; `` else I never couldhave left two women by themselves in so lonesome a place . 
Look , Bourdon , for I can scarcely see , at all . '' 
I should be sorry , Bourdon , to think I 'd left the women folks without food ; though , to own the truth , I do n't remember whether I did or not . '' 
Looking eagerly around in quest of the explanation , le Bourdon saw a female standing on a point of land that commanded a view of the river and its banks for a considerable distance , unequivocally watching the approach of the canoe . 
Sich is woman , Bourdon ; and God forgive me , if I have ever forgotten their natur ' , when I was bound to remember it . 
`` ' T would be jist like Dolly to do so -- she 's done it before , and would be likely to do so ag ` in , '' answered Gershom , nearly choked by the effort he made to speak without betraying his own emotion . 
To his surprise , Dorothy Waring was not only decently , but she was neatly clad , appearing as if she had studiously attended to her personel appearance , in the hope of welcoming her wayward and unfortunate husband back to his forest home . 
This much le Bourdon saw , by a hasty glance , as his companion landed , for a feeling of delicacy prevented him from taking a longer look at the woman . 
As Gershom ascended the bank to meet his wife , le Bourdon paddled on , and landed just below the grove in which was the chienté . 
It might have been his long exclusion from all of the other sex , and most especially from that portion of it which retains its better looks , but the being which now met the bee-hunter , appeared to him to belong to another world , rather than to that in which he habitually dwelt . 
As this was Margery Waring , who was almost uniformly called Blossom , by her acquaintances , and who is destined to act an important part in this legend of the `` openings , '' it may be well to give a brief description of her age , attire , and personal appearance , at the moment when she was first seen by le Bourdon . 
`` You are then my brother 's friend , '' answered Margery , smiling so sweetly , that le Bourdon gazed on her with delight . 
As for le Bourdon , he did not delay a moment , but passed out of the cabin by a second door , that opened in its rear . 
His first impulse was to dash in the heads of the casks where they stood ; but a moment 's reflection told him that the odour , so near the cabin , would be unpleasant to every one , and might have a tendency to exasperate the owner of the liquor . 
At another moment , le Bourdon would have thought of saving the barrels ; but time pressed , and he could not delay . 
Seizing the barrel next to him , he rolled it without difficulty to the brow of the declivity , and set it off with a powerful shove of his foot . 
A slight exclamation of delight behind him caushed the bee-hunter to look round , and he saw that Margery was watching his movements with an absorbed interest . 
It was not quite as easily handled as the other barrel , but his strength sufficed , and it was soon bounding down the declivity after its companion . 
exclaimed le Bourdon , when the last fragment of the wreck was taken out of sight . 
The joy that gladdens a woman 's heart , however , was now illuminating her countenance , and she welcomed le Bourdon most cordially , as if aware that he had been of service to her husband . 
`` I have told Dolly all our adventur 's , Bourdon , '' cried Gershom , as soon as the brief greetings were over , `` and she tells me all 's right , hereabouts . 
As the cheek of the charming girl flushed with excitement , and her face became animated , Margery appeared marvellously handsome ; more so , the bee-hunter fancied , than any other female he had ever before seen . 
But her words impressed him quite as much as her looks ; for he at once saw the importance of such an event , to persons in their situation . 
This was a very grave fact ; and , as Blossom flew to communicate it to her brother and his wife , le Bourdon moved towards his own canoe , and looked about for a place of concealment . 
`` If they enter the river , Bourdon , they will not ` camp out with a wigwam so near by ; and should they come here , what is to prevent their seein ' the foot-prints we shall leave behind us ? '' 
It will be remembered that le Bourdon had carried the canoes within the field of wild rice , and bestowed them there with a good deal of attention to security . 
The great advantage of the canoes , however , in the mind of le Bourdon , was the facilities they offered for flight . 
He hardly hoped that Indian sagacity would be so far blinded as to prevent the discovery of the many foosteps they must have left in their hurried movements , and he anticipated that with the return of day something would occur to render it necessary for them to seek safety by a stealthy removal from the spot . 
This might be done , he both hoped and believed , under cover of the rice , should sufficient care be taken to avoid exposure . 
In placing the canoes , he had used the precaution to leave them where they could not be seen from the cabin or its vicinity , or , indeed , from any spot in the vicinity of the ground that the savages would be likely to visit during their stay . 
All these reasons le Bourdon now rapidly laid before his companions , and to the canoes the whole party retired as fast as they could walk . 
`` It is a sign of great improvement , friend Waring , and will lead to no bad consequences , '' returned le Bourdon , coolly . 
That his liquor should be hopelessly lost was bad enough ; but even that was better than to have it drunk by savages without receiving any returns . 
After groaning and lamenting over the loss for a few minutes , he joined the rest of the party in making some further dispositions , which le Bourdon deemed prudent , if not necessary . 
It had occurred to the bee-hunter to divide his own cargo between the two canoes , which was the task that the whole party was now engaged in . 
The object was to lighten his own canoe in the event of flight , and , by placing his effects in two parcels , give a chance to those in the boat which might escape , of having wherewithal to comfort and console themselves . 
As soon as this new arrangement was completed , le Bourdon ran up to a tree that offered the desired facilities , and springing into its branches , was soon high enough to get a view of the bar and the mouth of the river . 
By the parting light of day , he distinctly saw fourcanoes coming up the stream ; which was one more than those reported to him by Margery as having passed . 
Tell me , Bourdon , do any go near the thicket of alders where we have hidden our goods ? '' 
`` You are quite right , Bourdon : but is not this a most unhappy scent for us , since the smell of whiskey can hardly be there without their seeing it did not grow in the woods of itself , like an oak or a beech ? '' 
`` The barrelsmight have been got there , certainly , '' answered le Bourdon , so much provoked at the man 's regrets for the destroyer which had already come so near to bringing want and ruin on himself and family , as momentarily to forget his recent scene with pretty Margery ; `` but whether anything would have been inthem is another question . 
`` Gershom is so troubled with the ague , if he do n't take stimulants in this new country , '' put in the wife , in the apologetic manner in which woman struggles to conceal the failings of him she loves . 
By this time le Bourdon was again sensible of his mistake , and he beat a retreat in the best manner he could , secretly resolving not to place himself any more between two fires , in consequence of further blunders on this delicate subject . 
He now found that it was a very different thing to joke Whiskey Centre himself on the subject of his great failing , from making even the most distant allusion to it in the presence of those who felt for a husband 's and a brother 's weakness , with a liveliness of feeling that brutal indulgence had long since destroyed in the object of their solicitude . 
`` I will return to the tree and take another look at the movements of the savages , '' le Bourdon concluded by saying . 
The bee-hunter now went back to his tree , whither he was slowly followed by Margery ; the girl yielding to a feverish desire to accompany him , at the very time she was half restrained by maiden bushfulness ; though anxiety and the wish to learn the worst as speedily as possible prevailed . 
`` They have kindled a blazing fire , and the whole of the inside of the house is as bright as if illuminated , '' said le Bourdon , who was now carefully bestowed among the branches of his small tree . 
`` What is so , Bourdon -- and in what are you right ? '' 
The manner in which intelligence flies through the wilderness had often surprised him , and certainly it was possible that the party now before him might have heard of the fate of the chief whose body he had found in the openings , short as was the time for the news to have gone so far . 
The circumstance that the canoes had come from the northward was against the inference , however , and after musing a minute on the facts , le Bourdon mentioned this objection to his companion . 
`` How are the savages employed now , Bourdon ? 
Around the body was another fastening , which secured the captive to a beech that stood about thirty feet from the door of the cabin , and so nearly in a line with the fire within and the look-out of le Bourdon , as to enable the last distinctly to note these particulars , aided as he was by his glass . 
Relying on the manner in which they had secured their prisoner , the savages took little heed of him ; but each appeared bent on attending to his own comfort , by means of a good supper , and by securing a dry lair in which to pass the night . 
All this le Bourdon saw and noted too , ere he dropped lightly on his feet by the side of Margery , at the root of the tree . 
Without losing time that was precious , the bee-hunter went at once to the canoes and communicated his intention to Waring . 
The moon had now set , and the night was favourable to the purposes of le Bourdon . 
A man who eats after a long march , or a severe paddling , usually concentrates his attention on his food , as le Bourdon knew by long experience ; and it is a much better moment to steal upon the hungry and weary , to do so when they feed , than to do so when they sleep , provided anything like a watch be kept . 
That the Pottawattamies would neglect this latter caution le Bourdon did not believe ; and his mind was made up , not only to attempt the rescue of his Chippewa friend , but to attempt it at once . 
After explaining his plan in a few words , and requesting Waring 's assistance , le Bourdon took a solemn leave of the party , and proceeded at once towards the hut . 
As le Bourdon had crossed this firm ground by daylight , and had observed it well from his tree , he thought himself enough of a guide to find his way through it in the dark , aided by the marks just mentioned . 
The bee-hunter had got as far as the edge of the marsh on his way towards the hut , when pausing an instant to examine the priming of his rifle , he fancied that he heard a light footstep behind him . 
Turning , quick as thought , he perceived that pretty Margery had followed him thus far . 
Although time pressed , he could not part from the girl without showing that he appreciated the interest she manifested in his behalf . 
Taking her hand , therefore , he spoke with a simplicity and truth , that imparted to his manner a natural grace that one bred in courts might have envied . 
What was more , with a delicacy that few in courts would deem necessary under the circumstances , he did not in his language so much impute to concern on his own account this movement of Margery 's , as to that she felt for her brother and sister ; though in his inmost heart a throbbing hope prevailed that he had his share in it . 
`` Is it not risking too much , Bourdon ? '' 
I do not like to expose you to danger , but -- '' `` Never mind me , Bourdon -- set me to do anything in which you think I can be of use ! '' 
For a minute both stood silently gazing at the strange scene ; then le Bourdon explained to his companion the manner in which she might assist him . 
As there were several elms scattered about in the centre of the marsh , the bee-hunter was fearful that he might not reach the right tree ; in which case he would be compelled to retrace his steps , and that at the imminent hazard of being captured . 
He carried habitually a small dark lantern , and had thought of so disposing of it in the lower branches of this very elm , as to form a focus of it , but hesitated about doing that which might prove a guide to his enemies as well as to himself . 
If Margery would take charge of this lantern , he could hope to reap its advantages without incurring the hazard of having a light suspended in the tree for any length of time . 
`` God bless you , Bourdon ! '' 
When le Bourdon left his companion , now so intensely interested in his success , to pick his way in the darkness across the remainder of the marsh , Margery retired behind the tree , where the first thing she did was to examine her lantern , and to see that its light was ready to perform the very important office which might so speedily be required of it . 
By this time every trace of the bee-hunter was lost , the hillock in his front forming too dark a back-ground to admit of his being seen . 
Quitting Margery , we will now rejoin le Bourdon , who by this time was approaching his goal . 
The bee-hunter had some difficulty in finding his way across the marsh ; but floundering through the impediments , and on the whole preserving the main direction , he got out on the firm ground quite as soon as he had expected to do . 
It was necessary for him to use extreme caution . 
By moving with the utmost caution , le Bourdon reached the edge of the line of light , where he was within ten yards of the captive . 
Here he placed his rifle against a small tree , and drew his knife , in readiness to cut the prisoner 's thongs . 
Singular as it may seem , this last indication of giving the alarm was of great service to le Bourdon and the Chippewa . 
The latter heard the growl , and saw two of the movements of the animals ' heads , from all which he inferred that there was some creature , or some danger behind him . 
This naturally enough induced him to bestow a keen attention in that direction , and being unable to turn body , limbs , or head , the sense of hearing was his only means of watchfulness . 
It was while in this state of profound listening that Pigeonswing fancied he heard his own name , in such a whisper as one raises when he wishes to call from a short distance with the least possible expenditure of voice . 
Presently the words `` Pigeonswing , '' and `` Chippewa , '' were succeeded by those of `` bee-hunter , '' `` Bourdon . '' 
At this instant a voice whispered in his ear -- `` Be of good heart , Chippewa -- your friend , Bourdon , is here . 
The reader may imagine the intense anxiety of Margery the while ; for she witnessed the arrival of le Bourdon at the tree , and could not account for the long delay which succeeded . 
The bee-hunter , as he kept rubbing at his friend 's legs , felt now but litle apprehension of the dogs , though a new source of alarm presented itself by the time the Chippewa was barely able to sustain his weight on his feet , and long before he could use them with anything like his former agility . 
Placing his mouth as close to the ear of Pigeonswing as could be done without bringing his head into the light , the following dialogue passed between le Bourdon and the captive . 
The circumstances admitted of no delay ; le Bourdon pressed the keen edge of his knife across the withe that bound the Indian to the tree ; first giving him notice , in order that he might be prepared to sustain his own weight . 
This done , the bee-hunter dropped on the ground , crawling away out of the light ; though the brow of the hill almost immediately formed a screen to conceal his person from all near the hut . 
In another instant he had regained his rifle , and was descending swiftly towards the crossing at the marsh . 
As soon as le Bourdon reached the commencement of that which might be called his path across the marsh , he stopped and looked backward . 
He was now sufficiently removed from the low acclivity to see objects on its summit , and had no difficulty in discerning all that the waning fire illuminated . 
There stood the Chippewa erect against the tree as if still bound with thongs , while the sentinel was slowly approaching him . 
The bee-hunter was astonished at the immovable calmness with which Pigeonswing still stood to his tree , awaiting the approach of the sentinel . 
In a few moments the latter was at his side . 
At first , le Bourdon did not know how to act . 
He greatly feared the dogs , and could not but think of Margery , and the probable consequences , should those sagacious animals follow him across the marsh . 
But he did not like the idea of abandoning Pigeonswing , when a single blow of his arm , or a kick of his foot , might be the cause of his escape . 
While deliberating in painful uncertainty , the sounds of the struggle ceased , and he saw the sentinel rising again into the light , limping like one who had suffered by a fall . 
Presently he heard a footstep near him , and , calling in a low voice , he was immediately joined by Pigeonswing . 
Before the bee-hunter was aware of his intention , the Chippewa seized his rifle , and levelling it at the sentinel , who still stood on the brow of the hill , drawn in all his savage outlines distinctly in the light of the flames , he fired . 
Le Bourdon felt the importance of now improving the precious moments , and was in the act of urging his companion to follow , when the latter passed an arm around his body , whipped his knife from the girdle and sheath , and dropping the rifle into his friend 's arms , bounded away in the darkness , taking the direction of his fallen enemy . 
There was no mistaking all this ; the Chippewa , led by his own peculiar sense of honour , risking everything to obtain the usual trophy of victory . 
Perceiving this , the bee-hunter profited by the delay and reloaded his rifle . 
As everything passed almost as swiftly as the electric spark is known to travel , it was but a moment after the Pottawattamie fell ere his conqueror was through with his bloody task . 
Just as le Bourdon threw his rifle up into the hollow of his arm , he was rejoined by his red friend , who bore the reeking scalp of the sentinel at his belt ; though fortunately the bee-hunter did not see it on account of the obscurity , else might he not have been so willing to continue to act with so ruthless an ally . 
A fierce yell came from the same spot , the proof that some of the savages had already discovered the body ; and le Bourdon told his companion to follow , taking his way across the marsh as fast as he could overcome the difficulties of the path . 
Le Bourdon had been very careful in taking his land-marks , foreseeing the probability of a hasty retreat , and he had no difficulty for some time in keeping in the right direction . 
At length le Bourdon paused , causing his companion to stop also . 
In the hurry and confusion of the flight , the former had lost his land-marks , finding himself amidst a copse of small trees , or large bushes , but not in the particular copse he sought . 
Every effort to get out of this thicket , except by the way he had entered it , proved abortive , and the dogs were barking at no great distance in his rear . 
The crisis demanded both discretion and decision ; qualities in which the bee-hunter , with his forest training , was not likely to be deficient . 
He looked out for the path by which he had reached the unfortunate thicket , and having found it , commenced a retreat by the way he had come . 
Presently , le Bourdon stopped , and examined the ground on which he stood . 
`` Herewe must turn , Chippewa , '' he said , in a guarded voice . 
exclaimed le Bourdon . 
The tree was reached , and the bee-hunter proceeded to make sure of his course from that point . 
Removing from his pouch a small piece of moistened powder that he had prepared ere he liberated the Chippewa , he stuck it on a low branch of the tree he was under , and on the side next the spot where he had stationed Margery . 
When this was done , he made his companion stand aside , and lighting some spunk with his flint and steel , he fired his powder . 
It was enough ; the bee-hunter threw down his own signal and extinguished it with his foot ; and , as he wished , the lantern of Margery appeared no more . 
Assured now of the accuracy of his position , as well as of the course he was to pursue , le Bourdon bade his companion follow , and pressed anew across the marsh . 
At the next instant Margery was joined ; and the bee-hunter could not refrain from kissing her , in the excess of his pleasure . 
For Heaven 's sake , Bourdon , let us hasten to the canoes ; brother and sister must think us lost ! '' 
The circumstances pressed , and the bee-hunter took Margery 's arm , passing it through one of his own , with a decided and protecting manner , that caused the girl 's heart to beat with emotions not in the least connected with fear , leaving an impression of pleasure even at that perilous moment . 
`` It seems that Bourdon had a jug of brandy among his stores , and Gershom found it out . 
I blame no one ; for Bourdon , who never abuses the gifts of Providence , had a right to his comforts at least ; but it isa pity that there was anything of the sort in the canoes ! '' 
Le Bourdon found Gershom asleep , but with the heavy slumbers of the drunkard . 
The jug was now produced , however , and le Bourdon emptied it in the river , to the great joy of the two females , though not without a sharp remonstrance from the Chippewa . 
It might have been by means of a secret sympathy , or it was possibly the result of accident , but , certain it is , that the Chippewa was placed in the stern of Gershom 's canoe , while Margery found a place in that of le Bourdon . 
As for Whiskey Centre , he lay like a log in the bottom of his own light bark , cared for only by his affectionate wife , who had made a pillow for his bead ; but , fortunately , if no assistance just then , not any material hindrance to the movements of his friends . 
By the time le Bourdon and the Chippewa had got their stations , and the canoes were free of the bottom , it was evident by the sounds , that not only the dogs , but divers of their masters , had floundered through the swamp , and were already on the firm ground east of it . 
Aware of this , the bee-hunter directed the Chippewa to follow , and urged his own canoe away from the shore , following one of three of the natural channels that united just at that point . 
Perceiving this , and fearful that the dip of the paddles might be heard , le Bourdon ceased to urge his canoe through the water , telling the Chippewa to imitate his example , and let the boats drift . 
Le Bourdon had brought the two canoes together ; and the Chippewa , at his request , now translated such parts of the discourse of their enemies as he deemed worthy of communicating to the females . 
commenced the Indian , coolly -- `` T'ink he no great way off -- mean to look for him -- t ` ink dog uneasy -- won ` er why dog so uneasy . '' 
`` Them dogs are very likely to scent us here in the canoes , we are so near them , '' whispered le Bourdon . 
`` S'pose he do , ca n't catch us , '' coolly answered the Chippewa -- `` beside , shoot him , do n't take care -- bad for dog to chase warrior too much . '' 
`` Do n't be squaw , Bourdon -- tell all by'em bye . 
Tell young men s ` pose he get canoe , den he may get ourcanoe , and carry 'em off -- s ` pose he swim ; dat Chippewa devil swim down stream and get ourcanoe dat fashion -- bess go back , some of you , and see arter ourcanoe -- dat what he tell young men most . '' 
exclaimed le Bourdon -- `` let us paddle down , at once , and seize all their canoes before they can get there . 
The fire in the hut served as a beacon , and enabled le Bourdon to find the canoes . 
When he reached the landing , he could still hear the dogs barking on the marsh , and the voices of those with them , calling in loud tones to two of the savages who had remained at the chienté , as a sort of camp-guard . 
asked le Bourdon of the Chippewa . 
`` Fast ` nough -- so fast , he follow , '' answered the Indian , who , notwithstanding his preparations to help to remove the canoes , was manifestly reluctant to depart without striking another blow at his enemies . 
As le Bourdon was much in earnest , Pigeonswing was fain to comply . 
Had the last possessed a rifle of his own , or even a knife , it is highly probable he would have leaped ashore , and found the means of stealing on some one of his enemies unawares , and thus secured another trophy . 
But the bee-hunter was determined , and the Chippewa , however reluctant , was compelled to obey ; for not only had le Bourdon kept his rifle at his side , but he had used the precaution of securing his knife and tomahawk , both of which he carried habitually , the same as a red man . 
The canoes , also , enabled the weaker party to change their position at will , carrying with them as many of their effects as were on board , and which included the whole of the property of le Bourdon ; while their loss deprived their enemies of all extra means of motion , and would be very likely to induce them to proceed on their expedition by land . 
The objects of that expedition could only be conjectured by the bee-hunter , until he had questioned the Chippewa ; a thing he did not fail to do , as soon as he believed the party quite safe , under the south shore . 
It was while these things were in progress , and after le Bourdon had himself procured the fuel necessary to feed pretty Margery 's fire , that he questioned the Chippewa touching his captivity . 
` Member when say good bye up in openin ' to Bourdon ? '' 
I was glad of that , as you seemed to think he was not your friend . '' 
`` Yes ; good not to travel on same path as inimy , 'cause he quarrel sometime , '' coolly returned the Indian . 
`` Dis time , path come togedder , somehow ; and Pottawattamie los he scalp . '' 
I found the body of Elksfoot sitting up against a tree soon after you left me , and knew by whose hands he had fallen . '' 
`` No , that is not acting like a Christian ; and I fear very few of us who call ourselves by that name , act as if we were Christians , in truth , '' said le Bourdon , conscious of the justice of the Chippewa 's accusation . 
You see , Bourdon , dat Elkfoot on scout , when we meet in openin ' , up river . 
I know 'd his ar ` nd , and so took scalp . 
Dem Pottawattamie his friend -- when dey come to meet ole chief , no find him ; but find Pigeonwing ; got me when tired and ` sleep ; got Elkfoot scalp wid me -- sorry for dat -- know scalp by scalp-lock , which had grey hair , and some mark . 
So put me in canoe , and meant to take Chippewa to Chicago to torture him -- but too much wind . 
This was the simple explanation of the manner in which Pigeonswing had fallen into the hands of his enemies . 
Although le Bourdon was personally a stranger to Elksfoot , news flies through the wilderness in an extraordinary manner ; and it was not at all unlikely that the fact of a white American 's being in the openings should soon spread , along with the tidings that the hatchet was dug up , and that a party should go out in quest of his scalp and the plunder . 
Le Bourdon , when his dialogue with the Chippewa was over , and after a few words of explanation with Margery , took his own canoe , and paddled through the rice plants into the open water of the river , to reconnoitre . 
The breadth of the stream induced him to float down before the wind , until he reached a point where he could again command a view of the hut . 
What he there saw , and what he next did , must be reserved for a succeeding chapter . 
Anhour had intervened between the time when le Bourdon had removed the canoes of the Pottawattamies , and the time when he returned alone to the northern side of the river . 
When le Bourdon reached the point whence he could get a good view of the door of the hut , which was still illuminated by the fire within , he ceased using the paddle beyond the slight effort necessary to keep the canoe nearly stationary . 
He was quite within the range of a rifle , but trusted to the darkness of the night for his protection . 
That scouts were out , watching the approaches to the hut , he felt satisfied ; and he did not doubt that some were prowling along the margin of the Kalamazoo , either looking for the lost boats , or for those who had taken them away . 
This made him cautious , and he took good care not to place his canoe in a position of danger . 
On this subject were they conversing , when le Bourdon first got near enough to observe their proceedings . 
But le Bourdon was right in his conjectures , that the matter was not to end here . 
All this , moreover , le Bourdon both saw and understood ; or , if not absolutely all , so much of it as to let him comprehend the main conclusions of the savages , as well as the process by which they were reached . 
Curiosity now became strongly awakened in the latter , and he ventured in nearer to the shore , in order to get the best possible view of what was going on . 
In a manner , he was solving an enigma ; and he experienced the sort of pleasure we all feel at exercising our wits on difficulties of that nature . 
The interest he felt rendered the young man careless as respected the position of his canoe , which drifted down before the strong breeze , until le Bourdon found himself in the very edge of the wild rice , which at this point formed but a very narrow belt along the beach . 
To le Bourdon 's surprise , and somewhat to his consternation , just as his little craft touched the rice , the forms of two stout warriors passed along the beach , between him and the light , their feet almost dipping in the water . 
So near were these two warriors to him , that , on listening intently , he heard not only their voices , as they communicated their thoughts to each other in low tones , but the tread of their moccasined feet on the ground . 
By grasping in his hand two or three stalks of the rice-plant , and holding them firmly , the drift of the canoe was arrested . 
After a moment 's reflection , le Bourdon was better satisfied with this new station than he had been on first gaining it . 
To have ventured on such a near approach to his enemies , he would have regarded as madness ; but now he was there , well concealed among the rice , he enjoyed the advantages of observation it gave him , and looked upon the chance that brought him there , as lucky . 
He found a thong of buckskin , and fastened his canoe to the stalks of the plant , thus anchoring or mooring his little bark , and leaving himself at liberty to move about in it . 
The rice was high enough to conceal him , even when erect , and he had some difficulty in finding places favourable to making his observations through it . 
When the bee-hunter made his way into the bow of his canoe , however , which he did with a moccasined and noiseless foot , he was startled at perceiving how small was his cover . 
In point of fact , he was now within three feet of the inner edge of the rice-plants , which grew within ten feet of the shore , where the two warriors already mentioned were still standing , in close communication with each other . 
The first impulse of le Bourdon , on ascertaining how closely he had drifted to the shore , was to seize a paddle and make off , but a second thought again told him it would be far safer to remain where he was . 
Taking his seat , therefore , on a bit of board laid athwart , from gunwale to gunwale , if such a craft can be said to have gunwales at all , he patiently awaited the course of events . 
The reader will not be surprised to hear that le Bourdon gazed on the scene before him with the most profound attention . 
So near did he seem to be , and so near was he , in fact , to the savages who were grouped around the fire , that he fancied he could comprehend what they were saying , by the expressions of their grim and swarthy countenances . 
His conjectures were in part just , and occasionally the bee-hunter was absolutely accurate in his notions of what was said . 
It was while thus intently occupied in endeavouring to read the singular impression made on the minds of most of those wild beings , by an incident so much out of the usual track of their experience , that le Bourdon suddenly found the bow of his canoe thrusting itself beyond the inner margin of the rice , and issuing into open water , within ten feet of the very spot where the two nearest of the savages were still conferring together , apart . 
Le Bourdon understood his real situation without stopping to reflect ; and , though his heart made one violent leap as soon as he perceived he was out of cover , he immediately bethought him of the course he ought to pursue . 
As accident had thus brought him , as it might be on a visit , to the spot , he at once determined to give his arrival the character of a friendly call , and the better to support the pretension , to blend with it , if possible , a little of the oracular , or `` medicine '' manner , in order to impose on the imaginations of the superstitious beings into whose power he had so unwittingly fallen . 
The instant the canoe touched the shore , and it was only a moment after it broke through the cover , le Bourdon arose , and extending his hand to the nearest Indian , saluted him with the mongrel term of `` Sago . '' 
As the savages , however , soon insisted on examining the canoe , and taking a look at its contents , previously to listening to their visitor 's explanations , le Bourdon was fain to submit , and to let the young men satisfy their curiosity . 
The bee-hunter had come on his hazardous expedition in his own canoe . 
Previously to quitting the south shore , however , he had lightened the little craft , by landing everything that was not essential to his present purpose . 
As nearly half of his effects were in the canoe of Whiskey Centre , the task was soon performed , and lucky it was for our hero that he had bethought him of the prudence of the measure . 
All the honey , and the skins , and stores , and spare powder and lead , and , in short , every thing else that belonged to le Bourdon was still safe , on the other side of the river . 
The bee-hunter seemed to pay no attention to his rifle and ammunition , or even to his canoe , while the savages , after having warily examined the last , together with its contents , returned to their visitor , to re-examine him , with a curiosity as lively as it was full of distrust . 
`` An enemy did both , '' answered le Bourdon , oracularly . 
`` I know it , '' answered le Bourdon , coolly , `` because medicine-men know most of what happens . 
He intended to make an impression on his listeners , and he succeeded admirably ; perhaps as much by means of manner as of matter . 
As has been said , all who understood his words -- some four or five of the party -- grunted forth their surprise at this evidence of their guest 's acquaintance with the secrets of the place , in which they were joined by the rest of their companions , as soon as the words of the pale-face had been translated . 
This little circumstance greatly complicated the mystery , and le Bourdon perceived that he had hit on a lucky explanation . 
This was now the case with le Bourdon , who was called on from all sides , to point out the precise spot where the young men were to commence digging in order to open on the treasure . 
Le Bourdon , it will be remembered , had , with his own hands , rolled the two barrels of whiskey down the declivity . 
Feeling the great importance of effectually destroying them , he had watched their descent , from the top to the bottom of the hill , and the final disappearance of the staves , & c. , in the torrent which brawled at its foot . 
Le Bourdon reasoned on these circumstances in this wise : -- if half a barrel of the liquor can produce so strong a scent , a barrel filled ought to produce one still stronger ; and I will manifest my medicine-character , by disregarding for the present moment the spot on the hill-side , and proceed at once to that at the foot of the rocks . 
To this latter point , therefore , did he direct all the ceremony , as well as his own footsteps , when he yielded to the solicitations of the Pottawattamies , and undertook to point out the position of the Whiskey Spring . 
Le Bourdon saw at once that it was entirely new , even to the oldest chief , and he felt how much it might be made to assist him . 
Beckoning to Cloud , and adjusting the focus , he directed the small end of his glass to the fire , and placed the large end to that Indian 's eye . 
Before there was time , however , to deliberate on , or to dissect this specimen of mysterious knowledge , le Bourdon reversed the glass , and applied the small end to the eye of Cloud , after having given it its former direction . 
The Indian fairly yelled , partly with dread , and partly with delight , when he saw Wolfseye , large as life , brought so near himself that he fancied he might be touched with his own hand . 
exclaimed Cloud , as soon as surprise and awe enabled him to find his voice . 
Cloud conferred a moment with the two principal chiefs ; then he turned eagerly to the bee-hunter , saying -- `` All good , but want to hear more -- want to l'arn more -- want to seemore . '' 
`` Name your wants freely , Pottawattamie , '' answered le Bourdon , with dignity ; `` they shall be satisfied . '' 
Thus delivering himself , le Bourdon proceeded with his necromancy . 
Thefirst step in the conjuration of the bee-hunter was , to produce an impression on the minds of his untutored observers , by resorting to a proper amount of mummery and mystical action . 
This he was enabled to do with some effect , in consequence of having practised as a lad , in similar mimicry , by way of pastime . 
So far as gravity of mien , solemn grimaces , and unintelligible mutterings were concerned , le Bourdon played his part to admiration ; and by the time he had led the party half the distance he intended to go , our necromancer , or `` medicine-man , '' had complete possession of the imaginations of all the savages , the two or three chiefs already mentioned alone excepted . 
At this stage of the proceedings occurred a little incident , which goes to prove the disposition of the common mind to contribute in deceiving itself , and which was of considerable assistance to le Bourdon , in maintaining his assumed character . 
Near this spot their new fire was still brightly blazing , and there Wolfseye remained , regaling one of his senses , at least , with an odour that he found so agreeable . 
But the bee-hunter knew that he should greatly increase the wonder of the savages by leading them to a newscent-spot , one to which there was no visible clue , and where the odour was probably much stronger than on the hill-side . 
Accordingly he did not approach the fire , but kept around the base of the hill , just enough within the influence of the light to pick his way readily , and yet so distant from it , as to render his countenance indistinct and mysterious . 
No sooner , however , had he got abreast of the scent-spot known to the savages , than the crowd endeavoured to lead him towards it , by gestures and hints , and , finally , by direct intimations that he was going astray . 
All this our `` medicine-man '' disregarded ; he held his way steadily and solemnly toward that place at the foot of the hill , where he knew that the filled barrel had let out its contents , and where he , reasonably enough , expected to find sufficient traces of the whiskey to answer his purposes . 
At first , this pertinacity provoked the crowd , which believed he was going wrong ; but a few words from Crowsfeather , the principal chief , caused the commotion to cease . 
In a few more minutes le Bourdon stopped , near the place of his destination . 
A dozen young men began to collect the brush ; in a minute a pile of some size had been accumulated on a flat rock , within twenty feet of the spot where le Bourdon knew that the cask had been dashed to pieces . 
When he thought the pile sufficiently large , he told Crowsfeather that it might be lighted by bringing a brand from the other fire . 
`` This will not be a medicine-light , for that can come only from ` medicine-matches , '' ' he added ; `` but I want a fire to see the shape of the ground . 
`` Now , let all the Pottawattamies stand back , '' added le Bourdon , earnestly . 
As the bee-hunter accompanied this announcement by suitable gestures , he succeeded in ranging all of the silent , but excited savages on three sides of his fire , leaving that next his mysterious spring to himself , alone . 
When all was arranged , le Bourdon moved slowly , but unaccompanied , to the precise spot where the cask had broken . 
Here he found the odour of the whiskey so strong , as to convince him that some of the liquor must yet remain . 
On examining more closely , he ascertained that several shallow cavities of the flat rock , on which the cask had been dashed , still contained a good deal of the liquor ; enough to prove of great assistance to his medicine character . 
All this while the bee-hunter kept one portion of his faculties on the alert , in order to effect his escape . 
That he might deceive for a time , aided as he was by so many favourable circumstances , he did not doubt ; but he dreaded the morning and the results of a night of reflection and rest . 
Crowsfeather , in particular , troubled him ; and he foresaw that his fate would be terrible , did the savages once get an inkling of the deception he was practising . 
As he stood there , bending over the little pools of whiskey , he glanced his eyes towards the gloom which pervaded the northern side of the hill , and calculated the chances of escape by trusting to his speed . 
All of the Pottawattamies were on the opposite side , and there was a thicket favourably placed for a cover , so near that the rifle would scarce have time to perform its fatal office , ere he might hope to bury himself within its leaves . 
So tempting did the occasion appear that , for a single instant , le Bourdon forgot his caution , and his mummeries , and had actually advanced a step or two , in the direction towards which he contemplated flight , when , on glancing an uneasy look behind him , he perceived Crowsfeather and his two intimate counsellors stealthily preparing their rifles , as if they distrusted his intentions . 
This at once induced a change of plan , and brought the bee-hunter back to a sense of his critical position , and of the indispensable necessity of caution , to a man in his situation . 
Le Bourdon now seemingly gave all his attention to the rocks where he stood , and out of which the much-coveted liquor was expected to flow ; though his thoughts were still busily employed in considering the means of escape , the whole time . 
While stooping over the different pools , and laying his plans for continuing his medicine-charms , the bee-hunter saw how near he had been to committing a great mistake . 
It was almost as indispensable to carry off the canoe , as it was to carry off himself ; since , with the canoe , not only would all his own property , but pretty Margery , and Gershom and his wife , be at the mercy of the Pottawattamies ; whereas , by securing the boat , the wide Kalamazoo would serve as a nearly impassable barrier , until time was given to the whites to escape . 
His whole plan was changed by this suggestion , and he no longer thought of the thicket and of flight inland . 
At the same time that the bee-hunter was laying up in his mind ideas so important to his future movements , he did not neglect the necessary examination of the means that might be required to extend and prolong his influence over the minds of the superstitious children of the forest , on whom he was required to practise his arts . 
His thoughts reverted to the canoe , and he concocted a plan by which he believed it possible to get possession of his little craft , again . 
Once on board it , by one vigorous shove he fancied he might push it within the cover of the rice-plant , where he would be in reasonable safety against the bullets of the savages . 
Could he only get the canoe on the outer side of the narrow belt of the plant , he should deem himself safe ! 
Having arranged his course in his own mind , le Bourdon now beckoned to Crowsfeather to draw near , at the same time inviting the whole party to approach within a few feet of the spot where he himself stood . 
The bee-hunter had brought with him from the boat , a fragment of the larger end of a cane fishing-rod , which he used as a sort of wand . 
With this wand he pointed out the different objects he named , and it answered the very important purpose of enabling him to make certain small changes in the formation of the ground , that were of the greatest service to him , without permitting curious eyes to come so near as to detect his artifices . 
This was the moment for which le Bourdon wished , and he instantly prepared to carry out his design . 
Previously , however , to completing the project originally conceived , a momentary impulse prevailed which urged him to adopt a new mode of effecting his escape . 
Now , that most of the savages were on their hands and knees , struggling to get their noses as near as possible to the bowl , and all were intent on the same object , it occurred to the bee-hunter , who was almost as active as the panther of the American forest , that he might dash on towards the canoe , and make his escape without further mummery . 
Had it been only a question of human speed , perhaps such would have been the wisest thing he could do ; but a moment 's reflection told him how much swifter than any foot of man was the bullet of a rifle . 
Happily , therefore , le Bourdon relinquished this dangerous project almost as soon as it was entertained , turning his attention immediately to the completion of the plan originally laid . 
It has been said that the bee-hunter made sundry flourishes with his wand . 
While the savages were most eager in endeavouring to smell the rock , he lightly touched the earth that confined the whiskey in the largest pool , and opened a passage by which the liquor could trickle down the side of the rock , selecting a path for itself , until it actually came into the bowl , by a sinuous but certain channel ! 
As for Cloud , not satisfied with gratifying the two senses connected with the discoveries named , he began to lap with his tongue , like a dog , to try the effect of taste . 
exclaimed this savage , rising to his feet in astonishment ; `` this is fire-water , and such as the pale-faces bring us for skins ! '' 
Others imitated his example , and the exclamations of wonder and delight flew from mouth to mouth , in a torrent of vehement assertions and ejaculations . 
This last sign was owing to the circumstance that le Bourdon had deepened the outlet of the pool , permitting a larger quantity to flow down the little channel . 
The bee-hunter knew that his precious rivulet would soon cease to run , and that he must carry out his design under the first impressions of his charm , or that he probably would not be permitted to carry it out , at all . 
At this moment even Crowsfeather appeared to be awed by what he had seen ; but a chief so sagacious might detect the truth , and disappointment would then be certain to increase the penalties he would incur . 
In the meanwhile , le Bourdon continued his incantations aloud ; walking towards his canoe , waving his wand , and uttering a great deal of gibberish as he slowly proceeded . 
Of this fact le Bourdon became aware , by turning three times in a circle , and pointing upwards at the heavens with his wand , as he did so . 
He did not like to look behind him , again , lest the chiefs should suspect his motive , and , in shoving off from the shore , he might do so within a few yards of the muzzle of a hostile rifle . 
There was no time to lose , however , for any protracted delay on his part would certainly cause the savages to approach , through curiosity , if not through distrust of his motives . 
He stepped into his light craft , therefore , without any delay , still flourishing his wand , and muttering his incantations . 
The first thing was to walk to the stern of the canoe , that his weight might raise the bow from the shore , and also that he might have an excuse for turning round , and thus get another look at the Indians . 
So critical was his situation , and so nervous did it make our young hero , that he took no heed of the state of matters in the canoe , until the last moment . 
When he had turned , however , he ascertained that the two principal chiefs had drawn so near as to be within twenty yards of him , though neither held his rifle at `` ready , '' but each leaned on it in a careless manner , as if in no anticipation of any necessity to make a speedy use of the weapon . 
This state of things could not last , and le Bourbon braced his nerves for the final trial . 
On looking for his paddle , however , he found that of three , which the canoe had contained when he left it , not one was to be seen ! 
At the instant when first apprised of the loss just mentioned , the bee-hunter 's heart sunk within him , and he fell into the seat in the stern of the canoe , nearly with the weight of so much lead . 
Then a species of desperation came over him , and putting an end of his cane wand upon the bottom , with a vigorous shove , he forced the canoe swiftly astern and to windward . 
Anticipating this very attempt , and knowing that the savages might get their range from the part of the canoe that was still in sight , le Bourdon bent his body far over the gunwale , grasping the rice-plants at the same time , and hauling his little craft through them , in the way that sailors call `` hand over hand . '' 
This expedient most probably saved his life . 
While bending over the gunwale , he heard the crack of the rifles , and the whizzing of two bullets that appeared to pass just behind him . 
It was not twenty seconds from the instant when le Bourdon first put his wand down to push the canoe from the land , ere he found his person emerging from the cover , on its weather side . 
Here he was effectually concealed from his enemies , not only on account of the cover made by the rice-plants , but by reason of the darkness ; the light not extending far enough from the fire to illumine objects on the river . 
When clear of the rice , the wind , which still blew strong , pressed upon his canoe to such a degree , as not only to stop its further movement from the shore , but so as to turn it broadside to , to its power . 
Trying with his wand , the bee-hunter ascertained that it would no longer reach the bottom . 
Then he attempted to use the cane as a paddle , but soon found it had not sufficient hold of the water to answer for such an implement . 
The most he could effect with it , in that way , was to keep the canoe for a short distance along the outer edge of the rice , until it reached a spot where the plant extended a considerable distance farther towards the middle of the river . 
Once within this little forest of the wild rice , he was enabled to drag the canoe further and further from the north shore , though his progress was both slow and laborious , on account of the resistance met . 
Until the canoe got within its new cover , it was at no instant fifty yards from the beach , and the yells , and orders , and whoopings sounded as if uttered directly in le Bourdon 's ear . 
Just as le Bourdon fancied that the crisis had arrived , and that he should soon be called on to kill his man , a shout was given by a savage at some distance in the river , and presently calls passed from mouth to mouth , among the swimmers . 
Although the conjecture just mentioned was exceedingly unpleasant to le Bourdon , the chase of the strange canoe gave him an opportunity to drag his own light craft ahead , penetrating deeper and deeper among the wild rice , which now spread itself to a considerable distance from the shore , and grew so thick as to make it impossible to get through the waving mass . 
At length , wearied with his exertions , and a little uncertain as to his actual position , our hero paused , listening intently , in order to catch any sounds that might direct his future movements . 
The bee-hunter perfectly understood that his pursuers must be aware of its being entirely out of his power to get to windward , and that they would keep along the shore of the river , as he did himself , expecting to see his canoe , sooner or later , driven by the wind on the beach . 
This had made him anxious to drag his boat as much towards the outer edge of the rice as he could get it , and , by the puffs of wind that he occasionally felt , he hoped he had , in a great measure , effected his purpose . 
Still he had his apprehensions of the savages ; as some would be very apt to swim quite out into the stream , not only to look for him , but to avoid being entangled among the plants . 
Just as le Bourdon began to think this last mentioned purpose had been accomplished , he heard low voices directly to windward , and the plashing of water , as if more than one man was coming down upon him , forcing the stalks of the plants aside . 
Surprised that a seizure should be made with so little fracas , le Bourdon bent forward to look the better , and , as the stern of the strange canoe came almost under his eyes , he saw the form of Margery lying in its bottom . 
His blood curdled at this sight ; for , his first impression was , that the charming young creature had been killed and scalped : but there being no time to lose , he sprang lightly from one canoe to the other , carrying the rifle in his hand . 
As he struck in the bottom of the boat of Gershom , he heard his name uttered in a sweet female voice , and knew that Margery was living . 
Without stopping , however , to inquire more , he moved to the head of the canoe , and with a sharp blow on the fingers , made each of the savages release his grasp . 
Then , seizing the rice-plants , he dragged the little craft swiftly to windward again . 
`` Bourdon , are you injured ? '' 
`` There are several -- one is at your feet , Bourdon -- and here , I have another . '' 
In a few minutes , le Bourdon succeeded in forcing the two craft into open water , when it was easy for him to paddle both to windward . 
She had become alarmed at le Bourdon 's protracted absence , and taking advantage of Pigeonswing lying down , she unloaded her brother 's canoe , and went out into the river to look for the absent one . 
`` I shall not soon forget this kindness of yours , Margery , '' said le Bourdon , with warmth , when the girl had ended her simple tale , which had been related in the most artless and ingenuous manner . 
`` I hope you do not think it wrong , Bourdon -- I should be sorry to have you think ill of me ! '' 
Le Bourdon 's heart was light , after his hazards and escape , and his spirits rose as his narrative proceeded . 
Nor was pretty Margery in a mood to balk his humour . 
As the bee-hunter recounted his contrivances to elude the savages , and most especially when he gave the particulars of the manner in which he managed to draw whiskey out of the living rock , the girl joined in his merriment , and filled the boat with that melody of the laugh of her years and sex , which is so beautifully described by Halleck . 
Thehistory given by le Bourdon lasted until the canoes reached the south shore . 
The bee-hunter slept in his canoe , while Margery shared the buffalo-skin of her sister . 
Then le Bourdon arose , and withdrawing to a proper distance , he threw off his clothes and plunged into the stream , in conformity with a daily practice of his at that genial season of the year . 
Le Bourdon had now little expectation that his assumed character could be maintained among these savages any longer , did accident again throw him in their way . 
The chiefs , he saw , had distrusted him all along , but had given him an opportunity to prove what he could do , in order to satisfy the more vulgar curiosity of their young men . 
He wisely determined , therefore , to keep out of the hands of his enemies . 
Although le Bourdon could hold a conversation in the tongue of the Ojebways , he was not fond of so doing . 
He comprehended without difficulty nearly all of what was said by them , and had observed the previous night that the warriors made many allusions to a chief , whom they styled Onoah , but who he himself knew was usually called Scalping Peter , among the whites of that frontier . 
But le Bourdon was still young , and had yet to learn how little of that which we all hear is true , and how very much is false . 
No sooner had le Bourdon shaken her hand , and repeated his thanks for the succour of the past night , than the full heart of Margery poured out its feelings , as the swollen stream overflows its banks , and began to weep . 
answered le Bourdon , with a nice understanding of not only Indian nature , but of human nature . 
`` Had they even a canoe , '' returned le Bourdon , coolly , `` they would not know where to look for us . 
you have no weakness like that of poor brother 's , to make you otherwise ; but , Bourdon , you will naturally wish to take care of yourself and your property , and will quit us the first good opportunity . 
Margery had never seen the bee-hunter twenty-four hours before , though she had often heard of him , and of his success in his art ; for the fame of a man of good reputation and active qualities spreads far on a frontier . 
The very individual whose existence would be nearly overlooked in a crowded region , shall be spoken of , and known by his qualities , a hundred leagues from his place of residence , when settlements are few and far apart . 
In this way , Margery had heard of Boden , or of `` Bourdon , '' as she called him , in common with hundreds who , confounding his real name with his sobriquet , made the mistake of using the last , under the impression that it was the true appellation . 
Had she understood the real meaning of `` Bourdon , '' she would have bitten off her tongue before she would have once called Boden by such an appellation ; though the bee-hunter himself was so accustomed to his Canadian nick-name , as to care no hing at all about it . 
Le Bourdon thought intently , during breakfast , of the condition of his party , and of the best mode of proceeding , while the pallid and anxious young creature at his side believed he was deliberating solely on the best means of extricating himself , and his store of honey , from the savages on the other shore . 
`` We have obtained one advantage over the enemy , '' said le Bourdon , `` by crossing the river . 
Water leaves no trail ; even had Crowsfeather a canoe , he might not know where to go in it , in order to find us . '' 
`` Dat not so , '' put in the Chippewa , a little dogmatically ; `` know we hab canoe -- know cross river in him . '' 
He manages a canoe well , when himself ; so go , Bourdon , while you can . 
Still , her generous temper did not like the idea of the bee-hunter 's sacrificing himself for those who had so few claims on him , and she could not but again admonish him of the necessity of losing no time . 
`` You will think better of this , Bourdon , '' the girl resumed . 
`` The lake is a bad water for a canoe , when there is much wind , '' put in Gershom , yawning after he had spoken , as if the effort fatigued him . 
You had better listen to the advice of Bourdon , who has done so much for us already , and who will tell you the way to keep out of Injin clutches . 
We owe our lives to Bourdon , Gershom , and you should thank him for it . '' 
Whiskey Centre muttered a few half-intelligible words of thanks , and relapsed into his state of drowsy indifference . 
The bee-hunter saw , however , that the effects of the brandy were leaving him , and he managed to get him on one side , where he persuaded the fellow to strip and go into the water . 
On his return from the bathing , le Bourdon again joined the females . 
Margery had been weeping ; but she smiled in a friendly way , on meeting his eye , and appeared less anxious for his departure than she had been an hour before . 
It was in this spirit , then , that Pigeonswing came to the canoe , where le Bourdon was holding a little private discourse with Margery , and gave utterance to what was passing in his mind . 
`` Good time , now , get more scalp , Bourdon , '' said the Chippewa , in his clipping , sententious English . 
`` Nebber mind him -- if go , go ; if stay , stay . 
`` No pappoose here , '' returned the Indian , looking around him -- `` dat your squaw , eh ? '' 
The reader can readily imagine that this abrupt question brought blushes into the cheeks of pretty Margery , making her appear ten times more handsome than before ; while even le Bourdon did not take the interrogatory wholly undisturbed . 
Still , the latter answered manfully , as became his sex . 
`` I am not so fortunate as to have a squaw , and least of all to have this , '' said le Bourdon . 
`` Ay , that may do with your red-skin squaws , '' le Bourdon hastily replied ; for he saw that Margery was not only distressed , but a little displeased -- `` but not with the young women of the pale-faces . 
exclaimed le Bourdon , earnestly . 
Pigeonswing viewed the matter very differently ; and being somewhat of a partisan in matters relating to domestic economy , he had no thought of leaving a point of so much importance in so bad a way . 
Accordingly , it is not surprising that , in pursuing the subject , he expressed opinions in several essentials diametrically the reverse of those of the bee-hunter . 
`` Is that true , Bourdon ? '' 
To le Bourdon 's great apprehension , he saw the savages on the north shore making signals to this strange canoe , by means of smoke , and he foresaw the probability of his enemies obtaining the means of crossing the stream , should the strangers proceed in the desired direction . 
To counteract this design , he ran down to a spot on the beach where there was no rice-plant , and showing himself to the strangers , invited them to land on the south side , which was much the nearest , and in other visible respects quite as convenient as the opposite bank of the river . 
`` Who are they , Bourdon ? '' 
Le Bourdon could scarce trust his sense of hearing ! 
While le Bourdon was so much astounded at hearing the terrible name of Onoah , which was familiar enough to him , neither of his white companions betrayed any emotion . 
This unexpected demeanour on the part of his friend , somewhat confounded le Bourdon , though it in a degree relieved his apprehensions of any immediate danger . 
By this time the strange Indian had landed , thus giving le Bourdon an opportunity of examining his person and attire more closely than he had hitherto done . 
`` We have neither wigwam nor chief here , '' answered le Bourdon , though he almost shrunk from taking the hand of one of whom he had heard the tales of which this savage had been the hero ; `` we are common people , and have no one among us who holds the States ' commission . 
demanded le Bourdon . 
Le Bourdon could not arrest this movement , short of an appeal to force ; and force he did not like to use , doubting equally its justice and its prudence . 
Le Bourdon soon had occasion to see that both the missionary and the corporal submitted to his wishes , and that there was no use in gainsaying anything he proposed . 
In all matters he did as he pleased ; his two companions submitting to his will as completely as if one of them had seen in this supposed child of Israel , Joshua , the son of Nun , and the other even Aaron , the high priest , himself . 
With le Bourdon the case was different . 
He understood himself and the wilderness . 
For him the wind was fair , and there was no necessity for his touching at Mackinaw at all . 
It is true , he usually passed several days on that pleasant and salubrious island , and frequently disposed of lots of honey there ; but he could dispense with the visit and the sales . 
All this he urged warmly on his white companions , taking them aside for that purpose , and leaving Peter and Pigeonswing together while he did so . 
`` You had better get out of the river while all the canoes are on this side , '' said Margery , as she and le Bourdon walked towards the boats in company , the council having ended , and everything beginning to assume the appearance of action . 
The bee-hunter fairly sighed , and from a very resolute , he became a very irresolute sort of person . 
As was natural to one in his situation , he let out the secret current his thoughts had taken , in the remarks which followed . 
`` I do not like the manner in which Peter and Pigeonswing are now talking together , '' he said . 
What can be the meaning , Bourdon , of so much fierce earnestness ? '' 
We understand each other tolerably well , and , just as you spoke , he gave me a secret sign that I have a right to think means confidence and friendship . 
`` Is it safe to trust any of them , Bourdon ? 
You must not judge brother too harshly , from what you have seen of him , Bourdon . '' 
`` I do not wish to judge him at all , Margery . 
We all have our failin 's , and whiskey is his . 
It 's enough for me , Margery , that Gershom is yourbrother , to cause me to try to think well of him . 
We must not trust to there being no more liquor among us ; for , if that so ` ger is altogether without his rations , he 's the first so ` ger I ever met who was ! '' 
That she was secretly delighted , can not be denied ; while , at the same time , that she felt a generous and lively concern for the fortunes of le Bourdon , is quite as certain . 
As Gershom just then called to her to lend her assistance in preparing to embark , she had no leisure for expostulation , nor do we know that she now seriously wished to divert the bee-hunter from his purpose . 
It was soon understood by every one that the river was to be crossed , in order that Gershom might get his household effects , previously to ascending the Kalamazoo . 
This set all at work but the Chippewa , who appeared to le Bourdon to be watchful and full of distrust . 
As the latter had a job before him that would be likely to consume a couple of hours , the others were ready for a start long before he had his hole dug . 
It was therefore arranged that the bee-hunter should complete his task , while the others crossed the stream , and went in quest of Gershom 's scanty stock of household goods . 
Nor did le Bourdon see anything of his friend until the adventurers were fairly on the north shore , when he rejoined le Bourdon , sitting on a log , a curious spectator of the latter 's devices to conceal his property , but not offering to aid him in a single movement . 
`` I did n't know , Pigeonswing , but you had started for the openings , before us , '' observed le Bourdon . 
As the bee-hunter uttered this answer , he was putting the last of his honey-kegs into the cache , and as he rose from completing the operation , he laughed heartily , like one who saw images in the occurrences of the past night , that tended to divert himself , if they had not the same effect on the other spectators . 
For many a day did le Bourdon remember that look ; and painful were the apprehensions to which it gave birth . 
All these suspicions passed through le Bourdon 's mind , as he finished his câche ; and sufficiently disagreeable did he find it to entertain them . 
Such was the state of things when le Bourdon reached the north shore . 
Then , fearful of giving offence , he was about to apologize for a mirth so ill-timed , when the Indian smiled , with a gleam of intelligence on his swarthy face , that seemed to say , `` I understand it all , '' and continued -- `` Good -- the chief with three eyes '' -- in allusion to the spy-glass that le Bourdon always carried suspended from his neck -- `` is a very great medicine-man ; he knows when to laugh , and when to look sad . 
It was not a difficult matter for le Bourdon to persuade Margery , that her brother 's canoe would be too heavily loaded for such a passage , unless she consented to quit it for his own . 
In his ordinary excursions , le Bourdon carried the mastiff as a companion ; but , now that his place was so much better filled , Hive was suffered to roam the woods that lined most of the river-banks , joining his master from time to time at the portages or landings . 
The look was such an one as le Bourdon could not remember to have ever before beheld in a human countenance . 
In point of fact , he had seen Peter in one of those moments when the pent fires of the volcano , that ceaselessly raged within his bosom , were becoming difficult to suppress ; and when memory was busiest in recalling to his imagination scenes of oppression and wrong , that the white man is only too apt to forget amid the ease of his civilization , and the security of his power . 
But the look , and the impression produced by it on le Bourdon , soon passed away , and were forgotten by him to whom it might otherwise have proved to be a most useful warning . 
As le Bourdon had been up and down the river often , in his various excursions , he acted as the pilot of the navigation ; though all worked , even to the missionary and the Chippewa . 
It was only on the eleventh day after quitting the mouth of the river , that the canoes came-to in the little bay where le Bourdon was in the habit of securing his light bark , when in the openings . 
Castle Meal was in full view , standing peacefully in its sweet solitude ; and Hive , who , as he came within the range of his old hunts , had started off , and got to the spot the previous evening , now stood on the bank of the river to welcome his master and his friends to the chienté . 
On ascending to his abode and examining the fastenings , and on entering the hut , store-house , & c. , le Bourdon became satisfied that all the property he had left behind was safe , and that the foot of man -- he almost thought of beast too -- had not visited the spot at all during the last fortnight . 
Theweek which succeeded the arrival of our party at Chateau au Miel , or Castle Meal , as le Bourdon used to call his abode , was one of very active labour . 
As housewives , they were expert and willing , considering the meagreness of their means ; and le Bourdon told the half-delighted , half-blushing Margery , ere the latter had been twenty-four hours in his chienté , that nothing but the presence of such an one as herself was wanting to render it an abode fit for a prince ! 
When le Bourdon remonstrated with him on the folly of taking so much unncessary pains , it led to a discussion , in which the missionary even felt constrained to join . 
exclaimed le Bourdon , a little impatiently , when he found the corporal getting to be in earnest in his proposal . 
`` Ay , Bourdon , that was in peaceabletimes ; but these is wartimes . 
`` Go to your bees , Bourdon , and leave me to fortify and garrison , as becomes mytrade . 
`` Let it , then , be Castle Meal , '' said le Bourdon ; `` surely , if any one is to be defended and fortified in this way , it ought to be the women . 
Le Bourdon would not allow a tree of any sort to be felled anywhere near his abode . 
As le Bourdon flourished his axe , and Margery plied her needles , making a wholesome provision for the coming winter , the mysterious Indian would stand , a quarter of an hour at a time , immovable as a statue , his eyes riveted first on one , and then on the other . 
By the time the corporal had his trenches dug , le Bourdon was prepared with his palisades , which were just one hundred in number , being intended to enclose a space of forty feet square . 
He was foremost in rushing to the assistance of his wife and sister , though le Bourdon was very close on his heels . 
`` This has been done by you , corporal , in order to bring us together , under arms , by way of practice , '' le Bourdon at length exclaimed . 
continued le Bourdon . 
exclaimed le Bourdon , when he found his friend touching an elbow , as if by chance . 
Le Bourdon observed , however , that Pigeonswing went earlier than usual to the hunt , and that he made his preparations as if he expected to be absent more than the customary time . 
When all was done , the corporal himself , a very critical sort of person in what he called ` garrisons , ' was fain to allow that it was as `` pretty a piece of palisading '' as he had ever laid eyes on . 
No spring or well existing within its narrow limits , however , he procured two or three empty barrels , portions of le Bourdon 's effects , placed them within the works , and had them filled with sweet water . 
Then le Bourdon had cut loops on three sides of the hut itself , in order to fire at the bears , and sometimes at the deer , which had often approached the building in its days of solitude and quiet , using the window on the fourth side for the same purpose . 
`` You made a long hunt of it yesterday , Pigeonswing , '' observed le Bourdon , as soon as he found himself alone with his old ally . 
When he did resume the discourse , it was to add -- `` Though I must confess a man may heardanger as well as seeit . 
Bourdon , you right -- oughtto feel afeard of dat horn . '' 
`` Hear him juss like rest . 
`` Did n't touch him , '' returned the Indian coldly . 
Pigeonswing turned to look at his companion , in a way that seemed to inquire how far he was really the dupe of the mysterious Indian 's wiles . 
Such , in a certain way , proved to be the case with le Bourdon , who allowed things to pass unheeded directly before his eyes , that previously to his acquaintance with Margery would not only have been observed , but which would have most probably led to some practical results . 
The task , in this instance , was not easy ; for Pigeonswing , in addition to his general propensities in favour of the ` Yankees , ' the result of mere accident , had conceived a real personal regard for le Bourdon , and was very slow to admit any views that tended to his injury . 
The struggle in the mind of the young warrior was severe ; and twenty times was he on the point of warning his friend of the danger which impended over the whole party , when a sense of good faith towards Peter , who held his word to the contrary , prevented his so doing . 
Well , '' continued le Bourdon , laughing , `` if they wish another whiskey-spring , I have a small jug left , safely hid against a wet day ; a very few drops will answer to make a tolerable spring . 
`` Bess not tell Pottawattamie any more ` bout spring , '' answered the Chippewa , gravely ; for by this time he regarded the state of things in the openings to be so serious as to feel little disposition to mirth . 
`` Poor country to hunt in , dat , '' observed the Chippewa , quietly , while le Bourdon was wiping his forehead after removing his cap . 
`` Yes , '' answered the Chippewa , nodding his head in assent . 
Suddenly , Pigeonswing recovered his recollection , and resumed the conversation , by saying -- `` What million mean , Bourdon ? 
`` A million is more than the leaves on all the trees in these openings '' -- le Bourdon 's notions were a little exaggerated , perhaps , but this was what he said -- `` yes , more than the leaves on all these oaks , far and near . 
It is probable that the bee-hunter , himself , had no very clear notion of the distance of which he spoke , or of the number of men it would actually require to fill the space he mentioned ; but his answer sufficed deeply to impress the imagination of the Indian , who now helped le Bourdon to secure his load to his back , in silence , receiving the same service in return . 
When the meat of the bear was securely bestowed , each resumed his rifle , and the friends commenced their march in , towards the chienté ; conversing , as they went , on the matter which still occupied their minds . 
`` You will remember , Chippewa , '' he said , `` that I told you nothing on the subject of any woman . 
Tell me dat , Bourdon , if he can ? 
Why pale-face ever leave datgarden , when he so han ` some , eh ? ' 
asked the Chippewa , with an interest so manifest , that he actually stopped in his semi-trot , in order to put the question -- `` More pale-face warrior dan red men ? '' 
The sun went down in a cloudless sky , and gentle airs from the south-west fanned the warm cheeks of Margery , as she sat , resting from the labours of the day , with le Bourdon at her side , speaking of the pleasures of a residence in such a spot . 
The youth was eloquent , for he felt all that he said , and the maiden was pleased . 
`` But are you not often lonely , Bourdon , living here in the openings , whole summers at a time , without a living soul to speak to ? '' 
`` I have not been , hitherto , '' answered le Bourdon , so frankly as at once to quiet his companion 's sensitiveness , `` though I will not answer for the future . 
Diffidence , one of the most certain attendants of a pure passion , alone kept le Bourdon from asking Margery to become his wife ; while Margery , herself , sometimes doubted whether it were possible that any reputable man could wish to connect himself and his fortunes with a family that had sunk as low as persons could well sink , in this country , and not lose their characters altogether . 
While our young folk were thus employed , now conversing cheerfully , now appearing abstracted and lost in thought , though seated side by side , le Bourdon happened to look behind him , and saw that Peter was regarding them with one of those intense , but mysterious expressions of the countenance , that had , now , more than once attracted his attention ; giving reason , each time , for a feeling in which doubt , curiosity and apprehension were singularly mingled , even in himself . 
Ever since the erection of the palisades , le Bourdon had been in the habit of calling Hive within the defences , leaving him at liberty to roam about inside , at pleasure . 
Previously to this new arrangement , the dog had been shut up in his kennel , in order to prevent his getting on the track of a deer , or in close combat with some bear , when his master was not present to profit by his efforts . 
As the palisades were too high for his leap , this putting him at liberty within them , answered the double purpose of giving the mastiff room for healthful exercise , and of possessing a most vigilant sentinel against dangers of all sorts . 
On the present occasion , however , the dog was missing , and after calling and whistling for him some time , the bee-hunter was fain to bar the gate , and leave him on the outside . 
This done , he sought his skin , and was soon asleep . 
It was midnight , when the bee-hunter felt a hand laid on his own arm . 
It was the corporal , making this movement , in order to awake him . 
`` Did you not hear it , Bourdon ? '' 
Le Bourdon did so , accompanied by the corporal , and just as each laid a hand on the instruments , which were suspended in their proper places , a heavy rush was made against the gate , as if to try its fastenings . 
This , le Bourdon well knew , indicated the presence of some thing , or creature , that did not properly belong to the vicinity . 
Le Bourdon , however , did not permit his mastiff to run off wide , but , having the animal at perfect command , it was kept close to his own person . 
The dog several times halted , and he whined , and growled , and otherwise manifested his great dislike to proceed in that direction . 
At length so decided did his resistance become , that his master said to his companion , `` It seems to me best , corporal , to let the mastiff lead us . 
`` Forward , '' returned the corporal , wheeling short in the direction of the dog ; `` one thing should be understood , however , Bourdon , which is this -- you must act as light troops in this sortie , and I as the main body . 
I shall depend chiefly on the baggonet , which is the best tool to put an Injin up with ; and as he falls back , before my charge , we must keep him under as warm a fire as possible . 
Hive wasfollowed , and he took a direction that led to a distant point in the openings , where , not only the trees were much thicker than common , but where a small tributary of the Kalamazoo ran through a ravine , from the higher lands adjacent into the main artery of all the neighboring water courses . 
The bee-hunter knew the spot well , having often drank at the rivulet , and cooled his brow in the close shades of the ravine , when heated by exertions in the more open grounds . 
Le Bourdon was no sooner satisfied that his mastiff was proceeding towards the great spring which formed the rivulet , at the head of the ravine mentioned , than he suspected Indians might be there . 
He had seen signs about the spot , which wore an appearance of its having been used as a place of encampment -- or for `` camping out , '' as it is termed in the language of the west -- and , coupling the sound of the horn with the dog 's movements , his quick apprehension seized on the facts as affording reasonable grounds of distrust . 
Consequently he resorted to great caution , as he and the corporal entered the wood which surrounded the spring , and the small oval bit of bottom that lay spread before it , like a little lawn . 
Hive was kept close at his master 's side , though he manifested a marked impatience to advance . 
-- There was one break in the encircling rise of ground , it is true , and that was at a spot directly opposite the station of Le Bourdon and his companion , where the rill which flowed from the spring found a passage out toward the more open ground . 
It was while observing , and reflecting on all these things , a suspicion first crossed the mind of le Bourdon that this great council was about to be held , at that midnight hour , and so near his own abode , for the purpose of accommodating Peter , whose appearance in the dark crowd , from that instant , he began to expect . 
The erect , stalking forms , half naked , if not even more ; the swarthy skins ; the faces fierce in the savage conceits which were intended to strike terror into the bosoms of enemies , and the glittering eyes that fairly sparkled in their midst , all contributed to the character of the scene , which le Bourdon rightly enough imagined was altogether much the most remarkable of any he had ever been in the way of witnessing . 
-- As these new comers got more within the influence of the flickering light , le Bourdon saw that they were Peter and Parson Amen . 
The first led , with a slow , imposing manner , while the other followed , not a little bewildered with what he saw . 
It may be as well to explain here , that the Indian was coming alone to this place of meeting , when he encountered the missionary wandering among the oaks , looking for le Bourdon and the corporal , and , instead of endeavoring to throw off this unexpected companion , he quietly invited him to be of his own party . 
It was evident to le Bourdon , at a glance , that Peter was expected , though it was not quite so clear that such was the fact as regarded his companion . 
It was just then , when the fire burned brightest , and when the chiefs pressed most within its influence , that le Bourdon perceived that his old acquaintances , the head men of the Pottawattamies , were present , among the other chiefs so strangely and portentously assembled in these grounds which he had so long possessed almost entirely to himself . 
What was said did not reach le Bourdon , of course ; for it was not even heard in the dark circle of savages who surrounded the fire . 
The effect of this secret dialogue , however , was to cause all the chiefs to be seated , each taking his place on the grass ; the whole preserving the original circle around the fire . 
Fortunately , for the wishes of le Bourdon , Peter and his companions took their stations directly opposite to his own seat , thus enabling him to watch every lineament of that remarkable chief 's still more remarkable countenance . 
Unlike each , and all , of the red men around him , the face of Peter was not painted , except by the tints imparted by nature ; which , in his case , was that of copper a little tarnished , or rendered dull by the action of the atmosphere . 
Of the three whites present , Parson Amen alone fully comprehended all that was said , he having qualified himself in this respect , to preach to the tribes of that people ; though le Bourdon understood nearly all , and even the corporal comprehended a good deal . 
In vain did le Bourdon endeavour to drag his mastiff off ; the animal was on the high-road to victory , when it is ever hard to arrest the steps of the combatant . 
The chiefs present were strangers to le Bourdon , and they stared at him , in a way to show that his person was equally unknown to them . 
But it was necessary , now , to follow the Indians back to their circle , where the whole party soon collected again , the wolves having gone off on their several routes , to put up some other animal , and run him to death . 
His first care , therefore , was to interpose his authority and influence between le Bourdon and any project of revenge , which Crowsfeather 's young men might be apt to devise , as soon as they too laid eyes on the offender . 
asked the tribeless chief of the leader of the Pottawattamies present , who sat near him , gazing on le Bourdon much as the cat looks upon the mouse , ere it makes it its prey . 
At this suggestion , coming from such a source , Crowsfeather could not do less than express his thanks , and his readiness to hear what further might be in reserve for him . 
Peter then alluded to le Bourdon 's art , describing him as being the most skilful bee-hunter of the West . 
Having thus thrown his mantle around le Bourdon for the moment , Peter then deemed it the better course , to finish the historical investigation in which the Council had been so much interested , when the strange interruption by the wolves occurred . 
This he did , especially to prevent any premature attack on the person of le Bourdon , `` Brothers , '' said this mysterious chief , `` it is good for Injins to learn . 
Nevertheless , he was compelled to comply ; and when le Bourdon and the corporal took their departure , he turned , and pronounced in a solemn tone the Christian benediction on the assembly . 
`` Perhaps it was proceeding too fast to say anything about the change of colour , Bourdon . 
This is not right , Bourdon . 
`` Just as you say , Bourdon . 
Nor is either of you very remarkable for his observance of the laws of God , as they have been revealed to Christian people . 
`` I wish there were fewer of them , and that them few were farther from Castle Meal , '' put in le Bourdon , with point . 
I told 'em off , Bourdon , and reconn ` itred 'em pretty well , while they was a making speeches ; and , in my judgment , we can hold good the garrison ag ` in 'em all , if so be we do not run short of water . 
`` How should they , corporal , '' interrupted le Bourdon , laughing , `` when they 've no baggonets of their own to make a stand with ? 
No , no , Bourdon , seeing is believing . 
The free manner in which the mysterious chief led the missionary to the circle , was , of itself , some proof that hedid not desire concealment ; and even le Bourdon admitted , when they came to discuss the details , that this was a circumstance that told materially in favour of the friendliness of his intentions . 
Still , the bee-hunter had his doubts ; and most sincerely did he wish that all in Castle Meal , Blossom in particular , were safe within the limits of civilized settlements . 
exclaimed le Bourdon . 
Pigeonswing made no answer ; though le Bourdon faucied , from his manner , that he had really something on his mind , and that , too , of importance , which he wished to communicate . '' 
The countenance of le Bourdon changed at this last intimation ; though the Indian might not have observed it in the darkness . 
`` I believe I understand you , Chippewa , '' he said . 
Hereupon , Pigeonswing coolly repaired to his skins , lay down , and was soon fast asleep . 
The bee-hunter was fain to do the same , the night being now far advanced ; but he lay awake a long time , thinking of the hint he had received , and pondering on the nature of the danger which menaced the security of the family . 
At length , sleep asserted its power over even him , and the place lay in the deep stillness of night . 
With the dawn , le Bourdon was again stirring ; and as he left the palisades to repair to the run , in order to make his ablutions , he saw Peter returning to Castle Meal . 
The chief paid his salutations courteously ; and , instead of repairing to his skins , he joined le Bourdon , seemingly as little inclined to seek for rest , as if just arisen from his lair . 
`` My brother wanted to-day to show Injin how to find honey , '' said Peter , as he and Bourdon walked towards the palisades , within which the whole family was now moving . 
But le Bourdon was no longer alone , in heart and feelings , at least . 
Margery now mingled with all his views for the future ; and he could no more think of abandoning her in her present situation , than he could of offering his own person to the savages for a sacrifice . 
Le Bourdon , notwithstanding Pigeonswing 's remonstrances , still had his eye on the Kalamazoo . 
He remembered the saying , `` That water leaves no trail , '' and was not without hopes of reaching the lake again , where he felt he should be in comparative security ; his own canoe , as well as that of Gershom , being large , well fitted , and not altogether unsuited to those waters , in the summer months As it would be of the last importance , however , to get several hours ' start of the Indians , in the event of his having recourse to such a mode of flight , it was of the utmost importance also to conceal his intentions , and , if possible , to induce Peter to imagine his eyes were turned in another direction . 
For the next hour , every one in and about Castle Meal was engaged in the usual morning avocations , that of breaking their fasts included ; and then it was understood that all were to go forth to meet the chiefs , that le Bourdon might give a specimen of his craft . 
This party consisted of le Bourdon , himself , as its chief and leader ; of Peter , the missionary , and the corporal . 
Had Pigeonswing better understood Peter , and had he possessed a clearer insight into the extent and magnitude of his plans of retributive vengeance , it is not probable his uneasiness , at the moment , would have been so great , or the urgency for an immediate decision on the part of le Bourdon , would have appeared as urgently pressing as it now seemed to be . 
The bee-hunter took his way to a spot that was at some distance from his habitation , a small prairie of circular form , that is now generally known in that region of the country , by the name of Prairie Round . 
All this struck le Bourdon as fearfully singular , since it proved how many secret means of communication existed between these savages . 
That the inmates of the habitations were closely observed , and all their proceedings noted , he could not but suspect , even before receiving this proof of Peter 's power ; but he was not aware until now , how completely he and all with him were at the mercy of these formidable foes . 
But the appearance of the remarkable little prairie that he had just reached , and the collection of chiefs , now occupied all the present thoughts of le Bourdon . 
These were most agreeable to the eye , as well as comfortable to the foot , the grass nowhere being of a height to impede movement , or , what was of still more importance to le Bourdon 's present pursuit , to overshadow the flowers . 
Aware of this fact , he had led his companions all that distance , to reach this scene of remarkable rural beauty , in order that he might make a grand display of his art , in presence of the assembled chiefs of that region . 
The bee-hunter had pride in his craft , the same as any other skilful workman who had gained a reputation by his cunning , and he now trode the prairie with a firmer step , and a more kindling eye , than was his wont , in the commoner haunts of his calling . 
Not a hoof of any sort was now visible , with the exception of those which belonged to a herd of deer , that were grazing on a favourite spot , less than a league distant from the place where le Bourdon and his companions reached the prairie . 
As le Bourdon 's party was duly provided with rifles , the missionary and Margery excepted , this was a sign that no violence was contemplated on that occasion at least . 
Le Bourdon was aware of all this , and did not so far confide in appearances , as to overlook the watchfulness that he deemed indispensable . 
The bee-hunter was not long in selecting a place to set up his apparatus . 
In this particular , he was mainly governed by a lovely expanse of sweet-scented flowers , among which bees in thousands were humming , sipping of their precious gifts at will . 
Le Bourdon had a care , also , not to go far from the forests which encircled the prairies , for among its trees he knew he had to seek the habitations of the insects . 
Instead of a stump , or a fallen tree , he had prepared a light frame-work of lath , which the corporal bore to the field for him , and on which he placed his different implements , as soon as he had selected the scene of operations . 
As le Bourdon commenced his preparations , however , the circle of chiefs closed around him , in mute but close attention to everything that passed . 
Never was a juggler watched with closer attention , than was le Bourdon , while setting up his stand , and spreading his implements . 
Every grave , dark countenance was turned towards him , and each keen , glistening eye was riveted on his movements . 
It was not long ere le Bourdon was ready to look for his bee . 
When the imprisoned bee was put over the comb , and le Bourdon 's cap was placed above all , these simple-minded children of the woods and the prairies gazed , as if expecting a hive to appear beneath the covering , whenever the latter should be removed . 
For the first time since the exhibition commenced , le Bourdon spoke , addressing himself to Peter . 
Not so with le Bourdon and Margery , however . 
The former saw it from habit ; the latter from a quick eye , intense attention , and the wish not to miss anything that le Bourdon saw fit to do , for her information or amusement . 
As for the last , he went coolly to work to choose another insect ; and he soon had three at work on the comb -- all in company , and all uncovered . 
In the mean time le Bourdon proceeded with his operations in the utmost simplicity . 
He now called Peter and Bear 's Meat and Crowsfeather nearer to his person , where they might share with Margery the advantage of more closely seeing all that passed . 
`` To his hive , '' returned le Bourdon , carelessly , as if he did not fully understand the question . 
Presently they lost sight of the insect , which to them seemed to-vanish ; though le Bourdon distinctly traced its flight for a hundred yards . 
While le Bourdon was noting this flight , another bee arose . 
The suddenly-conceived purpose of le Bourdon , to attempt to mystify the savages , and thus get a hold upon their minds which he might turn to advantage , was much aided by the different directions taken by these several bees . 
Le Bourdon saw that the prairie was covered with bees , and well knew that , such being the fact , the inmates of perhaps a hundred different hives must be present . 
Le Bourdon now intimated a wish to change his ground . 
He had noted two of the bees , and the only question that remained to be decided , as itrespected them , was whether they belonged to the precise points towards which they had flown , or to points beyond them . 
Among other books that had thus fallen in le Bourdon 's way , was one which somewhat minutely described the uses that were made of bees by the ancient soothsayers in their divinations . 
`` A bee knows a great deal , '' said le Bourdon to his nearest companions , while the whole party was moving some distance to take up new ground . 
Luckily , this was all le Bourdon desired , and he was well satisfied at seeing that the idea passed from one chief to another ; those who did not know the English at all , being told by those who had some knowledge of the tongue , that `` bees were thought to be ` medicine ' among the pale-faces . '' 
Le Bourdon gained a great deal of ground by this fortunate corroboration of his own still more fortunate thought . 
Matters were pretty nearly desperate with him , and with all his friends , should Peter really meditate evil ; and as desperate diseases notoriously require remedies of the same character , he was ready to attempt anything that promised even the smallest chance of success . 
It was apparent to le Bourdon that this mysterious Indian was not content that one so direct and impetuous in his feelings as Bear 's Meat , and who was at the same time so little qualified to manage his portion of an intellectual conversation , should be foremost any longer . 
As le Bourdon kept moving across the prairie , while the remarks were made that have been recorded in the preceding chapter , he soon reached the new position where he intended to again set up his stand . 
Here he renewed his operations ; Peter keeping nearest his person , in jealous watchfulness of the least movement he made . 
demanded Peter , in English , as soon as le Bourdon raised the tumbler . 
`` To be sure I did , '' replied le Bourdon , carelessly . 
Sure enough , a bee was buzzing around the head of le Bourdon , probably attracted by some fragment of comb , and he cunningly converted it into a messenger from the copse ! 
To these simple savages , the manner in which the bees flew , seemingly at le Bourdon 's bidding , to this or that thicket , was quite as much a matter of astonishment , as any of our most elaborate deceptions are wonders to our own ignorant and vulgar . 
asked le Bourdon , carelessly ; `` or shall I send a bee across Lake Michigan , to tell the Injins further west that Detroit is taken ? '' 
`` Can Bourdon find honey , now ? '' 
Thus saying , le Bourdon prepared for another march . 
He moved with all his appliances , Margery keeping close at his side , carrying the honey-comb and honey . 
Le Bourdon felt persuaded that the subject of this private conference was some of his own former backslidings in the character of a conjuror , and that the Pottawattamie would not deal very tenderly with his character . 
Nevertheless , it was too late to retrace his steps , and he saw the necessity of going on . 
`` It is better that I should be here , Bourdon , '' returned the spirited girl . 
He is a man , and must feel for his wife and children , the same as other -- '' `` Bourdon , what ails the dog ? 
Sure enough , the appearance of Hive was sufficiently obvious to attract his master 's attention . 
Instead of preceding the party , however , Hive had raised his form in a menacing manner , and moved cautiously from side to side , like one of his kind that scents a foe . 
`` Why he do so ? '' 
`` He ` fraid of bee , eh ? '' 
`` He waits for me to come up , '' answered le Bourdon . 
Thus saying , le Bourdon advanced , followed by Peter , Bear 's Meat , and Crowsfeather . 
The confidence and alacrity with which le Bourdon moved into the thicket , compelled his companions to be on the alert ; though the first broke through the belt of hazles which enclosed the more open area within , a few instants before the Indians reached the place . 
But le Bourdon was prepared for a conflict , and even felt relieved , rather than alarmed , when he saw the savages . 
His ready mind at once conceived the truth . 
This band belonged to the chiefs , and composed the whole , or a principal part of the force which he knew they must have outlying somewhere on the prairies , or in the openings . 
He had sufficiently understood the hints of Pigeonswing to be prepared for such a meeting , and at no time , of late , had he approached a cover , without remembering the possibility of its containing Indians . 
Instead of betraying alarm , therefore , when this cloud of phantom-like beings rose before his eyes , le Bourdon stood firm , merely turning towards the chiefs behind him , to ascertain if they were taken by surprise , as well as himself . 
`` My brother sees his young men , '' said le Bourdon , quietly , the instant a dead calm had succeeded to the out-cries with which he had been greeted . 
So far from suspecting the truth , or of detecting the lucky coincidence by which le Bourdon had been led to the cover of their warriors , it all appeared to them to be pure necromancy . 
put in Crowsfeather , a little inopportunely , and with a distrust painted in his swarthy face that le Bourdon did not like . 
Until that moment , the affair of the whiskey-spring had weighed heavily in the balance against him ; but , now , it was suddenly changed over in the scales , and told as strongly in his favour . 
Le Bourdon found a moment to let Margery comprehend his position and views , while Parson Amen and the corporal were put sufficiently on their guard , not to make any unfortunate blunder . 
So exceedingly sensitive was the conscience of the priest , that had he clearly understood the game le Bourdon was playing , he might have revolted at the idea of necromancy , as touching on the province of evil spirits ; but he was so well mystified , as to suppose all that passed was regularly connected with the art of taking bees . 
In this respect , he and the Indians equally resembled one of those familiar pictures , in which we daily see men , in masses , contributing to their own deception and subjection , while they fondly but blindly imagine that they are not only inventors , but masters . 
As Peter very readily assented , le Bourdon next set about achieving this new feat in his art . 
The reader will recollect that the positions of two hives were already known to the bee-hunter , by means of that very simple and everyday process by which he earned his bread . 
Nor did le Bourdon now deem it necessary to resort to his usual means of carrying on his trade . 
These were not necessary to one who knew already where the hive was to be found , while it opened the way to certain mummeries that might be made to tell well in support of his assumed character . 
Catching a bee , then , and keeping it confined within his tumbler , Ben held the last to his ear , as if listening to what the fluttering insect had to say . 
She had held several short conferences with le Bourdon , as they walked together , and had penetrated far enough into his purposes to see that he was playing a ticklish game . 
I know that Bourdon thinks so , too ; and I have heard him say that he thought Congress ought to pass a law to prevent white men from getting any more of the Injin 's lands . '' 
Still , the expedients of le Bourdon may have had their agency in bringing about events , and may have been intended to be a part of that moral machinery , which was now at work in the breast of Peter , for good . 
All this was favourable to le Bourdon 's wishes , who immediately called a halt . 
The first thing that Bourdon did , when all the dark eyes were gleaming on him in fierce curiosity , was to catch a bee and hold it to his ear , as it buzzed about in the tumbler . 
`` Bourdon must think so , Peter , '' the girl evasively answered , `` or he would hardly listen to hear what it says . '' 
By this time le Bourdon seemed to be satisfied , and let the bee go ; the savages murmuring their wonder and admiration . 
asked the bee-hunter , in a voice so loud , that all near might hear what he had to say . 
Skill in hunting , next to success on the war-path , constitutes the great merit of an Indian ; and it is ever his delight to show that he possesses it . 
No sooner did le Bourdon throw out his feeler , therefore , than a general exclamation proclaimed the readiness of all the young men , in particular , to join in the chase . 
Down to this moment , doubts existed among the savages concerning the accuracy of le Bourdon 's statement . 
How was it possible that his bees should tell him where he could find bears ? 
Even the further proceedings of le Bourdon , who had discovered his bee-tree , had felled it , and was then distributing the honey among the Indians , could not draw him from his meditations . 
In the meau time , le Bourdon , by his distribution of the honey , no less than by the manner in which he had found it , was winning golden opinions of those who shared in his bounty . 
So sacred is this right held to be , that not one of those who stood by , and saw le Bourdon fell his tree , and who witnessed the operation of bringing to light its stores of honey , appeared to dream of meddling with the delicious store , until invited so to do by its lawful owner . 
While Peter was thus shaken with doubts , and that too on a point on which he had hitherto stood as firm as a rock , there was another in the crowed , who noted the growing favour of le Bourdon with deep disgust . 
Peter sent for le Bourdon , accordingly , and communicated his wish that all the whites would return to the castle , whither he promised to join them about the setting of the sun , or early the succeeding day . 
`` You must mean Bourdon and Margery , '' answered the missionary , in English , after a moment 's reflection . 
He puts it into the minds of the young squaws to see all things well that the hunters of their fancy do . 
Why he has made the young with this kindness for each other , perhaps my brother knows . 
`` I will promise to do this , Peter ; or to urge Bourdon and Margery to do it , if you will promise to speak to-day , in council , of the history of your forefathers , and to take into consideration , once more , the great question of your being Hebrews . '' 
When we again meet , Bourdon and Margery shall be one , if my persuasions can prevail , and you will have pressed this matter of the lost tribes , again , home to your people . 
As the day was now near its heat , le Bourdon led his spirited , but gentle companion , through the groves , where they had the benefit of a most delicious shade , a relief that was now getting to be very grateful . 
`` To me it has always seemed strange , Bourdon , that one of your kind feelings should ever wish to live alone , at all ; yet I have heard you say that a love of solitude first drew you to your trade . '' 
`` Why , Bourdon , you have lived long enough in the settlements to know that ? '' 
`` Perhaps the change is for the worse , and you wish it undone , Bourdon , '' observed the girl , in the longing she had to hear an assurance to the contrary , at the very moment she felt certain that assurance would be given . 
I shall speak to the missionary to marry us , as soon as I can get him alone . 
His mind is running so much on the Jews , that he has hardly a moment left for us Christians . '' 
`` He tells me he is by no means the first who has fancied it . 
Many writers have said as much before him , and all he claims is , to have been among them , and to have seen these Hebrews with his own eyes . 
But here he comes , and can answer for himself . '' 
`` Well , '' said le Bourdon , simply , `` what a thing is ` l'arnin ! ' 
Margery had not fallen in love with the bee-hunter for his biblical knowledge , else might her greater information have received a rude shock by this mark of simplicity ; but instead of dwelling on this proof of le Bourdon 's want of `` schooling , '' her active mind was more disposed to push the allusion to scape-goats to some useful conclusion . 
As this was much the highest flight the good missionary had ever yet taken , not trifling was the astonishment of his young friends , thereat . 
Touching the Jews , le Bourdon did not pretend to , or in fact did not possess much knowledge : but , when the question was reduced down to one of venison , or bears ' meat , or bisons ' humps , with the exception of the professed hunters and trappers , few knew more about them all than he did himself . 
That the deer , or even the antelopes of America ever had been goats , he did not believe ; nor was he at all backward in letting his dissent to such a theory be known . 
`` I 'm sorry , Parson Amen , you 've brought in the deer , '' he cried . 
`` Do not think that my religion depends on any thread so slight , Bourdon . 
If all men came from Adam , Bourdon , who could not all deer come from goats ? '' 
Answer me that , Bourdon ? '' 
`` All this is a great mystery , Bourdon -- a much greater mystery than our friend Peter , whom you have so often said was a man so unaccountable . 
`` But what have you in charge that has anything to do with Bourdon and me ? '' 
The missionary now called a halt , and finding convenient seats , he gradually opened the subject with which he had been charged by Peter , to his companions . 
The reader is probably prepared to learn that there was no longer any reserve between le Bourdon and Margery , on the subject of their future marriage . 
Judging of them by himself , he did not think the Indians would dare to include so great a conjurer in their schemes of vengeance , and was willing himself that le Bourdon should escape , provided Margery could go free and unharmed with him . 
As for the bee-hunter 's powers , he had many misgivings ; they might be dangerous to the red men , and they might not . 
On this subject , he was in the painful doubts of ignorance , and had the wide area of conjecture open before his mind . 
He saw ; but it was `` as in a glass , darkly . '' 
But to this le Bourdon himself was not much inclined . 
It had struck him that Gershom was opposed to an early marriage , most probably because he fancied himself more secure of the bee-hunter 's ingenious and important aid in getting back to the settlements , so long as this strong inducement existed to cling to himself , than if he should release his own hold of Margery , by giving her at once to her lover . 
Right or wrong , such was the impression taken up by le Bourdon , and he was glad when the missionary urged his request to be permitted to pronounce the nuptial benediction on the spot . 
It was one of nature 's own erecting ; and le Bourdon and his pretty bride placed themselves before it , with feelings suited to the solemnity of the occasion . 
As for le Bourdon , so profound was the impression he had made that morning , that few of the chiefs were surprised at the exemption proposed in his favour . 
Peter had the sagacity to see that by attempting further to save le Bourdon and Margery , he should only endanger his own ascendancy , without effecting his purpose . 
Here he completely overlaid the art of Ungque , turning his own defeat into an advantage . 
When Gershom and Bourdon are ready to start , I shall be ready , too . '' 
`` You open ear , Bourdon -- you know what Injin say , '' returned the Chippewa , earnestly . 
His own great purpose was to serve le Bourdon , and how many or how few might incidentally profit by it he did not care . 
Either on account of his greater familiarity with le Bourdon 's habits , or because he was in the secret of the trick of the whiskey-spring , or from a closer knowledge of white men and their ways , this young Indian was freer from apprehensions of this nature , perhaps , than any one of the same colour and origin within many miles of the spot . 
But your ear open , Bourdon ? '' 
Know Injin better dan you know him , Bourdon . 
Had le Bourdon been as disconnected and solitary as he was when he first met the Chippewa , it is not probable that either the words or the manner of his friend , would have produced much impression on him , so little accustomed was he to dwell on the hazards of his frontier position . 
Margery and her claims stood foremost in his mind ; and through Margery came Dolly and her husband . 
Le Bourdon was not left long in doubt . 
This she did , notwithstanding le Bourdon had said nothing to her on the subject , and in defiance of the bashful feelings of a bride ; which , under circumstances less marked , might have induced her to keep more in the back-ground . 
`` By medicine-man do you mean Mr. Amen , or Bourdon ? '' 
One medicine-man say his prayer ; t ` odder medicine-man take young squaw 's hand , and lead her into his wigwam . 
`` I am married to Bourdon , '' returned Margery , dropping her eyes to the ground , `` if that be what you wish to know . 
`` And that is the way which Bourdon and I willalways live together . 
Every year I wish you to come and see us , and to bring us venison , and Bourdon will give you powder , and lead , and blankets , and all you may want , unless it be fire-water . 
Fire-water he has promised never again to give to an Injin . '' 
At length le Bourdon joined them . 
Send squaw away , now , Bourdon -- bess not to let squaw hear what men say , or will always want to hear . '' 
Le Bourdon laughed , as he turned to Margery and repeated these words . 
`` You been on Prairie Round , Bourdon -- you see Injin dere -- chief , warrior , young men , hunter , all dere . '' 
Well , dat council call togedder by me -- you know dat , too , Bourdon ? '' 
You hear Bough of Oak speak , Bourdon , eh ? 
`` Listen , Bourdon . 
`` I tell you one t ` ing , Bourdon -- dat Bough of Oak very foolish Injin if he put foot on my path . '' 
`` This is plain enough , Peter , '' rejoined le Bourdon , who was unconcernedly repairing some of the tools of his ordinary craft . 
Here Peter grasped Bourdon by the hand , and poured out his whole soul , secret hopes , fears , and wishes . 
You do n't believe this , Bourdon ? '' 
`` This is not what our priests tell us , '' answered le Bourdon . 
`` Bourdon , for many seasons I have thought of this . 
They come from the Manitou , and one day he may ask to have them back again . 
`` I believe I understand you , Peter , '' observed le Bourdon , finding that his companion paused . 
-- no , Bourdon . 
But , Bourdon , I have friends among the pale-faces , and it is not natural to scalp our friends . 
Peter then related in full his attempt to procure a safe passage for le Bourdon and Margery into the settlements , and its total failure . 
He owned that by his previous combinations he had awakened a spirit among the Indians that his present efforts could not quell . 
In a word , he told the whole story as it must have been made apparent to the reader , and he now came with his plans to defeat the very schemes that he had himself previously projected . 
The difficulty arose from a naiveconfession of Peter 's , that he did not even wish to save any but le Bourdon and Margery , and that he still desired the deaths of all the others , himself ! 
Theblood of the bee-hunter curdled in his veins as he listened to Peter 's business-like and direct manner of treating this terrible subject . 
Putting the most favourable view on his situation , it was frightful to look on . 
Admitting that this fanatical savage were sincere in all his professions of a wish to save him and Margery , and le Bourdon did not , nay , couldnot doubt this , after his calm , but ferocious revelations ; but , admitting all this to be true , how was he to escape with his charming bride , environed as they were by so large a band of hostile Indians . 
Then the thought of abandoning his other companions , and attempting , in cold selfishness , to escape with Margery alone , was more than he could bear . 
Never before , in his adventurous and bold life , had le Bourdon been so profoundly impressed with a sense of his danger , or so much overcome . 
The party had arrived in sufficient season to perceive fragments of le Bourdon 's rude furniture and stores yet blazing , but nowhere was a human corpse visible . 
Then the truth flashed on the minds of all the savages : le Bourdon and his friends had taken the alarm in time , and had escaped ! 
The mysterious communication of le Bourdon with the bees , however , had far more influence in determining him to spare so great a medicine-man , than Margery 's claims ; and he had endeavoured to avail himself of a marriage as a means of saving the bride , instead of saving the bridegroom . 
All the Indians entertained a species of awe for le Bourdon , and all hesitated about laying hands on one who appeared so gifted . 
His immediate object was to save the whites who remained , Gershom and Dorothy now having a place in his good intentions , as well as le Bourdon and Margery . 
Although he moved swiftly , and nearly by an air-line , his thoughts scarce kept company with his feet . 
During that rapid walk , he was haunted with the image of a man , dying while he pronounced benedictions on his enemies ! 
These are the times when the earth truly seems a sanctuary , in spots remote from the haunts of men , and least exposed to his abuses . 
Such was the moment when Peter suddenly stood before le Bourdon and Margery , as the young couple sat beneath the shade of the oaks , near the spring . 
For half an hour le Bourdon and Gershom worked as for life . 
Placing an arm around the slender waist of Margery , le Bourdon almost carried her to his own canoe . 
Gershom soon had Dorothy in his little bark , while Peter entered that to the ownership of which he may be said to have justly succeeded , by the deaths of the corporal and the missionary . 
The heart of le Bourdon sunk within him , when he learned how near were the enemy . 
To him , escape seemed impossible ; and he now regretted having abandoned the defences of his late residence . 
-- What you t ` ink , Bourdon ? 
Dolly has one , and I have another ; we read in them every day , and we hope that , before long , brother and Bourdon will read in them , too . '' 
`` Bourdon , '' said Peter , with dignity , and speaking in the language of his own people , `` listen . 
I listened to him ; and did what he told me to do . 
I believed what he said . 
His words were -- ` Kill your enemies -- scalp all the pale-faces -- do not leave a squaw , or a pappoose . 
`` Bourdon ; the Good Spirit has , at last , made himself heard . 
`` Bourdon ; you are a pale-face , and I am an Injin . 
`` Bourdon ; once it seemed sweet to me to take the scalps of my enemies . 
`` Bourdon ; it is pleasant to me to look forward . 
`` Bourdon ; I am no longer Peter -- I must be another Injin . 
This was true of that particular spot , and was the reason why le Bourdon had selected it for his principal place of residence . 
The abundance of flowers drew the bees there , a reason of itself why he should like the vicinity . 
This proximity , of itself , was fearful ; but the uncertainty that le Bourdon felt on the subject of Peter 's real intentions , added greatly to his causes of concern . 
This feeling in le Bourdon , however , was passive rather than active , and gave her a kind interest in his future welfare , rather than any present pain through acts and words . 
It shows the waywardness of our feelings , that Margery had never reposed confidence in Pigeonswing , who was devotedly the friend of le Bourdon , and who remained with them for no other reason than a general wish to be of use . 
Something brusquein his manner , which was much less courteous and polished than that of Peter , had early rendered her dissatified with him , and once estranged , she had never felt disposed to be on terms of intimacy , sufficient to ascertain his good or bad qualities . 
This sense of security she now manifested in a conversation with le Bourdon , that took place soon after Peter had left them . 
I do not half like that Chippewa , dear Bourdon . '' 
`` No fear of him , Margery ; nor , when I come to think it all over , do I see why Peter should have brought us here , if he means anything wrong . 
`` My word for it , Bourdon , that when you do , it will take you to a friendly hive . 
`` I 'm sure , Bourdon , we ought to be very thankful to Peter for having brought us here . 
In a word , le Bourdon made a complete reconnoissanceof his position . 
He cleared a spot for the females , and made a sort of hut , that would serve as a protection against rain , and in which they all might sleep at night . 
Under these circumstances , le Bourdon began to feel more security in their position . 
Could he now be certain of Peter , his mind would be comparatively at ease , and he might turn his attention altogether to making the party comfortable . 
For three days and nights did le Bourdon and his friends remain on that dry land of the swamp , without hearing or seeing anything of either Peter or Pigeonswing . 
Hurrying to a point whence their visiter might be seen , le Bourdon soon perceived it was no other than Pigeonswing . 
In a few minutes this Indian arrived , and was gladly received by all four of the fugitives ; who gathered around him eager to hear the news . 
`` You are welcome , Chippewa , '' cried le Bourdon , shaking his friend cordially by the hand . 
`` Must n't be squaw , and ask too much question , Bourdon , '' returned the red-skin , carefully examining the priming of his rifle , in order to make sure it was not wet . 
But -- '' `` Yes , he good bow , dat -- might kill hummin ' - bird wid dat bow . 
`` Must n't be squaw , Bourdon -- bad for warrior be squaw . 
What you t ` ink , Bourdon ? 
Got him at last ! '' 
Look here , Bourdon , some of dem chief fool enough to t ` ink bee carry you off on his wing ! '' 
Here the Chippewa looked his contempt for the credulity and ignorance of the others , though he did not express it after the boisterous manner in which a white man of his class might have indulged . 
To him le Bourdon was a good fellow , but no conjuror , and he understood the taking of the bee too well to have any doubts as to the character of that process . 
Consequently , he was amused with the notion taken up by some of the others , that le Bourdon had been carried off by bees , though he manifested his amusement in a very Indian-like fashion . 
`` So much the better , '' answered le Bourdon ; `` and I hope they have followed , to line me down to my hive in the settlements . '' 
`` Do n't be squaw , Bourdon . 
Must n't be squaw , Bourdon . 
Le Bourdon reasoned on all he heard , and , still entertaining some of his latent distrust of Peter , and willing to get beyond his reach , he soon acquiesced in the proposition , and came fully into the plan . 
Notwithstanding the rifts and carrying-places they had met , and been obliged to overcome , le Bourdon calculated that they had made as many as thirty miles in the course of that one night . 
As for the Chippewa , he was quite content , and no sooner was his canoe secured , than he lighted his pipe and sat down to its enjoyment with an air of composure and satisfaction . 
demanded le Bourdon , approaching the fallen tree on which the Indian had taken his seat . 
Dis good ` baccy , Bourdon -- hope you got more for friend . '' 
Plenty of swamp , Bourdon , on Kekala-mazoo . 
Injins wo n't look ` ere , 'cause he do n't know whereabout look . 
You mean stop , and dig up cáche ; eh , Bourdon ? '' 
The cool , quiet manner in which Pigeonswing revealed his own plans , and enquired into those of his friend , had at least the effect to revive the confidence of le Bourdon . 
He could not think the danger very great so long as one so experienced as the Chippewa felt so much confidence in his own future proceedings ; and , after talking a short time longer with this man , the bee-hunter went to seek Margery , in order to impart to her a due portion of his own hopes . 
Luckily , le Bourdon had been up and down the stream so often , as to be a very tolerable pilot in its windings . 
The canoes did float past unseen , though there was a minute of time when le Bourdon fancied by the sounds , that savages were talking to each other , within a hundred feet of his ears . 
It was thought very material , therefore , to conceal the movements , even after the lake might be reached , though le Bourdon had not a doubt of his canoes much outsailing those of the savages . 
In the common acceptation , he was no sailor ; but , in his own peculiar craft , there was not a man living who could excel him in dexterity or judgment . 
As for le Bourdon and his friends , they ate and slept as usual , undisturbed ; but arose some hours before the close of day . 
Pigeonswing carried a map of the Kalamazoo in his head , and seemed never at a loss to know where to find the particular place he sought . 
It is true , he had roamed through those Openings ever since he was a child ; and an Indian seldom passes a place susceptible of being made of use to his habits , that he does not take such heed of its peculiarities , as to render him the master of all its facilities . 
She saw all things couleur de rose , for she was young , happy , and innocent ; but he better understood that they were just approaching the most serious moment of their flight . 
He knew the vigilance of the American savage , and could not deceive himself on the subject of the danger they must run . 
`` Bourdon 's mind will now be at rest , for he was afraid you had gone to join our enemies ; Bear 's Meat and his party . '' 
Bourdon your husband ; you his squaw . 
Want Bourdon scalp , much as any . '' 
`` But , this feeling has left you , Peter , and you no longer wish Bourdon 's scalp , '' said Margery , hastily . 
`` Now he is my husband , he is your son . '' 
Do n't want Bourdon scalp any longer . 
Le Bourdon knew his position well enough to understand this . 
Nor was le Bourdon at his ease on the subject of Peter . 
`` I do not half like this movement , Peter , '' said le Bourdon , as he shoved his own light craft down the brook , previously to entering the river . 
Bourdon , why you ca n't ask bee , now , what bess t ` ing for you to do , eh ? 
Good time , now , ask bee to tell what he know . '' 
The bee-hunter made no reply , but his pretty wife raised her hand , involuntarily , as if to implore the Indian to forbear . 
Why , then , are we to despise the poor Indian because he still fancied le Bourdon could hold communication with his bees ? 
A conversation now occurred , in which Peter was questioned concerning the manner in which he had been occupied during his absence ; an absence that had given le Bourdon so much concern . 
Had the chief been perfectly explicit , he would have confessed that fully one-half of his waking thoughts had been occupied in thinking of the death of the Son of God , of the missionary 's prayer for his enemies , and of the sublime morality connected with such a religion . 
Peter informed le Bourdon that his câchehad been discovered , opened , and rifled of its stores . 
But le Bourdon was not yet entirely free from distrust of his companion , and telling Gershom to follow , he began paddling down one of the passages mentioned . 
Had le Bourdon possessed more self-command , and remained stationary a little longer , he would , in all probability , have escaped altogether from a very serious danger that he was now compelled to run . 
While le Bourdon himself was nearly in despair , Peter was listening with his nice ears , to catch the points on the river whence the yells arose . 
Peter hoped that , in the darkness , le Bourdon and Gershom might pass for Indians , on the look-out , and under his own immediate command . 
One very important fact was ascertained by le Bourdon , as soon as these arrangements were explained and completed . 
This he communicated to Margery in a low tone , endeavouring to encourage her by all the means in his power . 
A place of rendezvous was appointed outside , at a head-land known to Gershom and le Bourdon , and signals were agreed on , by which the latest arrival might know that all was safe , there . 
By this time , the party was abreast of the spot where Gershom and le Bourdon had secreted the canoes in the former adventure at the mouth of the river . 
As they approached nearer and nearer to what was conceived to be the most critical point in the passage , the canoes got closer together ; so close , indeed , that le Bourdon and Gershom might communicate in very guarded tones . 
Le Bourdon heard the conversation , and understood the movement , though he could not see the canoes . 
The first impulse of le Bourdon had been to turn and fly up stream . 
Le Bourdon 's heart was in his mouth several times , while thus running the gauntlet , as it might be ; but fortune favoured them ; or , as Margery more piously understood the circumstances , a Divine Providence led them in safety past the danger . 
At the mouth of the river both le Bourdon and Gershom thought it highly probable that they should fall in with more look-outs , and each prepared his arms for a fight . 
Le Bourdon , it has been said , was very skilful in the management of his craft ; and Gershom , now perforce a sober and useful man , was not much behind him in this particular . 
The former had foreseen this very difficulty , and made all his arrangements to counteract it . 
No sooner , therefore , did he find the canoes in rough water than he brought them together , side by side , and lashed them there . 
Le Bourdon 's sail was first spread , and it produced an immediate relief from the washing of the waves . 
The Kalamazoo and its mouth were soon far behind , and le Bourdon no longer felt the least apprehension of the savages left in it . 
The Indians are not bold navigators , and he felt certain that the lake was too rough for the savages to venture out , while his own course gradually carried him off the land , and out of the track of anything that kept near the shore . 
This had brought the canoes farther from the land than le Bourdon wished to be , but he could not materially change his course without taking in one of his sails . 
When le Bourdon again landed , which he did shortly before the sun set , he calculated his distance from the mouth of the Kalamazoo to be rather more than a hundred miles . 
His principal object was to ascend a bluff and to take a look at the coast , in order to examine it for canoes . 
This his glass enabled him to do with some accuracy , and when he rejoined the party , he was rejoiced to have it in his power to report that the coast was clear . 
The number of the canoes in this fleet could not have been less than fifty , but getting a timely view of them , le Bourdon hid his own craft in a cove , and remained there until the danger was over . 
As le Bourdon had often passed both ways on these waters , he had his favourite harbours , and knew those signs which teach navigators how to make their prognostics of the weather . 
During the last , they remained in a hut that le Bourdon had himself constructed in one of his many voyages , and which he had left standing . 
The craft , therefore , continued to approach each other , le Bourdon keeping his glass levelled on the strangers , much of the time . 
The bee-hunter called out to his friends in the other canoe , and communicated the discovery just made . 
`` We shall soon know , '' called out le Bourdon . 
said le Bourdon , smiling ; willing to commence a discourse , though still determined not to betray a womanish curiosity . 
`` We are poor Injins , Bourdon ; juss as the Great Spirit made us . 
If he do n't make us Jew , ca n't be Jew . 
It was something to know where the risk was to be apprehended ; but le Bourdon foresaw great danger . 
He had brought his canoes , already , quite five hundred miles , along a hazardous coast , though a little craft , like one of those he navigated ran less risk , perhaps , than a larger vessel , since a shelter might , at any time , be found within a reasonable distance for it . 
This place was now in the possession of the British , and , according to le Bourdon 's notions , it was scarcely less dangerous to him , than the hostility of Bear 's Meat and his companions . 
Peter now took the command , steering the canoe of le Bourdon , while Gershom followed so close as to keep the bow of his little craft within reach of the Indian 's arm . 
As a consequence of the little apprehension entertained by the English of being soon disturbed in their new conquests , le Bourdon and his friends got out of the Detroit river , and into Lake Erie , without discovery , or molestation . 
Le Bourdon and his party found all the south shore of Lake Erie in possession of the Americans , so far as it was in the possession of any one , and consequently ran no risks from this blunder of the historian and his highly intelligent associates ! 
Le Bourdon gave him his own rifle , plenty of ammunition , and various other small articles that were of value to an Indian , accepting the Chippewa 's arms in return . 
The `` general '' was our old friend , le Bourdon , who was still as often called `` general Bourdon , '' as `` General Boden . '' 
