But young Col. Gillison was alone , and continued , in spite of good doctrine , to be alone for several long years after . 
It was fashioned after the Indian hunting shirt , and formed a very neat and well-fitting frock , which displayed the broad shoulders and easy movements of Mingo -- for that was the negro 's name -- to the happiest advantage . 
Mingo was the driver of the estate . 
On the plantation of Col. Gillison , there was at this time no overseer ; and , in consequence , the importance of Mingo was not a little increased , as he found himself acting in the highest executive capacity known to his experience . 
He trod the earth very much as its Lord -- the sovereign shone out in every look and movement , and the voice of supreme authority spoke in every tone . 
Mingo was a Hercules to the great majority of these ; and , with his arms akimbo , his head thrown back , one foot advanced , and his hands , at intervals , giving life to his bold , and full-toned utterance , he would startle with a feeling not unlike that of awe , many of those bent , bowed and mean-looking personages who call themselves freemen , and yet have never known the use , either of mind or muscle , in one twentieth part the degree which had been familiar to this slave . 
At length , after a delay which evidently did not diminish the impatience of Mingo , his young master descended to the breakfast room . 
His appearance was the signal for the driver to enter the same apartment , which he accordingly did without pause or preparation . 
`` Well , Mingo , '' said the young man , with lively tones -- `` what 's the word this morning ? 
`` What 's the matter , then , Mingo ? '' 
`` Matter ` nough , Mossa , ef we do n't see to it in time , '' responded Mingo , with a becoming gravity . 
But -- '' `` Well , well , Mingo , '' said the youthful proprietor , who knew the particular virtue of the driver , and dreaded that his tongue should get such headway as to make it unmanageable -- `` if there 's no loss , and no danger of loss -- if the hogs and chickens are right , and the cattle and the fences -- we can readily defer the business until after breakfast . 
`` Stop a bit , Mossa -- it aint right -- all aint right -- '' said the impressive Mingo -- `` it 's a business of more transaction and deportance than the cattle and the fences -- it 's -- '' `` Well , out with it then , Mingo -- there 's no need for a long preamble . 
`` Why , Sir , you mus ' know , '' began the driver , in no degree pleased to be compelled to give his testimony in any but his own fashion , and drawling out his accents accordingly , so as to increase the impatience of his master , and greatly to elongate the sounds of his own voice -- sounds which he certainly esteemed to be among the most musical in nature . 
`` Well , Mingo , what of all this ? '' 
`` Surely , if you do n't look after them ; but that 's your business , Mingo . 
With Mingo , as with most such , it was myhorse , myland , myox , and myass , and all that is mine . 
His tone was much subdued , as he listened to the reply of his master , uttered in accents something sterner than he had been wont to hear . 
`` I 'm obliged to you , Mingo , for coming to inform me of your intentions . 
But I do not mean , Mingo , that they shall be suffered to infest the plantation , or to do any mischief . 
`` Well , but Mossa , there 's no needcessity for that , and considering that the Corn-House aint oberfull -- '' `` No more at present , Mingo . 
He was not so well satisfied with the result of his communication . 
He had some hope to commend himself more than ever to his youthful master by the zeal and vigilance which he had striven to display . 
Disappointed in this hope , he was still further mortified to perceive how little deference was shown him by one , whose youthful judgment he hoped to direct , and of whose inexperience he had possibly some hope to take advantage . 
He loved to display his authority , and sometimes seemed absolutely to fancy himself the proprietor , whose language of command he had habituated himself to employ ; on the present occasion , he made his way from the presence of his master with no complacent feelings , and his displeasure vented itself very unequivocally upon a favourite hound who lay at the foot of the outer steps , and whom he kicked off with a savage satisfaction , and sent howling to his kennel . 
Mingo certainly made his exit in a rage . 
Half an hour after , he might have been seen , mounted on his marsh tacky , making tracks for the `` Red Gulley , '' determined , if he was not suffered to expel the intruders , at least , to show them that it was in his power , during their stay , to diminish very considerably the measure of their satisfaction . 
His wrath -- like that of all consequential persons who feel themselves in the wrong , yet lack courage to be right -- was duly warmed by nursing ; and , pregnant with terrible looks and accents , he burst upon the little encampment at `` Red Gulley , '' in a way that `` was a caution '' to all evil doers ! 
The embers of a recent fire were strewed in front of the former , and a lean cur -- one of those gaunt , far sighted , keen nosed animals which the Indians employed ; dock tailed , short haired , bushy eyed -- lay among the ashes , and did not offer to stir at the appearance of the terror-breathing Mingo . 
Still , though he moved not , his keen eyes followed the movements of the Driver with as jealous a glance as those of his owner would have done ; while the former alighted from his horse , peered around the wigwam , and finally penetrated it . 
Here he saw nobody , and nothing to reward his scrutiny . 
Reappearing from the hut , he hallooed with the hope of obtaining some better satisfaction , but his call was unanswered . 
The dog alone raised his head , looked up at the impatient visitor , and , as if satisfied with a single glance , at once resumed his former luxurious position . 
Such stolidity , bad enough in an Indian , was still more impertinent in an Indian dog ; and , forgetting every thing but his consequence , and the rage with which he had set out from home , Mingo , without more ado , laid his lash over the animal with no measured violence of stroke . 
It was then that he found an answer to his challenge . 
A clump of myrtles opened at a little distance behind him , and the swarthy red cheeks of an Indian man appeared through the aperture , to which his voice summoned the eyes of the assailant . 
His step , even while he approached the negro , was unsteady from the influence of liquor ; and as all these signs of feebleness became obvious to the eye of Mingo , his courage , and with it his domineering insolence of character , speedily returned to him . 
he exclaimed , as he made a movement to the Catawba , and waved his whip threateningly , `` lick dog , and lick Indian too . '' 
was the quiet answer of the savage , whose hand , at the same instant , rested upon the horn handle of his couteau de chasse , where it stuck in the deerskin belt that girdled his waist . 
said Mingo , as he clubbed his whip and threw the heavy loaded butt of it upon his shoulder . 
The slight frame of the Indian moved his contempt only ; and the only circumstance that prevented him from instantly putting his threat into execution , was the recollection of that strange interest which his master had taken in the squatters , and his positive command that they should not be ill treated or expelled . 
While he hesitated , however , the Catawba gave him a sufficient excuse , as he fancied , for putting his original intention into execution . 
Beforethis discovery was fairly made , the wrath of Mingo had been such as to render him utterly forgetful of the commands of his master . 
He was now ready for the combat to the knife ; and had scarcely shaken himself free from his second assailant , before he advanced with redoubled resolution upon the first . 
He , by the way , equally aroused , stood ready , with closed lips , keen eye and lifted knife , prepared for the encounter . 
The woman now threw herself between them ; and , at her appearance , the whip of Mingo fell from his shoulder , and his mood became instantly pacific . 
She was the wife of the savage , but certainly young enough to have been his daughter . 
Mingo was susceptible of the tender influences of love . 
Mingo knew that he was a handsome fellow , and fancied a great deal more . 
He was presumptuous enough -- surely there are no white men so ! 
-- to imagine that it was scarcely possible for any of the other sex , in their sober senses , to withstand him . 
This impression grew singularly strong , as he gazed upon the Indian woman . 
So bright an apparition had not met his eyes for many days . 
His local associations were all staling -- the women he was accustomed to behold , had long since lost the charm of novelty in his sight -- and , with all his possessions , Mingo , like Alexander of Macedon , was still yearning for newer conquests . 
The first glance at the Indian woman , assured his roving fancies that they had not yearned in vain . 
He saw in her a person whom he thought destined to provoke his jaded tastes anew , and restore his passions to their primitive ascendancy . 
The expression of his eye softened as he surveyed her . 
War fled from it like a discomfited lion ; and if love , squatting quietly down in his place , did not look altogether so innocent as the lamb , he certainly promised not to roar so terribly . 
He now looked nothing but complacence on both the strangers ; on the woman because of her own charms ; on the man because of the charms which he possessed in her . 
She did not content herself with simply going between the combatants , but her tongue was active in expostulation with her sovereign , in a dialect not the less musical to the ears of Mingo because he did not understand a word of it . 
The tones were sweet , and he felt that they counselled peace and good will to the warrior . 
But the latter , so far as he could comprehend the expression of his face , and the mere sounds of his brief , guttural replies , had , like Sempronius , a voice for war only . 
Something , too , of a particular harshness in his manner , seemed addressed to the woman alone . 
Mingo grew tired of a controversy in which he had no share , and fancied , with a natural self-complacency , that he could smooth down some of its difficulties . 
`` Look yer , my friend , '' he exclaimed , advancing , with extended hand , while a volume of condescension was written upon his now benignant features -- `` Look yer , my friend , it 's no use to be at knife-draw any longer . 
Mingo fancied that he had never heard better English -- of which language he considered himself no humble proficient -- nor more sweetly spoken by any lips . 
Mingo began to be impatient of the delay , probably because of her departure , and proceeded , with more earnestness than before , to renew his proposition for peace . 
Mout be if you know 'd , you 'd find out it wa ` nt altogether the best sense to draw knife on Mingo Gillison . 
-- high land and low land , upland and swamp , corn and cotton , rice and rye , all ` pen ` pon me for order ; and jis ' as Mingo say , jis ' so they do . 
It stands clear to the leetlest eye , that ` taint the best sense to draw knife on Mingo Gillison ; here , on he own ground . 
` Spose my whip ca n't do the mischief , it 's a needcessity only to draw a blast out of this ` ere horn , and there 'll be twenty niggers ` pon you at once , and ebery one of dem would go off wid ` he limb . 
We have put in one paragraph the sum and substance of a much longer discourse which Mingo addressed to his Indian guest . 
But Mingo was pained to observe that Richard never once asked him into his wigwam , and , while he remained , that the squaw never once came out of it . 
-- well , he hab ' good ` casion for fear 'd , when Mingo Gillison is ` pon de ground . '' 
Mingo paid no less than three visits that day to the wigwam , and all without seeing her , except at his first coming , when she was busied with , but retired instantly from , her potteries , in which Richard Knuckles took no part , and seemingly no interest . 
Our hero , Mingo , was not only persuaded that she could not love Knuckles , but he equally soon became convinced that she could be made to love himself . 
He left no opportunity untried to effect this desirable result ; and , after a most fatiguing trial , he succeeded so far in a part of his scheme as to beguile the husband into good humour if not blindness . 
Returning towards nightfall to the camp , Mingo brought with him a `` chunk-bottle '' of whiskey , the potency of which , over the understanding of an Indian , he well knew ; and displaying his treasure to Knuckles , was invited by him , for the first time , with a grunt of cordiality , to enter the wigwam of the squatters . 
The whiskey while it lasted convinced Knuckles , that he had no better friend in the world than Mingo Gillison , and he soon became sufficiently blinded by its effects , to suffer the frequent and friendly glances of the Driver towards his wife , without discovering that they were charged with any especial signs of intelligence . 
Mingo was something of an actor , and many an actor might have taken a goodly lesson of his art from the experienced Driver . 
He was playing Romeo , an original part always , to his own satisfaction . 
Tenderness , almost to tears , softened the fiery ardour of his glance , and his thick lips grew doubly thick , in the effort to throw into them an expression of devoted languor . 
But all his labour seemed to go for nothing -- nay , for something worse than nothing -- in the eyes of the faithful wife . 
As it was , even the self-assured Mingo was compelled to acknowledge , in his mental soliloquy that night as he made his way homeward , that , so far his progress was not a subject of brag , and scarcely of satisfaction . 
The woman , he felt , had resisted his glances , or , which was much worse , had failed to see them . 
But this was owing , so he fancied , entirely to her caution and the natural dread which she had of her fiercely minded sovereign . 
Mingo retired to his couch that night to plan , and to dream of plans , for overcoming the difficulties in the way of his own , and , as he persisted in believing , the natural desires of Caloya . 
It may be stated in this place , that , under the new aspects which the squatters had assumed in his eyes , he did not think it necessary to make any very copious statement of his proceedings to his master ; but , after the fashion of certain public committees , when in difficulty among themselves , he wisely concluded to report progress and beg permission to sit again . 
`` Dem ` ere Indians , '' he said the next morning to his master -- `` dem ` ere Indians -- der 's only two ob 'em come yet , sir -- I aint altogether sure about 'em -- I has 'n' t any exspecial ` spicion , sir , from what I seed yesterday , that they 's very honest in particklar , and then agen , I see no reasons that they aint honest . 
Without insisting that Col. Gillison entirely understood the ingenious speech of his driver , we can at least assert , with some confidence , that he was satisfied with it . 
Of an indolent disposition , the young master was not unwilling to be relieved from the trouble of seeing himself after the intruders ; and though he dismissed the amorous Mingo with an assurance , that he would take an early opportunity to look into their camp , the cunning driver , who perhaps guessed very correctly on the subject of his master 's temperament , was fully persuaded that his own movements would suffer no interruption from the command or supervision of the other . 
There were numerous small well-picked bones , which might have been those of a squirrel , as Richard Knuckles somewhat gratuitously alleged , or which might have been those of one of his master 's brood-hens , as Mingo Gillison half suspected . 
But , though he set forth with a declared resolve not to suffer his master 's interests to be `` worsened , '' our driver did not seem to think it essential to this resolution to utter his suspicions , or to search more narrowly into the matter . 
In vain did Mingo , sitting beside him , cast his wistful eyes towards the woman who worked at a little distance , and whom , while her husband was wakeful , he did not venture to approach . 
Either Mingo did not see this , or he thought too lightly of the prowess of his companion to heed it . 
He continued in the same strain and with increasing boldness . 
Once you stan ' afore Mingo , you tumble . 
continued the other disdainfully , his thin lips curling into an expression of scorn which did not escape the eyes of Mingo , obtuse as his vanity necessarily made him . 
Mingo was somewhat annoyed by the conviction that he had overshot his object , and had provoked the always eager suspicions of the savage . 
Knuckles betrayed no sort of intention to go on the hunt that day ; and his fierce glances , even if he had no words to declare his feelings , sufficiently betrayed to the negro the jealousies that were awakened in his mind . 
He fancied that , in the pursuit of his desires , were the woman alone concerned , he should have no difficulty , but he knew not what to do with the man . 
To scare him off was impossible -- to beguile him from his treasure seemed equally difficult , and , in his impatience , the dogmatical driver , accustomed to have his will instantly obeyed , could scarcely restrain himself from a second resort to the whip . 
A moment 's reflection brought a more prudent resolution to his mind , and seeing that the squatters were likely to go without food that day , he determined to try the effect which the presentation of a flitch of his master 's bacon would have , upon the jealousy of the husband , and the affections of the wife . 
With this resolution , he retired from the ground , though without declaring his new and gracious purpose to either of the parties whom it was intended especially to benefit . 
It was accompanied by a wholesome supply of corn bread ; and this liberality , which had , for its sanction , in part , the expressed determination of the master , had for its effect , the restoration of Mingo to that favour in the mind of the savage , which his imprudent opinions had forfeited . 
He relaxed accordingly , Mingo was invited into the hovel , and made to partake of the viands which he had provided . 
Mingo was resolved henceforth , to do nothing which would keep himself and Knuckles from an uninterrupted pursuit of their several game . 
But while the meal lasted , he saw but few results , beyond the thawing of Knuckles , which promised him success in his object . 
She never deigned him the slightest acknowledgment for his numerous civilities , which were not merely profitless , but which had the additional disadvantage of attracting the eyes , and finally re-awakening the jealous apprehensions of Knuckles ; still , the good cheer was so good , and the facility with which it had been procured , so very agreeable to a lazy Indian , that he swallowed his dissatisfaction with his pottage , and the meal passed over without any special outbreak . 
Mingo , so near the object of his desire , was by no means disposed to disputation with her husband , and contented himself with only an occasional burst of declamation , which was intended rather for her ears than for those of her lord . 
But he strove to make amends for their forbearance , by addressing the most excruciating glances across the table to the fair -- glances which she did not requite with favour , and which she did not often seem to see . 
Mingo was in hopes , when dinner was over , that Knuckles would take up his bow and arrows , and set forth on the hunt . 
To this he endeavoured , in an indirect manner , to urge the savage . 
He told him that game was plenty in the neighbouring woods and swamps -- that deer might be found at all hours , and even proceeded to relate several marvellous stories of his own success , which failed as well to persuade as to deceive the hunter . 
The whiskey being exhausted by this time , and his hunger being pacified , the jealous fit of the latter returned upon him with all the vigour of an ague . 
`` Why , '' he asked himself , `` should this negro steal his master 's bacon to provide Richard Knuckles with a dinner ? 
The reserve of Knuckles grew with his reflections , and Mingo had sense enough to perceive that he could hope for no successful operations that day . 
Mingo was not the person to forego his efforts , and he well knew from old experience , that a woman is never so near won , as when she seems least willing . 
He was not easily given to despair , however he might droop , and the next day , and the next , and the next , found him still a frequent visitor at the camp of Knuckles ; and still he provided the corn , the bacon , and the whiskey , and still he found the Catawba a patient recipient of his favours . 
The latter saw no reason to leave home to hunt venison when his larder was so easily provided , and the former could not , but at some discredit , discontinue the liberal practices which he had so improvidently begun . 
But if Knuckles was not unwilling to be fed after this fashion , he was not altogether insensible to some of the conditions which it implied . 
He could not but perceive that the negro had his objects , and those objects his jealous blood had led him long before to conjecture with sufficient exactness . 
As there was no equality in the conditions of himself and wife , there was but little confidence between them -- certainly none on his part ; -- and his suspicions -- schooled into silence in the presence of Mingo , as well because of the food which he brought , as of the caution which the great physical superiority of the latter was calculated to inspire -- broke out with unqualified violence when the two were alone together . 
The night of the first day when Mingo provided the table of the squatters so bountifully , was distinguished by a concussion of jealousy , on the part of Knuckles , which almost led the poor woman to apprehend for her life . 
The effects of the good cheer and the whiskey had subsided and the departure of Mingo was the signal for the domestic storm . 
It was thus that he begun the warfare . 
The movements of Mingo were made with due circumspection . 
The reflection upon his weight of years , and the exulting reference to his own youth and manhood , which Mingo so adroitly introduced , was , however , sufficiently intelligible and insulting to the Catawba , and he hesitated whether to draw the arrow to its head at once and requite this second Paris for his affront , even in the midst of it , or to await until farther wrong should yield him a more perfect justification for the deed . 
He reflected upon the danger of the attempt , and his resolution was already taken as to the mode and direction of his flight . 
But a morbid wish to involve Caloya in the same fate -- a lingering desire to find a sanction in her weakness and guilt for all his own frequent injustice and brutality , determined him to await her answer , and see to what extremities the negro would be permitted to carry his presumption . 
Prehaps , you 're feard he 'll beat you ; but do n't you feard -- neber he kin lay heaby hand ` pon you , so long as Mingo is yer . '' 
Could Mingo have seen the grin which appeared upon the mouth of the Indian as he heard these words , and have seen the deliberateness with which he thrice lifted the shaft and thrust its point between the leaves so as to bear upon his heart , he might have distrusted his own securities and strength , and have learned to be more respectful in estimating the powers of his foe . 
The woman shrank back from her place , as she received this new accession of labour , and much to the annoyance of Mingo , retired to a little distance , where she seemed to contemplate his movements in equal surprise and dissatisfaction . 
The sight of the gaudy garment which Mingo had hung upon the myrtle bushes behind him , awakened the cupidity of the Catawba . 
For a time , a stronger passion than jealousy seized his mind , and he yearned to be the possessor of a shirt which he felt assured would be the envy of the tribe . 
It hung in his eyes like a fascination -- he no longer saw Caloya -- he no longer heeded the movements of the negro who had been meditating so great an injury to his honour and peace of mind ; and , so long as the bright stripes of the seersucker kept waving before him , he forgot all his own deeply meditated purposes of vengeance . 
Meanwhile , Mingo , with his face to the kneading trough , and his back upon the endangered garment , was in the full stream of a new flood of eloquence , and the favourite Seersucker disappeared in the rapid grasp of the husband , while he was most earnest , though at a respectful distance , in an endeavour to deprive the Indian of a yet dearer possession . 
He stuck his fingers , coated as they were with clay , into his wiry shock of wool -- a not unfrequent habit with the negro when in a quandary , -- and , could the blushes of one of his colour have been seen , those of Mingo would have been found of a scarlet beyond all comparison as the conviction forced itself upon him , that he was laughed at and deserted . 
These , with foot and fist , Mingo demolished , trampling , with the ingenious pains-taking of a wilful boy , the yet unhardened vases out of all shape and character into the earth on which they rested . 
Mingo jumped to the conclusion that Knuckles was a Catawba wizard , and he determined to have nothing more to do with him : -- a determination which he maintained only until the recollection of Caloya 's charms made him resolve , at all hazards , to screen her from so ugly an enchanter . 
Buta little time had passed after Mingo had left the camp when Knuckles returned to it . 
He approached with stealthy pace , keeping himself under cover until he found that the enemy had departed . 
Enefisto sees Chickawa and the nigger Mingo every where . 
But let Enefisto take up his hatchet and go from this place . 
She shall stay by the ` Red Gulley , ' and when Mingo , the nigger comes , she shall smile upon him . 
Then will he go to her in the wigwam -- Hah ? '' 
`` Mingo will say to Caloya , ` come , old man is gone hunting , come . 
I love Caloya , let Caloya love Mingo , come ! ' '' 
`` But Caloya hates Mingo , Caloya will spit upon the nigger ! '' 
She shall go where Mingo comes into the wigwam , and when he shall follow her , she shall stay and look upon him face to face . 
Mingo is young , -- Caloya loves to look upon young man . 
`` Let Enefisto kill Caloya ere her hand rests upon the shoulder of Mingo . 
`` Will she go into the wigwam when Mingo comes ? '' 
`` And when he follows her , -- when he puts his hand upon her shoulder , and looks , Ha ! 
-- looks thus , thus , into her eyes '' -- his own assumed an expression , or he strove at that moment to make them assume an expression of the most wilful love , -- an attempt in which he signally failed , for hate , scorn and jealousy predominating still , gave him a most ghastly aspect , from which the woman shrunk with horror -- `` when he looks thus into her eyes , then will Caloya put her hand upon the shoulder of Mingo and hold him fast till the hatchet of Enefisto goes deep into his head . 
Mingo Gillisonalmost stumbled over his young master that morning , as he was returning home from his visit so full of strange and unwonted incidents . 
Somehow , it seemed to Mingo Gillison , that it was no part of his present policy that his master should see the intruders . 
A consciousness of guilt -- a conviction that he had not been the faithful custodian of the interests given to his charge , and that , in some respects , they had suffered detriment at his hands , made him jealously apprehensive that the mere visit of his owner to the Red Gulley , would bring his defection to light . 
`` But where 's your coat , Mingo ? '' 
was the natural question of Colonel Gillison , the moment after meeting him . 
Mingo was as ready as any other lover at a lie , and taking for granted that Jove would laugh at this , quite as generously as at a more dangerous perjury , he told a long cock-and-a-bull story about his having had it torn to such a degree in hunting cattle the evening before , as to put it beyond the power of recovery by the seamstress . 
`` A handsome coat , too , Mingo : I must give you another . '' 
Mingo was gratified and expressed his acknowledgments quite as warmly as it was in his power to do under the feeling of shame and undesert which at that moment oppressed him . 
His master did not fail to see that something had occurred to lessen the assurance of his driver , and diminish the emphasis and abridge the eloquence of his usual speech , but being of an inert disposition of mind , he was not curious enough to seek the solution of a circumstance which , though strange , was unimportant . 
They separated after a few inquiries on the part of the latter , touching various plantation topics , to all of which the answers of Mingo were uttered with a sufficient degree of readiness and boldness to make them satisfactory . 
The master returned to the residence , while Mingo went off to the negro quarter to meditate how to circumvent Richard Knuckles , and win the smiles of his handsome but haughty wife . 
It was probably two hours after the supper things had been removed , that the youthful proprietor of the estate of which Mingo held the highly important office in the duties of which we have seen him busy , was startled by the easy opening of the door of the apartment in which he sat , groping through the newspapers of the day , and , immediately after , by the soft treat of a female footstep , heedfully set down upon the floor . 
He turned at the unusual interruption , for it may as well be stated passingly , that young Gillison had set out in life with notions of such inveterate bachelorship that his domestic establishment was not suffered to be invaded by any of the opposite sex in any capacity . 
It is not improbable , that , later in life , his rigour in this respect , may have undergone some little relaxation , but as we are concerned with present events only , it will be no object with us either to speculate upon or to inquire into the future . 
Enough for us that his present regulations were such as we have here declared them , and had been laid down with so much emphasis in his household , on coming to his estate , that he turned upon the servant , -- for such he assumed the intruder to be -- with the determination to pour forth no stinted measure of anger upon the rash person who had shown herself so heedless of his commands . 
The surprise of Gillison was natural enough . 
He rose , however , as soon as he was conscious that the intruder was stranger , and perceiving her to be an Indian , he readily concluded that she must be one of the squatters at the `` Red Gulley , '' of whom the eloquent Mingo had given him such emphatic warning . 
With that due regard for the sex which always distinguishes the true gentleman , even when the particular object which calls for it may be debased and inferior , Gillison motioned her to a chair , and , with a countenance expressing no other feelings than those of kindness and consideration , inquired into her wants and wishes . 
His language , to one of a tribe whom it is customary to regard as thieves and beggars , would have proved him to be something less hostile to the sex , than his household regulations would altogether seem to indicate . 
She began by unfolding a small bundle which she carried beneath her arm , and in which , when unrolled and laid upon the table , Col. Gillison fancied he discovered a strong family likeness to that hunting shirt of his driver , of the fate of which he had received such melancholy intelligence a few hours before . 
But for the particularity of Mingo , in describing the rents and rips , the slits and slashes of his favourite garment , the youthful proprietor would have rashly jumped to the conclusion that this had been the same . 
His large confidence in the veracity of Mingo , left him rather unprepared for the narrative which followed . 
She freely and fully declared all the particulars of his forced intimacy with herself and husband from the beginning ; and though , with instinctive feminine delicacy , she suppressed every decided overture which the impudent Mingo had made to herself par amours , still there was enough shown , to enable his master to see the daring game which his driver , had been playing . 
Nor , in this narrative , did the woman omit to inform him of the hams and eggs , the chickens and the corn , which had been brought by the devoted negro in tribute to her charms . 
The petty appropriations of his property of which Mingo had been guilty , did not awaken any very great degree of indignation , and , with the levity of youth , he did not seem to regard in the serious light which it merited , the wanton pursuit and lascivious purposes of the driver . 
She did not tell him that her husband was jealous , but she unfolded the solemn requisition which he had last made of her to secure the arms of Mingo in her embrace , while he revenged himself for the insults to which he had been subjected with the sharp edge of the hatchet . 
The young planter started as he heard the statement . 
His eye was fixed intently and inquiringly upon the calm , resolute , and seemingly frozen features of the speaker . 
She ceased to speak , and the pause of a few seconds followed ere Gillison replied : `` But you and your husband surely mean not to murder the fellow , my good woman ? 
Let not Mingo come into the wigwam of the Indian . '' 
Gillison could not doubt her resolution as he heard the deliberate and subdued accents of her voice , and surveyed the composed features of her countenance . 
According to her story Mingo had left it behind him on the myrtles . 
The young planter , after he had instituted a series of inquiries from which he ascertained what were the usual periods when Mingo visited the encampment , how he made his approaches , and in what manner the hovel was built , and where it lay , did not seek to delay her longer . 
His own knowledge of the `` Red Gulley '' -- a knowledge obtained in boyhood -- enabled him to form a very correct notion of all the circumstances of the place ; and to determine upon the particulars of a plan which had risen in his mind , by which to save his driver from the danger which threatened him . 
This done , he begged her to await for a few moments his return , while he ascended to an upper chamber , from whence he brought and offered her a piece of bright calico , such as he well knew would be apt to provoke the admiration of an Indian woman ; but she declined it , shaking her head mournfully as she did so , and moving off hurriedly as if to lose the temptation from her sight as quickly as possible . 
Gillison fancied there was quite as much of despondency as pride in her manner of refusing the gift . 
If you do not take it , I will think you believe me to be as bad as Mingo . '' 
Let not Mingo come into the wigwam of Enefisto . '' 
Colonel Gillison promised that he would endeavour to prevent any further mischief , and , with a sad smile of gratitude upon her countenance , the woman retired from his presence as stealthily as she came . 
He had enjoined her , if possible , to avoid being seen on leaving the settlement , and it was not hard for one of Catawba birth to obey so easy an injunction . 
She succeeded in gaining the `` Red Gulley '' undiscovered , but there , to her consternation , who should she encounter , at the very first glance , but the impudent and formidable Mingo , sitting , cheek-by-jowl , with her jealous husband , each , seemingly , in a perfect mood of equal and christian amity . 
Meanwhile , the youthful master of the veteran Mingo , meditated in the silence of his hall , the mode by which to save that amorous personage from the threatened consequences of his impertinence . 
Not that he felt any desire to screen the fellow from chastisement . 
Had he been told that husband and wife had simply resolved to scourge him with many stripes , he would have struck hands and cried `` cheer '' as loudly as any more indifferent spectator . 
It was therefore necessary that what he proposed to do should be done quickly ; and , taking his hat , Colonel Gillison sallied forth to the negro quarter , in the centre of which stood the superior habitation of the Driver . 
Col. Gillison soon reached the negro quarter , and tapping at the door of the Driver 's wigwam , was admitted , after a brief parley , by the legitimate spouse of that gallant . 
Mingo had been married to Diana , by the Reverend Jonathan Buckthorn , a preacher of the Methodist persuasion , who rode a large circuit , and had travelled , with praiseworthy charity , all the way from Savannah River , in all weathers , and on a hard going nag , simply to unite this worthy couple in the holy bonds of wedlock . 
At that time , both the parties were devout members of the Church , but they suffered from frequent lapses ; and Mingo , having been engaged in sundry liaisons -- which , however creditable to , and frequent among the French , Italian and English nobility , are highly censurable in a slave population , and a decisive proof of the demoralizing tendency of such an institution -- was , at the formal complaint of the wife , `` suspended '' from the enjoyment of the Communion Table , and finally , on a continuance of this foreign and fashionable practice , fully expelled from all the privileges of the brotherhood . 
Diana had been something of a termagant , but Mingo had succeeded in outstorming her . 
For the first six months after marriage , the issue was considered very doubtful ; but a decisive battle took place at the close of that period , in which the vigorous woman was compelled to give in and Mingo remained undisputed master of the field . 
When her master declared his desire to see Mingo , what was her answer ? 
`` Mingo , mossa ? 
Whay him dey ? 
mossa , you bes ` ax ebbry woman on de plantation ` fore you come to he own wife . 
I bin marry to Mingo by Parson Buckthorn , and de Parson bin make Mingo promis ' for lub and ` bey me , but he forget all he promise tree day after we bin man and wife . 
He nebber bin lub ' t all ; and as for ` bey , -- lor ' ha ' massy ` pon me , mossa , I speak noting but de trute when I tell you , -- he ` bey ebbry woman from yer to town ` fore he ` bey he own dear wife . 
De trute is , mossa , Mingo is a mos ' powerful black rascal of a nigger as ebber lib on gentleman plantation . '' 
It was fortunate for young Gillison that he knew something of the nature of a termagant wife , and could make allowances for the injustice of a jealous one . 
He would otherwise have been persuaded by what he heard that his driver was one of the most uncomely of all the crow family . 
Though yielding no very credulous faith to the complaints of Diana , he still found it impossible to refuse to hear them ; and all that he could do by dint of perseverance , was to diminish the long narratives upon which she was prepared to enter to prove her liege lord to be no better than he should be . 
Should Mingo not see me by ten o'clock to-morrow , he 's a dead man . 
Find Mingo and send him to me to-night , or he 's a dead man to-morrow . '' 
Gillison left the hut and proceeded to other parts of the settlement where he thought it not improbable that the driver might be found ; but a general ignorance was professed by all the negroes with respect to the particular movements of that worthy ; and he soon discovered that his search was fruitless . 
Having thus , with due solemnity , registered her oath in Heaven -- and she was not one under such circumstances to `` lay perjury upon her soul '' -- she hurried away under the equal impulse of a desire to save Mingo , and to `` capper-claw '' Caloya . 
It was not long after , that young Gillison , who was more troubled about the fate of his driver than he was willing to acknowledge even to himself , came to a determination also to visit the `` Red Gulley . '' 
A little quiet reflection , after he had reached home , led him to fear that he might not be in season to prevent mischief if he waited till the morning for Mingo 's appearance ; and a sudden conjecture that , at that very moment , the audacious negro might be urging his objects in the wigwam of the squatters , made him fearful that even his instant interference would prove too late . 
Thehorror and vexation of Caloya may be imagined , when , on returning from her visit to the master of the impudent Mingo , she discovered him , cheek-by-jowl , with her husband . 
She was , in fact , a gentle , though a firm , simple , and unaffected woman , and had not this been the prevailing nature of her heart , the kindness with which Gillison had received , and the liberality with which he had treated her , would have been sufficient to make her reluctant to do any thing which might be injurious to his interests . 
To account for the return of Mingo Gillison to the spot where he had been guilty of so much impertinence , and had done so much mischief , is not a difficult matter . 
It will here be seen that he was a fellow whom too much authority had helped to madden -- that he was afflicted with the disease of intense self-consequence , and that his passions , accordingly , were not always to be restrained by prudence or right reason . 
He had not many moral misgivings , however , and his regrets were solely yielded to the evil results , in a merely human and temporary point of view , which followed his excesses of passion and frequent outbreaks of temper . 
He had not well gone from the `` Red Gulley '' after annihilating the pottery thereof , without feeling what a fool he had been . 
A rough investigation of the moral nature of an Indian chief , led Mingo to the conclusion that the best defence of his conduct , and the happiest atonement which he could offer , would be one which was addressed to his appetites rather than to his understanding . 
He had his doubts , it is true , of the sort of reception which he should meet ; -- he was not altogether sure of the magical effect of the whiskey , in promoting christian charity , and leading the savage to forgiveness ; but none of the apprehensions of Mingo were of personal danger . 
He would have laughed to scorn a suggestion of harm at the hands of so infirm and insignificant a person as Richard Knuckles ; and looking upon his own stout limbs and manly frame , he would have found in the survey , a sufficient assurance that Mingo Gillison was equally irresistible to man and wife . 
It was with a boldness of carriage , therefore , that corresponded adequately with the degree of confidence which he felt in his equal powers of persuasion , and the whiskey , rather than his personal prowess , that he appeared that night before the hovel of the squatters . 
He found Knuckles alone , and seated a little in advance of his habitation . 
His face , indeed , seemed even less grave than usual , and a slight smile upon his lips , in which it would have tasked a far more suspicious eye than that of Mingo to have discovered anything sinister , betrayed , seemingly , a greater portion of good humour than usually softened his rigid and coarse features . 
Mingo approached with a conciliating grin upon his visage , and with hands extended in amity . 
He tex ' is take from de forty-seben chapter -- I ` speck it 's de forty-seben -- which say , ` what he gwine to profit a gempleman what 's mak ' de best crop in de world , if he loss he soul , ' -- which is de same t ` ing , Knuckles , you know , as ef I was to ax you , wha 's de difference ef Mingo Gillison kick over you ' pans and pots , and bre ' k 'em all to smash , and ef he pick 'em , like he pick up eggs , widout bre ' k any , so long as he pay you wha ' you ax for 'em . 
He stick in Mingo stomach , he no stick in your ` n ; and all de time de coppers is making purty jingle in you ' pocket . 
The aroma of the beverage soon reconciled Knuckles to the voice of his enemy , and rendered those arguments irresistible , which no explanations of Mingo could ever have rendered clear . 
It was only as his familiarity with the bottle advanced that his jealous rage began to get the better of his reason and lead him into ebullitions , which , to a more acute or less conceited person than Mingo , would have certainly betrayed the proximity of that precipice in the near neighbourhood of which he stood . 
The savage grew gradually eloquent on the subject of woman 's worthlessness , weakness , folly , & c. ; and as the vocabulary of broken and imperfect English which he possessed was any thing but copious , his resort to the Catawba was natural and ready to give due expression to his resentment and suspicions . 
Enough was understood by Mingo , as well from the action and look of the Catawba , as from the vulgar English oath which he employed in connection with his wife 's sex and name , to convince the negro that Caloya was an object rather of hate than of suspicion to her worthless husband . 
A monosyllable from the Indian , like the last , attested any thing but his mental illumination in consequence of the very elaborate metaphysical distinctions which Mingo had undertaken . 
But the latter was satisfied that Knuckles should have become wiser if he had not ; and he proceeded , making short stages toward the point which he desired to attain . 
He was evidently in prime condition for making a bargain , and , apprehensive that he might have overdone the matter , and that the fellow might be too stupid even for the purposes of deception , Mingo hastened with due rapidity to make the proposition which he had conceived , and which was of a character with the audacity of his previous designs . 
Drunkenness had made the Catawba more literal than usual , and Mingo 's apprehensions increased as he began to apprehend that he should fail entirely in reaching the understanding of his companion . 
was the sudden exclamation of the Indian , as this impudent but liberal offer reached his senses ; but , whether in approbation or in anger , it was impossible , in the idiot inexpressiveness of his drunken glance , for the negro to determine . 
Mingo , meanwhile , utterly blinded by his prodigious self-esteem , construed all the movements of the Catawba into favourable appearances in behalf of his desires ; and when Knuckles entered the hovel calling upon his wife , he took it for granted that the summons had no other object than to deliver the precious commodity into his own hands . 
This conviction warmed his imagination to so great a degree , that he forgot all his prudence , and following Knuckles into the wigwam , he prepared to take possession of his prize , with that unctuous delight and devotedness which should convince her that she too had made an excellent bargain by the trade . 
But when he entered the hovel , he was encountered by the savage with uplifted hatchet . 
cried the savage , his hiccoughs sufficiently overcome by his rage to allow him a tolerable clear utterance at last . 
As he spoke the blow was given full at the head of the driver . 
Mingo threw up his left hand to ward off the stroke , but was only partially successful in doing so . 
But as the Reverend Jonathan was not nigh to take advantage of the circumstance , and as the hapless Mingo felt the continued though impotent struggle of his enemy at his feet , his earthly passions resumed their sway , and , still believing that he had not many hours to live , he determined to die game and have his revenge in his last moments . 
The Catawba had thrown his whole remaining strength into the blow , and the impetus had carried him forward . 
He fell upon his face , and vainly striving and striking at the legs of his opponent , lay entirely at his mercy ; his efforts betraying his equal feebleness and fury . 
At first Mingo doubted his ability to do anything . 
Though still standing , he was for some time incapable of perceiving in that circumstance any strong reason for believing that he had any considerable portion of vitality left , and most certainly doubted his possession of a sufficient degree of strength to take his enemy by the throat . 
But with his rage came back his resolution his vigour . 
Ef Mingo mus ' dead , you shall dead too , you d -- n crooked , little , old , red rascal . 
-- to ` tink Mingo mus ' dead 'cause he git knock on de head by a poor , little , shrinkle up Injun , dat he could eat up wid he eyes and no make tree bite ob he carcass . '' 
The sight of those charms which had led him into the danger , seemed to induce a pleasant forgetfulness of the hurts which had been the result of his rashness ; and with that tenacity of purpose which distinguishes a veteran among the sex , the only thought of Mingo was the renewal of his practices of evil . 
He thought no more of dying , and of the Reverend Jonathan Buckthorn , but with a voice duly softened to the gentler ears which he was preparing to address , he prefaced his overtures by a denunciation of the `` dead-drunk dog what was a-lying at his foot . '' 
He 's a gempleman -- he 's no slouch , nor no sneak . 
He 's always dress in de bes ' -- he 's always hab plenty for eat and plenty for drink -- der 's no scarcity where he hab de mismanagement ; and nebber you 'll hab needcessity for work , making mud pot and pan , ef he tak ' you into his defections . 
This time , Mingo was rather too quick to suffer harm from a feebler arm than his own . 
His eye detected her design the moment she moved , and he darted aside in season to avoid the blow . 
With equal swiftness he attempted to seize her in his arms the instant after , but , eluding his grasp , she backed towards the entrance of the wigwam , keeping her weapon uplifted , and evidently resolved to use it to the best advantage as soon as an opportunity offered . 
Mingo was not to be baffled in this fashion -- the difficulties in the way of his pursuit seemed now reduced to a single issue -- the husband was hors de combat , and the wife -- she certainly held out only because she was still in his presence . 
To this moment , Mingo never doubted that his personal prowess and pretensions had long since impressed Caloya with the most indulgent and accessible emotions . 
He advanced , talking all the while in the most persuasive accents , but without inducing any relaxation of watchfulness or resolution on the part of the woman . 
He was prepared to rush upon , and wrest the hatchet from her hand -- and farther ideas of brutality were gathering in his mind -- when he was arrested by the presence of a new and annoying object which suddenly showed itself at the entrance and over the shoulder of the Indian woman . 
This was no other than his lawful spouse , Diana . 
But the native impudence of Mingo did not desert him . 
He had one of the fairest stories in the world to tell . 
He accounted for every thing in the most rational and innocent manner -- but in vain . 
Young Gillison had the eye of a hawk when his suspicions were awakened , and he had already heard the testimony of the Indian woman , whom he could not doubt . 
Mingo was degraded from his trust , and a younger negro put over him . 
To compensate the Indian woman for the injuries which she received , was the first care of the planter as he came upon the ground . 
He felt for her with increased interest as she did not complain . 
He himself assisted her from the ground and conducted her into the wigwam . 
When Gillison looked upon him , he saw that he was a dying man . 
By his orders , he was conveyed that night to the settlement , where he died the next day . 
A year after , at the same season , the `` Red Gulley '' was occupied by the whole tribe , and the evening following their arrival , Col. Gillison , sitting within the hall of his family mansion , was surprised by the unexpected appearance of Caloya . 
