On board the Clarissa I made the acquaintance of a Philadelphian born , who was an apprentice to the master of the schooner , of the name of Jack Mallet . 
He was a little older than myself , and we soon became intimate , and , in time , were fated to see many strange things in company . 
Shortly after , we heard of the embargo , and , the Clarissa being laid up , Jack Mallet became one of my school-mates . 
We had , at school , Jack Pugh , Jack Mallet , and Bill Swett , the latter being a lad a little older than myself , and a nephew of the captain 's . 
From that place he intended to sail for Liverpool , where Jack Pugh and myself were to join him , sailing in a ship called the Columbia . 
Among those impressed , was Jack Pugh , who having been bound in London , we did not dare show his papers . 
I never saw poor Jack after this ; though I learn he ran from the market-boat of the guard-ship , made his way back to Wiscasset , where he stayed some time , then shipped , and was lost at sea . 
I now learned that Jack Mallet was on the station , too , whom I had not fallen in with since we parted at Wiscasset , more than three years before . 
A fortnight later I found him , acting as boatswain of the Julia , Sailing-Master Trant , a craft I have every reason to remember as long as I shall live . 
I remember that Jack Mallet laughed at us heartily for the fuss we made with our pop-guns , as he called them , while we were working upon the English batteries , saying we might just as well have spared our powder , as for any good we did . 
He belonged to the Julia , which had a long thirty-two , forward , which they called the `` Old Sow , '' and one smart eighteen aft . 
This I knew was my old ship-mate and school-fellow , Jack Mallet , who was acting as boatswain of the Julia , the schooner commanded by sailing-master James Trant , one of the oddities of the service , and a man with whom the blow often came as soon as the word . 
Mr. Trant now inquired in what direction the Scourge had gone down , and , as soon as I had told him , in the best manner I could , he called out to Jack Mallet -- `` Oh-ho , Mallet -- take four hands , and go in the boat and see what you can do -- take a lantern , and I will show a light on the water 's edge , so you may know me . '' 
Mallet did as ordered , and was off in less than three minutes after we got alongside . 
Mr. Trant , who was much humoured , had no officer in the Julia , unless Mallet could be called one . 
He was an Irishman by birth , but had been in the American navy ever since the revolution , dying a lieutenant , a few years after this war . 
The last I saw of any of our people , was Mallet passing forward , and I sat down on the slide of the thirty-two , myself , sullen as a bear . 
I told Mallet if he would cook a goose , I would tip one over . 
While Jack Mallet was cooking the goose , I went in behind a pile of boards , attended by a soldier to watch me , and , while there , I saw an ivory rule lying on the boards , with fifteen pence alongside of it . 
Jack Mallet asked him whether some of us might not go to work on board a transport , that lay just astern of us , in order to get something better to eat . 
I was well treated , as was Jack Mallet , both of us receiving wine and cake , & c . 
Mallet was at work in the larboard , or weather , mizen chains , ready to lend me a hand . 
The schooner came very close to us , it blowing heavily , and Mallet called out , `` Ned , now is your time . 
This was said loud enough to be heard , though all on deck were attending to the schooner ; and , as for the Canadian , he did not understand English . 
I managed to get the helm hard up , and Mallet jumped inboard . 
We were not permitted to go at large again , in the Regulus , in which the English were very right , as Jack Mallet , in particular , was a man to put his shipmates up to almost any enterprise . 
I had been on the island about a fortnight , when I was told by Jack Mallet that a woman , whom he thought to be my sister , was at the gate . 
Jack knew my whole history , and came to his opinion from a resemblance that he saw between me and the person who had inquired for me . 
He was directed to throw in a few hints about the expediency of her not coming back to look for me , and that it would be better if she never named me . 
Jack Mallet dared not attempt to swim , on account of the rheumatism and cramps , having narrowly escaped drowning at Bermuda , and he could not join in our schemes . 
-LSB- 12 -RSB- Jack Mallet and I , also , set up a shop , on a capital of three dollars . 
I left Mallet and Leonard Lewis my heirs at law if I escaped , and my trustees should I be caught . 
Jack Mallet , and those we left behind , hove the bars straight again , so that the keepers were at a loss to know how we had got off . 
Leonard Lewis and Jack Mallet were the only men we let into the secret . 
They both declined joining us ; Mallet on account of his dread of the water , and Lewis , because certain he could not outlive the fatigue ; but they wished us good luck , and aided us all they could . 
I was one of the eight , as was Jack Mallet and Barnet . 
Jack Mallet , however , took on himself the office of paying my sister a visit , and of telling her where I was to be found . 
This he did contrary to my wishes , and without my knowledge ; though I think he meant to do me a favour . 
Jack Mallet , Barnet and I , shipped , therefore , in another brig called the Venus , that was bound on a sealing voyage , as was thought , in some part of the world where seals were said to be plenty . 
Jack Mallet and the rest tried to persuade me not to go , but I had too much punch and grog in me to listen to reason . 
He heard me in the water , and stood ready to receive me . 
At this time , the master , supercargo , mate , cook , and three of the crew , were down with the fever ; leaving Mallet , Barnet and myself , to take care of the brig. We three brought the vessel up as far as Barnegat , where we procured assistance , and she arrived safe at the quarantine ground . 
As soon as we got pratique , Mallet , Barnet and myself , went up to town to look after our affairs , leaving the brig below . 
Jack Mallet had gone to join his friends in Philadelphia , and Barnet went south , whither I can not say . 
The separation from all my old lakers , too , gave me some trouble , for I never met with one of them after parting from Barnet and Mallet , with the exception of Tom Goldsmith and Jack Reilly . 
Jack we took with us , bag and hammock ; but he would eat nothing on the passage , calling out constantly for drink . 
We gave him liquor , thinking it would do him good ; but he grew worse , and , when we reached Philadelphia , he was sent to the hospital . 
Here , in the course of a few days , he died . 
When we heard of Jack 's death , we proposed among ourselves to give him a sailor 's funeral . 
I was one of the leaders in this arrangement , and felt much interest in it , as Jack had been my messmate ; but , the instant I saw his coffin , a fit of the `` horrors '' came over me , and I actually left the place , running down street towards the river , as if pursued by devils . 
Jack was a fellow to act , and he succeeded in loosening the sail , which did blow out in a way greatly to help us , as I think . 
Either owing to the fore-top-mast staysail , or to some providential sea , the vessel did fall off , however , and presently she righted , coming up with great force , with a heavy roll to windward . 
The brig 's helm being hard up , as soon as she got way , the craft flew round like a top , coming up on the other tack , in spite of us , and throwing her nearly over again . 
She did not come fairly down , however , though I thought she was gone , for an instant . 
At this time the brig minded her helm , and fell off , coming under command . 
By close attention to the helm , we were enabled to prevent the vessel from broaching-to again , and , of course , managed to sail her on her bottom . 
As it was , half an hour , in the sort of sea that was going , would have finished her . 
