In early boyhood , Mr. Carlton was no ordinary dreamer : nay , in the sunshine , as by moonlight , shadows of branching antlers and flint-headed arrows caused many a darkness in his path , as visionary deer bounded away before the visionary hunter . 
At the dawn , therefore , of manhood Mr. Carlton still hoped to meet in the Far West visions embodied although pictured now in softer lights and graver colours . 
These imitations , it is supposed , will give a very pleasing variety to the book , enable the author to utter complimentary things about Mr. Carlton and his lady with greater freedom , and not run so hard upon capital I 's , or , in technical phrase , not exhaust the printer 's sorts . 
With pleasure we thought such a specimen of our citizens could be contemplated by Mr. Brown ; and Mr. Carlton rejoiced that he knew one worthy to live in the land of poetry and dreams : for the colonel was an inhabitant of the West . 
The performance , rapturously encored ex animo by the drivers and some cognate spirits within , but mischievously , it is to be feared , by Mr. Carlton , Col. Wilmar and the gentlemen of the party , was handsomely repeated and then succeeded by other poems and tunes equally affecting , but which we shall not record . 
To be sure people afterwards willwalk when politely requested by a good natured driver , out of pity to the poor brute horses : but -- -LRB- shame on his poetry and romance , -RRB- Mr. Carlton having in subsequent years passed and repassed the mountains twenty-four times , used to remain in the stage and sleepup the ascents ! 
Yet not infrequently would he be musing on the past , and recalling with smiles and tears , that delightful party and that delightful walk on that sweet morning , and all the glorious visions and castle buildings of that entrancing day ! 
`` This , Miss Wilmar , is , I confess , '' continued Clarence , `` not a very tragic conclusion -- but I had rather be here to tell the story as it was , than to have Carlton here to tell it in a book as it might have been ; and yet perhaps the rascals only meant to terrify me as did the wag , on meeting a traveller -- '' `` How was that , Mr. Clarence ? '' 
Yet we reached our lodging place in safety , where , late at night , we severally retired to bed ; and then , if the day had brought Mr. Carlton and his amiable wife no danger , they were destined to find a somewhat curious adventure at night . 
it is yet a long way to Pittsburgh , and I can not get you properly there without telling my own robber story -- a pet adventure ; -- or without we skip -- but I shouldlike to tell the story -- `` Well , Mr. Carlton , we should very much like to hear the story -- but , perhaps , just now we had better -- skip . '' 
This was , indeed , very humbly declined by the Colonel , who left the chair -LRB- calling thither for the time Mr. Clarence , -RRB- to exhibit in a very handsome speech his unworthiness ; yet it was at last unanimously decided in his favour , and mainly on the argument of Mr. Carlton , that the Colonel had doubtless learned cooking in his campaigns and when hunting . 
Then it was ordered that Clarence , Brown and Carlton should in turn set the table -- clean plates , & c , -- or in a word -- be scullions . 
-- Mr. Carlton ! 
In about an hour after the colonel and Mr. Carlton arrived at port , the raft , its caboose in the centre , and our arks in its rear , hove in sight ; and we hurried to the landing with separate conveyances hired for our separate journeys . 
`` And did you not thrill Mr. Carlton ? '' 
`` And couldyou eat , Mr. Carlton ? '' 
I have no doubt Mr. Carlton managed a little awkwardly : but I fear the reader will discover , that in his attempts at doing as Rome does , and so forth , Mr. Carlton departed finally from the native sweetness and simplicity of eastern and fashionable life ; still we seemed to leave rather an unfavourable impression at the cabin , since , just before our setting out in the morning , the landlady told the driver privately -- `` Well ! 
`` Really , Mr. Carlton , unless you tell us whither you are travelling we will proceed no further . '' 
The very Reverend Lord Bishop Baltimore -- `` Mr. Carlton ! 
the doctor 's age would now forbid our occasional hunts together -- and Ned Stanley and Domore -- `` Go on with the doctor 's house , Mr. Carlton . '' 
Indeed , at last , Mrs. Sylvan herself declared to Mr. Carlton , that `` there was no use in steps , any way , as the children were mighty spry , and the grown folks had got used to it . '' 
I consider the price Mr. Carlton has already paid you to be very fair , and that you are bound to go on with him to Glenville -- but here -- -LRB- action to word -RRB- -- here I 'll pay you a dollar , rather than this lady should not see her mother to-night . '' 
-- Mr. Carlton ! '' 
However , Mr. Carlton himself got so far rubbed downin time as to need considerable rubbing upafterwards ; for he at last , in the Purchase , earned the appellation of a -- `` most powerful clever feller , what could lay down ahind an ole-log and hide raw bakin like the best on 'em -- as naturally , too , as if brung up to it . '' 
And yet many years after , in a different part of the world , did Mr. Carlton 's own single family expand and spread , and without any violent effort whatever , their importance through a mansion containing fourteen apartments , with cellars , and garrets , and kitchens and all -- and still fret for the want of room ! 
`` But what led to the formation of your colony , Mr. Carlton ? 
With this amiable and interesting creature , -LSB- 3 -RSB- Mr. Carlton , who somehow or other always had a taste for sweet and beautiful faces , became acquainted -- `` Oh ! 
Mr. Carlton ! 
The left side and whole corner was the library , or as usually styled -- Carlton 's study . 
Again , Carlton 's study had in it a species of dresser-closet , invented and constructed by the author himself . 
Not an idol escaped , save a little punch goblet belonging to the Carlton ancestory , and at the time considerably more than a century old ! 
On emergencies , although Dick was educated as a wheel-horse , he could act in the lead , and well understood the difference between the line jerked and the line pulled -- indeed , better , I must confess , than Mr. Carlton himself , who often managed the line wrong , to the great jeopardy of his load ; only Dick , out of generosity , would usually go the way the driver meant , but for which in ignorance , he had given the improper signal . 
True , I make-believe , like little girls , playing baby house ; I say to myself , `` Now Carlton , ` spose that old log away off there was a bear ? 
No wonder , that , after many failures , even in hitting a tree , Mr. Carlton could be seen in his glory at last , standing within lines of beholders right and left , and at forty-five yards off-hand planting bullet after bullet into the same augur hole ! 
Carlton ; you ca n'twin here ; and if you could , what does the president of a temperance society want with a barrel of whiskey ? '' 
At a glance towards his `` toot en sembell , '' Mr. Carlton too , allowed he had met his match -- and , perhaps even with his own gun . 
There he is dropping his bead -- ay , his eyes both wide awake , and he raises the piece till that bead dims on the lower point of his diamond -- a flash -- and from the tree -- `` centre ! '' 
He was soon again ready , and at his second flash , came the cry -- `` upper edge , fust hole ! '' 
His third shot , brought from the tree -- `` lee-e-tle tor ` ds rite corner of dimind -- jeest grazed centre ! '' 
`` Carlton , '' maliciously whispered Glenville , `` the stingo is safe -- anti-temperance beats ! '' 
-- and then write -- `` Mr. Carlton !! 
At the close of the first day , while Glenville and Carlton were `` settin the toone for them , '' a heavy shower began suddenly to fall ; and as we clerks could not get out to secure our saddles they became well soaked . 
And in this laudable work I had at last succeeded , and was sinking away into dryer dreams , when I was suddenly aroused to my last and severest `` trial by water '' by a rude shake from Glenville , who also thus addressed me : -- `` Carlton ! 
But there limped Mr. Carlton , his two limbs glued , somewhere about the junction of ancle and foot , in two remorseless leathers ; a very `` odd fellow , '' indeed , hobbling with four feet , two of his own treading downward , and two of the boots treading sideways -- and all with vain hopes of stretching , and thus coaxing further on or off the half-tanned conveniences ! 
and that he would have done if both of Mr. Carlton 's legs had been in the same boot , instead of one leg per boot ! 
`` Yes -- but , Mr. Carlton , what has this deliverance to do with the Pope or the Devil ? '' 
However , after the second edition of wet towels , wet table-cloths , and other dampers , we all went to church -- or , by courtesy , the dissenters ' conventicle -- where seats and floor were also dampish : yet none of these little affairs killed us then , and even now , most of the Glenvillians live and talk , occasionally , of `` Carlton 's Wet Time . '' 
`` Mr. Ashford , '' said Glenville , one day I was present , `` I wish you would let Carlton here understand your idea about the shape of the earth ; he 's just from college and do n't think as you do . '' 
`` Well , Johnny , my buck , I 'm willing to talk with Mr. Carlton , or any larn 'd man ; and I 've no idee this here world of ourn is round . 
Them 's my sentiments , Mr. Carlton . '' 
`` Well , I 'm powerful glad to see , Mr. Carlton , you aint proud for all your high larnin -- and so I 'll jist tell you how I kim to find it out . 
Yet at the very next log-rolling , he proclaimed both Glenville and Carlton to be converts to his `` idee , '' adding in the latter gentleman 's praise , `` he wa n't nere so stuck up a feller as folks said . '' 
Glenville and Carlton closed the rear . 
Once Dick had been loaned to the Bishop 's wife ; and on our return from church -- all persuasives from the lady 's heel and Mr. Carlton 's toe -- all stripes from beech rods and leather whip -- all cherrups and get-ups and even old-rascal 's - you -- all snapping of bridle reins to bring to his recollection Conestogo whip-crackings -- all , all were in vain ! 
Mr. Carlton -- '' Granted , my dear Mr. Graves : but are we back-woods ' people to have nofun ? 
As for Mr. Carlton , he stuck mainly to pot-pie , the marbled-potatoes , the custard and the maple molasses ; which last , by the way , is indeed as superior to all far east and down east molasses and syrups as cheese is to chalk . 
As for myself , this winter , I made the closet for Carlton 's study , and the one in Bishop Hilsbury 's cabin ; also two skuttles for the loom , one too light however , the other , too heavy : and I aided in putting in and taking out `` a piece , '' becoming thus adept in the mysteries of woof and warp , of hanks , reels and cuts . 
we men rose before sun-up ; and then uncle John hauled out the relics of yesterday 's fire -- coals plenty and lively -- the unconsumed centre of the back-log and chunks of foresticks ; while Glenville and Carlton issued forth to select a new back-log . 
Meanwhile uncle John carried in brush enough to make a Jersey load of oven faggots ; and the girl , baskets full of all sized chips , from the Tommyrobison kind down to the Carlton sort ; and so when the upper back-log and forestick had been arranged , there were present all the kindling and burning materials . 
Our young woman now , in here , keeps every thing in the shape of poker , and scraper , and tong , single or double , out of my way ; and , when the grate or stove needs a little tussling , in comes shewith some iron article or other : but always on going out takes the article with her -- `` for fear Mr. Carlton will spile her fire !! '' 
Usually on the Sabbath we attended our own meeting in the Welden Settlement ; but bad roads and some other accidents often kept us at home ; when our three families assembled at Uncle John 's , where he read the Scriptures , and made or read a prayer , with occasional help from Uncle Tommy , while Glenville and Carlton conducted the choir and read sermons and tracts . 
-LRB- Sorry are we to record , but Mr. Carlton here was guilty of sniggering ; and even Uncle John , in spite of his official dignity , did look as if he wouldlaugh when meeting was out . 
John was then attacked on the score of pride and aristocracy ; and , as usual , all the sins of his family were laid at Glenville 's door , especially his sisters ' ruffles -- our metal buttons -- the carpet wall ; and above all , Carlton 's irreverent sniggering in meeting . 
It gained him , however , a character , and no one would have become so popular in the New Purchase , -LSB- 24 -RSB- but for mistaken opinions in the neighbours about `` Mr. Carlton 's bigbuggery and stuckupness . '' 
`` But , Mr. Carlton , we might transmit something offensive to a gentleman 's garments . '' 
he will certainly some time or other return your favour . 
Had John been as great a nincompoop as Jerry , he could just as readily have spoken nonsense off hand ; but he knew too much to speak sense without preparation : and so Mr. Carlton had prepared the maiden speech . 
The great house of Glenville and Carlton paid for all things in -- leather . 
Hername not before , but after this arrival , was Elizabeth Carlton : and she bounced in among us , after all , by surprise , and about two o'clock one morning . 
The preacher 's manner so far won on our sullen congregation , that Mr. Forster and two others took seats in a row on their end of the log ; while two leaned themselves against the saw-frame , and one against an adjoining post : Brother Shrub and Mister Carlton sat among the saints at the pulpit-end of the log , like good folks and penitents in churches with altars . 
Hence , Mr. Redwhite and Mr. Carlton soon became `` powerful thick '' -- i. e. very intimate friends . 
-- -LRB- supposing oneis this far -RRB- -- perhaps you have discovered that the writer is disposed to laugh as well as cry : not maliciously -- but in a spirit of -- of -- `` Good nature , Mr. Carlton ? '' 
Yet , here is an extract from the Doctor 's paper , so that it can be better judged whether my refusal was altogether owing to obstinacy : -- `` -- -- and then , as the shaking ague is altogether tractable , his dumb ague must be immediately changed into the other . 
Carry then your patient into the passage between the two cabins , or into the open air , and strip off all his clothes that he may lie naked in the cold air and upon a bare sacking -- and then and there pour over and upon him successive buckets of cold spring water , and continue until he has a decided and pretty powerful smart chance of a shake . '' 
It was found necescessary to connect a store with the tannery ; and hence , after due deliberation , it was decided that Mr. Carlton should now remove to Woodville and open the store ; -- the ex-legislator , J. Glenville , to remain and conduct the leather department with old Dick , and also buy up produce for the Orleans market , and all along shore there . 
Hence , about bed time , she considerately said -- `` I want to ` commodate near about as well as we can fix it , and so him -- -LRB- pointing to Mr. Carlton -RRB- -- and youma'am -- -LRB- speaking to Aunt Kitty -RRB- -- kin have the room up loft thare ; and them young folks -- -LRB- Mrs. Carlon , Emily C. and the driver -RRB- -- kin have this room down here all alone to 'em selves ! '' 
And if a niceyoung gentleman engaged to be married to a pretty delicate lily-flower of loveliness , is meditating `` to flit '' to a bran new settlement , let him know that out there rough men , with rare exceptions , regard wives as squaws , and as they often expressed their views to Mr. Carlton , `` have no idee of sich weak , feminy , wimmin bodies as warnt brung up to sling a dinner-pot -- kill a varmint -- and make leather brichises ! '' 
`` Yes , indeed , Mr. Carlton . '' 
Hence , some weeks after , as I was passing his door , on my way to a squirrel hunt , with a party of friends , Mr. Jimmey , hurrying out with a slate in his hand , begged me to stop a moment , and thus addressed me : -- `` Well , Mr. Carlton , this algebra is a most powerful thing -- aint it ? '' 
Our honourable board of trustees at last met ; and after a real attempt by some , and a pretended one by others , to elect one and another out of the three dozen candidates , the Reverend Charles Clarence , A.M. , was chosen our principal and professor of languages ; and that to the chagrin of Mr. Rapid and other disappointed persons , who all from that moment united in determined and active hostility towards the college , Mr. Clarence , Dr. Sylvan , Mr. Carlton , and , in short , towards `` every puss proud aristocrat big-bug , and darn 'd blasted Yankee in the New Purchase . '' 
And yet by this simplemachinery , and well worked , in about two weeks our new lights had converted every man , woman , and child in Woodville , except Dr. Sylvan , Mr. Carlton , and some other half dozen hardened sinners that would `` stout it out any how ! '' 
`` I was present , '' said Mr. Cutswell , laying down his fiddle and bow upon our piano , -- `` some few evenings since , after the discharge of my legal duties at the court house -- -LRB- attitude commencing for taking snuff , -RRB- -- present , Mr. Carlton , in the prayer-room of our chapel , a large p111-362 con-course of members being congregated for the customary weekly devotions . '' 
In the course of his prayer this evening , he contrived to administer to myself in particular ; -- -LRB- lid closing -RRB- -- but also to you , Mr. Carlton and all other gentlemen that handle the bow , -- -LRB- box `` being '' returned -RRB- -- the following very severe and appropriate admonition , and in the exact words I now quote : `` ` Oh ! 
And , although he will rap our knuckles for smiling at a few smileable things in him , Mr. Allheart will not be displeased to see that Mr. Carlton , the author , remembers his friend , as Mr. Carlton the storekeeper and tanner , always said he would , when we blew his bellows for him or fired rifles together . 
And who and what was he ? 
He was by birth a Virginian , by trade a blacksmith , by nature a gentleman , and by grace a Christian ; if more need be said , he was a genius . 
`` Well , Mr. Carlton , I 'll tell you , and then you wont wonder . 
She pass 'd you know in a instant , almost afore I could throw up the muzzle ; but , Mr. Carlton , if I had n't a had both eyes open or no presence of mind , she 'd a been killed to a dead certainty ! 
For certain was it , that if Mr. Carlton whose face was just as lamb-like as Mr. Seymour 's , shaved without wincing , certain was it , Uncle John , long before my complete abrasion , would be so in the suds that , for consistency 's sake , he must go through the whole scrape before he would get out it . 
Such a `` Carlton -- you -- rascal -- you ! 
But there was our host and all his family ; and the father kept on at very judicious intervals with praise of that razor , thus : -- `` Powerful razor that , Mr. Carlton ! 
Grandaddy used to say he 'd shaved with it when he was young , Mr. Seymour ! 
and his face was near on about as saft as yourn I allow . 
Mr. Carlton , where 's the moral of this story ? '' 
`` Yes , sir , but most agreeably -- '' `` In what , Mr. Carlton ? '' 
`` Mr. Carlton -- allow -- Mr. Seymour -- ai n't he ? '' 
But then , the old gentleman turned it so adroitly , thus : `` Mr. Carlton , '' -- said he -- `` whenever I think of that trick you served me about the razor I ca n't help laughing . '' 
`` And didthey , Mr. Carlton , come without their indispensables ? '' 
-- but , Mr. Carlton , only think of the mud . '' 
Mr. Carlton ! 
And now , dear reader , it may be easy to ford Slippery River in this book , and maybe Mr. C. has contrived to seem courageous like -- but that morning , at first sight of that ugly water , he did secretly wish it had been bridged , and feel -- that is -- wished all safe over ; and possibly had he been favoured with a few moments ' more reflection , he might have been rather scared -- yet just then , souse went Mr. B. up to his saddle-skirts , seeming a man on a saddle with a tail streaming out horizontally , and then came his voice thus : -- `` Come on , Carlton ! 
Mr. Carlton had I ? '' 
Mr. Carlton '' -- said Mr. B. -- `` well it may be so ; but without flattery , you brought the girls over about as well as I could have done it myself -- why , you were as cool as a woodsman . '' 
Mr. Blank being an officer of the general government , and having important matters demanding his immediate attention , now took me aside , and began as follows : -- `` Mr. Carlton , do you want to try a little more backwood 's life ? '' 
Carlton ! 
Carlton ! 
During the week spent at Mr. Blank 's his lady had once said to me , -- `` Mr. Carlton , you will not sleep any at Dr. Charille 's . '' 
`` His snoring will keep you awake . '' 
But when lately he visited here , he insisting on sleeping alone in the passage , which we not permitting , when his snoring began , sure enough , as he himself pleasantly predicted , nobody else could sleep . '' 
Mr. Carlton ? 
-- `` He 's a coming , coming , coming ! '' 
Now as this was to be a big meeting of the biggest size , and all the crackpreachers within a circle of three hundred miles were to be present , and also a celebrated African exhorter from Kentucky ; and as much was said about `` these heavendirected , and heaven-blessed , and heaven-approved campings ; '' and as I , by a constant refusal to attend heretofore , had become a suspected character , it being often said , -- `` yes , -- Carlton 's a honest sort of man , but why do n't he go out to camp and git religion ? '' 
-- Mr. Carlton !! '' 
About this time the Superintendent in a very loud voice cried out , -- `` Let him alone , brothers ! 
let him alone sisters ! 
`` Yes , Carlton , I am really serious . '' 
But Carlton , the Squire has been cutting round there the last six months , and -- '' `` No odds -- suppose you try ? '' 
`` Carlton ! 
`` There , Carlton ! 
Carlton ! 
This was adopted , Mr. Carlton crying out in the negative ; and so , likewise , would have done Dr. Sylvan ; but unfortunatelyjust at the time of our meeting , the Doctor was forcedto go and mix medicines and then to visit a patient in a remote part of the county ! 
As for Carlton , he couldnot `` tend store ; '' and so leaving his boys to sell what they could , and devour the remnant of the raisins and candy , away went our dignified author , and soon contrived to be elected by the boys Grand Master of Ceremonies in general , and Stage Fixings in particular ! 
Carlton , the very thing ! '' 
ha ! 
As to Mr. Carlton , in consideration of his superintendance and his musical penchant , he was honoured with a windsor chair in the orchestra , and adjacent to the fiddles and triangles ! 
And so it was : and neither Mr. Carlton nor any other man who values reputation ought to play with Dan Scrape . 
In the latter case the bell owed its efficiency to Mr. Carlton , as Dan was always more ready to begin than to finish a tune . 
Had Mr. Carlton been on the bow-side , he must have poked Dan with a stick , or met something tragical ; but like the fox in æsop , he had learned from the hits of others . 
`` Thank you , Mr. Carlton . 
He had credit enough to procure some decent clothes and necessary books ; but as five dollars , cash , and in advance , were to be paid to our Treasurer , Henry was forced to look for a few lucrative jobs ; and hence , he one morning presented himself at my store and commenced : `` Well , Mr. Carlton , I 've got books and clothes ; but I 've no silver to pay the session-bill -- kin you give a feller no job what will bring silver ? '' 
Clarence , however , would laugh a little : but , then , for this , Carlton was usually to blame . 
Great wisdom , however , and art and tact , and gentlemanly feeling , are requisite for the cut-up ; and specially in knowing where and when to cease : and , of all men , to do the thing right , Harwood , Clarence , Glenville , and Carlton were just `` the dandy ! '' 
Soon , then , was it bruited through Woodville , that Carlton was making up a party for the cave ; when further invitation was useless , our main art now being to keep out some , whose `` room was better than their company . '' 
Unexpectedly , one fine morning , the rising sun shedding horizontals of light and shade over our village , were revealed one dozen horses at Carlton 's rack , and about an equal number in other places , accoutred and accoutring -- -LRB- passively -RRB- ; -- and , therefore , shortly after `` sun up '' where we could see him , a report was spread that Carlton 's party was going to the cave to-day . 
Domore ledthe rear ; then came the braves ; then backed in Professor Harwood , then Mr. Carlton , his wife following beforehim , and then Principal Clarence , with wife ditto : and then -- `` What then ? 
The Faculty and Mr. Carlton . 
Mr. Carlton , -- was it the bear ? '' 
For instance , Mr. Carlton believed that Miss Elizabeth Carlton , now nearly four years old , if she didspell , ought to do it by sounds of the letters : Aunt Kitty insisted it ought to be in the march of mind way -- by pictures of things . 
-- Mr. Carlton not caring whether she spelled or not , provided she had plenty of air and sunshine , and played all the time with a kitten or a doll . 
But when he obstinately persisted that the little one could not ever learn to spellby pictures , and must do it by the sounds of separate letters , away flounced Aunt Kitty after a caricature book ; and then flouncing back she said with a voice of triumph : `` There , Mr. Carlton , spell her any where . '' 
Mr. Carlton -- now sir ! '' 
Mr. Carlton -- now sir ! '' 
`` Carlton , ma'am , I live in Woodville -- '' `` Well -- that 's what I suspish ` nd . 
Hence , the suggestion meeting Dr. Sylvan 's approbation , the framing of said petition was committed to Mr. Carlton ; when in a few days the following ablepaper -- -LRB- hem -RRB- -- was submitted , corrected , approved , and adopted by our friends : `` To the Honorable the Representatives of -- in General Assembly convened at Timberopolis , this petition of the People of Woodville and the New Purchase generally , is respectfully submitted : -- `` First , that the existing Faculty of ourCollege be requested to resign before the election of a President , that all denominations may have a fair and equal chance for places : `` Secondly , that , there being nine religious sects in our state , and three of philosophers , viz : -- the Deistical , the Atheistical , and the Fanny-wright-dale-owen-istical , -- three members of Faculty be annually elected out of each and every of these twelve sects and bodies -- each set of three to serve one month , till the year ends , and then to recommence with other sets of three , and so on till the end of time . 
`` Did youbelieve all that , Mr. Carlton ? '' 
Hence , after five minutes cogitation , I hurried down after Clarence and Harwood -- but , mark it , reader , I was metby those learned gentlemen , hastening up to Carlton 's store , to consult on the same subject ! 
-- Carlton , wo n't you go ? '' 
`` Ready now , Carlton ? '' 
-- no ! 
And all this was by and with the consent and advice , and under the superintendence , and at the expense mainly , of Clarence and Harwood , aided by Sylvan and Carlton . 
That Mr. Carlton , Sen ` r , and James Sylvan , Jun ` r , be the escort from the river : 2 . 
`` -- -- when , then , do we set off , Mr. Carlton ? '' 
`` But , our College -- '' `` Mr. Carlton , plagueme not about the college -- I shall have plenty of that when I get to Woodville . '' 
In vain chastised he his own zeal , as too zealous -- in vain apologised for the President 's want of firmness and lack of interest in Woodville matters -- it did still occur that the good Doctor should have counted the cost , and been absorbedin the `` great enterprise for which he had willingly and joyfully sacrificedhimself ? '' 
And then sneaked in remembrances of conversations with certain `` Brethren , '' intimately acquainted with the President 's remarkable life and history -- conversations once attributed to envy , and jealousy , and odium theologicum -- and yet so cognate to the late behaviour -- that battle the suspicion as he would , it did seem , as they said , `` we should soon find out and be bitterly disappointed with Dr. Bloduplex -- that he was no safe confidant -- and if we slighted warning , we should in the end find a person that could blow hot and cold with the same breath . '' 
`` That was indiscreet , Mr. Carlton . '' 
`` What did he tell you ? '' 
and so full to overflowing was his remarkable memory , that he recollected `` what Mr. Carlton should have told him ! '' 
-- but which Mr. Carlton never did tell him ! 
I see his handkerchief waving on his whip ! 
The next moment Harwood was at my store ; and out of breath began : `` I say , Carlton ! 
`` Mr. Carlton ! 
`` No reflections -- Mr. Carlton . 
-- What -- `` Well , but Mr. Carlton , did not the higher ecclesiastical court take up the case against Bloduplex on Fama Clamosa ? 
-- did not the officers and members of his own parish lay the matter before a bench of Bishops ? '' 
`` Mr. Carlton , what did the President with the Students that went with him ? '' 
-- `` Mr. Carlton ! 
-- Mr. Carlton !! 
-- Mr. Carlton !!! '' 
Before resuming literary topics , we must say a word of what happened some weeks ago to the firm of Glenville and Carlton : and which dissolved our partnership , and sent Glenville to the Farther West , and Carlton -- alas ! 
My partner , in early days , had `` put his name to paper ; '' a security , as he supposed , but making himself liable as a partner . 
Now , folks intimately connected with others , rarely take that metaphorical plunge , without ducking their associates : hence , down went Mr. Carlton into the deep waters , from which emerging for a sniff of air , he saw most of his external good things swept away by the torrent ! 
Mr. Carlton 's work , therefore , for the six months under consideration , was that most vexatious and profitless kind of twisting called winding-up . 
`` Isthat true , Mr. Carlton !? '' 
Beside , for ever to prevent any evil surmises in regard to Professor Clarence , our Board , -LRB- and at the instance of Mr. Carlton , -RRB- not only unanimously voted the full and entire acquittal of Clarence , but each and every one of them did personally and individually over and above the official signatures , add his own name to my friend 's honourable and laudatory dismissal ! 
