Edward Barrymore was in his twenty-second year , and had just finished his education at Trinity College , when he resolved to visit this interesting coast , and examine with his own eyes , those immense structures , of which he had heard so much , and which , both as a man of science and of taste , he was so well calculated to enjoy . 
It was in the afternoon of a very fine day , in the month of May 1797 , when he arrived at the promontory of Ballygally . 
He alighted and sent forward his servant with the horses to the next town , which was about three miles distant , intending after he had explored the cliffs , to follow along the beach on foot . 
He descended the crags , and got to the beach , when turning round a huge rock , he perceived an elderly gentleman , with a young lady , advancing along a sandy portion of the shore towards him . 
Not wishing to be seen , and , at the same time , struck with the appearance of the lady , he concealed himself in such a manner , that he had a fair view of them , without being himself noticed . 
They advanced slowly until they came to the bottom of the rock where he was stationed , when all at once they disappeared ; but not until they were so near , that he heard the lady utter the following exclamation : `` Oh father , what miseries are in store for thousands ! '' 
and , immediately he was startled with a sound , as if part of the cliff on which he reclined had broken off . 
Full of astonishment , he got down to the bottom of the rock , but could perceive no traces of the persons , who had just the moment before excited so much of his attention . 
Their sudden disappearance was to him quite unaccountable , unless he should suppose , that they had found admission into some cavity within the rock . 
He viewed it at every accessible point , and minutely examined every fracture and crevice , in the hope of discovering some concealed entrance , but in vain . 
He imagined , however , that he heard , as from a distance , the sounds of footsteps and voices ; but they soon died away , and left nothing audible , but the screaming of the sea-fowl , and the dashing of the waves upon the shore . 
Edward , however , determined to remain near the spot until night , in hopes that something might take place that would lead to an explanation of the mystery . 
For this purpose , he chose a recess on a level with the beach , under an over-arching ledge of the precipice , by which he conceived the fair vision , and her companion , if they were really mortal , must return , as he knew that there was no passing by the way he came , unless by clambering up the rocks , a task which would be almost impracticable for the lady . 
When Edward recovered , he found himself in bed , in a small apartment belonging to a respectable farm house . 
he breathes , '' were the first sounds heard by Edward , on his recovery . 
He lifted his head to look at his preservers , and to thank them , but his voice faultered , and he could only press the hand of the young lady , in token of gratitude . 
A lovely blush suffused her countenance , but she spoke not ; while her father exhorted Edward to remain silent , as perhaps exertion , in his present exhausted state , might be attended with bad consequences . 
Edward obeyed , for his mind was so distracted with the hurry and variety of his reflections , and the strangeness and intensity of his emotions , that he knew not what remarks to make , or if he knew them , he could not find suitable expressions to convey them . 
He was glad , therefore , to conceal his confusion in silence . 
He was not long in this confused state of agitation , approaching almost to delirium , until a doctor , for whom the old gentleman had sent immediately on getting him ashore , arrived from Larne , the adjoining town . 
The old gentleman and his daughter , then wished Edward a good night , and retired . 
Left to himself , he gave a range to his imagination , on the strange occurrences of the day . 
His fair attendant still seemed to bend over him , as she did when he first opened his eyes from his trance ; and the fervour of her joyful exclamation , at his recovery , still seemed to reverberate in his ears . 
His exhaustion , however , and the influence of the medicine he had taken , soon interfered with these waking dreams , and he fell into a refreshing sleep , which continued till midnight . 
When he awoke he found that he had been attended by two decent-looking elderly people , a man and woman , who appeared to have been reading a newspaper . 
Not perceiving when he awoke , they continued the conversation which had been excited by the newspaper . 
Here Edward not wishing longer to act the mean character of a listener , especially to such discourse , made a noise , as if he had just awoke from sleep . 
Edward assured her that he was delighted with her communications , and begged to know whether Mr. O'Halloran lived far off , and whether he might not have an opportunity of thanking him the next day in person , for the important service he had rendered him ? 
`` And the young lady , '' said Edward , `` does she live with him ? 
They both left the room , and Edward had just begun a train of reflections on the strange incidents of the preceding day , when the door gently opened , and a pretty modest-looking peasant girl , apparently about seventeen years of age , entered the apartment without noise . 
As Edward lay quiet , treading on tip-toe , she slowly approached the bed in order to ascertain if he were asleep . 
Presuming that he was , for he purposely feigned to be so , she was about retiring in the same slow and noiseless manner , when wishing to detain her , that he might get some more information concerning O'Halloran and his lovely grand-daughter , he asked , in a tone as if he had just awoke , if any one was there ? 
This impatience in Peggy , arose from the manner in which Edward had almost unconsciously caught her hand , and pressed it rather warmly , as he listened to her account of Ellen 's parentage . 
Even Edward felt that her withdrawing had relieved him from an impending danger . 
For whether it was occasioned by the sweetness of her looks , or the interest he took in her communications , he felt , as he pressed her hand , a warmer tide of blood than usual , flowing from his heart , which was not cooled for some minutes after her leaving the room , when the idea of the fair Ellen , excited a flow of affections , more congenial to his principles , and more agreeable to his feelings , because more capable of being approved of by his reason . 
The various agitations of his mind , together with the still fatigued state of his body , however , soon again found relief in sleep , from which he did not awake until the arrival of the doctor , accompanied by O'Halloran and his granddaughter in the morning . 
O'Halloran was desirous that he should be conveyed to the castle until his recovery ; which , after the adjusting of some preliminaries , such as apologies and expressions of gratitude on the part of Edward , and assurances that he considered it nothing but his duty , on the part of his deliverer , was at last effected . 
The doctor then having given some directions for his management , took his leave , carrying a letter to Tom Mullins , Edward 's servant , whom it was expected he should find at the Antrim Arms , in the town of Larne . 
In this letter he informed Tom of the accident he had met with , and instructed him to continue at the inn until further orders , without communicating to any one his master 's real name or quality , as he had important reasons for wishing to remain unknown in this part of the country for some time . 
Edward Barrymore , was of a very conspicuous family , distinguished alike for its rank , wealth , and devoted attachment to those political principles , which had set the family of Brunswick upon the British throne . 
Those sentiments , while they made the family of Barrymore high in favour with the ruling powers , caused them to be looked upon as no better than tories , by those protestants , whose views with respect to their catholic fellow-subjects were more liberal . 
At the period at which our history commences , Edward 's paternal uncle , the earl of Barrymore , was a member of the Irish privy council ; and , his father , who was a member of the house of commons , had distinguished himself by his strenuous opposition to some measures , which had recently been introduced into parliament for the relief of the catholics . 
In consequence of these circumstances , Edward supposed , that if he made himself known , he should be no welcome guest in the house of O'Halloran , whose political principles , he had reason to believe , were in direct opposition to those of his family ; and , as he could not venture to incur the dislike of the lovely Ellen , or her venerable grandfather who had saved his life , he determined on concealment . 
Onthe fourth evening after his arrival at O'Halloran Castle , our hero -LRB- for the reader will , by this time , have perceived that Edward Barrymore is that important personage -RRB- being considerably recovered , took a walk in company with his host and Ellen , along the beach , in order once more to view the spot that had likely to have been so fatal to him . 
Struck with the beauty and romance of the scene , Edward paused . 
`` This , indeed , Mr. O'Halloran , '' exclaimed he , `` is a delightful place . '' 
`` Yes , Mr. Middleton , '' -LRB- which was the name Edward had assumed , being that of his maternal relations -RRB- `` our country is , indeed , a pleasant one . 
`` My friend , '' replied Edward , `` I will not , I can not , altogether differ with you , in those sentiments ; for , I believe that the authorities of the country , have not done as much as they could to promote its prosperity . 
Edward had scarcely finished this remark , when the attention of the party was drawn to a man of peculiar appearance , who advanced slowly towards them . 
On coming forward , he took off a gray cap , made of rabbits ' skins , which had covered a head the hair of which was as white as snow , and making a respectful bow , asked God to bless them , and was passing on , when Edward , who wished to avoid renewing the political conversation , and whose curiosity was really excited by the appearance of the stranger , thanked him for his civility , adding , `` My good sir , perhaps you are like myself , a stranger in this part of the country , and not having the good fortune to meet such friends as I have met with , may require some assistance from those who may be willing to afford it . '' 
Edward was in the act of putting up his money , when a coarse unhesitating voice called out briskly , `` Giff auld Saunders dinna tak ' yere money , my bonny young gentleman , ye need na ' be at the pains to pit it up ; Peg Dornan winna refuse it . '' 
Edward turned round , and beheld a stout weather-beaten woman , in the habit of a beggar , apparently between forty and fifty years of age . 
Edward hesitated ; but in the most unabashed manner , she continued -- `` Giff ye dinna like to gie ` t , I 'll no ' be affronted ; but his honour there can tell you I 'll no ' drink it . '' 
Edward now saw something so amusingly independent about Peg , that he immediately handed her the money , enjoining her not to make a bad use of it . 
She made another courtesy , and told him , she would buy herself a new bonnet , and wear it on Sundays , for his sake , though he might never see her again . 
She then stalked away , with such a solidity of step , and length of stride , as gave Edward the idea of a female Hercules . 
Old Saunders , as he was called in the neighbourhood of O'Halloran Castle , appeared to Edward to be about sixty years of age . 
His beard was of a flaxen white , and about an inch in length . 
His eyes were of a dark blue colour , possessing a greater degree of liveliness than might have been expected from his advanced age . 
His height in the prime of life , might have been nearly six feet , but as he now bent forward very much when he walked , it did not seem more than about five feet eight inches . 
His gait , bent as he was , was evidently firmer and indicated more strength than could have been expected from his age . 
He wore a dark brown great coat , which looked as if it had done the service of half a century . 
His cap of rabbit skins we have already noticed . 
His waistcoat had nothing peculiar , except its being made in the old fashion , with the pockets inserted into large lappets , that hung half way down his thighs . 
His breeches were of dark velvet , but were now pretty much party-coloured , in the same manner , and from the same cause , as the waistcoat . 
When he left our party , as before stated , to an inquiry of Edward , O'Halloran replied , that the old man 's habitation was in the side of a hill , at the upper extremity of the glen , and only a short distance off . 
He then suddenly told Ellen that he must be absent for a few hours , and desiring that a light and some refreshments should be left in his library to await his return , he bade Edward good night , and hastily withdrew . 
On finding himself alone , with a lovely young woman , of whose influence over his heart , Edward was , by this time , fully aware , he felt embarrassed ; and although he had abundance to say , he found himself utterly destitute of expression . 
At length he made an effort , and approaching Ellen , remarked -- `` It is a remarkable circumstance , Miss O'Halloran , that when the emotions of the heart are most acute , the capability of expressing them , is the most difficult . '' 
`` And , therefore , '' resumed Edward , `` not at all times to be commanded . 
Edward was about thanking her for her kind sentiments , and vowing never to forfeit them , by any voluntary thought , word , or action of his life , when he was prevented by a servant entering with the tea equipage . 
On the part of Edward this embarrassment only occasioned a few blunders , which he got over pretty well , as there was no one present who laughed at them ; but on the part of Ellen , the detected glances , and little slips of the tongue , occasioned blushes , which were only rendered more apparently lovely and interesting , by her attempts to conceal them . 
Although at that moment , perhaps , Edward would have preferred an arrangement which would have given him her company alone , he acceded to the proposal . 
He was rejoiced at the opportunity of seeing the only individual then living of that venerable race , whose profession had once been so respectable in Ireland ; and he seized the occasion to enlarge on a subject dear to the heart of Ellen , and gratifying to his own , the praise of the bards of their native country . 
He was observing that no country had ever possessed a race of men who so much excelled in all the tenderness and pathos of music , or who had produced strains of sentiment so much calculated to affect the heart , when the old , blind musician appeared , led by a boy whom he kept to attend him . 
After an introduction to Edward , in which the usual Irish salutation of `` God bless you '' was not forgotten by the venerable minstrel , he adjusted himself to his harp , and began the beautifully sweet air of the `` Blackbird . '' 
When he had done , he asked Ellen if she had committed to memory the verses to that air , which he left with her on his last visit . 
On her replying that she had fulfilled his desire in this instance , he expressed a wish that she should sing them , while he accompanied her voice on the harp . 
She , at first , hesitated , but on Edward joining in the request , she complied ; and with a voice sweet as a seraph 's , at least so it sounded in her lover 's ears , she sung as follows : `` Ah ! 
`` It is -- it is absolutely impossible , '' thought Edward . 
Then starting suddenly , as if he had just awoke from a trance , `` Miss O'Halloran ! 
Mr. O'Neil , '' said he , scarcely knowing what he said , `` I beg pardon for not expressing my admiration sooner of your performance . 
`` I believe you will allow me the right to settle this controversy , '' said Edward , willing to relieve Ellen from the embarrassment into which the harper 's last observation had thrown her . 
Edward made a pause . 
She had scarcely seated herself to the harp , when a servant entered with the following note , which he delivered to Edward . 
Edward immediately obeyed the summons , telling Ellen that he had occasion to go but a short distance , and did not expect to be long absent . 
On arriving at the place mentioned he found the Recluse true to his appointment . 
`` Follow me , '' said he to Edward ; and he led the way up the glen until they came to a place altogether overgrown with trees , shrubs , and brambles , and various other kinds of undergrowth . 
But before coming to this cascade , Edward and his conductor reached the mouth of a cavern which the latter said was the entrance of his abode . 
When they entered a few yards , they were stopped by what Edward supposed to be the solid rock at the farthest extent of the cavern ; but the recluse taking a key from his pocket , soon opened a door which the darkness had prevented him from seeing . 
They now entered a large clean apartment with a well baked earthern floor , at one side of which blazed a large turf fire . 
`` Why really '' replied Edward , `` you have a more comfortable dwelling beneath the surface of the earth than many I have seen above it . '' 
He then approached what Edward supposed to be the large bureau , and touching a concealed spring in one side of it , it flew open and displayed to view a handsome parlour , lighted with two wax candles , having a boarded floor , and plastered and ceiled in the neatest manner . 
Edward 's astonishment was still more increased , when advancing , he perceived at the farther end a large and elegant assortment of books , arranged along shelves which seemed to have been erected in a temporary manner for the purpose of containing them . 
Edward acknowledged the identity , and confided to the old man his motives for concealing his real name from O'Halloran 's family . 
The old man approved of them . 
Edward was affected with the Recluse 's fervency . 
He assured him that he would , at any time , be ready to undertake any thing that should contribute to the safety of O'Halloran , and the happiness of Ellen . 
`` I indeed acknowledge my admiration of the excellencies of the British constitution , '' replied Edward . 
`` I am ignorant , '' said Edward , `` of the designs of the United Irishmen . 
enquired Edward . 
Edward felt the full force of the old man 's sorrow . 
His heart bled at the prospect thus opened before him of the calamities that were about to overspread the land of his nativity ; the land of his affections ; the abode of all that was dear to his feelings and pleasing to his hopes , and he heaved a sigh as he confessed that he could see no means by which the threatened misfortunes might be averted . 
At length Edward took leave of the old man , with a promise not to depart from the neighbourhood until he should have another interview with him on the subject . 
On his way to the castle , his heart , distracted with sorrow and with love , became overpowered with his emotions , and before he knocked for admittance at the gate , which , at that hour of the night , was always closed , he retired into a little arbour behind the porter 's lodge , to give vent to his feelings . 
He had scarcely entered , when a coarse voice called out `` Wha comes there ? '' 
which he immediately conjectured to be the voice of Peg Dornan . 
She started to her feet , muttering , `` In the name o ' Gude ! 
said Edward . 
The speakers were now so near that Edward could distinctly hear O'Halloran saying to his companion `` We have now upwards of a hundred thousand men sworn to us in this province , and , I think , we might have things prepared for a general rising as soon as your government can effect the landing of ten thousand troops on any part of the coast . 
The sounds now died away , and the encreasing distance of the speakers prevented Edward from hearing more . 
The fact that French aid in order to assist in separating Ireland from England , was negociated for by the leaders of the United Association , was now to him no longer questionable ; and that the only parent of his Ellen , the preserver of his life , was deeply implicated in this traitorous and dangerous measure , sunk heavily to his heart , and impressed him with such a degree of vexation and sorrow , as he had never before experienced . 
`` I will not disturb you longer , Peg , '' said he , `` when I stumbled in here , I did not expect that the place was previously occupied . '' 
WhenEdward had retired to bed and begun to ruminate on the distracted and dangerous state of the country , he found sleep to be utterly out of the question . 
So many images of the distress and misery about to take place , crowded on his imagination , that when he , at length , fell into a slumber , the state of his mind excited the most frightful dreams . 
At one time , he thought that his old friend was seized by a party of dragoons , and hanged at the gate of his own castle , which was fired by the military ; and , before he could fly to prevent it , he thought he saw his beloved Ellen consumed in the flames . 
Here the horror of his feelings increased to such agony that he awoke . 
The day was dawning , and as it was in vain for him to seek again for repose , he wandered to the garden , which was situated at a small distance from the castle . 
`` How happy are you ! '' 
thought he , `` ye little songsters , when compared with man , that lord of the creation ! 
Absorbed in these contemplations , he moved slowly along the garden walks , amidst a profusion of cowslips , daisies , hyacinths , tulips , and numerous other flowers that scented the air all around , and from the leaves and petals of which were suspended myriads of pearly globules , glittering in the early beams of the eastern sun . 
`` But there is one of our race , '' thought he , `` as lovely as these , whose breast to me is fragrance , and whose voice is music . 
This soothing walk , and the contemplation of Ellen 's charms , calmed the perturbation of his spirits , and he was enabled to meet O'Halloran in a more unembarrassed manner than he expected . 
After breakfast he signified his intention of going to town , in order to give some directions to his servant , observing at the same time , that , as he wished to remain a few weeks in the neighbourhood , he should take lodgings at the inn where his horses were kept . 
O'Halloran invited him to make the castle his home so long as he remained in that part of the country . 
`` My friend , '' replied Edward , `` of all accusations , I should wish to avoid that of being indifferent to the welfare of my country . 
Edward was astonished at the multitude of people of all ages , sexes , and ranks that filled the streets ; some for amusement , and some for business , making a confused mixture of sounds , loud and discordant indeed , but at the same time cheerful , lively and diverting . 
After making their way , with some difficulty through the crowd , they , at length , arrived at the inn where Edward 's servant had stopped . 
After an interchange of civilities with Edward and O'Halloran , he that received the money , insisted on calling for something to treat his companion ; and immediately rapping aloud on the table with a small wooden mallet called a bruiser , an instrument used in mixing punch throughout the North of Ireland , a young girl quickly appeared . 
Edward wondered at the quantity ordered at once for only two individuals . 
But as soon as the materials arrived , he found that although O'Halloran and he had not been formally asked to accept a share , they had been provided for in the countryman 's calculation . 
But Edward declined until he saw that it was necessary for the sake of civility to comply , which he did , however , sparingly . 
The conversation now turned upon politics ; and Edward soon perceived that his two new companions were United Irishmen ; for seeing him in the company of O'Halloran , they took no pains to conceal their sentiments in his presence . 
`` Perhaps , '' said Edward , `` the admonition might have been given to induce Murphy to a timely preparation for death . 
`` It is lingering torment , '' said Edward . 
But before he could get once more applying the bruiser to the table , a woman entered the room with a face of inquiry . 
During this dialogue , Edward who wished to avoid the second bacchanalian attack which he saw contemplated , withdrew . 
He was soon followed by O'Halloran , who invited him to take a ramble through the streets in order to witness the humours of a Northern Irish yarn market . 
They had not gone far until Edward perceived the scene diversified by the tents of hawkers , erected on the sides of the streets , in which were vended a great variety of haberdashery , cutlery , & c. Not far from these were stationed the humbler stalls of a species of travelling huxters called ginger-bread women , constructed either of old doors supported on the ends of barrels , or of two-wheeled cars leaning on supports of a similar description . 
Turning a corner near the market-house , he perceived to the left , a man elevated on a table selling waistcoat patterns and shawls by auction , and bawling lustily in order to attract customers . 
Some of the stanzas that now attracted the attention of Edward were as follows : -- When Edward had listened to a few stanzas of this song , he perceived Dr. Farrel , his physician , approaching , who saluted him with great cordiality . 
Edward , who really esteemed this gentleman for his good sense and urbanity of manners , returned his salutation with unfeigned pleasure . 
The three gentlemen had not walked far together , until O'Halloran was taken aside by a square built , stout-looking man , in the habit of a traveller , who desired to converse with him in private . 
Edward and the doctor therefore walked on , while O'Halloran and the stranger went off in a different direction . 
Edward found in his new companion an inexhaustible mine of intelligence concerning the manners of the people of the North . 
`` You see , '' said he , `` how open every man 's countenance is ; how ready every individual is to be civil . 
It was with some difficulty that Edward and his companion kept their ground until this splendid and noisy procession had gone past ; when , proceeding onwards , they came to the tent of an itinerant dealer in haberdashery , at the one end of which sat a group of well-dressed country girls . 
Edward immediately knew one of them to be his acquaintance , Peggy Caldwell ; and while the doctor 's attention was drawn to a fine , noble looking horse which a jockey was putting through his paces at some distance , he approached her . 
`` You will gratify me , '' said Edward , in a persevering manner , `` by receiving some gift -- a new gown , or a new shawl , or any thing else you choose , as a testimony of my regard for you . '' 
`` Gentle or simple , by G -- d , you shant affront Miss Caldwell in my presence . '' 
demanded Edward , as he turned round , and beheld an active looking young fellow whose countenance indicated that he felt an offence , and was determined to resent it . 
`` I am as incapable of insulting that young woman as you , or any other of her friends can be , '' returned Edward , `` but I am capable and determined to punish any unprovoked rudeness that may be offered to myself . '' 
`` Since your acknowledgment is as candid as your attack was unprovoked , '' said Edward , `` I shall drink to our reconciliation ; but it shall be only on condition that Peggy previously receives from me some donation , as I before proposed , and you yourself may choose it for her . '' 
`` What a terrible consumption of ardent spirits , '' thought Edward as he seated himself , `` must take place in the markets and fairs of this part of the country ! 
While he thus meditated , Jemmy Hunter seated himself beside him , and in a low whisper , said , `` Ye maun ken , sir , that Peggy an ' me are sweet-hearts . 
`` Your motive , I perceive , '' replied Edward , `` was good ; and not being acquainted with the etiquette of this part of the country on such occasions , I may have done wrong . 
Besides ye maun ken -LRB- whispering close into Edward 's ear , -RRB- I wanted to treat the lassie hersel to a dram . 
Edward having no argument to oppose to this last remark , gave a smile , and nodded in acquiescence to the propriety of Jemmy 's method of courting . 
When the company in various parts of the room began to grow noisy , which , as the country people had now commenced setting themselves thoroughly to their cups , was soon the case , Edward and the doctor thought proper to withdraw . 
Edward was persuaded that the assistance of his medical friend would have been immediately required by some one of the parties ; but the doctor assured him that he expected no such thing . 
Thedoctor being called away on some business , Edward returned to the inn where his servant staid . 
Here he found O'Halloran and the stranger who had some hours before taken him aside on the street . 
They were sitting , one at each end of a table , in an angle of a tolerably large room , which , like every other in the house at that juncture , was quite full of people enjoying the convivial cup with great noise and good humour . 
Edward observed that his friend and the stranger were the two most silent people in the room , and he was surprised to find that O'Halloran , although he was evidently on an intimate footing with the stranger , never named him . 
The latter was wrapped in a great coat , booted and spurred , and held in his hand a huge horseman 's whip , heavily loaded with lead . 
He appeared to be about forty years of age , slightly pockpitted , very muscular , and broad shouldered , fully five feet ten inches high , with small gray eyes and heavy eyebrows . 
He sat with his back to the wall seemingly abstracted in deep meditation , with his hat drawn forward over his face , so as partly to conceal it . 
He was proposing to Edward to return home , when the attention of the company was attracted by the arrival of two dragoons at the door of the inn , with intelligence of an alarming nature from Belfast . 
Edward , therefore , was almost the only person in the house totally unknown to the magistrate . 
`` Five feet ten inches '' -- that was nearly Edward 's height -- `` Firm made and very muscular , '' he was the former but not the latter . 
Still so far it might do -- `` Slightly pock-pitted '' -- Edward had only one or two traces of the small-pox . 
All this might answer . 
-- `` Forty years of age '' -- Here the description was totally out . 
Edward did not appear to be much above twenty . 
Edward 's hair was black , and somewhat curled . 
The Doctor soon made his appearance , and having declared his opinion in favour of Edward 's loyalty , the wine was introduced by the magistrate 's order . 
Edward immediately filled a glass to the king 's health , and drinking it started to his feet . 
`` Mr. M`Claverty , '' said he , `` you are an entire stranger to me , and I now find you on important official duty , enquiring after the perpetrators of a shocking murder . 
While they were getting ready , Tom Mullins took Edward aside , with a face of great importance . 
said Edward , `` I desire you not to converse with any of the people you suspect to be united , especially if they attempt to seduce you into their confederacy . 
`` Mullins , '' demanded Edward rather angrily , `` has any one had the audacity to tell you so ? '' 
said Edward . 
`` I am not up , as you call it , '' said Edward . 
After a few more cautions on the subject , and also with regard to secrecy concerning himself , Edward left Tom , and set off with O'Halloran for the castle . 
He was anxious to hasten his friend 's departure from the town , lest his obnoxious politics , and his imprudent warmth , might betray him into some difficulties . 
On their way , they called at the post office , and received the newspapers , which had just arrived . 
They then rode on in silence , until they were nearly a mile from town , when Edward observed , that the market scenes were very amusing ; but that , in this instance , any satisfaction he had experienced was more than counterbalanced by the unpleasant intelligence of the horrible murder that had been committed in Belfast . 
`` No man can plead self-defence , '' replied Edward , `` unless he be personally attacked , which does not appear to have been the case with the perpetrators of this action ; and deliberate assassination , in cold blood , even when the most abandoned and dangerous character is the victim , carries with it something so abhorrent to my feelings , and so contrary to all my ideas of morality , that I do not see how it can be justified , even on the supposition of it being intended to prevent occurrences by which others might eventually suffer . '' 
`` The establishment of such a doctrine , '' replied Edward , `` as the propriety of privately destroying our enemies , would abolish all security of personal safety , which is one of the chief advantages enjoyed from governments and laws . 
Edward had observed this man leaving the inn very hastily the instant the dragoons were announced . 
This suspicion almost arose to a certainty , when he read the first description , that the magistrate had attempted to apply to himself . 
On his approach now , Edward was more particular in observing him , and was forcibly struck with the exact correspondence of his person with the description in all its traits . 
He made a bow to Edward , which he returned coolly , for his soul shuddered at the idea of being in company with a murderer . 
`` M`Cauley , '' said O'Halloran , `` the minions of government are now on the alert to discover those brave fellows , who have avenged their country , and saved upwards of two hundred of her patriots from the gallows , by the destruction of the perjured M`Bride . 
`` Mr. O'Halloran , '' said he , looking at the same time earnestly in Edward 's face , for the whole three had stopped , `` if I may judge from appearance , your friend here , possesses too much honour to betray a man who reposes so much confidence in him as to entrust him with his life . '' 
O'Halloran replied , `` that he had every reliance on Edward 's honour , but -- '' `` No buts , '' said the other , `` if he is a man of honour , he shall know who I am , let his views of my conduct be what they may . 
Young man , '' continued he , addressing Edward , `` you see before you , one whose whole heart and soul is devoted to his country ; and , who to avenge her cause upon a traitor , has not scrupled to offend human laws past forgiveness ; and , perhaps , in the opinion of many good men , has also violated the laws of heaven . 
The magnanimity of M`Cauley made a strong impression on Edward . 
He assured him , `` that although he would rather not have been entrusted with his secret , he should have no cause to repent the confidence he had placed in him . '' 
On entering , Edward was introduced to an inmate of the castle whom he had not before seen . 
This was the only sister of O'Halloran , who had been some weeks absent , and had just returned a few hours before , accompanied by a Miss Agnew , at whose father 's house she had been visiting . 
This accession to the castle party was highly pleasing to Edward , as it promised not only to be the means of preventing politics from engrossing the conversation , but of affording him more of Ellen 's society , who would not be so shy of her company when it would be only sought for in the presence of her female friends . 
`` Madam , '' replied Edward , `` if you can only answer me one question in the affirmative , I shall be happy to find my opinion on these matters corroborated , and sanctioned by yours . 
`` Then we agree , '' said Edward . 
As her aunt and Edward joined in this request , Ellen complied , remarking that , `` as she was not in good enough spirits to give them an air sufficiently lively to counteract the disorder of which Miss Agnew complained , she would sing them some verses which were lately put into her hands by a friend of hers , who had once been an exile from his native country , and who to relieve the pain of absence from all he loved , had frequently recourse to the consolations of the muse . '' 
`` That is most poetical of all , '' said Edward . 
was vociferated from the brazen lungs of Peg , to a servant in the hall . 
Edward went immediately to the hall . 
He followed her without hesitation till they came near to the mysterious rock , from which he first saw Ellen and her grandfather . 
`` They 're gaen in noo , '' said Peg , `` but when they come oot they 'll , maybe , talk o ' t again . 
Ye maun wait here , gin you want to hear them ; an ' it concerns you nearly . 
`` Tell me before we part , '' said the stranger to M`Cauley , `` what is your intention with respect to this young man to whom you so foolishly entrusted your secret . 
O'Halloran and M`Cauley moved towards the rock , and Edward , on whose mind , it will be supposed , the conversation had made a deep impression , returned to the castle . 
`` Why , sir , gin you 'll no be in a hurry , I 'll tell you , '' -LRB- for Edward 's perturbation of mind made him walk very fast , -RRB- `` just as I was sauntering alang the shore , about an hour syne , I saw Tam Darragh , and anither doure-looking chiel they ca ' M`Cauley , walking tegither -- an ' no ' wishing to be seen by them , I lay doon amang the bushes , an ' they cam ' quite close to me , an ' said , the tain to the tither , that 's Darragh said to M`Cauley , that chap at the castle maun be an orangeman , an ' will , as sure as death , tell your secret . 
Edward desired her to communicate the affair to no one else ; and thanking her for her timely information , he gave her half a guinea , and hastened to the castle . 
Just as he entered the avenne , he perceived old Saunders coming out of the gate , and not having come to any determination how to act , he thought it would be proper to consult the old man , in whose prudence he had every reason to confide . 
He accordingly communicated to him , the present aspect of his affairs , adding , that with respect to his own safety , he was under no concern ; but how to protect his servant from the malice of Darragh , without informing upon the latter , and having him arrested , a measure to which he had the utmost aversion , gave him a great deal of perplexity . 
He then desired Edward to accompany him to William Caldwell 's , where they found young Hunter , with Peggy and one of her brothers , just returned from the market . 
The old man requested Jemmy to go with him and Edward to the glen . 
On arriving there , he communicated to him the danger in which Tom Mullins then stood , and asked him if he would be willing to render Edward a service , by rescuing him from it . 
said he , seizing Edward by the hand , `` I 'll stand by him , and if Tam Darragh , or ony bluid-thirsty rascal like him , ventures to lay a finger 's end on him , he 'll find whether his bones or mine be the hardest . 
I ha ' been made a United Irishman , but I was na ' made yin to stan ' by an ' see my frien 's murdered . '' 
Edward gave him a letter for Tom Mullins , and the Recluse a packet of sealed instructions , which he was desired not to open until he should convey Mullins as far as Antrim , about eighteen miles from Larne . 
He was desired not to set out in the night , lest Darragh should suspect his designs to be discovered , and thereby be rendered more rancorous and inveterate in his resolution to destroy Mullins ; but he was ordered to keep a watchful eye on the motions of the former , until the latter should be out of his reach . 
This important matter being adjusted , he produced Edward 's letter , and desired Tom to be ready for a journey by day-break . 
On arriving there , Hunter hastened to the castle for Edward , who , on coming to the cavern and learning the state of affairs , declared to the Recluse his opinion that Darragh would not regard an oath into which he had been frightened ; and , that while either he or his servant remained in the neighbourhood , neither of them would be safe from his malignity . 
We shall leave our love-sick rustics to proceed on their journey , and entertain each other in their own unadorned and homely style , and direct our attention to Edward Barrymore , who was as deeply enamoured as either of them , and at that very moment anxiously pining for an opportunity to pledge his vows to the mistress of his affections . 
Thereader will remember that we left Edward and the Recluse together in the cavern . 
The old man , reluctant as he was to part with our hero , acknowledged the necessity of his speedily withdrawing from that part of the country , since he had , however innocently and unintentionally , became an object of suspicion to some of the United Irishmen . 
`` My friend , '' replied Edward , `` your good sense , and the interest you have evinced in my welfare , deserve my confidence . 
asked Edward . 
`` Farewell , father , '' said Edward , and he hastened to apprise O'Halloran of his intended departure , and to seek a farewell interview with Ellen . 
The early part of the morning had been somewhat cloudy ; and one of those gentle rains , known among the Northern Irish , by the name of May showers , had fallen , and rendered the atmosphere moist but not cold . 
`` We shall talk of this again , '' said Mrs. Brown , in a whisper to Ellen , for Edward was now so near , as to prevent her from speaking aloud , unless she chose that he should hear what she said . 
`` You can not be so much gratified with my company as I shall be with your 's , '' replied Edward , `` and , surely , Mrs. Brown can not suppose me so insensible to the beauties of nature , and the charms of refined conversation , as not to prefer the enjoyment of such a scene , in such a company , to any other employment whatever . '' 
asked Mrs. Brown , turning round upon an eminence to which they had arrived ; and from which they had a tolerable prospect of the surrounding scenery . '' 
`` Every thing in your country , '' replied Edward , `` has had the effect of highly interesting my feelings , and exciting my admiration . 
`` Had I met with nothing to make a deeper impression on my mind , '' replied Edward , `` than the accident to which you allude , in leaving these scenes , my regret would not , perhaps , have been greater than it will be , but my recollections would have been more unmingled with sorrow . 
exclaimed Mrs. Brown , who had observed her emotion . 
`` You are weak , '' said Edward , in agitation , `` may I beg permission to support you ? '' 
Edward again offered his assistance , requesting her to lean on his arm . 
`` Well then , '' said Miss Agnew , `` let us proceed to the top of the hill , as we before proposed . 
Whether it was by accident or design , however , let love-casuists determine , instead of keeping pace with their companions , Edward and Ellen walked so slowly that in a few minutes the others were too far advanced to hear their conversation . 
Miss O'Halloran , '' said Edward , who gladly seized so favourable an opportunity of opening his soul to his beloved , `` you can not imagine the pangs that I feel on account of leaving this place , for you are not aware how powerful are the chains that bind me to it . 
I have travelled round the greater part of the kingdom , I have witnessed numerous interesting scenes , and have fallen in with company of the most worthy and attractive description ; but here alone it is that my heart has been touched , here it is that my affections have become centred . '' 
It is , therefore , I confess , presumption in me to solicit your confidence , to request your regard , without informing you of these particulars . 
surely it can not be unpardonable in me to be desirous of knowing whether that heart is irrecoverably another 's , which I would stop at no sacrifice , except that of virtue and honour , to make my own . 
exclaimed Edward , fervently , `` then I may hope . 
cried Mrs. Brown , sportively , and she also caught an arm of Edward , saying , `` Ellen has monopolized you long enough ; it is now our turn ; Miss Agnew and I can not bear to be longer neglected . '' 
Edward and Mrs. Brown approached . 
They had walked slowly , for they had conversed on the alarming nature of the times , and short as their discourse had been , Edward could easily perceive that the old lady 's feelings rather than her judgment sided with the United Irishmen . 
Before Edward could reply , they were hailed by Maria , as we have already observed . 
It was the very place where Edward had first seen his beloved as if he had seen a vision of light ; and where , charmed to the spot , he had lingered until he encountered death , and would have fallen in the combat , had not the same vision become his guardian angel , and sent effectual succour to his rescue . 
Amidst the reflections which this scene excited , he was interrupted by Mrs. Brown , who pointed to an arbour , at some distance , made of the interwoven branches of willows , round which honeysuckles exuberantly entwined their tendrills . 
It was constructed in the neatest style , consistent with that rustic simplicity which seemed to have been studied by its architect . 
`` This is , indeed , a remarkable spot for a summer-house ; but a very suitable one for an observatory , '' remarked Edward . 
`` I imagine , '' said Edward , `` I have already been delighted with one of the effusions of your rural bard . 
`` Is he unfortunate , '' asked Edward , `` and can you tell from what cause ? '' 
`` I should be glad of the acquaintance of this young man , '' said Edward , `` and I am sorry that the necessity of my speedy departure will deprive me of that pleasure . '' 
`` I request , '' said Edward , `` that you will not occasion him any pain on my account . '' 
`` I also request , '' added Mrs. Brown , `` that the young man may be left to his own inclinations . 
He seems desirous to avoid us at present , and we have no right to force ourselves upon him . '' 
`` I delight in your enthusiasm , '' said Edward , `` and can not but heartily condemn the ungenerous and imprudent policy which occasioned the disorganization of that gallant association of soldiers . '' 
`` It is indeed to be lamented , '' said Edward , `` that the interests of the government , and the wishes of the people are so opposed to each other ; and , believe me , ladies , I feel as acutely as any Irishman can , for the calamities which such a state of things forbodes to the country . '' 
Having arrived at the castle , Edward took O'Halloran aside , and informed him of the necessity he was under of immediately leaving the country . 
At last recovering his self-possession , `` Mr. Middleton , '' said he , `` I did not calculate on your leaving us so soon , at least so suddenly ; but if the cause of your departure be not extremely urgent , I request that you will not go until to-morrow . '' 
Edward was himself much inclined to remain till the next day . 
O'Halloran was not unacquainted with the danger which threatened his guest from the violence of Darragh , and some others of the conspirators ; and he began to suspect that their threats had reached Edward 's ears , and produced his sudden determination to leave the neighbourhood . 
Although he had hitherto resisted the solicitations of his confederates to prevent his departure , by securing his person , least he should discover on them , he began now to have serious doubts as to the propriety of his so doing . 
In great agitation of mind he left Edward , and retired to his library to reflect on the most proper mode of proceeding . 
`` Were I alone involved in the dangers of this young man 's discovering upon us , I would then be justifiable in running the risk ; '' he thus reasoned with himself ; `` but the safety of others is also concerned ; nay , perhaps , the success of all our plans to emancipate our country may be affected by either his imprudent communication , or intentional discovery of what he knows ; and it is certain that he knows sufficient to ruin all . 
They soon agreed on a plan for seizing Edward . 
`` A single hair of his head shall not fall , '' said M`Cauley , in the course of their deliberation , `` if I can prevent it ; for , I am myself to blame for too rashly communicating to him that information by which he can most seriously injure us . '' 
His opinion coincided with that of M`Cauley and O'Halloran , that Edward should be well treated , but strictly guarded . 
`` Such a captive , '' he remarked , `` may ultimately be of great service to us as an hostage for the safety of some of our own party ; besides , as he has not yet manifested any other hostility towards us , than merely refusing to join us , it would be unjust as well as impolitic to exercise any other severity towards him , than may be absolutely necessary for our own safety . '' 
It was then unanimously settled that Edward should be seized that evening , and confined in the Point Cave , -LRB- which was within the mysterious rock already mentioned , -RRB- but that he should be there treated with every indulgence the circumstances of the case would admit . 
After dinner , the unsuspecting object of these machinations , paid a visit to William Caldwell 's , to make his acknowledgments for the kindness he had experienced from his family , and also with the hope that he might there meet with an opportunity of being introduced to M`Nelvin ; for he understood that the poet was on a very intimate footing with this family . 
`` Perhaps then , '' said Edward , `` it is better I should not see him , for I should feel reluctant to occasion him the smallest pain . '' 
Edward acquiesced , and they soon arrived at the old man 's dwelling . 
He seemed somewhat disconcerted on seeing Edward , but at the Recluse 's desire he came forward . 
Edward approached , and shook the poet 's hand so cordially that his reserve almost instantly vanished ; and during the conversation which ensued , he became so cheerful and communicative , and displayed such an extent of information and strength of intellect , as surprised and delighted his new acquaintance . 
When they discoursed on politics , and M`Nelvin descanted on the natural rights of man , Edward felt within his breast a new conviction of the injustice and iniquity of arbitrary rule ; and when he spoke of the benefits arising from the establishment of known laws for the regulation of society , and the maintenance of security and order among mankind , Edward could not refrain from wishing that the disorganizers of the age had only an opportunity of hearing such sentiments so enforced ; but when he described and deplored the accumulating miseries of his country , it was with a fervour that almost brought tears to his own eyes , and filled , almost to bursting , the hearts of his auditors ; and Edward could not avoid execrating that mismanagement , to which these measures were so clearly and so feelingly ascribed . 
When on the subject of poetry , he enlarged on the influence of its precepts on the conduct of men , the power which it often exerts over their dispositions , and the enjoyment it yields , by its pleasing representations of virtue and happiness , when it chooses to display them unalloyed with the sad realities of life ; or , by its delightful delusions when it carries the enchanted fancy into a species of transient paradise , where the cares , and pains , and vexations of the grosser world , are , for a time , neither felt or remembered -- Edward thought that he had never been before so thoroughly convinced of the benefits it confers upon mankind . 
Thus the man whose poetical talents had excited his curiosity , and whose misfortunes he was prepared to pity , he found possessed of dignity which enforced his respect , and of wisdom which commanded his admiration ; and he never felt so ardent a desire as on this occasion , to make amends for the injustice of fortune by some munificent testimony of his respect for merit . 
`` I envy you , '' returned Edward , `` the felicity of being permitted to confer favours on such a man . 
He approached , and soon knew one of them to be his new and undesired acquaintance , M`Cauley , who arose , and very respectfully saluted him . 
`` Mr. Middleton , '' said he , `` I am glad to meet with you . 
Edward was about excusing himself , on account of the lateness of the hour , when M`Cauley caught him familiarly by the arm , and in a half jocular and half irritating manner , swore an oath that he would not part with him for that evening at least . 
Edward remonstrated , and told him that he did not think it friendly , so rudely to impose on his inclinations . 
Edward now perceived that foul play was intended , and he demanded by what authority they attempted to detain him . 
`` By the authority of present strength , and a prudent regard for our own safety , '' replied M`Cauley . 
was next demanded . 
`` To our head-quarters , to be both well secured and well treated , '' was the reply . 
`` Does Mr. O'Halloran know this ? '' 
`` He does ; and its necessity grieves him . '' 
`` Then I submit , '' said Edward . 
One of them then ascended a projecting portion of the mysterious rock , and removing a loose piece of stone , which filled a narrow crevice about a foot deep , an iron ring was disclosed , on pulling which an internal bolt gave way , and permitted the upper end of a large , rugged fragment of the rock , to separate the mass with which it before seemed to have been consolidated . 
The rope being thus loosened , the fragment opened wide enough to afford space for the admission of our party in a stooping posture , but on advancing a few steps , Edward found himself in an apartment fully ten feet high , having a smooth hard-beaten artificially made earthen floor . 
These gentlemen accosted Edward in rather a cordial manner , and welcomed him to their habitation . 
They were quite unknown to him , but one of them , he soon perceived from his accent to be a Frenchman . 
Here the men by whom he was seized left him . 
By his remaining companions he was politely invited to be seated , and to accept refreshment . 
Conceiving that there was no use in showing ill humour on the occasion , he assented , when , to his surprise , tea was speedily produced with its usual accompaniments , and afterwards punch , of which his companions partook in a spirit of great cordiality . 
During the evening politics engrossed less of the conversation than he expected . 
Literature , agriculture and manufactures were the prevailing topics . 
On these , Edward cheerfully took a part , and almost forgot that he was a prisoner . 
His new acquaintances seemed highly intelligent , and perfectly conversant with every subject they discussed ; they were easy and affable , and appeared to make his comfort their chief study . 
At length one of them requesting leave to show him where he should rest , when he wished to retire for the night , pushed a sliding door along one end of the apartment , which disclosed to view a small room resembling the state-room of the cabin of a merchant ship , and containing a bed of a comfortable appearance . 
On bidding good night , one of the company remarked , `` I trust , Mr. Middleton , that the cause of your confinement here will soon be removed ; but whether it shall be long or short , you may depend on receiving good usage . '' 
In fact , such is the influence of civil treatment on the mind , that for some time after he was alone , Edward felt more astonishment than irritation at the occurrences of the evening . 
But when he reflected on the loss of his liberty , and on the share which O'Halloran had in effecting it , and which he looked upon , not only as a breach of honour and hospitality , but , from the promise he had exacted from him in the morning , as savouring of treachery itself , he became restless , agitated , irritated ; and when he considered that he had done nothing to deserve being thus incarcerated in a den among traitors , his chagrin and resentment partook of a feverish violence , and sleep for that night became a stranger to his eyes . 
This was she , who , in the estimation of Edward , was the fairest of all Erin 's daughters , and whose tears of sorrow shed for him this evening , had he known of them , would have rendered him proud and happy in his misfortunes . 
Ellen was sitting alone at a window in one of the small turrets on the southern side of the castle , watching , perhaps , the declining tints of the twilight , or contemplating the dangerous aspect of the times , or , what is quite as probable , meditating on the expected return of Edward to the castle . 
It is certain , that from the window where she was stationed , she could survey the path by which he was to return ; and if she at all took notice of the gathering shades , perhaps it was because they marked the lateness of the hour without bringing back the object of her solicitude . 
Several people came at different times up the avenue , but Edward did not come . 
Another came . 
She , therefore , adopted the more humane and judicious method of soothing her feelings by expressing a sincere hope , that no evil had befallen Edward ; remarking that the informations she had received might be partly or wholly unfounded . 
Her aunt then promised to communicate with her brother on the subject ; and consult him as to what it should be best to do on Edward 's behalf . 
She , therefore , especially as she was persuaded that Ellen would lose no time in making her grandfather acquainted with Edward 's situation , resolved not to mention the affair again , unless to those she could trust , and who might possess sufficient influence to serve him . 
The next morning , -LRB- for O'Halloran did not appear that night , -RRB- Mrs. Brown hastened to inform him of what she had heard respecting Edward 's seizure by the United Irishmen . 
He assured her , however , that the captive would be treated with kindness , and that his life was in no danger . 
Edward sustained his misfortunes with great spirit , and however severely he felt his being thus inclosed , as it were , in a living tomb , he took care that none around him should perceive the state of his feelings . 
Mr. Samuel Nelson , whom we mentioned before , and who at this period was a very active agent of the United Directory , was a frequent visitor at the cavern ; but not being under proscription by the government , he frequented it rather for the purpose of business than concealment . 
From not being at first aware of this circumstance , Edward was greatly at a loss to imagine , how men of such improved minds and refined manners , as Porter , Nelson and O'Halloran , could tolerate the superciliousness and flippancy of their foreign guest ; who would often , in the midst of the most serious natural discussion , interrupt the speaker by starting questions , or making observations the most frivolous and irrelevant to the subject . 
For the two first days of Edward 's imprisonment , O'Halloran did not visit the cave . 
Then going forward to Edward ; `` Mr. Middleton , '' said he , `` I am truly sorry that it is against your will you are here ; and I hope that it will be soon otherwise . 
He then seated himself at the table , and for about an hour joined his confederates in perusing the papers he had brought ; after which he asked Nelson to accompany him to the castle , and they retired together . 
Immediately on receiving the letter , Edward withdrew to his sleeping closet , where throwing himself on his couch , he read as follows : `` In consenting to your confinement , I made a greater sacrifice of feeling to duty than I had ever been before called on to make . 
I had a hard struggle ; but my conception of what I owed to the great national cause in which I am engaged , gained the victory . 
`` Ever since I could lay down a plan of conduct for my life , I have graduated the scale of my duties in the following manner . 
`` I am , & c. To this letter , Edward wrote a very copious reply , from which the following passages are extracted . 
O'Halloran and his confederates finding that they could not shake Edward 's political principles , desisted after this , from making the attempt . 
With M`Nelvin , who also felt much on the subject , and who was his only confidant , he had frequent conferences on the practicability of procuring Edward 's liberty , but they could devise no plan that seemed in the slightest degree to promise success . 
One evening , about this time , an incident took place which , as it had some connexion with those events which led to Edward 's enlargement , should be related . 
He had been lately informed of her partiality for Edward ; and in consequence began to hate him as the sole obstacle to his happiness . 
Edward had never esteemed this man , for independently of his criminal and disgraceful occupation , his manners were flippant , profane and arrogant , the very reverse of those he approved . 
Our Frenchman , therefore , cordially wished perdition to his rival . 
On the evening alluded to , he followed Ellen into one of her favourite and lonely walks , in a small wood that skirted the Volunteer ground . 
She was indulging her melancholy feelings in reading Burns 's beautifully tender song of Highland Mary when Monier approached . 
-- You will , therefore , be pleased to walk on to wherever you were going , and leave me to myself . '' 
cried a loud , tremendous voice , `` receive that for your infamous conduct to an angel '' -- and a tall stout man without a hat , or coat , and bald headed , struck him on the face with such force that he fell to the ground screaming , while the blood gushed freely from his mouth and nostrils . 
She recollected his threats against Edward , and she conceived , that by publishing his disgrace , she would only irritate his evil passions the more against his prisoner , and perhaps stimulate him to push his revenge even to assassination . 
It will be recollected that Tom Mullins , Edward 's servant , set off in company with our gallant Northern peasant , Jemmy Hunter , in obedience to his master 's orders , to avoid the violence of some enraged United Irishmen , who had combined against him . 
Here they consulted their instructions , and found that they were to remain there for two days in expectation of Edward overtaking them , at the expiration of which time , if he did not arrive they were to proceed to the seat of Sir Philip Martin in the county of Tyrone , who was a relation and a confidant of the Recluse , and whose son having been Edward 's fellow-student at Trinity College , he had resolved to visit on his return homeward . 
They had also a letter from Edward to the Earl O`Neil , whose castle lay on the way from Antrim to Sir Philip Martin 's residence . 
On the evening of their second night at Antrim , as they were sitting comfortably over a mug of ale , two soldiers belonging to a regiment of fencibles that then lay in the town , and a townsman , came into the room . 
On hearing Mullin 's brogue , and the simplicity of some of his remarks , one of the soldiers who was a Scotchman , and possessed of more mirth than good manners , thought to enjoy a little diversion at his expense . 
`` Here is a letter which I received , '' said he , `` from a son of the honourable Thomas Barrymore , and a nephew to the earl of Barrymore , one of his Majesty 's privy counsellors , a young gentleman with whose principles and integrity I am well acquainted , in which letter he states that his servant , Thomas Mullins , having had a political quarrel in the town of Larne with some United Irishmen , they laid in wait for him , and would have killed him , had not his companion , James Hunter , come to his rescue , and succeeded in beating off the villains . 
He states further , that his business not permitting him immediately to leave that place , and fearing that the conspirators might renew their attempts against his servant , he has prevailed on Hunter to accompany him to the seat of his friend , Sir Philip Martin , in the county of Tyrone , and as they should pass by Shanes Castle , he took that opportunity of recommending them to my protection , in case any accident might befall them in my neighbourhood . 
Gentlemen , '' his lordship continued , `` after this statement , corroborative of the positive and direct testimony of Thompson , I need not enlarge on the injustice of the proceedings that have taken place , and which , I perceive , have altogether arisen from the misconduct and malignity of two private soldiers , who to gratify their revenge on these innocent men , have not scrupled to become guilty of perjury , and upon their oaths wilfully to deceive this court . 
Sir Philip Martin , to whom the Recluse had written concerning Edward 's detention , being a favourer of the United Irishmen , and having by inquiries from O'Halloran , satisfied himself that his life was in no danger , refrained from acquainting his friends with the circumstance . 
Lord O'Neil was ignorant of it ; consequently , to Edward 's relations , who had become uneasy at his long and silent absence , and had begun to make some inquiry after him , he could give no other information , than that he had received a letter from him in the month of May last , at which period he was in the vicinity of Larne . 
Edward had written to his friends shortly after coming to the North , that he intended , before he returned home , to visit the island of Staffa , and some other places in the Highlands . 
It was , therefore , concluded that he was exploring some of the remote parts of that wild , but to a mind like Edward 's , attractive portion of the empire , from whence transmitting communications by letter they knew to be rather difficult and uncertain . 
They , therefore , thought proper for a time to cease their inquiries after him . 
Itwas in the autumn of 1797 , and sometime after the preceding transactions , that the melancholy event took place , which severed the last remaining link of the chain which had hitherto bound thousands of the presbyterian community in the North , to the side of government , and gave that impulse to the wheels of the conspiracy , which no subsequent measure of either policy or force could arrest until it terminated in the fury and vengeance of a sanguinary rebellion . 
This event was the death , or , as the popular voice termed it , the martyrdom of William Orr . 
It will be readily supposed that the United chiefs , who frequented the cave in which Edward Barrymore was confined , partook largely of the public excitement on this occasion . 
One evening as Porter and Nelson were discoursing on this subject in Edward 's presence , in such a manner as almost compelled him to express his opinion , he remarked that it was neither his province nor his inclination to defend the executive authority on all occasions . 
Still , however , before I can agree to consign the present ministers altogether to infamy , I must know the motives which induced them to permit this unhappy execution . 
False representations of the case , may have been made to them . 
They may have been persuaded that Orr was actually guilty of seducing the soldier from his allegiance , and therefore wished by a severe example to deter others from such practices . 
`` Gentlemen , '' observed Edward , `` I have said before , that an attachment to our form of government does not involve a necessity to defend every act of its administration . 
`` At about ten o'clock this morning , while I was sitting in the Star office , preparing some editorial matter for our next publication , I was alarmed by an unexpected noise of horses prancing , accompanied by a loud confusion of human voices in the yard below . 
`` Concerning this outrage , '' said Edward , `` I will give my opinion frankly and unsolicited . 
During the foregoing conversation , Edward 's mind , as will readily be supposed , was but ill at case . 
Therancour and hatred which Monsieur Monier bore towards Edward , broke out in several instances of spleen and ill nature , and tended not a little , to make his imprisonment become daily more and more irksome . 
O'Halloran , and the other leaders , however , resisted all his importunities , and he could procure none of the lower orders to assassinate his rival , as their chiefs were so averse to it . 
The insidious Frenchman meditated on having Edward carried on board of her , and despatched as a prisoner to France , where he could more easily controul his fate . 
This gentleman , conceiving that the principal intention of Edward 's imprisonment would be answered by this means , and his life at the same time secured from any sudden impulse of resentment among his enemies , a circumstance which , while he was in their custody , could never be certain , consented , and , at last , prevailed on O'Halloran also to consent . 
The Frenchman having thus far succeeded , immediately had the night fixed and the men selected for carrying him on board . 
It was on an afternoon , towards the latter end of October , that he had thrown himself down amidst a thicket , a few paces from his arbour on the hill , with a small volume of Shakspeare 's plays in his hand . 
To save Edward , therefore , from impending danger , became now the great object of his solicitude . 
Accordingly M`Nelvin hastened to the castle , from whence he brought Ellen , without loss of time , to the glen . 
The Recluse with as much caution and tenderness as possible , disclosed to her Edward 's danger . 
For some minutes she remained the picture of surprise and horror , but said nothing ; and so much did her emotions seem to have overcome her , that her friends began to repent having made the disclosure . 
`` I feared , I feared that it would come to this at last ! '' 
In this dilemma , they directed their views to Jemmy Hunter , who had served Edward so efficiently on a former occasion . 
Ellen now returned home to prepare the dress which was to be Edward 's disguise . 
But the recollection of Edward 's danger still prevailed , and enabled her to persist . 
But her resolution carried her forward , and she appeared in Edward 's presence lovely and blushing , but disconcerted and speechless with the conflict of terror , shame and solicitude which agitated her bosom . 
It is needless to repeat the expressions of gratitude and rapture in which Edward now indulged . 
She , however , soon reminded him that there was no time for conversation , and that if he meant to escape , he must haste and depart . 
`` Almighty Protector of innocence , and searcher of hearts , on my knees , I implore thee to be a shield to one of the fairest and purest of thy creatures . 
Thou knowest the alarming dangers , in the midst of which I am about to leave her ; but thou art sufficient to deliver her from them . 
Without that assurance , O God , how could I support that separation which is now become inevitable . 
O grant , that we may again meet under more benign circumstances , and that we may then never part until thy last summons shall call us to immortality . 
Preserve her for me in my absence , faithful , lovely and innocent as she now is ; and hear me , while I vow eternal fidelity to her -- May this heart which now beats for her alone , beat no more , ere it shall know another earthly love ; and may this hand become enfeebled and withered , ere it shall grasp in the holy ordinance of wedlock , any hand but the dear one which it now holds ! '' 
He added , that though he had conveyed her here , he knew that she wished to return home by herself , and as his friend Allen was alone here to day , he believed he should stay a few hours to keep him company . 
By this time , Edward had ascended the hill that overlooked his late prison ; and in a few minutes more , he found himself safe in the Recluse 's habitation . 
`` Adieu , my son . 
No earthly consideration shall prevent me from attending to that charge . 
Edward sprang forward , and seized M`Nelvin by the hand . 
Theprincely mansion of the ancient family of O'Neil , at which Edward Barrymore had now arrived , was then the pride of the surrounding country , it being the most entire and perfect specimen of the magnificence of ancient architecture to be found in Ulster . 
The fury of an accidental conflagration which took place in 1816 , was sufficient , in a few hours , to convert into ashes that proud and stately structure , which had cost our ancestors the expenditure of many years of great skill , care and industry to erect . 
Thus adding another to those innumerable examples with which both history and experience have made us acquainted of the vanity of human calculations , and the frailty of human works . 
`` It also abounds with steady , peaceable and loyal subjects , '' replied Edward . 
`` I believe that it is thought unnecessary to keep more than a single company of Fifeshire fencibles there , '' said Edward . 
It behoves all who have the preservation of social order , and rational government at heart , to be vigilant and active in restraining the excesses to which the misguided populace threaten to run . '' 
Edward passed a very agreeable evening in this refined society , which greatly conduced to calm the perturbation of his mind . 
Here he met with honest Tom Mullins , who was nearly broken-hearted with vexation on his master 's account -- for although he had no knowledge of what had really happened , he could not get rid of a vague suspicion , that the United Irishmen had done him harm . 
He had been detained at Sir Philip Martin 's during the whole summer , at the suggestion of the Recluse , who feared that if he returned to Dublin , he might give such information to Edward 's friends as would direct their attention to O'Halloran 's neighbourhood , and , perhaps , bring that gentleman into trouble . 
Edward expressed his grateful sense of the testimony his friends had given of him , and hoped that Sir Philip would never have cause to think him unworthy of it , or to repent the candour with which he had disclosed his political sentiments . 
Charles Martin , Edward 's fellow-student , and bosom-friend , had been absent with his sisters , two pretty and amiable girls , on a visit to a house of a neighbouring gentleman . 
They , however , returned early in the evening , and great was the joy of Edward and his friend on meeting . 
Sir Philip had not acquainted his son with Edward 's imprisonment ; for their political principles being somewhat different , he was unwilling to prejudice the cause of the United Irishmen , by informing him of any thing that would lessen them in his esteem . 
Hence , when during a solitary walk , which the young friends took through Sir Philip 's shrubberies , in order to relate to each other their adventures since they last parted , Charles was astonished and grieved at the extraordinary and perilous nature of those which had befallen Edward . 
What a pity that their connexions are so extended that we can not bring them to justice , without involving those we love in their punishment . 
I will accompany you if you will wait but a couple of days , that I may make arrangements for the journey . '' 
This being agreed to , and Edward having one day 's rest on his hands , wrote to the Recluse an account of his safety and welfare , and requesting speedy intelligence concerning Ellen and the conduct of the United Irishmen on discovering his escape . 
Edward was now once more amongst his relations , and the friends of his youth , an inhabitant of the metropolis of his country . 
It was in vain that the ladies of Dublin assumed their most interesting and fascinating looks in his presence ; in vain were the various pleasures of that captivating city spread before him , and offered to his acceptance . 
It came into his mind , that some of the most unprincipled of the conspirators might be so revengeful and unmanly , as to resent upon her , the part she had taken in his rescue . 
This idea rendered him miserable . 
He wrote a second time to the Recluse , conjuring him to lose no time in acquainting him with the treatment that Ellen had received from her grandfather and his confederates , after his departure . 
It was , however , only the next day after forwarding this letter that his mind was set at ease on this subject , by receiving one from the old man in reply to that which he had written at Sir Philip Martin 's . 
He was informed , that the United men kept the circumstance of his escape very quiet , that the whole blame was thrown on Jemmy Hunter , who was very willing to bear it . 
The old man added , that he even believed that O'Halloran was secretly rejoiced at it . 
-LRB- Here the Recluse related the incidents of Monier 's attack upon her , of which Edward was ignorant , but of which the reader has been already informed . -RRB- 
Edward resolved immediately to allay the fears of the United party , respecting the knowledge he had obtained of their measures . 
He concluded this letter by informing O'Halloran , that as his motives for concealing his real name and character no longer existed , he would now confess that he was the apparent representative of a family , sufficiently high in office and in influence , to procure for any of his party , who wished to return to their duty , forgiveness of the past , provided they would give security for the future . 
He would , therefore , assume his real name , which a desire to enjoy the esteem of some who had suddenly become extremely dear to him , but whose suspicion and dislike , he believed , a knowledge of that name would have excited , had induced him for a time to conceal . 
`` I the more readily , '' said he , `` give you my name on this occasion , as I flatter myself that it will confirm your reliance on my promise of secrecy respecting your affairs , by showing you that on the fulfilment of that promise , I stake the honour of a house that has never yet acted dishonourably , the house of Barrymore . '' 
Having thus replaced Edward Barrymore , after his perilous journey to the North , in safety among his friends , we may leave him there unnoticed , for some months , as nothing remarkable happened to him during that period , and turn our attention to what , in the meantime , befel the beauteous and tender mistress of his affections . 
The sentinel at the cave deceived by the disguise of Edward , and amazed by the artifices of Jemmy Hunter , did not , for several hours , discover that his prisoner had escaped . 
`` Why , she 's gane lang since , '' said the sentinel . 
`` Maybe sae , an ' maybe no ' . 
I 'll see wha 's within , however , '' replied Hunter . 
Accordingly in he and the sentinel went ; when to the astonishment and confusion of the latter , Miss O'Halloran appeared in her own identical person . 
But as this violence will only last while her prepossession in favour of Barrymore remains ; and which can only be until she becomes better acquainted with Sir Geoffrey 's worth , I think her permanent interests will be consulted by bringing about this union . 
said she to Miss Agnew , `` if this young man were to reveal himself , I fear that my Edward would possess only the first share in my affections . 
would to Heaven , that he were Edward , or Edward he ! '' 
The cause of this man 's sickness being somewhat singular , and connected with the state of the times , and the popular superstitions of the country , it may be here related . 
On the day previous to the visit just mentioned , Andrew Ramsey , the name of the sick man , had been on some business at a small village in the neighbourhood of Carebrow-hall . 
Do not you know your Edward , your Middleton , your Barrymore , your Minstrel ? 
You are indeed my Edward , my Minstrel , my preserver . 
Edward kissed her hand fervently . 
Her swoon had been occasioned solely from the supposition that Edward was murdered . 
Peg Dornan had by this time discovered some wine and other articles of refreshment in the house , of which Ellen partook , and in a short time her strength was sufficiently restored to admit of her being removed . 
Edward had been slightly wounded in the thigh by the contents of the pistol , which Berwick had fired at him on entering the house , having grazed along the flesh , and torn part of it away . 
But Sir Geoffrey threatened that if they did so , he would bring immediate destruction on O'Halloran , by disclosing his treasonable practices to the government ; and Edward considering that he had not actually accomplished any crime for which he could be capitally punished , thought it better not to take this course . 
observed the servant , `` for it 's a waste farm . '' 
M`Nelvin made no answer ; but joining the Recluse , they hastened as fast as possible to the place , and arrived just at the point of time we have mentioned . 
They were of opinion , that it would be proper to effect the removal of the captives without delay , lest some of Sir Geoffrey 's domestics might arrive , and occasion them trouble , nay , perhaps , effect his rescue . 
Ellen expressed some inquietude , lest Edward should , even under the disguise of a minstrel , be recognized by the United Irishmen , and involved into fresh troubles . 
exclaimed Edward , `` how happy you make me in accounting me one of that sacred number ! '' 
`` Permit me , '' said she , wishing to stop his raptures , and to give a different direction to the conversation , `` permit me to inquire how you discovered me this morning , in so obscure and unsuspicious a place ; and also how you appeared so fortunately to rescue me on a former occasion ? '' 
When he mentioned the persecution you suffered from the addresses of Sir Geoffrey , and that your grandfather exerted his authority over you in his favour , I anticipated some misfortune , and resolved to visit your neighbourhood , to watch over your safety , and rescue you from any calamity that might befall you . 
After my return home , I had employed one of Arthur O'Neil 's pupils , to give me instructions on the harp ; for I had imbibed your taste for that instrument ; and having become a tolerable performer , I adopted the habit and profession of a minstrel . 
generous Barrymore , '' she exclaimed , `` what do I not owe you for so much kindness ? '' 
Their arrival at Mr. Agnew 's prevented her ; but to the penetrating eye of Edward , her look had spoken a reply a thousand times more satisfactory than could have been conveyed in the strongest language . 
For reasons well known to his friends , Edward now disappeared . 
Sir Geoffrey , and his worthy compeer , the game-keeper , were soon secured in the conspirator 's strong hold , within the Point rock ; but met with very different treatment from what Edward had received , when confined in the same place the preceding year . 
The chiefs of the conspiracy , besides their displeasure at his conduct to Ellen , detested him as an apostate , one whose fraudulent behaviour towards them had thrown their affairs into considerable embarrassment , and whose fears alone had prevented him from absolutely betraying them to their enemies . 
They , therefore , on first receiving him , secured him in a dark apartment , chained to the rock , where he had only straw for a bed , and was fed on bread and water . 
Edward having thus secured the object of his affections from the further aggressions of her tormentor , thought of returning to Dublin . 
As he had lately held no conversation with any of the conspirators on political subjects , he neither knew , nor wished to know , the posture of their affairs . 
The safety and welfare of Ellen was the great object that had occupied his mind . 
He was however far from viewing the threatening aspect of the times with indifference ; but he did not conceive the stability of the constitution to be really in danger from the present conspiracy . 
The threatened insurrection , if it did take place , as its materials were so very discordant and scattered , and the great majority of the influential men of the kingdom , its opponents , he believed , would be neither very extensive nor of long duration . 
It might bring destruction on a few of its leaders and their most zealous followers ; but he had no power to prevent this ; he could only deplore it . 
In the event of an actual rebellion , the preservation of O'Halloran would be the chief object of his solicitude . 
He believed , however , that by ingratiating himself with the executive authorities of the day , he might acquire sufficient influence to protect this enthusiastic old man , should he fall into the hands of the government . 
Hence he thought it necessary to return to the capital ; which he did with the less reluctance , as he knew that he left Ellen under the protection of the watchful eye of her father , the affectionate sagacity of M`Nelvin , and the energetic and faithful arm of Jemmy Hunter . 
During the parting interview he had with Ellen in her father 's cave and presence , while under the influence of the warm feelings the occasion excited , he solicited strongly for an immediate marriage . 
Her father also declared that he would not consent to a private union , which , however , fair and valid , would carry with it something of a clandestine and improper air , and which might , from that very circumstance alone , be displeasing to Edward 's relations . 
Edward acquiesced , having first obtained from Ellen an assurance that she would comply with his wishes , whenever such a period as that to which her father alluded , should arrive . 
surely , '' said she , `` this is not a time to indulge our selfish wishes ; this is no time for the mirth , or joy , or pageantry of a marriage , when our country is in sorrow , when she is about to be agonized at every pore ; and , perhaps , rent in pieces by a dreadful convulsion . 
my Edward , I fear we have numerous scenes of sorrow to witness , perhaps to endure , before we can experience joy . 
Let us prepare our minds for the worst ; but amidst our misfortunes , whatever they may be , let us be faithful to each other ; for be assured , that whether in prosperity or adversity , I shall be faithful to you . '' 
replied Edward , touched to the heart by her fervency , `` that God who loves purity , will avert from thee the calamities thy toe timid mind forebodes ; and as to the fidelity of my heart 's affections , the moment of its first wandering from thee , shall be that of its last pulsation . 
The general rendezvous for this county is Donegore hill . 
The small parties of the military quartered in the country towns must be captured , if possible , by surprise . 
You will despatch messengers through the interior , by Ballynure , Ballyclare , Ballyeaston , Ballymena , & c. Expedition is requisite . 
All was now preparation , bustle , and eagerness , among the populace of Larne ; but every one was unusually sober , and good humoured . 
In martial music the insurgents at Larne were deficient ; for they had only one drum and one fife ; but these animated their spirits with the sounds of national airs , and they had just begun their march to the tune of `` The Volunteer 's Quick Step , '' when an accession to their strength of nearly two hundred men arrived from one of the adjoining parishes , bringing with them as a prisoner , George M`Claverty , Esq. the magistrate , who , as the reader will recollect , examined Edward Barrymore so closely at the Antrim arms , when in pursuit of the murderers of M`Bride . 
He immediately sat down and wrote as follows to Edward Barrymore : `` The crisis is at last arrived . 
father , it is Edward Barrymore , '' exclaimed Ellen . 
inquired the rider , who was indeed Edward , as he advanced hastily to Colonel Parker . 
`` Then , your duty is over on this occasion , '' said Edward , at the same time handing the colonel a letter signed by the Lord Lieutenant , accompanied with one from the governor of the fortress of Carrickfergus . 
`` You will also observe that I am to be his jailer , until the condition is complied with , '' replied Edward . 
`` It was a desperate case ; I could entrust no one else , '' said Edward . 
Edward , in the meantime , flew to his beloved , who on the first mention of pardon , almost fainted with excess of joy . 
She turned round at the sound of the well known voice . 
Oh let me thus return you thanks , '' and without considering what she was about to do , she attempted to throw herself on her knees before him . 
Mrs. Brown now approached Edward . 
Edward now handed the ladies into the carriage ; and at Mr. Wilson 's request took his seat along with them , that gentleman intending to go on foot with O'Halloran to the inn . 
The crowd soon spontaneously formed into two parties ; one of which followed O'Halloran with loud acclamations to the inn , while the other assembled round his deliverer . 
A vague and exaggerated story had got among them , that in his haste to bring the pardon from Dublin , he had killed four horses , and by means of such velocity alone had he been able to arrive in time to save O'Halloran . 
An immense concourse gathered around the carriage , in which he and the ladies were seated , and unharnessing the horses , drew them in triumph to the inn , while the women from the doors and windows of the houses , showered blessings on his head . 
The party remained at the inn only until another carriage was prepared , in which O'Halloran and Mr. Wilson proceeded to the residence of the latter , followed by Edward and the ladies , amidst the blessings and acclamations of thousands of joyful spectators . 
When the party , after arriving at Mr. Wilson 's , had partaken of some refreshments , and their minds were somewhat composed after the high excitement of the day , O'Halloran requested a private interview with Edward . 
`` It is a beautiful evening , '' said he , `` suppose we walk out to the shrubbery . 
Methinks the free enjoyment of woodland air , after my late confinement , will be refreshing and tranquillizing to my spirits . '' 
`` In serving you , '' replied Edward , `` on this occasion , I have only discharged a debt which I owed you for my life ; and we have now , to speak in mercantile language , only balanced accounts . '' 
`` I beg , '' said Edward , `` that you will not think of that affair . 
not if I had an empire to give you with her ; '' and seizing Edward by both his hands , he continued , `` O God , under whose canopy I now live , and breathe , make me grateful for thy goodness , in thus providing for the child of my heart a protector , and a lover so worthy of her . 
`` I confess , '' replied Edward , somewhat embarrassed with the question , `` that I have not as yet spoken to them concerning it . 
`` Then , '' said O'Halloran , `` there are obstacles I did not before perceive ; and for the sake of my child 's peace , I request that this affair shall not , for the present , be pushed farther . '' 
cried Edward . 
Will the powerful , the rich , the constitutional , the loyal family of the Barrymores degrade itself by an alliance with a traitor , a rebel , a ringleader of rebels , a man scarcely escaped from the gallows ! 
No , sir ; by strongly wishing for it , you may force yourself to expect it ; but cool reason tells me that it can not be . '' 
`` If I have any knowledge of my father 's character , '' replied Edward , `` he has too liberal a mind to permit the errors of one individual to influence his estimation of another , however nearly they may be connected . 
`` Wherever Ellen is known , '' said Edward , `` she can not be thought unworthy of any situation . '' 
`` Oh , sir , '' said Edward , in a tone of entreaty , `` I shall procure the approbation of my family . 
`` This is a brilliant and romantic , and must be to you a very gratifying scene , '' observed Edward , `` for it proves how much you are esteemed by these people . '' 
`` My friends , '' said Edward , addressing them both , `` you have had sad times here since I left you . 
`` You are then acquainted with lord Cornwallis , '' asked Edward . 
`` I was his bosom friend , during his campaigns in America ; and , on a certain occasion , had the felicity to save his life , for which he has never since ceased to remember me with gratitude . '' 
asked Edward . 
He then inquired of Edward at what time the courier he had despatched with the account of O'Halloran 's capture arrived in Dublin . 
`` On Wednesday evening , '' replied Edward . 
`` The perseverance and zeal of Peg have fully equalled your expectations , '' remarked Edward ; `` but I believe that her strength has not held out so well . 
`` But she will be well attended to , '' continued Edward ; `` and I make no doubt that such a constitution as her 's will soon repair the damage it has sustained . 
I was sitting with my friend , Charles Martin , in the drawing-room , when we heard a loud rapping at the street door . 
What is the matter , Barrymore , said he ; I hope no fresh insurrection has broken out ? 
Edward Barrymore , said he , are you become an advocate for a man who has been so fatally active in stirring up this horrible rebellion ? 
`` My lord ! 
`` It can not be , Edward ; he replied . 
`` You are very pressing , Edward , said he . 
In such emergency I can not trust another . 
Mr. Pitt do n't think me enough of a soldier for these hot times . 
But , as to your affair , I must oblige you while I have the power ; and in despite of all that has been said of the cruelty and harshness of my administration , I shall end it with an act of clemency . 
`` The prisoner may be given over to the custody of the Hon. Edward Barrymore , who is chargeable with his safety until the fine be paid , and who will with any other person you may approve , enter into recognisance for his subsequent good behaviour . 
I can not bear to dwell on the image that her distress at this moment presents to my mind . 
Loveliness in distress -- and such loveliness as her 's ! 
Edward now took leave of his friends , and returned to Mr. Wilson 's . 
The Governor of Carrickfergus , having the discretionary power over the fine to be inflicted on him , fixed it at three thousand pounds , for which Edward , who transacted this business unknown to O'Halloran , immediately gave a draught on his Dublin banker . 
When these two gentlemen went to Carrickfergus for the purpose of transacting these matters , which they did the day but one succeeding that on which Edward arrived with the pardon , they found the courts-martial still busied with the state trials . 
Edward and Mr. Wilson returned in company with a number of the prisoners , who had been taken from the neighbourhood of Larne . 
On hearing their expressions of sorrow of the rash step they had taken , and their protestations of gratitude to the new viceroy for his clemency , he was forcibly struck with this proof of the advantage of conciliation over coercion in securing the tranquillity of a country . 
replied Edward , unthinkingly , `` either of the names will be agreeable to me that shall be most acceptable to you . '' 
`` I must then bear the misfortune , with as much fortitude as I may , '' returned Edward , perceiving the turn she had gaily given to his expression . 
But , Mr. Barrymore , '' she continued , turning to Edward , `` what news have you brought from Carrickfergus ? '' 
`` This is indeed pleasing intelligence , '' said Mrs. Brown , who had entered the room , as Edward was relating it . 
`` I can scarcely tell , '' he answered ; `` but I believe , I am enchantedhere . '' 
Neither is it in the power of steel to pierce you ; for when the assassin lifts his arm , either an angel , or , what answers the same purpose , a saint , protects you from the blow . 
`` If our fair enigmatical lecturer , '' observed Edward , `` labours under any malady , it is that of a warm heart , accompanied with a lively imagination , and an irresistible command over metaphorical ideas and expressions . '' 
As soon as this gentleman perceived Edward , he appeared somewhat startled . 
`` Yes , '' replied Edward , `` You were then on an important duty . '' 
`` That is nothing , '' said Edward . 
Edward and Ellen were , of course , always invited to these parties , and the easy urbanity , the respectful kindness , and cheerful politeness of the Northern Irish , made an indelible impression on Edward 's mind in their favour . 
By a man of O'Halloran 's disposition , a custom of this kind could not be neglected ; and as so many respectable people had of late shown him so much kindness , the party he invited was more than ordinarily numerous . 
After the usual entertainments of dinner , desert , tea , & c. the party in the height of glee , mirth , and enjoyment , resorted to a large room , where flaming chandeliers gave an artificial day , and harps , violins , and flutes , poured an animating stream of lively sounds , to give motion to their flowing spirits in the buoyancy of the bounding dance . 
It was about an hour before this sprightly and exhilarating amusement commenced , that a messenger arrived with the following note to Edward : `` Dear Barrymore -- I have at length followed you . 
Edward instantly acquainted O'Halloran with his friend 's arrival . 
Edward was conversing with a group of ladies , consisting of Ellen , Miss Agnew , two Misses Simpsons , and a Miss Moore , who had just sat down from the dance , when Charles was announced . 
Before they entered the brilliant scene of hilarity , joy , and beauty , he stopped Edward near the door , where unseen they had a full view of the whole party . 
`` Stay , Edward , '' said he , `` I , for a moment , wish to view at a distance , a constellation of charms , the splendor of whose beams , if too suddenly approached , might dazzle and confound me . '' 
`` Right , '' said Edward . 
At last , resting upon a group of ladies to the right , who were sitting in a kind of semicircle , `` If your goddess be within those walls , '' said he , `` yonder she is , surrounded by her attendant nymphs ; -- the lady with the damask rose on her breast . 
The sparkling brilliancy of her black eyes ; her high and circular forehead , as smooth as ivory ; her well formed Grecian nose ; her rosy cheeks ; and coral lips . 
What snowy whiteness of skin -- what delicate fullness -- what gentle swellings mark that half concealed seat of tenderness and love 's emotion ! '' 
cried Edward . 
-- `` I knew it , '' replied the other , `` and do not wonder that you have been overcome . 
Indeed , did I not know how that lovely object has already disposed of her heart , I could not answer for the safety of my own . 
-- In the name of all the Graces , Edward , who is she ? '' 
`` She is the Miss Agnew I have so often mentioned , '' replied Edward . 
Edward , '' exclaimed Charles , `` you charm me . 
No offence , Edward ; I acknowledge your enchantress to be the more perfect beauty , according to the usual notions of such matters . 
`` Check your rapture first , '' said Edward ; `` and do not play the fool when we approach . 
this is my friend , Mr. Martin , '' said Edward . 
She resumed her seat ; and Edward introduced him to Miss Agnew , who , without rising , made an assenting motion with her head , and said in a somewhat fluttered voice , that she joined in the welcome her friend had given him . 
It was led off by M`Claverty and Ellen ; while Edward followed with Miss Agnew for his partner , and Martin succeeded with the elder Miss Simpson . 
`` Why you have done better than I expected , '' replied Ellen ; for she did not indeed expect much agility from her partner , who was now nearly fifty years of age , and had not latterly been much accustomed to mingle in such active pastime . 
`` I suppose so , '' said he ; `` but twenty years ago , had you seen me , you would have both expected and found that I could have tired out the best of our youngsters here . 
But there is a time for all things ; and I am now hanging between the sober methodical feelings of your grandfather , and the warmimpassioned throb of the young Barrymore , who , I think is the best winded youth in the company . 
So saying , he joined a party of the elder gentlemen , who , in a recess at one end of the room , were enjoying themselves in the less fatiguing , less animating , but , to them , not less interesting amusement of the `` Spoiled Fifteen . '' 
Thenext morning Edward and Charles Martin called on the Recluse , with the Lord Lieutenant 's letter . 
`` My friend , '' said Edward , as he approached the latter , `` I have taken the liberty of introducing into your habitation , a friend whom I believe you have never seen , but of whom you have often heard . 
`` Yes ; and the manner of his death , is what , at present , so much afflicts me , '' answered the Recluse . 
`` I sincerely congratulate you , '' said Edward . 
Edward and Charles now left the cell , and with joyous hearts turned down the glen towards the shore ; while M`Nelvin set off for Jemmy Hunter , in order to send him express to the sheriff of the county with information of the pardon his friend had received . 
Edward and his friend having reached the beach , `` Do you behold yon rock '' said the former , `` at the foot of the precipice to the right hand . 
`` But , '' returned Edward , `` it was there , I was more than compensated for that privation , by the light of her lovely countenance visiting me , and showing me the way to liberty . '' 
`` It is remarkable , '' observed Edward , `` that we have been both doomed to loose our hearts in this bewitching country . 
`` Your 's is the superlative of love , I admit , '' said Edward . 
`` Yes , '' replied his friend ; `` I am full of curiosity to view that nest , in which so many ill-formed projects of rebellion have been hatched . '' 
-- `` But , not so fast '' -- interrupted Edward . 
As they walked towards the ladies , Martin observed , `` Since you have the key to my feelings , Edward , you can not but know that I am unhappy ; for , I perceived that my little sly tempter looked rather askance on me last night . 
`` Have courage , '' said Edward ; `` you must have your day of trial as well as others . 
After the first salutation , `` If it will not be intrusion '' said Edward , `` we should wish to share the pleasure of your ramble . '' 
`` Could we prevail on you to extend your walk , '' said Martin , looking timidly at Miss Agnew , `` we should be much gratified . '' 
replied Edward , `` there can be no species of recreation which we would prefer to your company . '' 
During this conversation , Edward and Ellen had proceeded some distance in advance of their friends , so that Martin perceived that he had an opportunity of expressing himself more freely and explicitly on the subject of his new born love . 
`` Oh , Edward , do you indeed speak the truth ? '' 
Edward now informed Ellen , that he expected her father had , by this time , thrown aside forever , his disguise ; and that in his own proper person , he would very soon appear at the Castle to confirm the intelligence with his own lips . 
`` Dead ! '' 
A FEW evenings after the foregoing incidents , Edward expressed a desire to view the celebrated cliffs called the `` Gabbon Heughs , '' being the only part of the Antrim coast which he had not formerly visited . 
They now passed rapidly along Brown 's bay , at the eastern extremity of which O'Halloran informed them that there was to be seen one of those ancient monuments of superstition , called Rocking Stones , by the instrumentality of which , the druidical priests are said to have imposed on their followers , the belief that they possessed preternatural powers . 
said Edward to Sir Francis . 
said Miss Agnew , coming round to the side of the rock where Edward and Sir Francis stood . 
`` It is concerning the creation of this moveable rock , '' replied Edward . 
`` None in the least , '' replied Edward . 
Edward and Martin had provided for such an enjoyment , by bringing flutes with them . 
She complied , and Edward accompanied her voice with the melody of his flute , while she sung , with much sweetness , the following words , to the tune of Burns 's `` Bonnie Doon . '' 
O'Halloran , Sir Francis , Edward and Martin , each seized one , and ran immediately to the boat . 
He soon reached the bottom , from whence he suddenly ascended a high rock connected with a headland which overlooked the islet , from which it jutted , forming a kind of terrace , hanging over the narrow strait that separated the two shores . 
Edward who during this conversation , sat beside her , did not utter a word . 
-- Send for the Rev. Mr. Nichols , and for any notary you think proper ; but let them come soon . 
In the meantime , request Miss O'Halloran to speak with me . 
A dying man can not harm her ; I wish her grandfather also to be present . '' 
Edward and Ellen , were therefore left to the unobserved and delicious enjoyment of their own society . 
Edward here started as if from a reverie . 
`` I shall counsel her to accept it , '' replied Edward ; and O'Halloran immediately withdrew . 
Edward , '' she replied . 
O'Halloran had gone to his library . 
`` Thank you , father , for this inestimable gift , '' cried Edward ; and forgetting himself in the delirium of the moment , `` Permit me too to embrace such excellence , '' said he to Ellen , and he also impressed a burning kiss on her cheek ere she was aware . 
Edward immediately perceived that he had acted rudely , and had given offence , and heartily condemning himself , he begged O'Halloran to intercede for his pardon . 
He then sought Ellen , and leading her back into Edward 's presence -- `` You must forgive this rash youth , '' said he , `` for I set him the example ; and he only forgot that he had not the weight of nearly threescore years on his head , to entitle him to such privileges . '' 
said Edward , imploringly . 
They both begged that he would not mention the incident , it was so ridiculous , and was now no more to be thought of by themselves . 
He cautioned them to keep their own secret , and he should certainly not betray them . 
said Ellen , wishing to turn the conversation into another channel , `` You refuse my offer ; may I ask the reason ? '' 
`` Because , my child , '' said O'Halloran , `` I do not need it . '' 
grandfather , '' said she , `` pardon my enquiry , for you know your welfare is necessary to mine . '' 
`` I suppose so , '' he replied ; `` and I shall just mention one thing to you , my daughter , not for the purpose of stifling the feelings of generosity in your bosom , which I hope will ever remain active there , but to remind you that property honestly obtained , should not be thrown away ; -- you may have children , and grandchildren . '' 
Edward and she instinctively exchanged looks full of meaning and emotion , and in much confusion she hastily left their presence . 
That very evening one of O'Halloran 's servants brought from the post-office , a letter to Edward from his father , and one to Sir Francis Hamilton from the Lord Lieutenant . 
Edward 's was as follows : `` My Son -- A few days ago , I received from you a very foolish letter , requesting me to consent to your marriage with a woman I never saw , nor , until that very moment , ever heard of . 
How could the loyal , the virtuous , the patriotic Edward Barrymore , he of whose promising talents and acquirements , his friends have been hitherto so proud , degrade himself , and the family whose representative he is , by such a connexion ? 
`` I speak nothing of the lady 's want of fortune , although I am informed that her grandfather , on whom she totally depends , has mortgaged his property for more than it is worth , for the wicked purpose too of procuring supplies for the rebel armies . 
sir , is it a time for any of the house of Barrymore to bask indolently in the rays of beauty , or in the enjoyment of female blandishments , when the fabric of society is tottering to its very foundations ? 
`` I call on you , I order you , to throw off your disgraceful chains and fly to the standard of your king and country . 
`` I have with true and undiminished esteem , the honour to be , & c. Edward and Sir Francis made hasty preparations to set off , in obedience to these requisitions , the next morning . 
Edward saw that , with respect to Ellen , his father had received some gross misrepresentations , which caused him , in the mean time , to labour under several grieviously mistaken impressions , but which he knew that , at their first interview , he could , by a simple statement of the truth , easily remove . 
I must now assist my country to the best of my abilities ; but fear not but that I shall soon return safe and victorious , and shall then claim her fairest daughter as the dear reward of my services . '' 
`` Go , then , my Edward ; and , if my unceasing prayers can prevail on Heaven to protect thee , thou shalt indeed return safe and uninjured . '' 
`` Then , my love , '' said he , `` heaven , I am assured , will hear thy prayers ; and I shall have nothing to fear . '' 
They now exchanged vows of lasting fidelity ; and Ellen retired to seek sympathy from the friendship of Miss Agnew . 
`` But I maunna be such a chicken as this , '' thought he , and he wiped them off with a courageous resolution , that they should have no successors . 
He was about three day 's march from the metropolis , when Edward Barrymore and his friends joined him . 
Edward 's father was so well pleased with his orders having been so promptly obeyed , that he received his son with much kindness . 
`` This is right , Edward , '' said he , taking him aside , `` you will now have a more honourable employment than sighing at the feet of a woman . '' 
sir , '' replied Edward , `` you do not know that woman , otherwise you would not speak so lightly of her . '' 
`` Why , I was told that O'Halloran is her name , and that her grandfather to save her from the disgrace of bearing that of a murderer , gave her his own . '' 
His own men were in the centre , where the ground was most accessible . 
For this purpose he despatched colonel Barrymore , with a party of about fifty horsemen , up the streamlet , while another trusty officer , with a similar party , went on the same errand in the opposite direction . 
Edward attended his father on this duty , and Jemmy Hunter who had , on his arrival at the camp , obtained permission to join the cavalry , was also of the party . 
The first and second of Barrymore 's horsemen he met scarcely obstructed his flying speed . 
He gave each only a passing blow with his sabre , by which he clove them from their horses , as if he had struck twigs from their stems . 
Opposition seemed to give way before him ; and , almost unobstructed , he directed his fearful course towards colonel Barrymore . 
Edward , alarmed for his father 's safety , galloped forward to arrest the death-blow , which he saw aimed against him ; but ere he could prevent it , that blow was given , and his father had fallen . 
Edward first exclaimed , `` M`Cauley ! '' 
`` Barrymore ! '' 
That moment Edward heard a groan from his father as some person raised him from the ground . 
Barrymore , I will not hurt you , if you should slay me on the spot . '' 
An instinctive feeling of reluctance to destroy a man thus voluntarily throwing himself in his power , occasioned Edward to desist from the attack . 
Had you slain him when I advised you , at the Point Rock , you would not now have to fight him . 
But , by God ! 
there 's another traitor that I 'll smite to the earth . '' 
He had that moment seen Jemmy Hunter , who was advancing to Edward 's assistance . 
He hastened towards him , exclaiming , `` Accursed villain ! 
Receive this ! '' 
But before he could wield his weapon , Jemmy 's sabre had fallen with well-aimed and resistless force , on his neck ; and his head hung half severed from his body , as if a school-boy 's wand had broken down the head of a thistle , and he immediately reeled from his horse . 
you were owre lang a gettin ' this , '' cried Jemmy . 
But the stroke was dexterously avoided , although it did not fall without mischief , for Hunter 's horse received it in his neck , and tumbled to the ground . 
M`Cauley would have repeated the blow with fatal effect , had not Edward sprung forward , and struck the falling blade with such force that it almost forsook its owner 's grasp . 
reiterated M`Cauley , assuming the countenance of a fiend -- `` By Heaven ! 
So saying , he withdrew a step backwards , as if to come forward with a surer aim , and redoubled force . 
Edward met him with equal force ; and his father 's groans still ringing in his ears , with a higher degree of rage than he had ever before felt . 
Fury flashed from the eyes of both , and when their weapons met the clash shook the air , the fiery sparks fell around them , and they both reeled with the concussion . 
Edward was an expert and educated swordsman ; and he now applied his science for his safety . 
A forward thrust by M`Cauley , who conceived that he had a fair opportunity for such a manuvre , was so well observed and so dexterously turned aside , that the weapon passed without doing injury , while Edward 's was instantly buried in his antagonist 's body , who fell , but uttered not a groan . 
Edward immediately ran to his father , whom he found almost speechless . 
A sense of public duty rushed on Edward 's mind , and mounting the horse of a man whom he ordered to remain with his father to support him and keep his wound staunched , he galloped after his men , who had again discomfited the insurgent party , and were just commencing a new pursuit . 
Having followed them to the very verge of their camp , which was now getting fast into confusion , he withdrew them back to the scene of his late action , in good order , no attempt being made by the enemy to follow them . 
As soon as this detachment reached its destination , and opened its fire , the insurgents on the whole of the left and rear of the French , fled in all directions , and were pursued with a too terrible slaughter by the cavalry . 
The firing immediately ceased on both sides , and after a short negociation , the French having lost about one third of their number , surrendered themselves prisoners of war . 
The insurgents to the right of the French , now followed the example of those who had occupied the left ; and in a short time , there was no enemy to be seen on the field . 
Being persuaded that the rebels were thoroughly dispersed , and that there was no danger of them rallying again to give any more disturbance , from motives of humanity , the viceroy soon ordered the pursuit to cease , so that this complete and decisive victory , which terminated the disasterous insurrection of 1798 , was achieved with far less bloodshed than from the numbers arrayed on both sides , previous to the engagement , could have been expected . 
This was undoubtedly owing to the judicious and humane plan which the viceroy took to disperse the insurgents , rather by intimidation than actual slaughter , in which he completely succeeded , as well as to his ordering the pursuit to be so soon relinquished . 
It was fortunate also , that there were few such resolute and daring men among the Southern conspirators as M`Cauley , otherwise the resistance , and consequently the slaughter , would have been infinitely greater . 
When Edward had obtained accommodations for his father in the house of a gentleman in the neighbourhood , and had left him under surgical care , he returned with Jemmy Hunter to where M`Cauley and Darragh lay , in order to ascertain their fate . 
Edward proposed that he should be carried to a house , and receive the care of a surgeon ; but to this he would not consent . 
`` Mr. Barrymore , I die because I was an assassin , as you please to term it ; for had you not enraged me by pronouncing a word which I considered an insult , I should not have fought you ; and you would not have slain me ; neither could you have done so to-day , had I been naturally of a more blood-thirsty disposition , for then , fifteen months ago , I should have taken the advice of the wretched man who lies there , and sent you unseen , or unheard of , to the grave . 
And now , if I have really been such a pest to the world , such a monster of mischief to society , as my enemies have called me , by my own forbearance you have lived to avenge the world , and rid society of me . 
`` Hear now my last words ; for I feel that I shall not be able to speak much longer . 
When Edward beheld him dead , his heart smote him . 
`` Edward , '' said his father , `` grieve not thus . 
Show yourself , whether in prosperity or in adversity , worthy of the house of Barrymore . 
Edward if you inherit any of your father 's principles and feelings , you will not , if fate requires it , regret to die for them . 
When you have children I know you will not , for the power of transmitting such a legacy as our incomparably happy form of government , can not be purchased too dear . 
what would be my pangs on this death-bed , if I perceived the enemies of that truly free and rational government , triumphant , and all its wise and venerable institutions in danger of being subverted by the demons of anarchy , bigotry and massacre . 
in the midst of my country 's madness , in the midst of her delirious attempts at self-destruction , the weapon has been wrested from her hand ; and although , in the blind fury of her paroxysm , she has inflicted dreadful wounds on her welfare and prosperity , yet , I trust , that the regenerating soundness of her constitution will soon repair her injuries , and restore her once more to vigour and happiness . 
`` Your mother , and your sister , will now look to you as their protector . 
`` My father , '' cried Edward , `` I shall , with all my soul , endeavour to be so . 
Sir Francis grasping the hand of the patient , which was extended to him , replied , `` I am sorry that my Edward , for I will now call him mine , so soon , so suddenly loses such a father . 
With all my heart and soul , I shall endeavour , however imperfectly , to supply the loss ; for if I were to search the whole civilized world , I should not find a man , whom my heart would prefer to him , as a husband for my daughter . '' 
`` Then , Edward , '' said the Colonel , `` give me your hand . 
Not many hours after this , Colonel Barrymore closed his eyes upon all earthly scenes . 
`` And I am content that it should be so , '' said he to Edward 's mother and sister , -LRB- who now resided at Barrymount for the purpose of giving him their society -RRB- for since my beloved brother has left this world , it is become to me a world of desolation . 
In the meantime Edward 's heart panted to visit the North . 
He , however , in almost daily letters , poured forth the ardour of his soul to his beloved , and received from her regular replies , which formed his only consolation during his present afflictions . 
`` Edward , '' said he , `` on you will soon devolve the duty of supporting , in the world , the name , rank , and respectability of our family , which I am proud to say has never yet been tarnished by a mean or an unprincipled act . 
I should be glad before I die to see that lady , whose conduct is to have such influence on the future reputation of the name of Barrymore ; for , on the mother of a family , the transmission of its character depends more than on any other individual . 
Her father , without any impropriety , may introduce her to your mother and sister , as a friend ; and I am sure he would not object to do so if he knew how ardently I wish it . '' 
Edward conceived that it would be fruitless as well as cruel to oppose this strange fancy of his uncle . 
Edward had received intelligence of the day on which they were to arrive . 
He dashed the pen across the lines , execrated his stupidity , and gave it up as an impracticable task . 
`` Why , Edward , you have asked me that question , I believe , ten times since breakfast . '' 
Well , well , if it were two , and it wants but an hour and twenty minutes of it , it would then be only three hours till five . 
-- But , Charlotte , wont you take a ride ? 
I shall order the chaise . '' 
`` I shall go with you in an hour , Edward . '' 
In short they took their ride , met Sir Francis 's coach , returned in company with it to the Earl 's ; and Edward 's time for about ten days , the duration of Ellen 's visit , flew with the rapidity of a delicious dream . 
`` Upon my honour , '' said he to Edward , the evening after Ellen had left them , `` you are a happy young man . 
His title , therefore , together with his immense property , devolved on Edward , who in a very short period , took occasion , in company with nis mother and sister , to visit the North , and lay them at the feet of Ellen . 
Besides , I can not without concern , contemplate the high responsibility of the station I am about to fill . 
Should I fail in any part of my duty -- '' `` My Ellen ! '' 
You will be an example to our peeresses of all that is virtuous , lovely , dignified , and wise . 
In the eyes of your Edward , station can not exalt you . 
He will soon move you to a more busy and brilliant sphere , where , while every eye admires your lustre , and every heart acknowledges your value , you will still be to him , as you have been here , the pride , the delight of his soul , the dearest part of himself . '' 
On their entering the parlour , Edward 's sister maliciously consulted her watch . 
Charlotte , you may now laugh ; -- but , I hope , I shall yet have my revenge , by observing your little heart beating impatiently for the arrival of an esteemed friend . '' 
`` Yes , my sister , '' said he , `` and may he who can excite similar emotions in your heart , be as worthy of love , as the object who occasioned that day 's impatience in mine ! '' 
The tea-table was scarcely removed , when Miss Barrymore , looking from a window , exclaimed , `` Why , my lord , I declare , yonder is the old beggar woman you left an invalid on our hands , when you set off so hastily from Dublin in June last . 
She had become perfectly convalescent , and had returned from Dublin during the time that Edward was employed in Cornwallis 's army ; and was now a fund of great entertainment to the whole neighbourhood , for several miles round , by her inexhaustible descriptions of the great city , and the great folks in it . 
`` I 'm tauld he 's come , '' said she , `` an ' I 'll wait here till I see him , for I hae na cast an ee on him syne the day he left me in sic a hurry , in his father 's hoose , a perfect cripple , wi ' my twa shanks as thick as butter-firkins , an ' my feet blistered like broiled herrin 's . 
`` Old Peg has a good heart , '' said Edward . 
`` I may be owre bauld ; but I wished to see his honour , wha , they tell me , is noo a young lord , yince mair . '' 
replied Edward , `` you have rendered us many and great services . 
His honour there , my auld master an ' frien ' , has already gi'en me a snug yin ; an ' he lets me besides hae a hantel o ' siller every week ; indeed mair than I ken weel what to do wi ' , for I can neither wear it , nor eat it ; an ' ye ken it wad na be richt to drink it . 
But , gin it wad na be makin ' owre free , I would like to see the bonny bairn your sister , wha was sae kind to me when I was a bedrill in Dublin . '' 
`` My bonnie lady , '' said Peg , courtesying to her , `` I was unco troublesome to you up the country , an ' I just wanted to thank you , noo when I 'm won back to my ain country . '' 
`` If it would na affront you , '' returned Peg , abruptly , `` to tak ' a gift frae an auld beggar wife , I would fain gie you a pretty thing I fan ' among the stanes near the Point Rock , yestreen , as I was saunterin ' alang gathering limpits . '' 
While saying this , she unfolded a piece of old rag , and presented to view a handsome gold broach , set with diamonds , of great value . 
Edward instantly recognised it as one that he had lost when struggling with the waves on the evening which had so nearly proved fatal to him . 
When she was gone , O'Halloran informed his lordship that after her return from Dublin , in consequence of her active instrumentality in saving his life , he felt himself bound to provide for her future comfort ; and had bestowed her a cottage , and settled on her a weekly allowance during her life , which , considering her careless and wandering disposition , he observed was a more effectual way of rewarding her , than by the actual donation of a more considerable sum of money , or a larger piece of property . '' 
Edward being desirous to see M`Nelvin , O'Halloran and he walked to Jemmy Hunter 's with the expectation of finding him there . 
The grain harvest was all gathered in ; and the country people had been busied during the day in raising and securing the potatoes , and as our friends went along , they passed many car-loadsof this wholesome and agreeable root , so precious to the Irish , on their way to the farm-houses . 
After the capture of the French , Jemmy , whose habits of life were not formed for dependence on the great , and whose domestic attachments were too strong to permit his long continuance from his family , relinquished his situation under Sir Francis Hamilton , and returned home . 
On Barrymore and O'Halloran approaching close to the house , the cheering sounds of rustic mirth and happiness saluted their ears . 
Barrymore looked , and his heart swelled with joy to behold a number of as healthy , honest and happy human countenances , as any family group in Christendom could exhibit . 
M`Nelvin , Jemmy Hunter , and a decent looking young man whom Barrymore did not know , but who , it will be no harm to suppose , was a suitor to one of the Miss Hunters , sat in front of the hearth ; while on a long bench between the hearth and a stone wall , which ran across the apartment , sat two ruddy faced youths , younger brothers to Jemmy , one of whom had the housedog , which was of the large black species , called in that part of the country , the `` Collie , '' between his knees . 
To some remark of M`Nelvin , which Edward did not hear , old Caldwell replied , `` I 'm very happy at the turn things hae ta'en ; an ' I 'm sure a ' the country will be rejoiced at it , for he 's a guid youth . '' 
said Jemmy , clapping the poet on the knee , when the song was ended , `` you deserve a fairin ' for making it . 
The next moment Edward and O'Halloran advanced , and saluted the company . 
cried Edward , ardently shaking the poet by the hand . 
Edward now turned to salute William Caldwell and the rest of the company . 
I thought , my friend , to add to your happiness for the many great services you have rendered me , but I find it impossible ; for these treasures make you happier than man can make you . 
The gift of Edward , earl of Barrymore , to Edward Hunter . 
An ' I 'll no ' hide it , though it is a secret she does na hersel ' ken ; it was mair to please her than to compliment ony body else , that we ca 'd him Edward . '' 
`` I see , my lord , your motive for this generous offer , '' returned M`Nelvin . 
In an adjoining valley I had my birth ; amidst these hills I was educated ; every thing that has interested me from the days of childhood to this very hour , has appeared within these limits ; and , if I were to remove from them , I should remove from that portion of the world , which could alone yield me enjoyment by interesting my affections . 
But , '' she would add , `` without my Edward , the enjoyment of friends , country , and every thing else I have hitherto prized , could not make me happy . 
After spending a reasonable time in courtship , Charles Martin followed the example of his friend Barrymore , and , in due form , exchanged matrimonial vows with the sprightly and laughter-loving Miss Agnew . 
