` No , no , ' says I , ` I 'll joint him for ye , Mr. Harrington . 
You shall have him in joints , and eat him at home ; ' -- ha ! 
`` Just like him ! '' 
Now Mel was a great favourite with the Admiral , and with his lady , too , -- they say -- and the Admiral played into his hands , you see , and , says he , ` I 'm not aware that it has , Mr. Harrington . ' 
And he begged for to know why he asked the question -- called him , ` Mister , ' you understand . 
So Mel said , and I can see him now -- right out from his chest he spoke , with his head up -- ` When I was a younger man , I had the good taste to be fond of good society , and the bad taste to wish to appear different from what I was in it . ' 
That 's Mel speaking ; everybody was listening ; so he goes on . 
I think his name is -- '' `` Evan , my lady . '' 
`` Evan . 
It was of him we have been speaking . 
In the meantime Evan , a lad of seventeen , spent the hours not devoted to his positive profession -- that of gentleman -- in the offices of the brewery , toying with big books and balances , which he despised with the combined zeal of the sucking soldier and emancipated tailor . 
The Countess narrowly examined Evan , whose steady advance in his profession both her sisters praised . 
But Evan has it not . 
But Evan is no worse than the rest of you ; I acknowledge that . 
If he knew how to dress his shoulders properly , and to direct his eyes -- Oh ! 
`` But I acknowledge that Evan is no worse than the rest of you , '' she repeated . 
`` If he understood at all the management of his eyes and mouth ! 
But that 's what he can not possibly learn in England -- not possibly ! 
By the way , were n't we talking of Evan ? 
I asked him coolly , whether the Mr. Harrington he mentioned was not the son of Sir Abraham Harrington , of Torquay , -- the gentleman who lost his yacht in the Lisbon waters , last year ? 
With regard to Evan , the Countess had far outstripped her sisters in her views . 
Now , Evan had no title , no money . 
To gain a title he would have to scale aged mountains . 
There was one break in his firmament through which the radiant luminary might be assisted to cast its beams on him still young . 
If he could but make a rich marriage he would blaze transfigured ; all would be well ! 
And why should not Evan marry an heiress , as well as another ? 
Well , Rose Jocelyn would just suit Evan . 
Evan would be out of-the way there , certainly . 
But -- our women are very nice : they have the dearest , sweetest ways : but I would rather Evan did not marry one of them . 
she concluded : `` I will take Evan over with me , and see that he has opportunities . 
It shall be Rose , and then I can call her mine ; for in verity I love the child . '' 
It is not my part to dispute the Countess 's love for Miss Jocelyn ; and I have only to add that Evan , unaware of the soft training he was to undergo , and the brilliant chance in store for him , offered no impediment to the proposition that he should journey to Portugal with his aunt -LRB- whose subtlest flattery was to tell him that she should not be ashamed to own him there -RRB- ; and ultimately , furnished with cash for the trip by the remonstrating brewer , went . 
Why are you so mysterious , Evan ? 
`` Why are you so singular this morning , Evan ? 
Mr. Skerne righted about to satisfy her minutely , and then coming up to Evan , he touched his hat , and said : `` I may n't have another opportunity -- we shall be busy up there -- of thankin ' you again , sir , for what you did for my poor drunken brother Bill , and you may take my word I wo n't forget it , sir , if he does ; and I suppose he 'll be drowning his memory just as he was near drowning himself . '' 
Evan muttered something , grimaced civilly , and turned away . 
The girl 's observant brows were moved to a faintly critical frown , and nodding intelligently to the boatswain 's remark , that the young gentleman did not seem quite himself , now that he was nearing home , she went up to Evan , and said : `` I 'm going to give you a lesson in manners , to be quits with you . 
`` I do n't want to be thanked because I can swim , '' said Evan . 
Does n't it make them happier , dear Evan ? '' 
Evan was silent . 
The honest grey eyes fixed on him , narrowed their enlarged lids . 
A youth who is engaged in the occupation of eating his heart , can not shine to advantage , and is as much a burden to himself as he is an enigma to others . 
Evan felt this ; but he could do nothing and say nothing ; so he retired deeper into the folds of the Don , and remained picturesque and scarcely pleasant . 
`` Now , what will you wager me , Evan , that the Countess does n't begin : ` Sweet child ! 
Rose went round the table to her little cousin Alec , aged seven , kissed his reluctant cheek , and sat beside him , announcing a sea appetite and great capabilities , while Evan silently broke bread . 
The Count de Saldar , a diminutive tawny man , just a head and neck above the tablecloth , sat sipping chocolate and fingering dry toast , which he would now and then dip in jelly , and suck with placidity , in the intervals of a curt exchange of French with the wife of the Hon. Melville , a ringleted English lady , or of Portuguese with the Countess , who likewise sipped chocolate and fingered dry toast , and was mournfully melodious . 
she asked Evan , rather abruptly . 
On deck the Countess paced with Evan , and was for a time pleasantly diverted by the admiration she could , without looking , perceive that her sorrow-subdued graces had aroused in the breast of a susceptible naval lieutenant . 
Evan laughed : `` What ! 
`` And tell me of her who pushed you forward , Evan ? '' 
Put your faith in an older head , Evan . 
Evan said : `` Yes , and I should have liked to have told her this morning that I 'm myself nothing more than the son of a -- '' `` Stop ! '' 
cried his sister , glancing about in horror . 
`` Then you do not love her , Evan ? '' 
Evan did not contest it . 
`` And assuredly you will lose her , Evan . 
Evan took her hand , and patted it tenderly . 
Evan received the accusation of possessing more of his mother 's spirit than his father 's in silence . 
She saw him redden grievously , and blink his eyes ; and not wishing to probe him so that he would feel intolerable disgust at his imprisonment in the Don , she continued : `` But you have the sense to see your duties , Evan . 
A Portuguese who had saved a man 's life , Evan , would he have been so boorish ? 
`` Yes , '' said Evan , `` one of them did . 
Much of his worldly sister at a time was more than Evan could bear . 
The Countess smiled a slowly-kindling smile up to him , set her brother adrift , and delicately linked herself to Evan 's benefactor . 
He at once assured her he hoped not , he thought not at all . 
The diplomatist looked into her uplifted visage , that had all the sugary sparkles of a crystallised preserved fruit of the Portugal clime , and observed , confidentially , that , with every willingness in the world to serve her , he did think it would possibly be better , for a time , to be upon that footing , apart from political considerations . 
Evan stood at the fore part of the vessel . 
Evan responded . 
The incessant fears of his diplomatic sister had succeeded in making him painfully jealous of this subject . 
He turned it off . 
Of an English gentleman , Evan . 
Something you are , sir , '' she added , surveying him . 
Evan sucked the bitter and the sweet of her explanation . 
His sister in her anxiety to put him on his guard , had not beguiled him to forget his real state . 
His sister , the diplomatist and his lady , the refugee Count , with ladies ' maids , servants , and luggage , were now on the main-deck , and Master Alec , who was as good as a newspaper correspondent for private conversations , put an end to the colloquy of the young people . 
Evan and Rose regarded each other . 
The latter came to Evan , and said : `` A fellow of the name of Goren wants you . 
Evan advanced , and bowed stiffly . 
Embarrassed , and not quite alive to the chapter of facts this name should have opened to him , Evan bowed again . 
He had a cracked voice that , when he spoke a word of two syllables , commenced with a lugubrious crow , and ended in what one might have taken for a curious question . 
The diplomatist and his lady gradually edged back : but Rose remained beside the Countess , who breathed quick , and seemed to have lost her self-command . 
Evan can not bear it . 
She had to whisper to Evan to hasten away with the horrible man . 
Evan touched the hand of Rose without meeting her eyes . 
He was soon cast off in Mr. Goren 's boat . 
said Evan . 
Suddenly he stopped , blinked queerly at Evan , grew pensive , and said , `` Bless my soul ! 
The door opened , Mr. Andrew took Evan 's arm , murmured a `` hush ! '' 
Evan congratulated him ; but another inquiry was in Mr. Andrew 's aspect , and Evan 's calm , sad manner answered it . 
Mr. Andrew again interrogated Evan with his eyes . 
`` My father is dead , '' said Evan . 
`` He is to be buried to-morrow , '' said Evan . 
I 'll , '' he rang the bell , `` have my chop in here with you . 
He announced : `` Dinner to-day at half-past six , as usual , sir , '' bowed , and retired . 
Evan lifted up his face to sigh : `` I 'm almost sick of it ! '' 
Evan groaned . 
As he spoke , he clapped Evan kindly on the back . 
A message was brought from the ladies , requiring Evan to wait on them . 
He returned after some minutes . 
Evan 's brow was dark , as he replied : `` They are not decided . '' 
Evan gazed at him steadily . 
Death 's levelling influence was in Evan 's mind . 
He was ready to say why , and fully . 
He became confused , and shot his head from side to side , looking anywhere but at Evan . 
Evan partly divined him then . 
But at dinner his behaviour was perplexing . 
He was too cheerful . 
He pledged the Count . 
He would have the Portuguese for this and that , and make Anglican efforts to repeat it , and laugh at his failures . 
He would not see that there was a father dead . 
Evan was whispered that he was to join them when he might , without seeming mysterious to the Count . 
Before he reached them , they had talked tearfully over the clothes he should wear at Lymport , agreeing that his present foreign apparel , being black , would be suitable , and would serve almost as disguise , to the inhabitants at large ; and as Evan had no English wear , and there was no time to procure any for him , that was well . 
They arranged exactly how long he should stay at Lymport , whom he should visit , the manner he should adopt towards the different inhabitants . 
By all means he was to avoid the approach of the gentry . 
For hours Evan , in a trance , half stupefied , had to listen to the Countess 's directions how he was to comport himself in Lymport . 
He came to me : `` Madame , '' he said , ` is a question permitted ? ' 
Evan knew his brother-in-law meant money . 
He negatived the requirement of anything whatever , with an air of careless decision , though he was aware that his purse barely contained more than would take him the distance , but the instincts of this amateur gentleman were very fine and sensitive on questions of money . 
`` And you think a Harrington would confess he wanted money ! '' 
`` Evan would walk -- he would die rather . 
It was treating him like a mendicant . '' 
Evan reddened , for it brought the scene on board the Jocasta vividly to his mind . 
He took counsel with the clerks of the office , and eventually the volunteer mimic conducted him to certain livery stables , where Evan , like one accustomed to command , ordered a chariot to pursue the coach , received a touch of the hat for a lordly fee , and was soon rolling out of London . 
The postillion had every reason to believe that he carried a real gentleman behind him ; in other words , a purse long and liberal . 
Evan reclined in the chariot , revolving his sensations . 
In another mood he would have called them thoughts , perhaps , and marvelled at their immensity . 
One might have supposed , from his occasional mutterings at the pace regulated by the postillion , that he was burning with anxiety to catch the flying coach . 
He had forgotten it : forgotten that he was giving chase to anything . 
A pair of wondering feminine eyes pursued him , and made him fret for the miles to throw a thicker veil between him and them . 
His sisters , weeping for their father and holding aloof from his ashes , Evan swept from his mind . 
He called up the man his father was : the kindliness , the readiness , the gallant gaiety of the great Mel . 
Youths are fascinated by the barbarian virtues ; and to Evan , under present influences , his father was a pattern of manhood . 
He asked himself : Was it infamous to earn one 's bread ? 
and answered it very strongly in his father 's favour . 
The great Mel 's creditors were not by to show him another feature of the case . 
Hitherto , in passive obedience to the indoctrination of the Countess , Evan had looked on tailors as the proscribed race of modern society . 
He had pitied his father as a man superior to his fate ; but despite the fitfully honest promptings with Rose -LRB- tempting to him because of the wondrous chivalry they argued , and at bottom false probably as the hypocrisy they affected to combat -RRB- , he had been by no means sorry that the world saw not the spot on himself . 
The clear result of Evan 's solitary musing was to cast a sort of halo over Tailordom . 
By a singular caprice of fancy , Evan had no sooner grasped this image , than it was suggested that he might as well inspect his purse , and see how much money he was master of . 
To the postillion Evan was indebted for one of his first lessons . 
The postillion could remember gentlemen who did not object : who had even given him cigars . 
Evan jumped out . 
`` I do n't think I 'll take you any farther , '' he said . 
The postillion laughed to scorn the notion of his caring how far he went . 
With a pipe in his mouth , he insinuatingly remarked he could jog on all night , and throw sleep to the dogs . 
`` No , no ; I wo n't take you any farther , '' Evan repeated . 
With an effort , indifferently masked , Evan blurted : `` By the way , tell me -- how much -- what is the charge for the distance we 've come ? '' 
The postillion would rather have had to do with the gentleman royal , who is above base computation ; but he knew the humanity in the class he served , and with his conception of Evan , only partially dimmed , he remarked : `` Oh-h-h ! 
Meantime Evan drew out his purse , a long one , certainly , but limp . 
Out of this drowned-looking wretch the last spark of life was taken by the sum the postillion ventured to name ; and if paying your utmost farthing without examination of the charge , and cheerfully stepping out to walk fifty miles , penniless , constituted a postillion 's gentleman , Evan would have passed the test . 
`` There , '' said Evan , `` I shall walk . 
And he flung his cloak to step forward . 
arrested him . 
Pride was the one developed faculty of Evan 's nature . 
I will not say that the postillion stripped off the mask for him , at that instant completely ; but he gave him the first true glimpse of his condition . 
From the vague sense of being an impostor , Evan awoke to the clear fact that he was likewise a fool . 
It was impossible for him to deny the man 's claim , and he would not have done it , if he could . 
Acceding tacitly , he squeezed the ends of his purse in his pocket , and with a `` Let me see , '' tried his waistcoat . 
Not too impetuously ; for he was careful of betraying the horrid emptiness till he was certain that the powers who wait on gentlemen had utterly forsaken him . 
He discovered a small coin , under ordinary circumstances not contemptible ; but he did not stay to reflect , and was guilty of the error of offering it to the postillion . 
The latter peered at it in the centre of his palm ; gazed queerly in the gentleman 's face , and then lifting the spit of silver for the disdain of his mistress , the moon , he drew a long breath of regret at the original mistake he had committed , and said : `` That 's what you 're goin ' to give me for my night 's work ? '' 
The powers who wait on gentlemen had only helped the pretending youth to try him . 
The postillion would have fought it : he would not have despised his fare . 
The postillion continued his question . 
`` You heard what I said , '' Evan remarked . 
he observed , as one whom mental conflict has brought to the philosophy of the case , `` now was we to change places , I could n't ' a done it ! 
he reiterated , pausing emphatically . 
he magnanimously resumed ; `` take it ! 
A good genius prompted Evan to avoid the silly squabble that might have ensued and made him ridiculous . 
He took the money , quietly saying , `` Thank you . '' 
Not to lose his vantage , the postillion , though a little staggered by the move , rejoined : `` Do n't mention it . '' 
Evan then said : `` Good night , my man . 
He did not speak offensively ; rather it seemed , to appease his conscience for the original mistake he had committed , for subsequently came , `` My oath on it , I do n't get took in again by a squash hat in a hurry ! '' 
Unaware of the ban he had , by a sixpenny stamp , put upon an unoffending class , Evan went a-head , hearing the wheels of the chariot still dragging the road in his rear . 
He had asked and received more than his due . 
But in the matter of his sweet self , he had been choused , as he termed it . 
As a Jew , therefore , may eye an erewhile bondsman who has paid the bill , but stands out against excess of interest on legal grounds , the postillion regarded Evan , of whom he was now abreast , eager for a controversy . 
`` I ought to think so , '' said Evan , mastering the shrewd unpleasantness he felt in the colloquy forced on him . 
Even informed him that he never played jokes with money , or on men . 
The postillion laughed hollow from the end of his lungs . 
To which Evan said , `` Pray smoke , if it pleases you . '' 
However , he presently astonished Evan by pulling up his horses , and crying that he was on his way to Hillford to bait , and saw no reason why he should not take a lift that part of the road , at all events . 
Evan thanked him briefly , but declined , and paced on with his head bent . 
the postillion sang out , pursuing him . 
Evan again declined , and looked out for a side path to escape the fellow , whose bounty was worse to him than his abuse , and whose mention of the sixpence was unlucky . 
Evan 's young pride may have had a little of that base mixture in it , and certainly he would have preferred that the invitation had not been made to him ; but he was capable of appreciating what the rejection of a piece of friendliness involved , and as he saw that the man was sincere , he did violence to himself , and said : `` Very well ; then I 'll jump in . '' 
This act of service Evan valued . 
he said , turning round , with one foot on the step . 
`` Well , sir , '' the postillion sent his hat aside to answer . 
Evan , surprised and pleased with him , dropped the bit of money in his hand , saying : `` It will fill a pipe for you . 
But it was doubtless owing to a strong emotion in his soul , as well as to the stuff he was made of , that the youth behaved as he did . 
Evan , I dare say , was long in learning to draw any gratification from the fact that he had achieved without money the unparalleled conquest of a man . 
The postillion wished him good speed , and Evan shook his hand . 
He did so rather abruptly , for the postillion was fumbling at his pocket , and evidently rounding about a proposal in his mind . 
As there is hardly any situation , however , so interesting to reflect upon as that of a man without a penny in his pocket , and a gizzard full of pride , we will leave Mr. Evan Harrington to what fresh adventures may befall him , walking towards the funeral plumes of the firs , under the soft midsummer flush , westward , where his father lies . 
cried Mrs. Fiske , `` why did n't you put it off for another day , to give Evan a chance ? '' 
Mrs. Fiske was requested to put towels in Evan 's bedroom . 
Evan kissed her cheek . 
Mrs. Mel examined him with those eyes of hers that compassed objects in a single glance . 
asked Evan , and proceeded immediately to make inquiries about her health , which she satisfied with a nod . 
Lawyer Perkins touched the arm of a mourner about to be experimental on Kilne 's port : `` I think we had better wait till young Mr. Harrington takes the table , do n't you see ? '' 
Mr. Harrington has led me to anticipate that he will appoint a day . 
What 's he doing ? '' 
The delay in Evan 's attendance on the guests of the house was caused by the fact that Mrs. Mel had lain in wait for him descending , to warn him that he must treat them with no supercilious civility , and to tell him partly the reason why . 
On hearing the potential relations in which they stood towards the estate of his father , Evan hastily and with the assurance of a son of fortune , said they should be paid . 
pursued Evan , on whom the tidings were beginning to operate . 
It mattered little to her what sort of effect on his demeanour her revelation produced , so long as the resolve she sought to bring him to was nailed in his mind ; and she was a woman to knock and knock again , till it was firmly fixed there . 
The door closed upon Evan , and waiting at the foot of the stairs a minute to hear how he was received , Mrs. Mel went to the kitchen and called the name of Dandy , which brought out an ill-built , low-browed , small man , in a baggy suit of black , who hopped up to her with a surly salute . 
Pleading their wives and shops , however , they released Evan from his miserable office late in the afternoon . 
His mother came down to him , and saying , `` I see how you did the journey -- you walked it , '' told him to follow her . 
`` Yes , mother , '' Evan yawned , `` I walked part of the way . 
`` Ah , so it is , '' muttered Evan , eyeing a print . 
I 'd have given anything to press his hand , '' and looking wistfully at the Percy lifting the hand of Douglas dead , Evan 's eyes filled with big tears . 
Evan burst out . 
In spite of his remonstrances and petitions for talk , she took off his coat and waistcoat , contemptuously criticising the cloth of foreign tailors and their absurd cut . 
asked Evan . 
She still treated him like a boy , whom she was going to force to the resolution of a man . 
Dandy 's sleeping-room was on the same floor as Evan 's . 
The house was dark and silent when Evan , refreshed by his rest , descended to seek his mother . 
With a tenderness which Mrs. Mel permitted rather than encouraged , Evan put his arm round her neck , and kissed her many times . 
One of the symptoms of heavy sorrow , a longing for the signs of love , made Evan fondle his mother , and bend over her yearningly . 
and quietly sat through his caresses . 
he whispered . 
he took a chair close by her side , `` tell me my father 's last words . '' 
Evan 's forehead wrinkled up . 
His mother turned her face on him , and examined him with a rigorous placidity ; all her features seeming to bear down on him . 
Evan did not like the look . 
`` I have rather given up the army , '' said Evan . 
Mrs. Mel requested him to tell her what a colonel 's full pay amounted to ; and again , the number of years it required , on a rough calculation , to attain that grade . 
In reply to his statement , she observed : `` A tailor might realise twice the sum in a quarter of the time . '' 
cried Evan , impetuously ; and to avoid the theme , and cast off the bad impression it produced on him , he rubbed his hands , and said : `` I want to talk to you about my prospects , mother . '' 
The severity of her mien and sceptical coldness of her speech caused him to inspect them suddenly , as if she had lent him her eyes . 
He put them by , till the gold should recover its natural shine , saying : `` By the way , mother , I 've written the half of a History of Portugal . '' 
Informing him that he knew she abominated foreign names , she said : `` And your prospects are , writing Histories of Portugal ? '' 
`` You write a good hand , '' his mother interposed . 
Evan carelessly remarked that he must wait and see . 
`` A very proper thing to do , '' said Mrs. Mel ; for now that she had fixed him to some explanation of his prospects ; she could condescend , in her stiff way , to banter . 
Slightly touched by it , Evan pursued , half-laughing , as men do who wish to propitiate common sense on behalf of what seems tolerably absurd : `` It 's not the immediate income , you know , mother : one thinks of one 's future . 
In justice to Mr. Evan Harrington , it must be said , he built up this extraordinary card-castle to dazzle his mother 's mind : he had lost his right grasp of her character for the moment , because of an undefined suspicion of something she intended , and which sent him himself to take refuge in those flimsy structures ; while the very altitude he reached beguiled his imagination , and made him hope to impress hers . 
Though Evan answered cheerfully , `` Oh , they will wait , and I can live on anything , '' he was nevertheless floundering on the ground amid the ruins of the superb edifice ; and his mother , upright and rigid , continuing , `` You can live on anything , and they will wait , and call your father a rogue , '' he started , grievously bitten by one of the serpents of earth . 
Evan exclaimed . 
Evan jumped up and walked the room . 
he cried . 
Evan faced her : `` My dear mother , you are very unjust and inconsiderate . 
Evan looked as proud as if he had just clapped down the full amount on the table . 
Mrs. Mel raised her eyelids to him . 
Then Evan came close to her , saying : `` What is it you want of me , mother ? '' 
`` I will try , '' he rejoined . 
faltered Evan . 
said Evan . 
And visions of leprosy , and Rose shrinking her skirts from contact with him , shadowed out and away in his mind . 
There is that in the aspect of a fine frame breathing hard facts , which , to a youth who has been tumbled headlong from his card-castles and airy fabrics , is masterful , and like the pressure of a Fate . 
Evan drooped his head . 
Evan told her he could not eat . 
cried Evan . 
She looked at him to see whether the string she held him by would bear this slight additional strain : decided not to press a small point . 
`` Then go to bed and sleep on it , '' she said -- sure of him -- and gave her cheek for his kiss , for she never performed the operation , but kept her mouth , as she remarked , for food and speech , and not for slobbering mummeries . 
Evan returned to his solitary room . 
He sat on the bed and tried to think , oppressed by horrible sensations of self-contempt , that caused whatever he touched to sicken him . 
Evan would have paid it with his blood ; but to be in bondage all his days to it ; through it to lose all that was dear to him ; to wear the length of a loathed existence ! 
-- Evan went down to bury his father . 
He 's there now . 
You would n't see him when he was at the brewery , Tom . 
Jeering jarred on him ; and from the moment his brother began it , he was of small service to Evan . 
He still sat at his table , holding before him Evan 's letter , of which he had got possession ; and knocking it round and round with a stroke of the forefinger , to the tune of , `` Tinker , tailor , soldier , sailor , ` pothecary , ploughboy , thief ; '' each profession being sounded as a corner presented itself to the point of his nail . 
The Countess kissed her mother , kissed Mrs. Fiske , and asked sharply for Evan . 
Mrs. Fiske let her know that Evan was in the house . 
Flapping her laces for air , and wiping her eyes for sorrow , the Countess poured a flood of sympathy into her mother 's ears and then said : `` But you have made a great mistake , Mama , in allowing Evan to put his foot into that place . 
He -- beloved of an heiress ! 
Why , if an enemy should hear of it , it would ruin him -- positively blast him -- for ever . 
And that she loves him I have proof positive . 
She loves him ! 
And what revelation so awful as that he has stood in a -- in a -- boutique ? '' 
It had occurred to her that it might do no good to tell the grand lady , her daughter , of Evan 's resolution , so she simply said , `` It is discipline for him , '' and left her to speak a private word with the youth . 
She had come in good spirits , but the mention of Evan 's backsliding had troubled her extremely , and though she did not say to herself , What was the benefit resulting from her father 's dying , if Evan would be so base-minded ? 
when Evan appeared alone . 
said Evan , coldly stooping to her forehead . 
It 's a disguise , Evan -- do you know that ? '' 
`` And I 've parted with it -- that 's all , '' said Evan . 
The Countess immediately took his arm , and walked with him to a window . 
His face was certainly changed . 
Murmuring that the air of Lymport was bad for him , and that he must leave it instantly , she bade him sit and attend to what she was about to say . 
`` While you have been here , degenerating , Evan , day by day -- as you always do out of my sight -- degenerating ! 
And I have an invitation for you , Evan ! 
And the tears I wept for Sir Abraham , Evan , in verity they were tears of deep and sincere gratitude ! 
Evan hastily composed his visage to the melancholy that was no counterfeit in him just then . 
Evan ! '' 
Growing cognisant of the infamy of his posture , the Countess begged Evan to drive him out of her sight , and took a sniff at her smelling-bottle . 
Evan hastily answered . 
`` I tell you , Louisa , I do n't want to hear a word of any of them , '' said Evan , with an angry gleam in his eyes . 
Evan exclaimed . 
But while I live , Evan , you shall not sink in the sludge . 
`` True , '' said Evan , `` for I 'm going to London to-night . '' 
Again the Countess eyed him largely ; but took , as it were , a side-path from her broad thought , saying : `` Yes , fortunes are made in London , if you would they should be rapid . '' 
`` Very well , '' replied Evan , moving . 
He was swung violently round . 
The Countess had clutched him by the arm . 
Too late to arrest the villanous word , she pulled at him . 
said Evan . 
But , Evan , you are getting away from me : you are not going ? 
`` I am going , '' said Evan . 
The Countess clung to him , exclaiming : `` Never , while I have the power to detain you ! '' 
but as he was firm and strong , she had recourse to her woman 's aids , and burst into a storm of sobs on his shoulder -- a scene of which Mrs. Mel was , for some seconds , a composed spectator . 
Mrs. Mel desired her daughter to avoid being ridiculous , and making two fools in her family ; and at the same time that she told Evan there was no occasion for him to go , contrived , with a look , to make the advice a command . 
He , in that state of mind when one takes bitter delight in doing an abhorred duty , was hardly willing to be submissive ; but the despair of the Countess reduced him , and for her sake he consented to forego the sacrifice of his pride which was now his sad , sole pleasure . 
Feeling him linger , the Countess relaxed her grasp . 
Hers were tears that dried as soon as they had served their end ; and , to give him the full benefit of his conduct , she said : `` I knew Evan would be persuaded by me . '' 
Evan pitifully pressed her hand , and sighed . 
`` I am dependent on our Evan . '' 
`` You are kind , '' said the Countess , smiling internally at the vulgar creature 's misconception of Evan 's requirements . 
A twinge of weakness had made Evan request that the name of Evan Harrington should not decorate the shop-front till he had turned his back on it , for a time . 
Relieved at hearing that ` Melchisedec ' was painted out , and unsuspicious of the announcement that should replace it , the Countess asked Mrs. Wishaw if she thought Evan like her dear Papa . 
But , if I can trust myself with him , I shall take charge of Mr. Evan , and show him some London society . '' 
`` Evan , though -- I fear -- will be rather engaged . 
His friends , the Jocelyns of Beckley Court , will -- I fear -- hardly dispense with him : and Lady Splenders -- you know her ? 
-- by repute , at least : a most beautiful and most fascinating woman ; report of him alone has induced her to say that Evan must and shall form a part of her autumnal gathering at Splenders Castle . 
And how he is to get out of it , I can not tell . 
But I am sure his multitudinous engagements will not prevent his paying due court to Mistress Wishaw . '' 
The lady rejoined that she hoped so , she was sure ; and forthwith -LRB- because she suddenly seemed to possess him more than his son -RRB- , launched upon Mel 's incomparable personal attractions . 
This caused the Countess to enlarge upon Evan 's vast personal prospects . 
`` But Evan is not in his own hands -- he is in the hands of a lovely young woman , I must tell you . 
He belongs to her , and not to us . 
said Mrs. Wishaw , and was about to inquire why Evan , with these brilliant expectations , could think of trade and tailoring , when the young man , whose forehead had been growing black , jumped up , and quitted them ; thus breaking the harmony of the table ; and as the Countess had said enough , she turned the conversation to the always welcome theme of low society . 
Mrs. Fiske said , it assuredly was , and glanced at her aunt , who , as the Countess now rose , declaring she must speak to Evan , child Mrs. Fiske , and wished her and Peter Smithers at the bottom of the sea . 
`` No , no , Mama , '' said the Countess , laughing , `` that would hardly be proper , '' and before Mrs. Fiske could reply , escaped to complain to Evan of the vulgarity of those women . 
She was not prepared for the burst of wrath with which Evan met her . 
`` Louisa , '' said he , taking her wrist sternly , `` you have done a thing I ca n't forgive . 
The Countess gave him out her arm 's length . 
`` Speak on , Van , '' she said , admiring him with a bright gaze . 
`` Answer me , Louisa ; and do n't take me for a fool any more , '' he pursued . 
Evan dropped her hand . 
His lip quivered . 
Saying which , and while he looked harshly at her , wounded pride bled through his eyes . 
Evan could listen no more . 
Such a struggle was rising in his breast : the effort to quench what the Countess had so fiercely kindled ; passionate desire to look on Rose but for one lightning flash : desire to look on her , and muffled sense of shame twin-born with it : wild love and leaden misery mixed : dead hopelessness and vivid hope . 
At the suppertable Evan did not appear , and Mr. Goren , after taking counsel of Mrs. Mel , dispersed the news that Evan was off to London . 
On the road again , with a purse just as ill furnished , and in his breast the light that sometimes leads gentlemen , as well as ladies , astray . 
Evan came upon this sight within a few miles of Fallowfield . 
At first he was rather startled , for he had inherited superstitious emotions from his mother , and the road was lone , the moon full . 
He went up to her and spoke a gentle word , which provoked no reply . 
He ventured to put his hand on her shoulder , continuing softly to address her . 
Evan stooped his head to catch a whisper from her mouth , but nothing save a heavier fall of the breath she took , as of one painfully waking , was heard . 
Evan had just been accusing the heavens of conspiracy to disgrace him . 
They had viewed and had not been disordered by his mental frenzies . 
Evan Harrington was young . 
He wished not to clothe the generation . 
Evan lingered behind her till he saw her body sway , and in a fit of trembling she half fell on his outstretched arm . 
He led her to the stone , not knowing what on earth to do with her . 
There was no sign of a house near ; they were quite solitary ; to all his questions she gave an unintelligible moan . 
He had not heart to leave her , so , taking a sharp seat on a heap of flints , thus possibly furnishing future occupation for one of his craftsmen , he waited , and amused himself by marking out diagrams with his stick in the thick dust . 
His thoughts were far away , when he heard , faintly uttered : `` Why do you stop here ? '' 
`` My good creature , '' said Evan , `` it 's quite impossible that I should leave you in this state . 
Evan went into the middle of the road and beheld a covered waggon , and a fellow whom he advanced to meet , plodding a little to the rear of the horses . 
He answered Evan 's request that he would afford the young woman conveyance as far as Fallowfield : `` Tak ' her in ? 
Proceeding to inform Evan how George Stokes had snored in that characteristic manner from boyhood , ever since he and George had slept in a hayloft together ; and how he , kept wakeful and driven to distraction by George Stokes ' nose , had been occasionally compelled , in sheer self-defence , madly to start up and hold that pertinacious alarum in tight compression between thumb and forefinger ; and how George Stokes , thus severely handled , had burst his hold with a tremendous snort , as big as a bull , and had invariably uttered the exclamation , `` Hulloa ! 
and rolled over to snore as fresh as ever ; -- all this with singular rustic comparisons , racy of the soil , and in raw Hampshire dialect , the waggoner came to a halt opposite the stone , and , while Evan strode to assist the girl , addressed himself to the great task of arousing the sturdy sleeper and quieting his trumpet , heard by all ears now that the accompaniment of the wheels was at an end . 
Evan had less difficulty with the girl . 
She rose to meet him , put up her arms for him to clasp her waist , whispering sharply on an inward breath : `` What are you going to do with me ? '' 
and indifferent to his verbal response , trustingly yielded her limbs to his guidance . 
He could see blood on her bitten underlip , as , with the help of the waggoner , he lifted her on the mattress , backed by a portly bundle , which the sagacity of Mr. Stokes had selected from his couch . 
At last Evan said : `` Your pace is rather slow . 
quoth Evan . 
Evan made an appeal to his reason , but finding that impregnable , he pulled out his scanty purse to guarantee his sincerity with an offer of pledgemoney . 
Evan bade him not to be a brute . 
Very much surprised that a fellow who appeared sound at heart , should threaten to behave so basely , Evan asked an explanation : upon which the waggoner demanded to know what he had eyes for : and as this query failed to enlighten the youth , he let him understand that he was a man of family experience , and that it was easy to tell at a glance that the complaint the young woman laboured under was one common to the daughters of Eve . 
He , for his part , he assured Evan , should take to his heels , and relinquish waggon , and horses , and all ; while George probably would stand and gape ; and the end of it would be , they would all be had up for murder . 
said the waggoner , as Evan , tingling at the ears , remained silent . 
`` I know nothing of such things , '' he answered , hastily , like one hurt . 
I have to repeat the statement , that he was a youth , and a modest one . 
He felt unaccountably , unreasonably , but horribly , ashamed . 
The thought of his actual position swamped the sickening disgust at tailordom . 
He called vehemently to the waggoner to whip the horses , and hurry a-head into Fallowfield ; but that worthy , whatever might be his dire alarms , had a regular pace , that was conscious of no spur : the reply of `` All right ! '' 
satisfied him at least ; and Evan 's chaste sighs for the appearance of an assistant petticoat round a turn of the road , were offered up duly , to the measure of the waggoner 's steps . 
Evan lingered by him with some curiosity , while the waggoner thumped his thigh to , `` Yes he be ! 
`` It 's a fellow calling from the downs , '' said Evan . 
After a few minutes , a man appeared panting on the bank above them , down which he ran precipitately , knocked against Evan , apologised with the little breath that remained to him , and then held his hand as to entreat a hearing . 
Evan thought him half-mad ; the waggoner was about to imagine him the victim of a midnight assault . 
Though he did not wear a petticoat , Evan was not sorry to have him . 
So he mumbled politely , dropped with him a little to the rear , and they all stepped out to the crack of the waggoner 's whip . 
`` Rather a slow pace , '' said Evan , feeling bound to converse . 
Evan stole a glance at his companion . 
Evan thought , too , that he knew the voice . 
A curious , unconscious struggle therein between native facetiousness and an attempt at dignity , appeared to Evan not unfamiliar ; and the egregious failure of ambition and triumph of the instinct , helped him to join the stranger in his mirth . 
Evan smiled at him . 
He was silent for some paces , and then cried in brave simplicity : `` Wo n't you give your fist to a fellow ? '' 
Evan exclaimed , `` Jack Raikes ! 
while he himself was addressed as `` Sir Amadis , Viscount Harrington ! '' 
Mr. John Raikes stood about a head under Evan . 
He had extremely mobile features ; thick , flexible eyebrows ; a loose , voluble mouth ; a ridiculous figure on a dandified foot . 
He represented to you one who was rehearsing a part he wished to act before the world , and was not aware that he perpetually took the world into his confidence . 
He gave a melo-dramatic sigh . 
`` But how , '' said Evan -- `` it 's the oldest thing in the world our meeting like this -- how did you come here ? '' 
Evan admitted that it was a common opinion at school . 
`` Why , '' said Evan , `` you do n't mean to say you have been running over the downs ever since ? '' 
exclaimed Evan . 
Evan interjected commiseratingly . 
`` Yes , '' said Evan , suppressing a smile . 
Evan answered , briefly , `` Yes . '' 
said Evan , like one in a dream . 
`` I was only trying the other shoulder , '' remarked his friend . 
Evan pressed his hand . 
He paused , and inquired . 
said Evan , with forced gentleness . 
`` I only wanted to know , '' Evan observed , meditatively progressing . 
He was sure that the young lady Jack had met was his own Rose , and if Jack thought himself an unlucky fellow , Evan 's opinion of him was very different . 
Nursing the fresh image of his darling in his heart 's recesses , Evan , as they entered Fallowfield , laid the state of his purse before Jack , and earned anew the epithet of Amadis when it came to be told that the occupant of the waggon was likewise one of its pensioners . 
Nevertheless , Mr. Raikes , though blind windows alone looked on him , and nought foreign was to be imputed to him in the matter of pride , had become exceedingly solicitous concerning his presentation to the inhabitants of that quiet little country town ; and while Evan and the waggoner consulted -- the former with regard to the chances of procuring beds and supper , the latter as to his prospect of beer and a comfortable riddance of the feminine burden weighing on them all , Mr. Raikes was engaged in persuading his hat to assume something of the gentlemanly polish of its youth , and might have been observed now and then furtively catching up a leg to be dusted . 
Evan and Jack were met in the passage by a chambermaid . 
Evan lifted his hat ; and bowing , requested to know whether they could have a supper and beds . 
`` Anything will do for us , madam , '' replied Evan , renewing his foreign courtesy . 
`` She , '' said Evan , `` must have a room to herself . 
Evan bade Jack go and assist the waggoner to bring in the girl . 
`` Yes , '' she rejoined to Evan 's order that the waggoner and his mate should be supplied with ale , `` they shall have as much as they can drink , '' which is not a speech usual at inns , when one man gives an order for others , but Evan passed it by , and politely begged to be shown in to one of the gentlemen who had engaged bed-rooms . 
Had Evan been familiar with the Green Dragon , he would have noticed that the landlady , its presiding genius , was stiffer than usual ; the rosy smile was more constrained , as if a great host had to be embraced , and were trying it to the utmost stretch . 
There was , however , no asperity about her , and when she had led him to the door he was to enter to prefer his suit , and she had asked whether the young woman was quite common , and he had replied that he had picked her up on the road , and that she was certainly poor , the hostess said : `` I 'm sure you 're a very good gentleman , sir , and if I could spare your asking at all , I would . '' 
A noise of laughter and talk was stilled gradually , as Evan made his bow into a spacious room , wherein , as the tops of pines are seen swimming on the morning mist , about a couple of dozen guests of divers conditions sat partially revealed through wavy clouds of tobacco-smoke . 
By their postures , which Evan 's appearance by no means disconcerted , you read in a glance men who had been at ease for so many hours that they had no troubles in the world save the two ultimate perplexities of the British Sybarite , whose bed of roses is harassed by the pair of problems : first , what to do with his legs ; secondly , how to imbibe liquor with the slightest possible derangement of those members subordinate to his upper structure . 
and this among a company soaked in ripe ale , could not fail to run the electric circle , and persuaded several to change their positions ; in the rumble of which , Evan 's reply , if he made any , was lost . 
Few , however , were there who could think of him , and ponder on that glimpse of fun , at the same time ; and he would have been passed over , had not the chairman said : `` Take a seat , sir ; make yourself comfortable . '' 
`` Before I have that pleasure , '' replied Evan , `` I -- '' `` I see where 't is , '' burst out the old boy who had previously superinduced a diversion : `` he 's going to ax if he ca n't have a bed ! '' 
For awhile explication was impossible ; and Evan coloured , and smiled , and waited for them . 
Long faces were drawn , and odd stares were directed towards him , in reply . 
`` I may tell you thus much , '' answered Evan , `` that it is an unfortunate young woman , very ill , who needs rest and quiet . '' 
But this time , though his jolly red jowl turned all round to demand a confirmation , it was not generally considered that he had divined so correctly . 
His bushy eyebrows frowned at Evan , and he began tugging at the brass buttons of his coat , like one preparing to arm for a conflict . 
`` Speak out , sir , if you please , '' he said . 
Evan replied quietly : `` She is a stranger to me ; and if you could see her , sir , and know her situation , I think she would move your pity . '' 
To confront a vehement old gentleman , sitting as president in an assembly of satellites , requires some command of countenance , and Evan was not browbeaten : he held him , and the whole room , from where he stood , under a serene and serious eye , for his feelings were too deeply stirred on behalf of the girl to let him think of himself . 
implying such helplessness and trust , was still sharp on his nerves . 
`` Gentlemen , '' he said , `` I humbly beg your pardon for disturbing you as I do . '' 
But with a sudden idea that a general address on behalf of a particular demand must necessarily fail , he let his eyes rest on one there , whose face was neither stupid nor repellent , and who , though he did not look up , had an attentive , thoughtful cast about the mouth . 
Evan was not mistaken in the index he had perused . 
The gentleman seemed to feel that he was selected from the company , and , slightly raising his head , carelessly replied : `` My bed is entirely at your disposal , '' resuming his contemplative pose . 
On the point of thanking him , Evan advanced a step , when up started the irascible chairman . 
And before Evan could ask his reasons , he had rung the bell , muttering : `` They follow us to our inns , now , the baggages ! 
In a state of combustion , he cried out to the waiter : `` Here , Mark , this gentleman has brought in a dirty wench : pack her up to my bed-room , and lock her in : lock her in , and bring down the key . '' 
Agreeably deceived in the old gentleman 's intentions , Evan could not refrain from joining the murmured hilarity created by the conclusion of his order . 
The latter glared at him , and added : `` Now , sir , you 've done your worst . 
Replying that he had a friend outside , and would not fail to accept the invitation , Evan retired . 
He was met by the hostess with the reproachful declaration on her lips , that she was a widow woman , wise in appearances , and that he had brought into her house that night work she did not expect , or bargain for . 
Rather -LRB- since I must speak truth of my gentleman -RRB- to silence her on the subject , and save his ears , than to propitiate her favour towards the girl , Evan drew out his constitutionally lean purse , and dropped it in her hand , praying her to put every expense incurred to his charge . 
She exclaimed : `` If Dr. Pillie has his full sleep this night , I shall be astonished ; '' and Evan hastily led Jack into the passage to impart to him , that the extent of his resources was reduced to three shillings and a few pence . 
`` I see you 're in mourning as well as myself , Jack , '' said Evan , calling attention to his hat . 
It appeared to him that the company awaited his proceedings ; why they should he did not consider ; but the sense of it led him to stalk with affected gravity to the bell , which he rang consequentially ; and , telling Evan to leave the ordering to him , sat erect , and scanned the measure and quality of the stuff in the glasses . 
`` Mind you never mention about my applying to old Cudford , '' he whispered to Evan , hurriedly . 
He repeated to Evan : `` Maintenon ? 
`` I think you had better order bread and cheese , '' said Evan , meaningly , in the same tone . 
Before Evan could again recommend bread and cheese , the chairman had asked Mr. Raikes whether he really liked cutlets for supper ; and , upon Jack replying that they were a favourite dish , sung out to Mark : `` Cutlets for two ! '' 
Evan , red in the face , reproached him for his folly . 
`` I shall do nothing of the sort , '' said Evan , getting up to summon Mark afresh . 
`` My good Jack , '' said Evan , less discreetly than it pleased his friend to hear , `` have n't you done playing at lords yet ? 
`` I 'm sorry to find yourself compelled to tell everybody of it , '' said Evan , touched by a nettle . 
Evan countermanded the cutlets , and substituted an order for bread and cheese , Jack adding , with the nod of a patron to the waiter : `` We think -- since it 's late -- we wo n't give you the trouble to-night . 
And Mr. Raikes , with a grand air of good-nature , and the lofty mind that makes the best of difficulties , offered Evan a morsel of cheese , saying : `` We dispense with soup . 
`` Thank you , '' said Evan , smiling , and holding out his plate . 
Evan answered his plaintive look : `` I shall drink ale . '' 
The chairman entreated Evan to desist from the cheese ; and , pulling out his watch , thundered : `` Time ! '' 
The company generally jumped on their legs ; and , in the midst of a hum of talk and laughter , the chairman informed Evan and Jack , that he invited them cordially to a supper up-stairs , and would be pleased if they would partake of it , and in a great rage if they would not . 
He cheweth -- '' The stentorian announcement of supper interrupted Mr. Raikes ; and the latter gentleman , to whom glibness stood for greatness of manner , very well content with the effect he conceived he had produced on the company , set about persuading Evan to join the feast . 
For several reasons , Evan would have preferred to avoid it . 
He was wretched , inclined to enjoy a fit of youthful misanthropy ; Jack 's dramatic impersonation of the lord had disgusted him ; and bread and cheese symbolled his condition . 
`` Pray , do not , '' replied Evan , and relinquished the table with a bow . 
The door was open , and the company of jolly yeomen , tradesmen , farmers , and the like , had become intent on observing all the ceremonies of precedence : not one would broaden his back on the other ; and there was bowing , and scraping , and grimacing , till Farmer Broadmead was hailed aloud , and the old boy stepped forth , and was summarily pushed through : the chairman calling from the rear , `` Hulloa ! 
The chairman said quietly to Evan , as they were ascending the stairs : `` We do n't have names to-night : may as well drop titles . '' 
Which presented no peculiar meaning to Evan 's mind , and he smiled the usual smile . 
With a gloomy curiosity as to the results of Jack 's adventurous undertaking , and a touch of anger at the three whose bearing throughout had displeased him , Evan regarded his friend . 
He , too , had drunk , and upon emptiness . 
Bright ale had mounted to his brain . 
A hero should be held as sacred as the Grand Llama : so let no more be said than that he drank still , nor marked the replenishing of his glass . 
Evan heard him across the table . 
The three had distinguished one there by a few friendly passages ; and this was he who had offered his bed to Evan for the service of the girl . 
Now the ears of Mr. Raikes were less keen at the moment than Evan 's , but his openness to ridicule was that of a man on his legs solus , amid a company sitting , and his sense of the same -- when he saw himself the victim of it -- acute . 
His face was rather comic , and , under the shadow of embarrassment , twitching and working for ideas -- might excuse a want of steadiness and absolute gravity in the countenances of others . 
Further iterations , if not amplifications , of the merits of the gentleman would have followed , had not Evan , strong in his modesty , pulled Jack into his seat , and admonished him to be content with the present measure of his folly But Jack had more in him . 
But previous to an explosion , Laxley , who had observed Evan 's disgust at Jack 's exhibition of himself , and had been led to think , by his conduct and clothes in conjunction , that Evan was his own equal ; a gentleman condescending to the society of a low-born acquaintance ; had sought with sundry propitiations -- calm , intelligent glances , light shrugs , and such like -- to divide Evan from Jack . 
He did this , doubtless , because he partly sympathised with Evan , and to assure him that he took a separate view of him . 
Probably Evan was already offended , or he held to Jack , as a comrade should , or else it was that Tailordom bellowed in his ears , every fresh minute : `` Nothing assume ! '' 
I incline to think that the more ale he drank the fiercer rebel he grew against conventional ideas of rank , and those class-barriers which we scorn so vehemently when we find ourselves kicking at them . 
Whatsoever the reason that prompted him , he did not respond to Laxley 's advances ; and Laxley , deferentially disregarding him , dealt with Jack alone . 
`` Or what comes from not observing them , '' said Evan , unwilling to have Jack over-matched . 
While Evan spoke a word of angry reproof to Mr. Raikes , Harry had to be restrained by his two friends . 
Drummond had his eyes on Evan , who was gazing steadily at the three . 
Jack 's evident pugnacity behind his insolence , astonished Evan , as the youth was not famed for bravery at school ; but this is what dignity and ale do for us in the world . 
Evan probably thought that Harmony was herself only when she came single , or he was wearied of his fellows , and wished to gaze a moment on the skies whose arms were over and around his young beloved . 
He went to the window and threw it up , and feasted his sight on the moon standing on the downs . 
He could have wept at the bitter ignominy that severed him from Rose . 
Evan walked round to his place . 
`` I am here , '' he answered , `` and at your service . '' 
There was a disdainful smile on Evan 's mouth , as he replied : `` I must first enlighten you . 
Indeed , Evan could not have mentioned it , but for the ale . 
It was the ale in him expelling truth ; and certainly , to look at him , none would have thought it . 
said Evan , with his eyes slightly widening , `` but if you come to me , I shall no longer give you a choice of behaviour . 
Sir , '' he addressed the chairman , `` I must apologise to you for this interruption to your kindness , for which I thank you very sincerely . 
It 's ` good-night , ' now , sir , '' he pursued , bowing , and holding out his hand , with a smile . 
The dramatic proportions to which ale will exalt the sentiments within us , and our delivery of them , are apt to dwindle and shrink even below the natural elevation when we look back on them from the hither shore of the river of sleep -- in other words , wake in the morning : and it was with no very self-satisfied emotions that Evan , dressing by the full light of day , reviewed his share in the events of the preceding night . 
Why , since he had accepted his fate , should he pretend to judge the conduct of people his superiors in rank ? 
And where was the necessity for him to thrust the fact of his being that abhorred social pariah down the throats of an assembly of worthy good fellows ? 
The answer was , that he had not accepted his fate : that he considered himself as good a gentleman as any man living , and was in absolute hostility with the prejudices of society . 
That was the state of the case ; but the evaporation of ale in his brain caused him to view his actions from the humble extreme of that delightful liquor , of which the spirit had flown and the corpse remained . 
Having revived his system with soda-water , and finding no sign of his antagonist below , Mr. Raikes , to disperse the sceptical dimples on his friend 's face , alluded during breakfast to a determination he had formed to go forth and show on the cricket-field . 
Evan , slightly colouring , answered : `` Why , you said up-stairs , you thought fighting duels disgraceful folly . '' 
`` That 's decisive , '' said Evan . 
`` Be a disgraceful fool , I suppose , '' said Evan : and Jack went on with his breakfast , as if to be such occasionally was the distinguished fate of a gentleman , of which others , not so happy in their birth , might well be envious . 
Mr. Raikes could not help betraying that he bore in mind the main incidents of the festival over-night ; for when he had enquired who it might be that had reduced his friend to wear mourning , and heard that it was his father -LRB- spoken by Evan with a quiet sigh -RRB- , Mr. Raikes tapped an egg , and his flexible brows exhibited a whole Bar of contending arguments within . 
But Mr. Raikes appreciated a capital fellow , and felt warmly to Evan , who , moreover , was feeding him . 
To put Evan in countenance , he said , with genial facetiousness , that was meant to mark his generous humility : `` And I , Harrington , I mourn my hat . 
He is old -- I mourn him yet living . 
The presence of crape on him signifies -- he ne'er shall have a gloss again ! 
She handed to Evan his purse , telling him she had taken it last night , thinking it safer for the time being in her pocket ; and that the chairman of the feast paid for all in the Green Dragon up to twelve that day , he having been born between the hours , and liking to make certain : and that every year he did the same ; and was a seemingly rough old gentleman , but as soft-hearted as a chicken . 
The landlady turned from him huffily , and addressed Evan : `` The old gentleman is gone , sir . 
Evan consented . 
I am afraid also it was the landlady 's flattering speech made him , without reckoning his means , add that the young mother and her child must be considered under his care , and their expenses charged to him . 
The landlady was obliged to think him a wealthy as well as a noble youth , and admiringly curtsied . 
Mr. John Raikes and Mr. Evan Harrington then strolled into the air , and through a long court-yard , with brewhouse and dairy on each side , and a pleasant smell of baking bread , and dogs winking in the sun , cats at the corners of doors , satisfied with life , and turkeys parading , and fowls , strutting cocks , that overset the dignity of Mr. Raikes by awakening his imitative propensities . 
And this , and the landlady 's marked deference to Evan , induced Mr. Raikes contemptuously to glance at our national blindness to the true diamond , and worship of the mere plumes in which a person is dressed . 
`` You ought to carry about your baby-linen , stamped ` gentleman born , ''' said Evan . 
Evan inquired . 
He would n't have judged me by my attire . 
Evan 's thoughts were leaping to the cricket-field , or he would have condoled with Mr. Raikes for a loss that evidently afflicted him still , and of which he was doubtless frequently reminded on occasions when , in a bad hat , he gazed on a glittering company from afar . 
Evan asked , after watching the distant scene wistfully . 
Evan , who had been smiling at him , laughed and led the way . 
She was at her bed-room window , as Evan passed up the court-yard of the inn , and recognised him immediately . 
But Mr. Harrington ought not to demean himself by keeping company with such , and my lady should know of it . '' 
My lady , alighting from the Lymport coach , did know of it , within a few minutes after Evan had quitted the Green Dragon , and turned pale , as high-born dames naturally do when they hear of a relative 's disregard of the company he keeps . 
Was Evan intoxicated , and his dreadful secret unlocked last night ? 
`` Order a fly : discover the direction Mr. Harrington has taken ; spare me further remarks , '' she said ; and Maria humbly flitted from her presence . 
The field was ringing at a stroke of Nick Frim 's , who had lashed out in his old familiar style at last , and the heavens heard of it , when Evan came into the circle of spectators . 
To do this , it was necessary that he should have listeners : Evan was not enough , and was besides unsympathetic . 
He had not responded to Jack 's cordial assurances of his friendship `` in spite of anything , '' uttered before they came into the field . 
Evan -LRB- hardly a fair judge , perhaps -RRB- considered the loud remarks of Mr. Raikes on popular pastimes , and the expression of his approval of popular sports , his determination to uphold them , his extreme desire to see the day when all the lower orders would have relaxation once a week , and his unaffected willingness to stoop to join their sports , exaggerated , and , in contrast with his attire , incongruous . 
Instead of remonstrating at Evan 's restlessness , it was he who now dragged Evan from spot to spot . 
He spoke low and nervously . 
By-and-by he caught hold of Evan 's arm , and breathed in an awful voice the words : `` We 're watched ! '' 
said Evan carelessly . 
said Evan . 
`` Very well , '' said Evan . 
Evan drew forth his watch . 
Evan strolled on . 
Evan did become aware that a man was following him . 
His countenance was sun-burnt and open , and he was dressed in a countryman 's holiday suit . 
When Evan met his eyes they showed perplexity . 
Evan felt he was being examined from head to heel , but by one unaccustomed to his part , and without the courage to decide what he ought consequently to do while a doubt remained , though his inspection was verging towards a certainty in his mind . 
`` That is my name , '' said Evan . 
`` Yes , '' answered Evan , `` I have been to Portugal . '' 
Evan said he was not born there . 
`` Yes , '' answered Evan , `` I was born by the sea . '' 
`` Now , if you 'll have the kindness just to oblige me by -- '' he sped the words and the instrument jointly at Evan , '' -- takin ' that there letter , I 'll say good-bye , sir , and my work 's done for the day . '' 
Saying which , he left Evan with the letter in his hands . 
Evan turned it over curiously . 
It was addressed to `` Evan Harrington , Esquire , T -- of Lymport . '' 
A voice paralysed his fingers : the clear ringing voice of a young horsewoman , accompanied by a little maid on a pony , who galloped up to the carriage upon which Squire Uploft , Sir George Lowton , Hamilton Jocelyn , and other cavaliers , were in attendance . 
Evan 's heart bounded up to her , but his limbs were motionless . 
Why did not Evan bravely march away ? 
Why , he asked himself , had he come on this cricket-field to be made thus miserable ? 
What right had such as he to look on Rose ? 
Just then a toddling small rustic stopped in front of Evan , and set up a howl for his `` fayther . '' 
Evan lifted him high to look over people 's heads , and discover his wandering parent . 
The urchin , when he had settled to his novel position , surveyed the field , and shouting , `` Fayther , fayther ! 
made lusty signs , which attracted not his father alone . 
`` Evan ! '' 
`` Is n't this just like you , my dear Evan ? 
`` To London , '' said Evan . 
Here the little fellow 's father intervened to claim his offspring , and thank the lady and the gentleman ; and , with his penny firmly grasped , he who had brought the lady and the gentleman together , was borne off a wealthy human creature . 
Evan tried to look firm , and speak as he was trying to look . 
To have her face before him but one day seemed so rich a boon to deny himself , that he was beginning to wonder at his constancy in refusal ; and now that she spoke to him so pressingly , devoting her guileless eyes to him alone , he forgot a certain envious feeling that had possessed him while she was rattling among the other males -- a doubt whether she ever cast a thought on Mr. Evan Harrington . 
Mr. Evan Harrington 's final objection , based on his not having clothes , and so forth , was met by his foreseeing sister . 
Evan felt he was in the toils . 
After a struggle or two he yielded ; and , having yielded , did it with grace . 
In a moment , and with a power of self-compression equal to that of the adept Countess , he threw off his moodiness as easily as if it had been his Spanish mantle , and assumed a gaiety that made the Countess 's eyes beam rapturously upon him , and was pleasing to Rose , apart from the lead in admiration the Countess had given her -- not for the first time . 
her quick ear caught on the mouth of Squire Uploft , scanning Evan . 
As her eyes travelled from Mrs. Shorne to the Squire , she had marked Lady Roseley looking singularly at Evan , who was mounting the horse of Bob the groom . 
`` Fine young fellow , that , '' said the Squire to Lady Roseley , as Evan rode off with Rose . 
Whether she would have continued her efforts , had she known that the name of Evan Harrington was then blazing on a shop-front in Lymport , I can not tell . 
She stopped the coachman ere the wheels had rolled off the muffling turf , to enjoy one glimpse of Evan and Rose riding together , with the little maid on her pony in the rear . 
Rose , galloping freshly , was saying to Evan : `` Why did you cut off your moustache ? '' 
He , neck and neck with her , replied : `` You complained of it in Portugal . '' 
And , oh , Evan ! 
And really , just then , flying through the air , close to the darling of his heart , he had not the courage to spoil that delicious question , but dallying with the lie he looked in her eyes lingeringly . 
Let the Countess have due credit for still allowing Evan to visit Beckley Court to follow up his chance . 
She was positive Evan had committed himself in some manner . 
But as it did not suit her to think so , she at once encouraged an imaginary conversation , in which she took the argument that it was quite impossible Evan could have been so mad , and others instanced his youth , his wrong-headed perversity , his ungenerous disregard for his devoted sister , and his known weakness : she replying , that undoubtedly they were right so far : but that he could not have said he himself was that horrible thing , because he was nothing of the sort : which faith in Evan 's steadfast adherence to facts , ultimately silenced the phantom opposition , and gained the day . 
Evan to the right of Lady Jocelyn . 
Most fortunately he was in the best of spirits -- quite brilliant . 
Evan alone can look between the eyelids of a woman . 
I have had to correct him , for to me he quite exposes the state of his heart towards dearest Rose . 
All I envied him was his moustache for Evan . 
The dinner was not concluded before I had arranged that Evan should resume -LRB- gratuitously , you know -RRB- his post of secretary to him . 
So here is Evan fixed at Beckley Court as long as Melville stays . 
Rose has been speaking of Evan . 
Here the Countess breaks off to say that , from where she is writing , she can see Rose and Evan walking out to the cypress avenue , and that no eyes are on them ; great praise being given to the absence of suspicion in the Jocelyn nature . 
Evan is behaving very well . 
With the women I had no fear of him -- he is really admirable with the men -- easy , and talks of sport and politics , and makes the proper use of Portugal . 
He has quite won the heart of his sister . 
`` We must be favoured , my dear , for Evan is very troublesome -- distressingly inconsiderate ! 
I left him for a day -- remaining to comfort poor mama -- and on the road he picked up an object he had known at school , and this creature in shameful garments , is seen in the field where Rose and Evan are riding -- in a dreadful hat -- Rose might well laugh at it ! 
-- he is seen running away from an old apple woman , whose fruit he had consumed without means to liquidate ; but , of course , he rushes bolt up to Evan before all his grand company , and claims acquaintance , and Evan was base enough to acknowledge him ! 
He disengaged himself so far well by tossing his purse to the wretch , but if he knows not how to cut , I assure him it will be his ruin . 
Resolutely he must cast the dust off his shoes , or he will be dragged down to their level . 
If Evan would only give her a crumb , she would be his most faithful dog . 
I fear he can not be induced , and Conning will be snapped up by somebody else . 
She has already begun to watch dear Evan -- certainly the handsomest of the men here as yet , though I grant you , they are well-grown men , these Jocelyns , for an untravelled Englishwoman . 
She heard Evan 's name , and by that and the likeness I saw she knew at once , and I saw a truce in her eyes . 
Estates mortgaged , but hopes of saving a remnant of the property for poor Evan ! 
We dare not baronetise him . 
The night passes , and the Countess pursues : `` Awakened by your fresh note from a dream of Evan on horseback , and a multitude hailing him Count Jocelyn for Fallowfield ! 
They might desire that he should change his name ; but ` Count ' is preposterous , though it may conceal something . 
The results of this small passage of arms were that Evan 's disclosure at Fallowfield was annulled in the mind of Harry Jocelyn , and the latter gentleman became the happy slave of the Countess de Saldar . 
She welcomed Evan as her daughter 's friend , walked half-way across the room to meet him on his introduction to her , and with the simple words , `` I have heard of you , '' let him see that he stood upon his merits in her house . 
A youth like Evan could not perceive that in loving this lady 's daughter , and accepting the place she offered him , he was guilty of a breach of confidence ; or reflect that her entire absence of suspicion imposed upon him a corresponding honesty towards her . 
He fell into a blindness . 
Without dreaming for a moment that she designed to encourage his passion for Rose , he yet beheld himself in the light she had cast on him ; and , received as her daughter 's friend , it seemed to him not so utterly monstrous that he might be her daughter 's lover . 
In Fallowfield , among impertinent young men , Evan 's pride proclaimed him a tailor . 
Once , previous to the arrival of the latter three , there was a change in her look , or Evan fancied it . 
They were going to ride out together , and Evan , coming to his horse on the gravel walk , saw her talking with Drummond Forth . 
Between whiles her eyes had raised tumults in Evan 's breast by dropping on him in a sort of questioning way , as if she wished him to speak , or wished to fathom something she would rather have unspoken . 
He thought that the singular look recurred afterwards . 
It charmed him too much for him to speculate on it . 
Harry Jocelyn , released from the wing of the Countess , came straight to him , and in a rough kind of way begged Evan to overlook his rudeness . 
`` You took us all in at Fallowfield , except Drummond , '' he said . 
`` You have nothing to fear on that point , '' said Evan . 
Some trifling qualms attended Evan 's labours with the diplomatist ; but these were merely occasioned by the iteration of a particular phrase . 
Mr. Goren , an enthusiastic tailor , had now and then thrown out to Evan stirring hints of an invention he claimed : the discovery of a Balance in Breeches : apparently the philosopher 's stone of the tailor craft , a secret that should ensure harmony of outline to the person and an indubitable accommodation to the most difficult legs . 
Evan enjoyed the doctoring of kingdoms quite as well as the diplomatist . 
It suited the latent grandeur of soul inherited by him from the great Mel . 
He liked to prop Austria and arrest the Czar , and keep a watchful eye on France ; but the Honourable Melville 's deep-mouthed phrase conjured up to him a pair of colossal legs imperiously demanding their Balance likewise . 
Evan soon had high hopes . 
What though his name blazed on a shop-front ? 
The sun might yet illumine him to honour ! 
How naturally poor Juliana Bonner was moved to mistake Evan 's compassion for a stronger sentiment ! 
Pray , Mr. Evan , are you thinking Aunt Bel might still alter her mind for somebody , if she knew his value ? '' 
`` I was presuming to hope there might be a place vacant among the twenty , '' said Evan , slightly bowing to both . 
returned Aunt Bel , nodding at him . 
`` Aunt Bel spoke to Mr. Harrington , '' said Rose , pettishly . 
`` Asked him where he came from , '' Laxley continued his drawl . 
`` He did n't answer , so I thought it polite for somebody to . '' 
`` I must thank you expressly , '' said Evan , with a two-edged smile . 
Rose gave Evan one of her bright looks , and then called the attention of Ferdinand Laxley to the fact that he had lost a particular bet made among them . 
Her eyes flew nervously from Laxley to Evan , and then to Drummond . 
Laxley appeared pleased as a man who has made a witty sally : Evan was outwardly calm , while Drummond replied to the mute appeal of Rose , by saying : `` Yes ; we 've all lost . 
Let him who guessed ` Latin ' pocket the stakes , and , if I guess him , let him hand them over to me . '' 
`` My friend Evan is teaching her during the intervals of his arduous diplomatic labours . 
Will you take us into your class , Evan ? '' 
Evan objected his poor qualifications as a tutor , and Aunt Bel remarked , that if Juley learnt Latin at all , she should have regular instruction . 
A school at Bodley , thought Evan , and his probationary years at the Cudford Establishment uprose before him ; and therewith , for the first time , since his residence at Beckley , the figure of Mr. John Raikes . 
`` If he 's poor and a friend of yours , Evan , we 'll have him , '' said Rose : `` We 'll ride and fetch him . '' 
Juliana was not gazing gratefully at Evan for his proposal . 
Rose asked the name of Evan 's friend . 
`` His name is Raikes , '' answered Evan . 
`` I do n't know where he is now . 
He may be at Fallowfield . 
`` My dear Evan ! '' 
Let us have him here by all means . '' 
`` I shall certainly not bring him to be laughed at , '' said Evan . 
`` I will remember he is your friend , '' Rose returned demurely ; and again laughed , as she related to Jenny Graine the comic appearance Mr. Raikes had presented . 
`` Oblige me by recollecting that I have called him a friend of mine , '' said Evan . 
After breakfast , the party broke into knots , and canvassed Laxley 's behaviour to Evan , which was generally condemned . 
In the afternoon , Lady Jocelyn sent a message to Evan that she wished to see him . 
Glad to befriend poor Jack , Evan gave the needful assurances , and was requested to go and fetch him forthwith . 
When he left the room , Rose marched out silently beside him . 
Evan drew a sharp breath . 
The pair could witness the scene through the glass before Evan spoke . 
he asked , sternly . 
After quitting Evan , Rose hied to her friend Jenny Graine , and in the midst of sweet millinery talk , darted the odd question , whether baronets or knights ever were tradesmen : to which Scotch Jenny , entirely putting aside the shades of beatified aldermen and the illustrious list of mayors that have welcomed royalty , replied that it was a thing quite impossible . 
`` No , it 's nothing nonsensical , '' said Rose ; `` I want you to get my friend Evan an appointment . 
`` They asked mama yesterday what Evan 's being here meant ? 
Why , of course , he 's your secretary , and my friend , and mama very properly stopped them , and so will I ! 
It was a sad sign if Rose was growing a bit of a hypocrite , but this instance of Juliana 's different manner of showing her feelings towards Evan would have quieted suspicion in shrewder men , for Juliana watched Evan 's shadow , and it was thought by two or three at Beckley Court , that Evan would be conferring a benefit on all by carrying off the romantically-inclined but little presentable young lady . 
ultimately promised to do his best for Rose 's friend , and then Rose said , `` Now I leave you to the Countess , '' and went and sat with her mother and Drummond Forth . 
The latter was strange in his conduct to Evan . 
While blaming Laxley 's unmannered behaviour , he seemed to think that Laxley had grounds for it , and treated Evan with a sort of cynical deference that had , for the last couple of days , exasperated Rose . 
`` No , but it 's your duty to interfere , mama , '' said Rose , `` and I know you will when I tell you that Ferdinand declares my friend Evan is a tradesman -- beneath his notice . 
`` I think I heard he was the son of Sir Something Harrington , Devonshire people , '' said Lady Jocelyn . 
`` Yes , he is , '' cried Rose , `` or closely related . 
Meantime Evan was riding over to Fallowfield , and as he rode under black visions between the hedgeways crowned with their hop-garlands , a fragrance of roses saluted his nostril , and he called to mind the red and the white the peerless representative of the two had given him , and which he had thrust sullenly in his breast-pocket : and he drew them out to look at them reproachfully and sigh farewell to all the roses of life , when in company with them he found in his hand the forgotten letter delivered to him on the cricket-field the day of the memorable match . 
With an odd reluctance to open it , he kept trifling over the flowers , and then broke the broad seal , and these are the words that met his eyes : -- `` Mr. Evan Harrington . 
The secret of which evolution was , that he had caught the idea of a plotted insult of Laxley 's in the letter , for when the blood is up we are drawn the way the tide sets strongest , and Evan was prepared to swear that Laxley had written the letter , because he was burning to chastise the man who had injured him with Rose . 
Evan fell into bitter laughter at the idea of Rose glancing over his shoulder and asking him what nine of him to a man meant . 
As idle as a painted cavalier upon a painted drop-scene , the figure of Mr. John Raikes was to be observed leaning with crossed legs against a shady pillar of the Green Dragon ; eyeing alternately , with an indifference he did not care to conceal , the assiduous pecking in the dust of some cocks and hens that had strayed from the yard of the inn , and the sleepy blinking in the sun of an old dog at his feet : nor did Evan 's appearance discompose the sad sedateness of his demeanour . 
`` Yes ; I am here still , '' he answered Evan 's greeting , with a flaccid gesture . 
said Evan . 
Evan was induced to look at the dog , and the dog looked at him , and gently moved his tail . 
`` He 's getting excited . 
He 'll go mad . 
Evan dismounted , and was going to tell him the news he had for him , when his attention was distracted by the sight of Rose 's maid , Polly Wheedle , splendidly bonneted , who slipped past them into the inn ; after repulsing Jack 's careless attempt to caress her chin ; which caused Jack to tell Evan that he could not get on without the society of intellectual women . 
Evan called a boy to hold the horse . 
Evan thrust the letter in his hands , telling him to read and form an opinion on it , and went in the track of Miss Wheedle . 
Of a light soil and with a tropical temperament , he had exhausted all lively recollection of his brilliant career , and , in the short time since Evan had parted with him , sunk abjectly down into the belief that he was fixed in Fallowfield for life . 
His spirit pined for agitation and events . 
The muscles of his face , therefore , are no index to the real feelings of Mr. Raikes when he had thoroughly mastered the contents of the letter , and reflected that the dream of his luck -- his angelic old gentleman -- had gone and wantonly bestowed himself upon Evan Harrington , instead of the expectant and far worthier John Raikes . 
Mr. Raikes retreated to the vacant parlour of the Green Dragon , and there Evan found him staring at the unfolded letter , his head between his cramped fists , with a desperate contraction of his mouth . 
Evan was troubled by what he had seen up-stairs , and did not speak till Jack looked up and said , `` Oh , there you are . '' 
said Evan . 
With a vehement kick , Mr. Raikes despatched his ancient head-gear to the other end of the room , saying that he must have some wine , and would , and very disdainful was his look at Evan , when the latter attempted to reason him into economy . 
He ordered the wine ; drank a glass , which coloured a new mood in him ; and affecting a practical manner , said : `` I confess I have been a little hurt with you , Harrington . 
`` Will you speak seriously , Jack , '' said Evan . 
`` You 're too deep for me , Jack , '' said Evan . 
`` Oh , you can afford to pun , '' Jack pursued , painfully repressing his wrath at Evan 's dulness and luck . 
Evan , in return , confided to him his history and present position , and Mr. Raikes , without cooling to his fortunate friend , became a trifle patronising . 
`` I did , '' replied Evan . 
To tell you the truth , '' added Evan , with frank bitterness , `` I do n't like the name . '' 
Evan had to bear with the sting of similar observations till he begged Jack to tell him the condition of his father , and the limit of the distance between them . 
Evan firmly repeated his request for the information . 
`` He is an officer , Harrington . '' 
Mr Raikes stooped from the announcement to plunge at Evan 's hand and shake it warmly , assuring him that he did not measure the difference between them ; adding , with a significant nod , `` We rank from our mother ; '' as if the Customs scarcely satisfied the Raikes-brood . 
Then they talked over the singular letter uninterruptedly , and Evan , wanting money for the girl up-stairs , for Jack 's bill at the Green Dragon , and for his own immediate requirements , and with the bee buzzing of Rose in his ears : `` She does not love you -- she despises you , '' consented ultimately to sign his name to it , and despatch Jack forthwith to Messrs. Grist , a prospect that brought wild outcries of `` Alarums and Excursions ! 
`` You 'll find it 's an imposition , '' said Evan , for having here signed the death-warrant of his love , he passionately hoped it might be moonshine . 
`` It must be a plot , '' said Evan . 
`` It 's the best joke that will be made in my time , '' said Mr. Raikes , rubbing his hands . 
`` And now listen to your luck , '' said Evan ; `` I wish mine were like it ! '' 
He heard also that the young lady he was to instruct was an heiress , and immediately inspected his garments , and showed the sacred necessity there was for him to refit in London , under the hands of scientific tailors . 
Evan then wrote him out an introduction to Mr. Goren , counted out the contents of his purse -LRB- which Jack had reduced in his study of the pastoral game of skittles , he confessed -RRB- , and calculated in a niggardly way , how far it would go to supply Jack 's wants ; sighing , as he did it , to think of Jack installed at Beckley Court , while Jack , comparing his luck with Evan 's , had discovered it to be dismally inferior . 
he exclaimed . 
`` You can reckon on my silence , '' said Evan . 
Of the two he was the foolishest fellow ; but quacks have cured incomprehensible maladies , and foolish fellows have an instinct for eccentric actions . 
Telling Jack to finish the wine , Evan rose to go . 
`` No , I forgot him . 
muttered Evan , and went out to see to him . 
echoed Mr. Raikes , indignantly ; for to have leisure to pity an animal , one must , according to his ideas , be on a lofty elevation of luck , and Evan 's concealment of his exultation was a piece of hypocrisy that offended him . 
Evan mounted , and rode out of the yard to where Jack was standing , bare-headed , in his old posture against the pillar , of which the shade had rounded , and the evening sun shone full on him over a black cloud . 
said Evan . 
`` I fancy , '' said Evan , trying to be shrewd , `` you 're a man to be always regretting the day you 've left behind you . '' 
Too deep in himself to answer , if indeed he did not despise his friend 's little penetrative insight , Mr. Raikes silently accepted his last instructions about the presentation of the letter to Messrs. Grist , and even condescended to be quiet while the behaviour he was bound to adopt as tutor to a young lady was outlined for him by his companion . 
Evan knitted a puzzled brow at Jack , beneath him . 
muttered Evan . 
These remarks appeared to Evan utterly random and distraught , and he grew impatient . 
it was as the wind that blew to Evan ; not a luminous revelation of character ; and he gave Jack a curt good-bye . 
Whither , with his blood warmed by the wine and his foot upon one fulfilled miracle , had Mr. John Raikes shot ? 
But he looked sad , and Evan was sorry for him , and thinking that he had been rather sharp at parting , turned half-way down the street to wave his hand , and lo , John Raikes was circling both arms in air madly : he had undergone a fresh change ; for now that they were separated , Mr. Raikes no longer compared their diverse lucks , but joined both in one intoxicating cordial draught ; and the last sight of him showed him marching up and down in front of the inn , quick step , with inflated cheeks , and his two fists in the form of a trumpet at his mouth , blowing jubilee . 
The laughable contrast of John Raikes melancholy and John Raikes revived , lingered with Evan as he rode out of Fallowfield , till he laughed himself into a sombre fit , and read the letter again in memory . 
Here was Evan mouthing his farewell to Rose , using phrases so profoundly humble , that a listener would have taken them for bitter irony . 
The black cloud had swallowed the sun ; and turning off to the short cut across the downs , Evan soon rode between the wind and a storm . 
He could see the heavy burden breasting the beacon-point , round which curled leaden arms , and a low internal growl saluted him advancing . 
The horse laid back his ears . 
A last gust from the opposing quarter shook the furzes and the clumps of long pale grass , and straight fell columns of rattling white rain , and in a minute he was closed in by a hissing ring . 
Completely drenched , the track lost , everything in dense gloom beyond the white enclosure that moved with him , Evan flung the reins to the horse , and curiously watched him footing on ; for physical discomfort balanced his mental perturbation , and he who had just been chafing was now quite calm . 
Apparently , Mr. Evan Harrington was destined for these encounters . 
The thunder rolled as he stopped by her side , and called out to her . 
She heard him , for she made a movement , but without sufficiently disengaging her head of its covering to show him a part of her face . 
Bellowing against the thunder , Evan bade her throw back her garment , and stand and give him up her arms , that he might lift her on the horse behind him . 
Could he have heard correctly ? 
The words he fancied he had heard were : `` Best bonnet . '' 
Evan stooped his shoulder , seized the soaked garment , and pulled it back , revealing the features of Polly Wheedle , and the splendid bonnet in ruins -- all limp and stained . 
Polly blinked at him penitentially . 
`` Oh , Mr. Harrington ; Oh , ai n't I punished ! '' 
Evan told her to stand up close to the horse , and Polly stood up close , looking like a creature that expected a whipping . 
`` Oh , Mr. Harrington , do n't laugh at me , '' said Polly . 
Evan assured her that he was seriously examining her bonnet . 
With some display of strength , Evan got the lean creature up behind him , and Polly settled there , and squeezed him tightly with her arms , excusing the liberty she took . 
said Evan . 
`` Well , did he bring you here and leave you ? '' 
`` No : he was n't true to his appointment the moment I wanted to go back ; and I , to pay him out , I determined I 'd walk it where he should n't overtake me , and on came the storm ... And my gown spoilt , and such a bonnet ! '' 
`` He 's a Mr. Nicholas Frim , sir . '' 
His `` Are you cold ? '' 
when Polly shivered , and her `` Oh , no ; not very , '' and a slight screwing of her body up to him , as she spoke , to assure him and herself of it , soon made them intimate . 
`` I think Mr. Nicholas Frim must n't see us riding into Beckley , '' said Evan . 
`` You ought to go right from this hour , '' said Evan . 
I wish you would n't look at me , Mr. Harrington . '' 
`` And since my Miss Rose come -- though I 'm up a step -- I 'm still a servant , and Miss Bonner 'd be in a fury to see my -- though I 'm sure we 're quite respectable , Mr. Harrington -- my having hold of you as I 'm obliged to , and ca n't help myself . 
cried Evan . 
Evan controlled any denial of his pretensions to the hand of Miss Bonner . 
He said : `` Is it your mistress 's habit to make faces in the looking-glass ? '' 
`` Not by any means , '' said Evan . 
Evan looked round and met her appealing face , over which the damp locks of hair straggled . 
The maid was fair : it was fortunate that he was thinking of the mistress . 
`` Speak on , '' said Evan , but Polly put the question whether her face did not want washing , and so earnestly that he had to regard it again and compromised the case by saying that it wanted kissing by Nicholas Frim , which set Polly 's lips in a pout . 
Evan failed to adopt the proper measures to make Miss Wheedle 's mind easy with regard to her appearance , and she commenced her story rather languidly . 
You must know , Mr. Harrington , she 's very fond of managing ; I can see that , though I have n't known her long before she gave up short frocks ; and she said to Mr. Laxley , who 's going to marry her some day , ` She did n't like my lady , the Countess , taking Mr. Harry to herself like that . ' 
said Evan , recalling her to the subject-matter with all the patience he could command . 
`` Come closer , '' said Evan . 
To show how concisely women can narrate when they feel warmer , Polly started off : `` So , you know , Mr. Harrington , Mr. Laxley said -- he said to Miss Rose , ` You have taken her brother , and she has taken yours . ' 
And Miss Rose got awful angry , and she 's clever , is my Miss Rose , for what does she do , Mr. Harrington , but begins praising you up so that she knew it must make him mad , only because men ca n't abide praise of another man when it 's a woman that says it -- meaning , young lady ; for my Miss Rose has my respect , however familiar she lets herself be to us that she likes . 
`` No , '' said Evan , `` I was only breathing . '' 
`` It 's the best thing they can do , '' murmured Evan , dejectedly . 
And he said , Mr. Harrington , ` You meant it if she did not . ' 
` No , ' says she , ` I know better ; he 's as honest as the day . ' 
Out he flew and said such things : he said , Mr. Harrington , you was n't fit to be Miss Rose 's friend , even . 
Then she said , she heard he had told lies about you to her mama , and her aunts ; but her mama , my lady , laughed at him , and she at her aunts . 
Then he said you -- oh , abominable of him ! '' 
`` What did he say ? '' 
asked Evan , waking up . 
`` Why , if I were to tell my Miss Rose some things of him , '' Polly went on , `` she 'd never so much as speak to him another instant . '' 
`` What did he say ? '' 
Evan repeated . 
`` I hate him ! '' 
`` That was at night , Mr. Harrington , when I was undressing of her . 
`` You 're squeezing my arm with your elbow , Mr. Harrington . 
`` Go on , '' said Evan . 
`` Well , '' said Evan , `` well ? '' 
`` I ca n't , Mr. Harrington ; I have to press you so , '' cried Polly ; `` and I 'm bounced so -- I shall bite my tongue . '' 
Evan was skinned alive . 
We will smile reservedly as we mark Mr. Evan Harrington step into the midst of the fair society of the drawing-room . 
Evan shakes the hands of his relatives . 
Evan must do duty by Rose . 
And now occurred a phenomenon in him . 
Instead of shunning her , as he had rejoiced in doing after the Jocasta scene , ere she had wounded him , he had a curious desire to compare her with the Phantom that had dispossessed her in his fancy . 
Unconsciously when he saw her , he transferred the shame that devoured him , from him to her , and gazed coldly at the face that could twist to that despicable contortion . 
He was in love , and subtle love will not be shamed and smothered . 
If his pride suffered , love was not so downcast ; but to avenge him for the cold she had cast on him , it could be critical , and Evan made his bearing to her a blank . 
This somehow favoured him with Rose . 
We dare but guess at the puzzle young women present now and then , but I should say that Evan was nearer the mark , and that the `` good young man '' was a sop she threw to that within her that wanted quieting , and was thereby passably quieted . 
Evan passed leisurely , and Drummond said : `` You know Mrs. Evremonde ? 
Had Rose been guiltless of offence , Evan might have left Beckley Court the next day , to cherish his outraged self-love . 
Did the young lady know his origin , and scorn him ? 
He resolved to stay and teach her that the presumption she had imputed to him was her own mistake . 
And from this Evan graduated naturally enough the finer stages of self-deception downward . 
But here was another singular change in Evan . 
After his ale-prompted speech in Fallowfield , he was nerved to face the truth in the eyes of all save Rose . 
So it befell that Evan , meeting Rose the next morning , was playfully asked by her what choice he had made between the white and the red ; and he , dropping on her the shallow eyes of a conventional smile , replied that , unable to decide and form a choice , he had thrown both away ; at which Miss Jocelyn gave him a look in the centre of his brows , let her head slightly droop , and walked off . 
`` She can look serious as well as grimace , '' was all that Evan allowed himself to think , and he strolled out on the lawn with the careless serenity of lovers when they fancy themselves heart-free . 
Evan stood disengaged , prepared for her summons . 
She did not notice him , but beckoned to Laxley drooping over a bud , while the curled smoke floated from his lips . 
Probably this explains his conduct to Evan . 
Rose marched on to the lawn , not glancing at Evan , whom she approached . 
Rose , Laxley , and Evan were standing close together . 
She turned upon Evan . 
`` I am at your disposal , '' said Evan . 
As Laxley was turning away , Evan stood before him , and spoke sharply : `` Which of us two is to leave this house ? '' 
Laxley threw up his head , and let his eyes descend on Evan . 
`` Do n't understand , '' he observed , removing his cigar , and swinging round carelessly . 
`` I 'll assist your intelligence , '' said Evan . 
Laxley vented an impatient exclamation , and seeming to command a fit of anger by an effort of common sense , muttered some words , among which Evan heard , `` Appeal to a magistrate ; '' and catching at the clue , a cloud came over his reason . 
`` And , '' continued Evan , `` I will do this for the sake of the honour of your family . 
was so very poor and weakly uttered , that Evan in his rage could laugh at it ; and the laughter convinced Laxley that his ground was untenable . 
He , of all others , was in reality the last to suspect Evan of having spoken truth that night in Fallowfield ; otherwise would he have condescended to overt hostility , small jealousies , and the shadows of hatred ? 
said Evan . 
`` I thank you , '' said Evan . 
Laxley sauntered off , and Evan went to meet his sister . 
he measures his man before he comes to close quarters . 
He -- '' `` What English you talk ! 
` Measures his man ! 
In the afternoon , the Jocelyns , William Harvey , and Drummond met together to consult about arranging the dispute ; and deputations went to Laxley and to Evan . 
He demanded an apology for certain expressions that day ; and an equivalent to an admission that Mr. Harrington had said , in Fallowfield , that he was not a gentleman , in order to escape the consequences . 
All the Jocelyns laughed at his tenacity , and `` gentleman '' began to be bandied about in ridicule of the arrogant lean-headed adolescent . 
They paid Evan the compliment to appealing to his common sense , and Evan was now cool ; for which reason he resolved that he would have all that his hot blood had precipitated him to forfeit he knew how much for ; in other words , he insisted upon the value for his lie . 
`` I bear much up to a certain point , '' he said : `` beyond it I allow no one to step . '' 
He said -LRB- and his words were carried faithfully to the Countess by her dog -RRB- : `` Harrington has been compelled by Laxley to say he 's a gentleman . 
He ca n't possibly retract it without injuring his ancestors . 
Do n't you comprehend his dilemma ? 
Her ladyship pointed through the library window at Rose , who was walking with Laxley , and showing him her pearly teeth in return for one of his jokes : an exchange so manifestly unfair , that Lady Jocelyn 's womanhood , indifferent as she was , could not but feel that Rose had an object in view ; which was true , for she was flattering Laxley into a consent to meet Evan half way . 
The ladies murmured and hummed of these proceedings , and of Rose 's familiarity with Mr. Harrington ; and the Countess in trepidation took Evan to herself , and spoke to him seriously ; a thing she had not done since her residence in Beckley . 
She let him see that he must be on a friendly footing with everybody in the house , or go : which latter alternative Evan told her he had decided on . 
In love , Evan , when you run away , you do n't live to fight another day . '' 
It may be that you put yourself at his feet ; '' and his sister looked at him , sighing a great sigh . 
She had , with violence , stayed her mouth concerning what she knew of the Fallowfield business , dreading to alarm Evan 's sensitiveness ; but she could not avoid giving him a little slap . 
It was only to make him remember by the smart that he must always suffer when he would not be guided by her . 
Evan professed to the Jocelyns that he was willing to apologise to Laxley for certain expressions ; determining to leave the house when he had done it . 
The young men , sounded on both sides , were accordingly lured to the billiard-room , and pushed together : and when he had succeeded in thrusting the idea of Rose from the dispute , it did seem such folly to Evan 's common sense , that he spoke with pleasant bonhommie about it ; saying , as he shook Laxley 's hand : `` Is this my certificate of admission into your ranks ? '' 
Then Evan , to wind up the affair good-humouredly , said : `` It would be better if gentlemen were to combine to put an end to the blackguards , I fancy . 
and Harry called Evan a trump , and Laxley , who had even less relish for commerce in ideas than in cloths , began to whistle and look distressfully easy . 
And the Countess , knowing that Evan loved his sister Caroline , incidentally related to him an episode in the domestic life of Major and Mrs. Strike . 
Evan was sent rushing from the Countess to Caroline , with whom the Countess was content to leave him . 
She did not entreat him , but looking resigned , her lovely face conjured up the Major to Evan , and he thought , `` Can I drive her back to him ? '' 
He silenced every word about Lymport ; called him a brewer already , and made absurd jokes , that were nevertheless serviceable stuff to the Countess , who deplored to this one and to that the chance existing that Evan might , by the urgent solicitations of his brother-in-law , give up diplomacy and its honours for brewery and lucre ! 
Of course Evan knew that he was managed . 
The memories of a managed man have yet to be written ; but if he be honest he will tell you that he knew it all the time . 
He longed for the sugar-plum ; he knew it was naughty to take it : he dared not for fear of the devil , and he shut his eyes while somebody else popped it into his mouth , and assumed his responsibility . 
Being managed implies being led the way this other person thinks you should go : altogether for your own benefit , mind : you are to see with her eyes , that you may not disappoint your own appetites : which does not hurt the flesh , certainly ; but does damage the conscience ; and from the moment you have once succumbed , that function ceases to perform its office of moral strainer so well . 
So he thought , till Rose , wishing him `` Good night '' on the balcony , and abandoning her hand with a steady sweet voice and gaze , said : `` How generous of you to forgive my friend , dear Evan ! '' 
And the ravishing little glimpse of wlmanly softness in her , set his heart beating ; and if he thought at all , it was that he would have sacrificed body and soul for her . 
For the moment I must beg that a little indulgence will be granted towards her . 
`` A lady is here who has run away from the conjugal abode , and Lady Jocelyn shelters her , and is hospitable to another , who is more concerned in this lady 's sad fate than he should be . 
I only ask a little more time for stupid Evan . 
He might have little Bonner now . 
My diplomatist praises my abilities -- Sir John Loring my style -- the rest follow and I do not withhold my smiles , and they are happy , and I should be but that for ungrateful Evan 's sake I sacrificed my peace by binding myself to a dreadful sort of half-story . 
And then I have the most dreadful fears that what I have done has disturbed him in the other world . 
-- much affected by sight of Evan , and keeps aloof from Beckley Court . 
`` Open again , '' she pursues . 
If Evan could care for Miss Bonner , he might have B. C. ! 
Here is Evan risking his neck for an indifferent -- there 's some word for ` not soft . ' 
He -- but it was Evan 's utter madness was the cause , and I have not ventured a word to him . 
He compelled Evan to assert his rank , and Mr. Forth 's face has been one concentrated sneer since THEN . 
He must know the origin of the Cogglesbys , or something . 
Behind came Mrs. Evremonde , flanked by Drummond and Evan . 
The expedition had for its object the selection of a run of ground for an amateur steeple-chase : the idea of which had sprung from Laxley 's boasts of his horsemanship : and Rose , quick as fire , had backed herself , and Drummond and Evan , to beat him . 
She was not distant with Evan , but she had a feverish manner , and seemed to thirst to make him show his qualities , and excel , and shine . 
Billiards , or jumping , or classical acquirements , it mattered not -- Evan must come first . 
He had crossed the foils with Laxley , and disarmed him ; for Mel his father had had him well set up for a military career . 
Rose , Evan , Drummond , and Mrs. Evremonde and Dorothy , skirted to the right , all laughing , and full of excitement . 
`` He does n't ride badly , '' said Lady Jocelyn . 
He must have been set up in England . '' 
`` Oh , Evan can do anything , '' said Andrew enthusiastically . 
`` His father was a capital horseman , and taught him fencing , riding , and every accomplishment . 
`` The young man , her brother , is well-bred , '' said Lady Jocelyn , and Andrew was very ready to praise Evan . 
He was captured by Harry and Evan close on the leap , in the act of shaking his head at it ; and many who inspected the leap would have deemed it a sign that wisdom weighted the head that would shake long at it ; for it consisted of a post and rails , with a double ditch . 
They 're going to ride a race and a jump down in the field , and its break-neck leap , and Rose wo n't allow me to stop and see it , though she knows I 'm just as fond of Evan as she is ; and if he 's killed I declare it will be her fault ; and it 's all for her stupid , dirty old pocket handkerchief ! '' 
` Gad if he takes the leap it 'll be odd -- another of the name . 
That 's where old Mel had his spill . '' 
The leap , which did not appear formidable from where they stood , was four fields distant from the point where Rose , with a handkerchief in her hand , was at that moment giving the signal to Laxley and Evan . 
The Countess , doubly relieved , threw herself back in the carriage , and Andrew drew a breath , saying : `` Evan has beat him -- I saw that ! 
`` I fear , '' said Mrs. Evremonde , `` Mr. Harrington has had a fall . 
Surrounded by Lady Jocelyn , Drummond , Seymour , and the rest , Evan 's dust-stained body was stretched along the road , and his head was lying in the lap of Rose , who , pale , heedless of anything spoken by those around her , and with her lips set and her eyes turning wildly from one to the other , held a gory handkerchief to his temple with one hand , and with the other felt for the motion of his heart . 
Lady Jocelyn sat upright in her saddle , giving directions about what was to be done with Evan and the mare , impartially . 
And Seymour remarked , `` Fifty guineas knocked off her value ! '' 
Difficult to say whether they spoke of Evan or the brute . 
And Evan had risked his life for this , and might die unpitied . 
Oh , if Evan die ! 
Will it punish Rose at all , if Evan dies ? 
How could the Countess tell that Rose envied her the joy of holding Evan in the carriage there ? 
And as a further provocation , Evan would open his eyes . 
The demonstrativeness the Countess thirsted for was afforded her by Juley Bonner , and in a measure by her sister Caroline , who loved Evan passionately . 
The Countess stepped from the carriage to go and cherish Juliana 's petulant distress ; for that unhealthy little body was stamping with impatience to have the story told to her , to burst into fits of pathos ; and while Seymour and Harry assisted Evan to descend , trying to laugh off the pain he endured , Caroline stood by , soothing him with words and tender looks . 
Lady Jocelyn passed him , and took his hand , saying , `` Not killed this time ! '' 
`` At your ladyship 's service to-morrow , '' he replied , and his hand was kindly squeezed . 
`` My darling Evan , you will not ride again ? '' 
Caroline cried , kissing him on the steps ; and the Duke watched the operation , and the Countess observed the Duke . 
Leaving Evan in the doctor 's hands , and telling Caroline to dress in her room , the Countess met Rose , and gratified her vindictiveness , while she furthered her projects , by saying : `` Not till my brother is quite convalescent will it be advisable that you should visit him . 
`` I spoke to him of Evan 's position . 
Well , you perceive , my sweetest , that Evan 's interests are in your hands . 
In one week , I fondly trust , he will be secure . 
What more did his Grace say ? 
I will nurse Evan . '' 
`` You have faced him , my dear , '' said the Countess , `` and you are to change your headdress simply to throw him off his scent . '' 
`` Evan 's prospects -- it may be , Silva 's restoration -- depend upon your hair being dressed plain to-day . 
After a visit to Evan , the sisters sailed together into the drawing-room . 
Mr. George had thought , when he saw Mrs. Strike leaning to Evan , and heard she was a Harrington , that she was rather like the Lymport family ; but the reappearance of Mrs. Strike , the attention of the Duke of Belfield to her , and the splendid tactics of the Countess , which had extinguished every thought in the thought of himself , drove Lymport out of his mind . 
He left the money to Admiral Harrington , and he was a relation of Mel 's . '' 
`` He is to be regretted , Duke . 
The stuff was in him , but the Fates were unkind . 
`` When the lion saw the donkey in his own royal skin , '' said Aunt Bel , `` add the rhyme at your discretion -- he was a wiser lion , that 's all . '' 
She had often spoken of the little happy stream to Evan in Portugal , and when he came to Beckley Court , she arranged that he should sleep in a bed-room overlooking it . 
The view was sweet and pleasant to him , for all the babbling of the water was of Rose , and winding in and out , to east , to north , it wound to embowered hopes in the lover 's mind , to tender dreams ; and often at dawn , when dressing , his restless heart embarked on it , and sailed into havens , the phantom joys of which coloured his life for him all the day . 
From the image of a flower bending to the stream , like his own soul to the bosom of Rose , Evan built sweet fables . 
It was she that exalted him , that led him through glittering chapters of adventure . 
In his dream of deeds achieved for her sake , you may be sure the young man behaved worthily , though he was modest when she praised him , and his limbs trembled when the land whispered of his great reward to come . 
Then she , herself , struck him to the ground , and sitting in his chamber , sick and weary , on the evening of his mishap , Evan 's sole desire was to obtain the handkerchief he had risked his neck for . 
Ordinarily Evan had sufficient common sense and was as prosaic as mankind could wish him ; but he has had a terrible fall in the morning , and a young woman rages in his brain . 
Better , indeed , and `` more manly , '' were he to strike and raise huge bosses on his forehead , groan , and so have done with it . 
We must let him go his own way . 
At the door he was met by the Countess . 
Evan had grown accustomed to her moods , and if one moment she was the halcyon , and another the petrel , it no longer disturbed him , seeing that he was a stranger to the influences by which she was affected . 
The Countess rated him severely for not seeking repose and inviting sympathy . 
She told him that the Jocelyns had one and all combined in an infamous plot to destroy the race of Harrington , and that Caroline had already succumbed to their assaults ; that the Jocelyns would repent it , and sooner than they thought for ; and that the only friend the Harringtons had in the house was Miss Bonner , whom Providence would liberally reward . 
said Evan , faintly . 
He hoped for Rose . 
She turned from him , and to Evan 's chagrin introduced Juliana Bonner . 
And then Evan found himself alone with Miss Bonner , and very uneasy . 
Feeling which , Evan began : `` May I tell you that I think it is I who ought to be nursing you , not you me ? '' 
said Evan , thinking more of the unmusical laugh than of the words . 
He received no explanation , and the irksome silence caused him to look through the window as an escape for him mind , at least . 
Miss Bonner asked , and broke his reverie . 
Evan now laughed . 
She had said more than she intended , possibly , for she coloured under his inquiring look , and added : `` I wish I could say the same as you of Beckley . 
Though Evan claimed only the handkerchief he had won , his heart sank at the sound . 
Miss Bonner watched him , and springing forward , said sharply : `` May I tell you something ? '' 
`` I am going , '' said Evan . 
She kept her eyes on him , and in her voice as well there was a depth , as she returned : `` Mr. Laxley , Mr. Forth , and Harry , are going to Lymport to-morrow . '' 
Evan was looking at a figure , whose shadow was thrown towards the house from the margin of the stream . 
He stood up , and taking the hand of Miss Bonner , said : `` I thank you . 
The figure by the stream he knew to be that of Rose . 
`` Why , Van , '' he said , as Evan came up to him , `` I thought you were in a profound sleep . 
Evan soon got free from Andrew . 
He was under the dim stars , walking to the great fire in the East . 
The cool air refreshed him . 
He was simply going to ask for his own , before he went , and had no cause to fear what would be thought by any one . 
I can not say whether he inherited his feeling for rank from Mel , his father , or that the Countess had succeeded in instilling it , but Evan never took Republican ground in opposition to those who insulted him , and never lashed his `` manhood '' to assert itself , nor compared the fineness of his instincts with the behaviour of titled gentlemen . 
Rather he seemed to admit the distinction between his birth and that of a gentleman , admitting it to his own soul , as it were , and struggled simply as men struggle against a destiny . 
The news Miss Bonner had given him sufficed to break a spell which could not have endured another week ; and Andrew , besides , had told him of Caroline 's illness . 
When Evan lay like a dead man on the ground , Rose turned upon herself as the author of his death , and then she felt this presence within her and her heart all day had talked to her of it , and was throbbing now , and would not be quieted . 
`` Why did you come out , Evan ? 
`` Evan ! '' 
`` For what , Evan ? '' 
It was the Countess , Evan . 
Evan , though he felt more in it , and had some secret nerves set tingling and dancing , was not to be moved from his demand . 
`` Withhold what , Evan ? 
`` Oh , Evan ! 
`` I will give it you , Evan . '' 
And when Evan , with a lover 's craving , wished her lips to say what her eyes said so well , Rose drew his fingers up , and , with an arch smile and a blush , kissed them . 
Innocently , or with well-masked design , Rose branched off into little sweet words about his bruised shoulder , touching it softly , as if she knew the virtue that was in her touch , and accusing her selfish self as she caressed it : `` Dearest Evan ! 
As Evan listened , the words were like food from heaven poured into his spirit . 
`` To-morrow , '' he kept saying to himself , `` to-morrow I will tell her all . 
Evan kissed the hand of Rose , and led her back to the house . 
After that dreadful dinner she -LRB- since the weaknesses of great generals should not be altogether ignored -RRB- , did pray for flight and total obscurity , but Caroline could not be left in her hysteric state , and now that she really perceived that Evan was progressing and on the point of sealing his chance , the devoted lady resolved to hold her ground . 
The stream flowed under Evan 's eyes , like something in a lower sphere , now . 
His passion took him up , as if a genie had lifted him into mid-air , and showed him the world on a palm of a hand ; and yet , as he dressed by the window , little chinks in the garden wall , and nectarines under their shiny leaves , and the white walks of the garden , were stamped on his hot brain accurately and lastingly . 
When Evan 's hand touched hers , she retained it , and smiled up at him frankly , as it were to make him glad in her gladness . 
If before others his eyes brought the blood to her cheeks , she would perhaps drop her eye-lids an instant , and then glance quickly level again to reassure him . 
The tender knowledge of her -- the throbbing secret they held in common sung at his heart like a passionate nightingale . 
Evan should have risen to the height of the noble girl . 
the dearer and sweeter her bearing became , the more conscious he was of the dead weight he was dragging . 
It was that Evan felt the soul of Rose , and felt it akin to his own . 
Her tastes , her habits , could not obscure the bright and perfect steadfastness which was in her , and which Evan worshipped more than her face ; and indeed that firm truth of her character gave a charm to all her actions . 
For she had given heart and soul to Evan , and had a sense , therefore , of being irredeemably in debt to her old associates , and wished to be doubly kind to them . 
Where was Evan ? 
She must have his consent to speak to her mother , and prevent a recurrence of these silly scenes . 
Evan was with Caroline , his sister . 
It was contrary to the double injunction of the Countess that Caroline should receive Evan during her absence , or that he should disturb the dear invalid with a visit . 
Now , to further Evan 's love-suit , the Countess had induced Caroline to continue yet awhile in the Purgatory Beckley Court had become to her ; but Evan , in speaking of Rose , expressed a determination to leave her , and Caroline caught at it . 
She kissed him convulsively . 
He attributed it to her recent attack of illness , but could not help asking , while he caressed her : `` What 's that ? 
Desire to breathe it to him , and have his loving aid : the fear of forfeiting it , evil as it was to her , and at the bottom of all , that doubt we choose to encourage of the harm in a pleasant sin unaccomplished ; these might be read in the rich dim gleam that swept like sunlight over sea-water between breaks of cloud . 
Caroline knew too well that she was shutting her own theme with iron clasps when she once touched on Evan 's . 
It became an endless carol with Evan . 
Caroline sighed for him from her heart . 
he said , after a breathless excursion of his fancy . 
His love for Rose he could pour out to Caroline : when it came to Rose 's love for him his blood thickened , and his tongue felt guilty . 
said Evan . 
He began to think it was for the sake of his sisters that he had hesitated . 
Thrice as well , he swore to her . 
Evan kissed her confidently , with a warm smile . 
He said a few words of the great faith he had in her : words that were bitter comfort to Caroline . 
She only knew that to wound Evan 's sense of honour and the high and chivalrous veneration for her sex and pride in himself , and those of his blood , would be wicked and unpardonable , and that no earthly pleasure could drown it . 
Thinking this , with her hands joined in pale dejection , Caroline sat silent , and Evan left her to lay bare his heart to Rose . 
On his way to find Rose , he was stopped by the announcement of the arrival of Mr. Raikes , who thrust a bundle of notes into his hand , and after speaking loudly of `` his curricle , '' retired , on important business , as he said , with a mysterious air . 
Scanning the bundle of notes , and wondering at the apparition of the curricle , Evan was joined by Harry Jocelyn , and Harry linked his arm in Evan 's and plunged with extraordinary spontaneity and candour into the state of his money-affairs . 
What the deuce he was to do for money he did not know . 
From the impressive manner in which he put it , it appeared to be one of Nature 's great problems that the whole human race were bound to set their heads together to solve . 
`` I dislike the subject , I confess , '' said Evan . 
Evan might naturally suppose that a subject Harry detested , he would not continue , but for a whole hour Harry turned it over and over with grim glances at Jewry . 
cried Evan , brightening to him . 
was all he could say ; and then he was for hurrying Evan into the house , to find pen and paper , and write down a memorandum of the loan : but Evan insisted upon sparing him the trouble , though Harry with the admirable scruples of an inveterate borrower , begged hard to be allowed to bind himself legally to repay the money . 
`` Till your doubts recur , '' Evan observed ; and Harry burst out , `` Gad , if you were n't such a melancholy beggar , you 'd be the jolliest fellow I know ! 
Evan had now to reflect that he had just thrown away part of the price of his bondage to Tailordom ; the mention of Rose filled his mind . 
Where was she ? 
He saw the star-like figure up the length of it , between the swelling tall dark pillars , and was hurrying to her , resolute not to let one minute of deception blacken further the soul that loved so true a soul . 
She saw him , and stood smiling , when the Countess issued , shadow-like , from a side path , and declared that she must claim her brother for a few instants . 
The Countess had but to tell Evan that she had met the insolvent in apples , and recognised him under his change of fortune , and had no doubt that at least he would amuse the company . 
Then she asked her brother the superfluous question , whether he loved her , which Evan answered satisfactorily enough , as he thought ; but practical ladies require proofs . 
`` Quick , '' said Evan , seeing Rose vanish , `` what do you want ? 
The Countess wanted Evan to ask Andrew to be the very best brother-in-law in the world , and win , unknown to himself , her cheerful thanks , by lending Evan to lend to her the sum of one hundred pounds , as she was in absolute distress for money . 
`` Really , Louisa , this is a thing you might ask him yourself , '' Evan remonstrated . 
Evan had to consent before he could be released . 
He ran to the end of the walk through the portal , into the park . 
said sensitive Evan . 
Ultimately , Andrew somehow contrived to stick a hint or two about the terrible dinner in Evan 's quivering flesh . 
He did it as delicately as possible , half begging pardon , and perspiring profusely . 
Evan grasped his hand , and thanked him . 
Caroline 's illness was now explained to him . 
`` I 'll take Caroline with me to-morrow , '' he said . 
`` You must give me the work , '' said Evan , partly pleased with himself for being able to jest on the subject , as a piece of preliminary self-conquest . 
This made Evan allude to his letter written from Lymport , upon which Andrew said : `` tush ! 
Evan could not reach his chamber without being waylaid by the Countess . 
Had he remembered the sister who sacrificed so much for him ? 
cried Evan , and her hand closed on the delicious golden whispers of bank-notes . 
dear good Evan ! '' 
Evan laid out the notes , and eyed them while dressing . 
They seemed to say to him , `` We have you now . '' 
Materially , he was bound to Tailordom before ; now he was bound in honour . 
At the thought he turned cold ; it shot him in an instant millions of miles away from sunny Rose . 
Evan walked up and down the room , rejoicing in the inspired idea of the letter , and not aware that it was the suggestion of his cowardice . 
The pains and aches of the word snip , too , set him thinking of his merits . 
He brought that mighty host to encounter the obnoxious epithet , and quite overwhelmed it ; he all but stifled it . 
And in company his merits evaporated ; and though there was no talk of tailors , snip arose in its might , and was dominant . 
When written , Evan burned to have Rose reading it to the end , just as condemned criminals long for instant execution . 
He heard a step in the passage . 
He made her take the letter and promise to deliver it immediately . 
He seemed to hesitate -- he was picturing how Rose looked when very sleepy , and a delicious dreamy languor crept through his veins , and he felt an unutterable pang then . 
`` Well , '' said Evan . 
he cried , as one who bursts the spell of an opiate . 
The temptation had almost overcome him . 
Polly thought his proceedings very queer . 
In the morning came Evan 's great trial . 
`` Yes , Evan . 
Dear Evan ! 
`` And then , Evan , you will never need to go . '' 
The deep-toned sentence sang in Evan 's heart . 
`` Evan , '' she said , `` shall I really speak to mama ? '' 
Look at this , Evan . '' 
She will be our friend ; she will never forsake us , Evan , if we do not deceive her . 
Oh , Evan ! 
Evan paused before he replied : `` You have only to tell her what I have told you . 
Rose gave him a flying look of pain : `` Everything , Evan ? 
she sighed resignedly : `` I am yours ; you know that , Evan . '' 
Oh , Evan ! 
cried Evan : `` Can I trust you more ? '' 
He spoke of the letter : Rose caught his hand . 
`` I never had it , Evan . 
Why , Evan , we have to fight a battle . '' 
It 's you I love , Evan . 
`` There 's no spite in it , Evan . 
`` Very well , Evan . 
Oh , my dear Evan ! 
And that reminds me , Evan , if we 're to be happy and succeed , you must promise one thing : you will not tell the Countess , your sister . 
Evan assured her he was not in the habit of pouring secrets into any bosom , the Countess 's as little as another 's . 
`` Very well , then , Evan , it 's unpleasant while it lasts , but we shall gain the day . 
At this arch question he seized her and kissed her . 
She let him take it as his own . 
Her cheeks were a little redder , and her eyes softer , and softer her voice , but all about her looked to him as her natural home . 
`` Yes , Rose , '' he said , `` I will do this , though I do n't think you can know what I shall have to endure -- not in confessing what I am , but in feeling that I have brought you to my level . '' 
He shook his head . 
`` But in reality , Evan -- apart from mere appearances -- not in reality it does ! 
And -- did you really think that , Evan ? 
Could Evan do less than adore her ? 
She knew all , and she loved him ! 
Since he was too shy to allude more than once to his letter , it was natural that he should not ask her how she came to know , and how much the `` all '' that she knew comprised . 
So they toyed , and then Rose , setting her fingers loose , whispered : `` Are you ready ? '' 
And Evan nodded ; and Rose , to make him think light of the matter in hand , laughed : `` Pluck not quite up yet ? '' 
said Evan , and they walked to the house : not quite knowing what they were going to do . 
Little imagining how heart and heart the two had grown , and that Evan would understand him , Drummond called to Rose playfully : `` Time 's up . '' 
Evan looked into his eyes calmly as he passed . 
I shall really be glad when Evan comes to take his proper place . '' 
`` Do you mean Evan , aunt ? '' 
Mrs. Fiske read that Mr. Goren had been astonished at Evan 's non-appearance , and at his total silence ; which he did not consider altogether gentlemanly behaviour , and certainly not such as his father would have practised . 
What affected him painfully was the news of Evan 's doings at a noble house , Beckley Court , to wit , where , according to the report of a rich young gentleman friend , Mr. Raikes -LRB- for whose custom Mr. Goren was bound to thank Evan -RRB- , the youth who should have been learning the science of Tailoring , had actually passed himself off as a lord , or the son of one , or something of the kind , and had got engaged to a wealthy heiress , and would , no doubt , marry her if not found out . 
The General who had schemed so successfully to gain Evan time at Beckley Court , in his own despite and against a hundred obstructions , had now another enemy in the field , and one who , if she could not undo her work , could punish her . 
I 'd rather have had poor dear Mr. Harrington in my best bed than old or young -- princes or nobodies , I would -- he was that grand and pleasant . '' 
`` Well might poor dear Mr. Harrington -- pleasant man as he was ! 
-- say , as he used to say , ` There 's lovely women in the world , Mrs. Hawkshaw , ' he 'd say , ` and there 's duchesses , ' he 'd say , ` and there 's they that can sing , and can dance , and some , ' he says , ` that can cook . ' 
But he 'd look sly as he 'd stoop his head and shake it . 
` Roll 'em into one , ' he says , ` and not any of your grand ladies can match my wife at home . ' 
And , indeed , Mrs. Harrington , he told me he thought so many a time in the great company he frequented . '' 
We left Rose and Evan on their way to Lady Jocelyn . 
Now the sense of honour , and of the necessity of acting the part it imposes on him , may be very strong in a young man ; but certainly , as a rule , the sense of ridicule is more poignant , and Evan was suffering horrid pangs . 
Evan , when he passed Drummond into the house , and quietly returned his gaze , endured the first shock of this strange feeling . 
There could be no doubt that he was playing second fiddle to Rose . 
Evan loved Rose deeply and completely , but noble manhood was strong in him . 
Poor Evan did feel foolish . 
Evan drew the dear hand humbly to his lips . 
Evan accepted Rose because he believed in her love , and judged it by the strength of his own ; her sacrifice of her position he accepted , because in his soul he knew he should have done no less . 
He mounted to the level of her nobleness , and losing nothing of the beauty of what she did , it was not so strange to him . 
Still there was the baleful reflection that he was second fiddle to his beloved . 
No harmony came of it in his mind . 
How could he take an initiative ? 
He walked forth on the lawn , where a group had gathered under the shade of a maple , consisting of Drummond Forth , Mrs. Evremonde , Mrs. Shorne , Mr. George Uploft , Seymour Jocelyn , and Ferdinand Laxley . 
Evan strolled near the group , and bowed to Mrs. Shorne , whom he had not seen that morning . 
The lady 's acknowledgment of his salute was constrained , and but a shade on the side of recognition . 
They were silent till he was out of earshot . 
He noticed that his second approach produced the same effect . 
In the conservatory Juliana was awaiting him . 
`` It is not to give you roses I called you here , Mr. Harrington , '' she said . 
he responded . 
`` Pluck this , '' said Evan , pointing to a white rose . 
asked Evan . 
Evan really could not remember , and was beginning to wonder what he had been called there for . 
`` I have met with nothing but kindness here , '' said Evan . 
She broke it from the stem and handed it to him . 
The full meaning of the phrase struck Evan 's senses when he was alone . 
Miss Bonner knew something of his condition , evidently . 
Perhaps it was generally known , and perhaps it was thought that he had come to win Rose for his worldly advantage ! 
`` I have told mama , Evan . 
`` Dear Evan , if you are going to be sensitive , I 'll run away . 
She said nothing to hurt you , Evan , and we have gained ground so far , and now we 'll go and face our enemies . 
Evan burst out . 
`` You know , dear Evan , when two people love , there is no such thing as owing between them . '' 
he ended the sentence in his breast . 
Evan sounded down the meaning of his `` but . '' 
He caught a distant glimpse of the little bit of bare selfishness , and shrunk from it . 
`` The battle has commenced now , and , Mr. Harrington , I will lean on your arm , and be led to my dear friends yonder . 
She looked in Evan 's face . 
He felt the contrast between his own and hers ; between the niggard spirit of the beggarly receiver , and the high bloom of the exalted giver . 
`` Yes , Evan . '' 
Remember , Evan , I conceal nothing ; and if anything makes you wretched here , do think how I love you . '' 
Rose had not relinquished Evan 's arm . 
It was enough for Evan . 
`` Any distant allusion to Mr. Harrington ? '' 
Since you have spoken of this Mr. Harrington , I must inform you that I have it on certain authority from two or three sources , that he is the son of a small shopkeeper at Lymport . '' 
`` I must n't include poor Mr. Harrington ? 
Concerning Mr. Harrington , wonderfully obliged . 
In Portugal Evan 's half insinuations had given her small suspicions , which the scene on board the Jocasta had half confirmed : and since she came to communicate with her own mind , she bore the attack of all that rose against him , bit by bit . 
But when Juliana Bonner told her that day that Evan was not only the son of the thing , but the thing himself , and that his name could be seen any day in Lymport , and that he had come from the shop to Beckley , poor Rosey had a sick feeling that almost sank her . 
Her eyes had to feed on Evan , she had to taste some of the luxury of love , before she could gain composure , and then her arrogance towards those she called her enemies did not quite return . 
`` In that letter you told me all -- all -- all , Evan ? '' 
She feared to speak , being tender as a mother to his sensitiveness . 
She could not bear concealment , or doubt , or a shadow of dishonesty ; and he , gaining force of soul to join with hers , took her hands and related the contents of the letter fully . 
She was pale when he had finished . 
It was some time before she was able to get free from the trammels of prejudice , but when she did , she did without reserve , saying : `` Evan , there is no man who would have done so much , '' and he was told that he was better loved than ever . 
He accepted the credit she gave him , and at that we need not wonder . 
It helped him further to accept herself , otherwise could he -- his name known to be on a shop-front -- have aspired to her still ? 
`` Evan ! '' 
He has disgraced us all , and ruined himself . 
The greater his punishment , the greater the mercy to him . 
If Evan had confided in me ! 
He is impenetrable . 
He will be low all his life , and I refuse any more to sully myself in attempting to lift him . 
-- Little Bonner thinks Evan quite a duke 's son , -- has been speaking to her grandmama , and to-day , this morning , the venerable old lady quite as much as gave me to understand that an union between our brother and her son 's child would sweetly gratify her , and help her to go to her rest in peace . 
I have anticipated Evan 's feeling for her , and so she thinks his conduct cold . 
Indeed , I told her , point blank , he loved her . 
But , Evan , of course ! 
No getting him ! 
what Evan may do ! 
Evan 's good fortune is most miraculous . 
His low friend turns out to be a young Fortunatus ; very original , sparkling , and in my hands to be made much of . 
I do think he will -- for he is most zealous -- he will counteract that hateful Mr. Forth , who may soon have work enough . 
Mr. Raikes -LRB- Evan 's friend -RRB- met a mad captain in Fallowfield ! 
He has confessed to me that Evan told him ! 
Louisa de Saldar has changed his opinion , and much impressed this eccentric young gentleman . 
And Evan could go , and write -- but I have no patience with him . 
He is the blind tool of his mother , and anybody 's puppet . '' 
Has sent for Evan from a low public-house ! 
Evan closeted with Sir Franks . 
`` Harrington 's his name , my lady . 
`` Thousand a year to start with , '' Old Tom went on , `` and if she marries -- I mean if he marries her , I 'll settle a thousand per ann . 
I may as well tell you : Rose has just been here to inform me that this Mr. Harrington has turned her head , and that she has given her troth , and all that sort of thing . 
For though one part of his nature was disappointed , and the best part of his plot disarranged , he liked Evan 's proceeding and felt warm at what seemed to him Rose 's scorn of rank . 
`` I confess I like this Mr. Harrington . 
But it 's a great misfortune for him to have had a notorious father . 
He listened to his sister , Mrs. Shorne : he listened to his wife ; he agreed with all they said , though what they said was widely diverse : he consented to see and speak to Evan , and he did so , and was much the most distressed . 
Rose knew this , and her instruction to Evan was : `` You can not give me up -- you will go , but you can not give me up while I am faithful to you : tell him that . '' 
Evan 's heart melted at this generous way of putting it . 
He said he saw it , he had no hope : he would go and be forgotten : and begged that for any annoyance his visit might have caused Sir Franks and Lady Jocelyn , they would pardon him . 
Following Evan , Rose went to her father and gave him a good hour 's excitement , after which the worthy gentleman hurried for consolation to Lady Jocelyn , whom he found reading a book of French memoirs , in her usual attitude , with her feet stretched out , as if she made a footstool of trouble . 
Thought it better not to pack him off in a hurry . '' 
`` Where the deuce did this young Harrington get his breeding from ? '' 
`` He comes of a notable sire . '' 
`` Yes , but there 's no sign of the snob in him . '' 
`` And I exonerate him from the charge of ` adventuring ' after Rose . 
Evan 's bearing and character had , during his residence at Beckley Court , become so thoroughly accepted as those of a gentleman , and one of their own rank , that , after an allusion to the origin of his breeding , not a word more was said by either of them on that topic . 
`` Spoken to him ! 
He deserves horsewhipping ! 
Have you not told him to quit the house instantly ? '' 
Lady Jocelyn came to her husband 's aid : `` It would n't do , I think , to kick him out . 
In the first place , he has n't deserved it . '' 
On the grounds of common sense , on the grounds of propriety , and consideration of what was due to themselves , all agreed to condemn the notion of Rose casting herself away on Evan . 
Lady Jocelyn said she should not prevent Rose from writing to Evan , if she had the wish to do so . 
If the Countess had not woven the tangle , and gained Evan time , Rose would never have seen his blood , -- never have had her spirit hurried out of all shows , and forms , and habits of thought , up to the gates of existence , as it were , where she took him simply as God created him and her , and clave to him . 
Why , you made eyes at him . 
This may account for his excessive wrath at Evan Harrington after Juliana had given him proofs of the truth of what she said . 
The image of the Countess swam before him . 
he added , suddenly remembering his debt to Evan . 
`` And you will speak to this Mr. Harrington to-night , Harry . 
Evan was not among them . 
He had gone , as the Countess said aloud , on a diplomatic mission to Fallowfield , with Andrew Cogglesby . 
Evan was still in his dream . 
To him the generous love and valiant openness of Rose , though they were matched and mated in his own bosom , seemed scarcely human . 
Harry looked about under his eyelids for Evan , trying at the same time to compose himself for the martyrdom he had to endure in sitting at table with the presumptuous fellow . 
`` He will not return to-night from Fallowfield . 
He has gone there to get Mr. Andrew Cogglesby 's brother to do something for him . 
The Countess has sent Mr. Harrington to Fallowfield to be out of the way , and she has told her mother all sorts of falsehoods . '' 
`` Will he forgive me ? '' 
The Countess clung to Caroline and the Duke more than to Evan and Rose . 
for figure and style my friend Harrington beats him hollow . '' 
The torchlight of a delusion was extinguished in him , but he did not wander long in that gloomy cavernous darkness of the disenchanted , as many of us do , and as Evan had done , when after a week at Beckley Court he began to examine of what stuff his brilliant father , the great Mel , was composed . 
But her mother had written to say she would wait for Evan in Fallowfield ! 
The girl looked perfectly trustful , as much so as when the Countess was pouring in her ears the tales of Evan 's growing but bashful affection for her . 
Evan wishes her here . 
Bring her , and should you see the mad captain who behaves so oddly , favour him with a ride . 
He says he dreams his wife is here , and he will not reveal his name ! 
About this time Evan entered the lower park-gates with Andrew . 
`` The thrust sinned in its shrewdness , '' remarked Evan , ending a laugh . 
Evan paid no attention to him , and answered none of his hasty undertoned questions . 
asked Evan of Andrew . 
Once he made an effort to get hold of Evan 's arm and drag him away , as one who had an urgent confession to be delivered of , but Evan was talking to Lady Jocelyn , and other ladies , and quietly disengaged his arm without even turning to notice the face of his friend . 
An instant after Evan found himself seated between Mrs. Evremonde and one of the Conley girls . 
As for Evan , the first glass of champagne rushed into reckless nuptials with the music in his head , bringing Rose , warm almost as life , on his heart . 
He knew he must leave her on the morrow ; he feared he might never behold her again ; and yet he tasted exquisite bliss , for it seemed within the contemplation of the gods that he should dance with his darling before dark -- haply waltz with her ! 
he shuts his eyes , blinded . 
The moment Evan appeared , the sickness produced in her by the Countess passed , and she was ready to brave her situation . 
Still she had the consolation that Rose , seeing the vulgar mother , might turn from Evan : a poor distant hope , meagre and shapeless like herself . 
She could bear to meet the Countess 's wrath , but not Evan 's offended look . 
Evan was talking to Miss Jenny Graine at the moment rather earnestly . 
With a rapid glance at him , to see that his ears were closed , the Countess breathed : `` Not the elder branch ! 
Intensely bright with the gem-like light of her gallant spirit , Rose 's eyes fixed on Evan . 
He met them and smiled . 
The words of Ruth passed through his heart , nourishing him . 
With this angel lifting him up , what need he fear ? 
If he reddened , the blush was taken up by love . 
But the Countess , who had given Rose to Evan , and the duke to Caroline , where was her supporter ? 
The duke was entertaining Caroline with no less dexterity , and Rose 's eyes said to Evan : `` Feel no shame that I do not feel ! '' 
The general feeling for Evan and his sisters , by their superiors in rank , was one of kindly pity . 
He put up his glass and scrutinised Mrs. Mel , and then examined Evan , and Rose thought that in his interchange of glances with anyone there was a lurking revival of the scene gone by . 
Juliana saw Rose go up to Evan and take his hand , and make him introduce her to his mother . 
What farther she thought she did not say , but she was a woman who looked to natural gifts more than the gifts of accidents ; and I think Evan 's chance stood high with her then . 
Harry was in a mess which threw him almost upon Evan 's mercy , as will be related . 
I thought once you cared for Evan . 
If he had loved you , would I not have done all that I could for you both ? 
The superb assumption of the girl , and the true portrait of Evan 's character which it flashed upon Juliana , were to the latter such intense pain , that she turned like one on the rack , exclaiming : `` You think so much of him ? 
Rose remembered her fretful unkindness to Evan on the subject of his birth , when her feelings towards him were less warm . 
She gave them plenty of promises , and hurried on till she met Evan , and almost out of breath , told him the shameful injustice that had been done to her friend . 
This disgraceful letter looks like Ferdinand 's writing , and she tells him so ; and , Evan ! 
Too sure of his darling to be envious now of any man she pitied , Evan said , `` I would forfeit my hand on his innocence ! '' 
Ah , you 'll find I 'm wiser than you imagine , Mr. Evan . '' 
`` I care so little , '' said Evan , somewhat untruthfully , `` that till you return I shall go and sit with my mother . '' 
Evan watched the figure that was to him as that of an angel -- no less ! 
She no longer envied her friend Jenny , who , emerging from the shades , allured by the waltz , dislinked herself from William 's arm , and whispered exclamations of sorrow at the scene created by Mr. Harrington 's mother . 
Evan debated whither to turn when Rose was lost to his eyes . 
From Harry 's looks at table , Evan judged that the interview was not likely to be amicable . 
He asked the direction he was to take , and setting out with long strides , came in sight of John Raikes , who walked in gloom , and was evidently labouring under one of his mountains of melancholy . 
Jack affected to be quite out of the world ; but finding that Evan took the hint in his usual prosy manner , was reduced to call after him , and finally to run and catch him . 
he began . 
said Evan . 
Evan complimented him by asking a question : saying that Jack 's luck certainly was wonderful . 
cried Evan , impatiently . 
Mr. Raikes could not in his soul imagine that Evan was really so little inquisitive concerning a business of such importance as the trouble that possessed him . 
He watched his friend striding off , incredulously , and then commenced running in pursuit . 
`` Ay , '' quoth Evan , `` what is it ? '' 
I recognised our Fallowfield host , and thinking to draw him out , I told our mutual histories . 
He was n't tied to his Furies . 
They did hover a little above him ; but as for me , I 'm scorched ; and I must n't say where : my mouth is locked ; the social laws which forbid the employment of obsolete words arrest my passionate exclamations of despair . 
quoth Evan , `` a tin plate ? 
said Evan softly . 
I told him over a pint of port -- and what noble stuff is that Aurora port ! 
-- I told him -- I amused him till he was on the point of bursting -- I told him I was such a gentleman as the world had n't seen -- minus money . 
Evan listened to the tribulations of his friend as he would to those of a doll -- the sport of some experimental child . 
By this time he knew something of old Tom Cogglesby , and was not astonished that he should have chosen John Raikes to play one of his farces on . 
Jack turned off abruptly the moment he saw they were nearing human figures , but soon returned to Evan 's side , as if for protection . 
The two Wheedles -- Susan and Polly -- were standing in front of him , and after his call to Evan , he turned to continue some exhortation or appeal to the common sense of women , largely indulged in by young men when the mischief is done . 
My dear fellow , '' he whispered , `` I shall be ruined if my grandmother hears of it . 
Evan took her hand and asked for the child . 
asked Evan . 
Evan turned wrathfully on him . 
`` Leave at once , '' said Evan to Susan . 
`` Make her give up that stupidness of hers , about being made a lady of , Mr. Harrington , '' said the inveterate Polly . 
Evan looked at Harry . 
`` I forgot , '' the latter mumbled , but his face was crimson . 
He put his hands in his pockets . 
he asked . 
Evan took him aside and gave him what he had ; and this amount , without inspection or reserve , Harry offered to Susan . 
Hurrying out a dozen sentences in one , Harry ended by suddenly kissing Susan 's cheek , and then Polly bore her away ; and Harry , with great solemnity , said to Evan : `` ` Pon my honour , I think I ought to ! 
Evan inquired . 
Apparently forgetting his position , Mr. Raikes replied : `` You ask , perhaps , a little too much of me . 
He stammered an excuse , and retreated somewhat as it is the fashion to do from the presence of royalty , followed by Harry 's roar of laughter , in which Evan cruelly joined . 
and he edged once more into the shade of trees . 
Mrs. Shorne , Mrs. Melville , Miss Carrington , and many of the guests who observed Evan moving from place to place , after the exposure , as they called it , were amazed at his audacity . 
There seemed such a quietly superb air about him . 
He would not look out of his element ; and this , knowing what they knew , was his offence . 
He deserved some commendation for still holding up his head , but it was love and Rose who kept the fires of his heart alive . 
Simultaneously with the messenger that brought the news to Lady Jocelyn , one approached Evan , and informed him that the Countess de Saldar urgently entreated him to come to the house without delay . 
He also wished to speak a few words to her , and stepped forward briskly . 
He had no prophetic intimations of the change this interview would bring upon him . 
The Countess was not in her dressing-room when Evan presented himself . 
Evan remained quite still in a chair , and Conning was certainly a number of paces beyond suspicion , when the Countess appeared , and hurling at the maid one of those feminine looks which contain huge quartos of meaning , vented the cold query : `` Pray , why did you not come to me , as you were commanded ? '' 
Something very like an altercation was continued in a sharp , brief undertone ; and then Evan , waking up to the affairs of the hour , heard Conning say : `` I shall not ask your ladyship to give me a character . '' 
He was astonished that the Countess should burst into tears when Conning had departed , and yet more so that his effort to console her should bring a bolt of wrath upon himself . 
`` Now , Evan , now see what you have done for us -- do , and rejoice at it . 
Evan murmured that he was sorry , adding , foolishly : `` Do you really care , Louisa , for what servants think and say ? '' 
Oh , Evan , Evan ! '' 
There was something ludicrous to Evan in this excess of grief on account of such a business ; but he was tender-hearted , and wrought upon to declare that , whether or not he was to blame for his mother 's intrusion that afternoon , he was ready to do what he could to make up to the Countess for her sufferings : whereat the Countess sighed again : asked him what he possibly could do , and doubted his willingness to accede to the most trifling request . 
He assured her that she was mistaken . 
Evan checked his smile , and , taking her hand , said : `` I must tell you , that , on the whole , I see nothing to regret in what has happened to-day . 
Evan cried impetuously . 
`` Your feeling on the point is so exaggerated , my dear Louisa , '' said Evan , `` one ca n't bring reason to your ears . 
`` And your own name , Evan Harrington , is on a shop , '' the Countess struck in , and watched him severely from under her brow , glad to mark that he could still blush . 
exclaimed his female-elder . 
`` I hope not , '' said Evan . 
Oh , Evan ! 
Innumerable little pricks and stings shot over Evan 's skin . 
he said , impatiently ; `` spare your ridicule . 
He rose and walked up and down the room . 
`` Impossible , Louisa , '' said Evan , as one who imagines he is uttering a thing of little consequence . 
Evan made no answer . 
`` You will stay with me , Evan . '' 
`` I really ca n't , '' he said in his previous careless tone . 
`` Then stay , '' said Evan . 
`` By the way , '' he said , for a diversion , `` did you know of a girl stopping at an inn in Fallowfield ? '' 
`` Did Mr. Raikes -- ah , Evan ! 
Evan had to remind her that she had not answered him : whereat she exclaimed : `` One would really think you had never been abroad . 
She had baffled his little cross-examination with regard to Mr. Raikes , but on the other point he was firm . 
Oh , Evan ! 
`` Yes , Evan , -- all ! '' 
Never , never will you meet a soul more utterly devoted to you , Evan . 
Evan , since his love had dawned , had begun to talk with his own nature , and though he knew not yet how much it would stretch or contract , he knew that he was weak and could not perform moral wonders without severe struggles . 
The cynic may add , if he likes -- or without potent liquors . 
Could he be his sister 's judge ? 
Evan 's momentary self-examination saved him from this , and he told the Countess , with a sort of cold compassion , that he himself dared not blame her . 
His tone was distinctly wanting in admiration of her , but she was somewhat over-wrought , and leaned her shoulder against him , and became immediately his affectionate , only too-zealous , sister ; dearly to be loved , to be forgiven , to be prized : and on condition of inserting a special petition for pardon in her orisons , to live with a calm conscience , and to be allowed to have her own way with him during the rest of her days . 
cried the Countess bursting from his arm . 
`` You can do no less , I fear , '' said Evan , eyeing the floor and breathing a deep breath . 
There , pray go away , Evan . 
Evan rose , putting out his hand as if to take hers and plead with her . 
She rejected the first motion , and repeated her desire for him to leave her ; saying , cheerfully : `` Good night , dear ; I dare say we sha n't meet till the morning . '' 
said he . 
Lingering , he said : `` If I go , it will be straight to Lady Jocelyn . '' 
and then she found him gone , and she stooped lower to the glass to mark if the recent agitation were observable under her eyes . 
She ran to the door and hurried swiftly after Evan , pulling him back speechlessly . 
`` Where are you going , Evan ? '' 
`` Evan ! 
`` I will not let this last another hour , '' said Evan , firmly , at the same time seeking to caress her . 
She spurned his fruitless affection , feeling , nevertheless , how cruel was her fate ; for , with any other save a brother , she had arts at her disposal to melt the manliest resolutions . 
Evan did not count the minutes . 
One thought was mounting in his brain -- the scorn of Rose . 
Returning to her dressing-room , she found that Evan had faithfully kept his engagement ; he was on the exact spot where she had left him . 
Caroline came to him swiftly , and put her hand to his forehead that she might the better peruse his features , saying in her mellow caressing voice : `` What is this , dear Van , that you will do ? 
Evan kissed her brows warmly . 
said Evan . 
`` Because it 's better to bear all now than a life of remorse , '' answered Evan . 
`` Lady Jocelyn , '' said Evan , `` has been unintentionally unjust to him , and after her kindness -- apart from the right or wrong -- I will not -- I ca n't allow her to continue so . '' 
`` Pray be silent , Louisa , '' said Evan , getting up hastily , for the sick sensation Rose had experienced came over him . 
Evan smiled . 
Caroline was stooping forward to him . 
Her figure straightened : `` Good Heaven , Evan ! 
he cried internally . 
`` Oh , Evan , darling ! 
She fell on her knees , catching his hand . 
sighed the youth , and his eyes , in his extreme pain , turned to the Countess reproachfully . 
`` Think , dear , '' Caroline hurried on , `` he gains nothing for whom you do this -- you lose all . 
`` You are talking to Evan as if he had religion , '' said the Countess , with steady sedateness . 
And at that moment , from the sublimity of his pagan virtue , the young man groaned for some pure certain light to guide him : the question whether he was about to do right made him weak . 
He took Caroline 's head between his two hands , and kissed her mouth . 
he is going ! '' 
cried Caroline ; `` kneel to him with me : stop him : Rose loves him , and he is going to make her hate him . '' 
My own Evan ! 
it will kill me , '' Caroline exclaimed , and passionately imploring him , she looked so hopelessly beautiful , that Evan was agitated , and caressed her , while he said softly : `` Where our honour is not involved I would submit to your smallest wish . '' 
Could he have known the double meaning in her words , and what a saving this sacrifice of his was to accomplish , he would not have turned to do it feeling abandoned of heaven and earth . 
The Countess stood rigidly as he went forth . 
Three steps from the Countess 's chamber door , the knot of Evan 's resolution began to slacken . 
The clear light of his simple duty grew cloudy and complex . 
His pride would not let him think that he was shrinking , but cried out in him , `` Will you be believed ? '' 
and whispered that few would believe him guilty of such an act . 
Evan thought it good that Rose should lift her head to look at him ; nevertheless , he knew that Rose would turn from him the moment he descended from his superior station . 
As to the honour of your family , Mr. Evan Harrington , pray , of what sort of metal consists the honour of a tailor 's family ? 
The clever beast was torn back and strangled instantaneously by his experienced elders , but not before Evan 's pride had answered him . 
Exalted by Love , he could dread to abase himself and strip off his glittering garments ; lowered by the world , he fell back upon his innate worth . 
Yes , he was called on to prove it ; he was on his way to prove it . 
Surrendering his dearest and his best , casting aside his dreams , his desires , his aspirations , for this stern duty , he at least would know that he made himself doubly worthy of her who abandoned him , and the world would scorn him by reason of his absolute merit . 
Coming to this point , the knot of his resolve tightened again : he hugged it with the furious zeal of a martyr . 
Religion , the lack of which in him the Countess deplored , would have guided him and silenced the internal strife . 
So Evan fought his hard fight from the top of the stairs to the bottom . 
Evan had ceased to pick his knot with one hand and pull it with the other : but not finding Lady Jocelyn below , and hearing that she had retired for the night , he mounted the stairs , and the strife recommenced from the bottom to the top . 
Strange to say , he was almost unaware of any struggle going on within him . 
The suggestion of the foolish little imp alone was loud in the heart of his consciousness ; the rest hung more in his nerves than in his brain . 
He thought : `` Well , I will speak it out to her in the morning ; '' and thought so sincerely , while an ominous sigh of relief at the reprieve rose from his over-burdened bosom . 
She would have passed him , and he would have let her pass , but seeing the unusual pallor on her face , his love for this lady moved him to step forward and express a hope that she had no present cause for sorrow . 
Recognising Evan , she said : `` Ah ! 
Mr. Harrington ! 
Again he stood alone : his chance was gone . 
How could he speak to her in her affliction ? 
In her bow to Evan , he beheld a lovely kindness more unique , if less precious , than anything he had ever seen on the face of Rose . 
`` Mr. Harrington , '' she said , `` Rose tells me you leave us early in the morning . 
Evan pressed her hand , and bowed . 
`` I thank you , madam , '' was all he could answer . 
His voice quavered . 
The philosophic lady thought it time to leave him . 
He put this question more to dally with what he ought to be saying . 
Lady Jocelyn 's face lighted in its gracious pleasant way , as she just inclined her head : but the mention of the Countess and her attendance on Mrs. Bonner had nerved Evan : the contrast of her hypocrisy and vile scheming with this most open , noble nature , acted like a new force within him . 
He begged Lady Jocelyn 's permission to speak with her in private . 
Marking his fervid appearance , she looked at him seriously . 
He divined her sufficiently to answer : `` It concerns a piece of injustice done by you , madam , and which I can help you to set right . '' 
He was on the march to execution , and into the darkness of his brain danced Mr. John Raikes , with his grotesque tribulations . 
The farce Jack lived was all that Evan 's tragic bitterness could revolve , and seemed to be the only light in his mind . 
Evan stood silent , flinching from her frank eyes . 
Evan bowed , to avoid hearing his own lie . 
Her credulity did require his confirmation of it , and he repeated ; `` It is my deed , madam . '' 
`` In that case , Mr. Harrington , I can only say that it 's quite right you should quit this house to-morrow morning . '' 
She saw the pain her question gave him , and , passing it , said : `` Of course you need not be told that Rose must hear of this ? '' 
`` Yes , '' said Evan , `` she must hear it . '' 
`` Instantly , '' cried Evan . 
Had Lady Jocelyn 's intellect been as penetrating as it was masculine , she would have taken him and turned him inside out in a very short time ; for one who would bear to see his love look coldly on him rather than endure a minute 's false estimate of his character , and who could yet stoop to concoct a vile plot , must either be mad or simulating the baseness for some reason or other . 
She perceived no motive for the latter , and she held him to be sound in the head , and what was spoken from the mouth she accepted . 
She would have shown him to the door of the house speedily ; and Evan was aware in his soul that he had not fallen materially in her esteem . 
He had puzzled and confused her , and partly because she had the feeling that this young man was entirely trustworthy , and because she never relied on her feelings , she let his own words condemn him , and did not personally discard him . 
`` No , madam , '' said Evan , softly . 
The language was natural to his condition , though the note was pitched high . 
cried Evan . 
And as speech is poor where emotion is extreme -- and he knew his own to be especially so -- he took her hand with petitioning eyes , and dropping on one knee , reverentially kissed it . 
`` You wish that I should tell Rose what you have told me , at once , Mr. Harrington . '' 
`` Why should Mr. Harrington confess it ? '' 
`` Oh , do n't speak his name ! '' 
She came , thinking the moment Juliana 's name was mentioned , that here was the one to fortify her faith in Evan : one who , because she loved , could not doubt him . 
Mr. Harrington ! 
I may call him Evan : some day ! '' 
Cold through the night the dark-fringed stream had whispered under Evan 's eyes , and the night breeze voiced `` Fool , fool ! '' 
to him , not without a distant echo in his heart . 
By symbols and sensations he knew that Rose was lost to him . 
The darkness broke and revealed this happy prospect , and Evan held to it an hour , and could hardly reject it when better thoughts conquered . 
For would it not be sweet to make the strength of his arm respected ? 
He took a stick , and ran his eye musingly along the length , trifling with it grimly . 
The great Mel had been his son 's instructor in the chivalrous science of fence , and a maitre d'armes in Portugal had given him polish . 
In Mel 's time duels with swords had been occasionally fought , and Evan looked on the sword as the weapon of combat . 
Face to face with his adversary -- what then were birth or position ? 
-- he sighed for it , as I have done since I came to know that his history must be morally developed . 
A glow of bitter pleasure exalted him when , after hot passages , and parryings and thrusts , he had disarmed Ferdinand Laxley , and bestowing on him his life , said : `` Accept this worthy gift of the son of a tailor ! '' 
and he wiped his sword , haply bound up his wrist , and stalked off the ground , the vindicator of man 's natural dignity . 
And then he turned upon himself with laughter , discovering a most wholesome power , barely to be suspected in him yet ; but of all the children of glittering Mel and his solid mate , Evan was the best mixed compound of his parents . 
He put the stick back in its corner and eyed his wrist , as if he had really just gone through the pretty scene he had just laughed at . 
It was nigh upon reality , for it suggested the employment of a handkerchief , and he went to a place and drew forth one that had the stain of his blood on it , and the name of Rose at one end . 
The beloved name was half-blotted by the dull-red mark , and at that sight a strange tenderness took hold of Evan . 
His passions became dead and of old date . 
This , then , would be his for ever ! 
He clasped the treasure on his breast , and saw a life beyond his parting with her . 
Strengthened thus , he wrote by the morning light to Laxley . 
The letter was brief , and said simply that the act of which Laxley had been accused , Evan Harrington was responsible for . 
Footmen were stirring about the house , and one meeting Evan close by his door , observed with demure grin , that he could not find the gentleman 's nether-garments . 
Evan found him sleeping soundly . 
Fortune had given him instead a born buffon ; and it is perhaps the greatest evil of a position like Evan 's , that with , cultured feelings , you are likely to meet with none to know you . 
Here , however , was John Raikes , and Evan had to make the best of him . 
`` I want you to be mine for half-an-hour , '' said Evan . 
Without replying , the distinguished officer jumped out of bed at a bound , mounted a chair , and peered on tip-toe over the top , from which , with a glance of self-congratulation , he pulled the missing piece of apparel , sighed dejectedly , as he descended , while he exclaimed : `` Safe ! 
`` Then it is true , that you could let a man play pranks on you , '' said Evan . 
Evan could see that Jack was beginning to rely desperately on his humour . 
`` I feel it as much as you possibly could , Mr. Harrington . 
I cried , hugging her , and then , you know , there was no course open to a man of honour but to offer marriage and make a lady of her . 
Evan got up and burst into laughter at this burlesque of himself . 
But a dread of meeting had seized both Rose and Evan . 
She had exhausted her first sincerity of unbelief in her interview with Juliana : and he had begun to consider what he could say to her . 
More than the three words `` I did it , '' would not be possible ; and if she made him repeat them , facing her truthful eyes , would be man enough to strike her bared heart twice ? 
the sullen brute he must seem , standing before her dumb , hearing her sigh , seeing her wretched effort not to show how unwillingly her kind spirit despised him . 
Juliana pinched her arm , whereupon Miss Carrington said : `` You look merry this morning , Mr. Harrington : '' for he was unawares smiling at the image of himself in the mirror of John Raikes . 
`` My darling Evan ! 
For what can at all excuse a falsehood , you know , Evan ! '' 
Evan turned to her with a playful smile . 
`` Evan ! 
he inquired . 
`` Perhaps more solitude would do her good , '' said Evan . 
On that point Evan had his own opinion . 
`` Well , I shall never have to punish you in this way , my love , '' he said fondly , and Caroline dropped her eyelids . 
`` Do n't think that I am blaming her , '' he added , trying to feel as honestly as he spoke . 
Possibly with that sense of shame which some young people have who are not professors of sounding sentences , or affected by missionary zeal , when they venture to breathe the holy Name , Evan blushed , and walked on humbly silent . 
and her figure drew to him as if for protection . 
`` Shall you always love me , Evan ? '' 
She was agitated , and he spoke warmly to calm her . 
`` I will live any life to be worthy of your love , Evan , '' and she wept . 
To him they were words and tears without a history . 
Caroline went to the Countess : Evan waited for Rose . 
She believed him guilty from the mouth of another ? 
If so , there was something less for him to lose . 
And now the sacrifice he had made did whisper a tale of mortal magnificence in his ears : feelings that were not his noblest stood up exalted . 
He waited till the warm meadow-breath floating past told that the day had settled into heat , and then he waited no more , but quietly walked into the house with the strength of one who has conquered more than human scorn . 
She had only trusted Evan once since their visit to Beckley ; and that this once he should , when treated as a man , turn traitor to their common interests , and prove himself an utter baby , was a piece of nonsense her great intelligence indignantly rejected . 
`` Then , if true , '' she answered Caroline 's assurances finally , '' `` if true , he is not his father 's son ! '' 
`` He is acting , Carry . 
He is acting the ideas of his ridiculous empty noddle ! '' 
`` No , '' said Caroline , mournfully , `` he is not . 
I have never known Evan to lie . '' 
`` Then you must forget the whipping he once had from his mother -- little dolt ! 
He obtains his reputation entirely from his abominable selfishness , and then stands tall , and asks us to admire him . 
He bursts with vanity . 
Conning here entered to say that Mr. Evan had given orders for the boxes to be packed and everything got ready to depart by half-past eleven o'clock , when the fly would call for them and convey them to Fallowfield in time to meet the coach for London . 
Conning heard a great deal of vigorous whispering within , and when summoned to re-appear , a note was handed her to convey to Mr. Harrington immediately . 
He was on the lawn ; read it , and wrote back three hasty lines in pencil . 
Evan read it likewise ; tore it up , and said that there was no answer . 
`` Do you not think Evan is right in wishing us to leave , after -- after -- '' Caroline humbly suggested . 
`` You will surely not disobey Evan , Louisa ? '' 
At the bottom of her heart there was a dismal rage of passions : hatred of those who would or might look tailor in her face : terrors concerning the possible re-visitation of the vengeful Sir Abraham : dread of Evan and the efforts to despise him : the shocks of many conflicting elements . 
Evan was by Lady Jocelyn 's side . 
Her ladyship spoke to him ; but the Countess observed that no one else did . 
Evan sat three chairs distant from her . 
If the traitor expected his sister to share in his disgrace , by noticing him , he was in error . 
On the contrary , the Countess joined the conspiracy to exclude him , and would stop a mild laugh if perchance he looked up . 
That Evan was under Lady Jocelyn 's protection soon became generally apparent , and also that her ladyship was angry : an exhibition so rare with her that it was the more remarked . 
She glanced from Evan to her . 
said Lady Jocelyn to Evan . 
But Evan 's heart was stern to his love . 
Not only had she , by not coming , shown her doubt of him , -- she had betrayed him ! 
Evan pressed Lady Jocelyn 's hand , and turning from her bent his head to Sir Franks , who , without offering an exchange of cordialities , said , at arm 's length : `` Good-bye , sir . '' 
Andrew quitted the circle of Sir John , Seymour Jocelyn , Mr. George Uploft , and others , and linked his arm to Evan 's . 
While Evan looked for her despairingly to say his last word and hear her voice once more , Sir Franks said to his wife : `` See that Rose keeps up-stairs . '' 
Evan made way for her , bowing . 
`` You will be ready at half-past eleven , Louisa , '' he said with calm distinctness , and passed from that purgatory . 
Now honest Andrew attributed the treatment Evan met with to the exposure of yesterday . 
He was frantic with democratic disgust . 
`` Perhaps that 's it , '' said Evan . 
said Evan . 
he whispered to Evan . 
Commending his new humour , Evan persuaded him to breakfast immediately , and hunger being one of Jack 's solitary incitements to a sensible course of conduct , the disconsolate gentleman followed its dictates . 
`` Go with him , Andrew , '' said Evan . 
`` Because I 've just seen that I ought never to have come , I suppose , '' Evan replied , controlling the wretched heaving of his chest . 
said Evan . 
And the moisture in Andrew 's eyes affected his own . 
`` I know one , and that 's enough , '' said Evan . 
In Evan 's heart Love seemed to die , and all the pangs of a death were there as he trod along the gravel and stepped beneath the gates of Beckley Court . 
Meantime the gallant Countess was not in any way disposed to retreat on account of Evan 's defection . 
The behaviour towards him at the breakfast-table proved to her that he had absolutely committed his egregious folly , and as no general can have concert with a fool , she cut him off from her affections resolutely . 
Her manifest disdain at his last speech , said as much to everybody present . 
My brother Evan ? 
Moreover , Caroline had emphasised the `` yesterday '' and `` to-day , '' showing that the interval which had darkened Evan to everybody else , had illumined him to her . 
He employed some courtly eloquence , better unrecorded ; but if her firm resolution perplexed him , it threw a strange halo round the youth from whom it sprang . 
She had joined her sister , thinking it safer to have her up-stairs till they were quit of Evan . 
Happily for Evan , she was not ready with her packing by half-past eleven . 
It was near twelve when he , pacing in front of the inn , observed Polly Wheedle , followed some yards in the rear by John Raikes , advancing towards him . 
Now Polly had been somewhat delayed by Jack 's persecutions , and Evan declining to attend to the masked speech of her mission , which directed him to go at once down a certain lane in the neighbourhood of the park , some minutes were lost . 
`` Why , Mr. Harrington , '' said Polly , `` it 's Miss Rose : she 's had leave from her Ma . 
Evan hesitated . 
Before he could conquer the dark spirit , lo , Rose appeared , walking up the village street . 
`` I have offended you , Evan . 
`` Tell me , Evan , -- it is not true . '' 
`` But I will not believe it from any lips but yours , Evan . 
Looking round , Evan beheld Laxley a step behind , and Jack rushing up to him , seizing his collar , and instantly undergoing ignominous prostration for his heroic defence of the privacy of lovers . 
Rose cast towards Evan with her eyes . 
Evan grasped it . 
Her mouth moved , but her eyes were hard shut , and nothing save her hand 's strenuous pressure , equalling his own , told that their parting had been spoken , the link violently snapped . 
She now rushed to Evan : `` Good-bye , and God bless you , dear Mr. Harrington . 
And he sha n't have her , mind ! '' 
Evan blessed her for this . 
Conning gave it him in the form of a note in a handwriting not known to him . 
Evan could not forget these words . 
They coloured his farewell to Beckley : the dear old downs , the hop-gardens , the long grey farms walled with clipped yew , the home of his lost love ! 
He thought of them through weary nights when the ghostly image with the hard shut eyelids and the quivering lips would rise and sway irresolutely in air till a shape out of the darkness extinguished it . 
Caroline , it became clear to her , had been infected by Evan 's folly . 
in her dire distress -- in her sense of miserable pennilessness , she clung to Mr. John Raikes , of the curricle , the mysteriously rich young gentleman ; and on that picture with Andrew roguishly contemplating it , and Evan , with feelings regarding his sister that he liked not to own , the curtain commiseratingly drops . 
Then Mr. Goren discovers an extraordinary resemblance between Evan and his father : remarking merely that the youth is not the gentleman his father was in a shop , while he admits that , had it been conjoined to business habits , he should have envied his departed friend . 
He has soon something fresh to tell ; and it is that young Mr. Harrington is treating him cavalierly . 
That he should penetrate the idea or appreciate the merits of Mr. Goren 's Balance was hardly to be expected at present : the world did not , and Mr. Goren blamed no young man for his ignorance . 
Mr. Goren thought it very singular that young Mr. Harrington should demand all the hours of the day for his own purposes , -- up to half-past four . 
He found it difficult to speak to him as a master , and begged that Mrs. Harrington would , as a mother . 
Mr. Goren rejoins that he considers that he need not have been excluded from young Mr. Harrington 's confidence . 
Moreover , it is a grief to him that the young gentleman should refrain from accepting any of his suggestions as to the propriety of requesting some , at least , of his rich and titled acquaintance to confer on him the favour of their patronage . 
Our poor father died in debt , and Evan receives money which enables him by degrees to liquidate these debts , on condition that he consents to be what I dislike as much as you can . 
He bears it ; you can have no idea of his pride ! 
He is too proud to own to himself that it debases him -- too proud to complain . 
It is a tangle -- a net that drags him down to it : but whatever he is outwardly , he is the noblest human being in the world to me , and but for him , oh , what should I be ? 
Is his temper as sweet as ever ? 
Yes , only he is silent , and looks -- when you look into his eyes -- colder , as men look when they will not bear much from other men . 
`` He has not mentioned her name . 
I am sure she has not written . 
`` Pity him , and pray for him . '' 
But why am I not to tell Evan ? 
I am certain it would make him very happy , and happiness of any kind he needs so much ! 
Evan takes a pleasure in speaking of you . 
You and Lady Jocelyn are his great themes . 
Why is he to be kept ignorant of your good fortune ? 
if you do love me , do not tell Mr. Harrington . 
I go on my knees to you to beg you not to tell him a word . 
I have no reasons indeed -- not any ; but I implore you again never even to hint that I am anything but the person he knew at Beckley . 
Polly inquires for detailed accounts of the health and doings of Mr. Harrington . 
Evan was astonished and pleased to find in him an enthusiastic fern-collector . 
Not that Mr. Harrington shared the passion , but the sight of these brown roots spread out , ticketed , on the stained paper , after supper , when the shutters were up and the house defended from the hostile outer world ; the old man poring over them , and naming this and that spot where , during his solitary Saturday afternoon and Sunday excursions , he had lighted on the rare samples exhibited : this contrast of the quiet evening with the sordid day humanised Mr. Goren to him . 
For now Evan 's education taught him to feel that he was at his lowest degree . 
Insensibly also , as Time hardened his sufferings , Evan asked himself what the shame of his position consisted in . 
He grew stiff-necked . 
His Pagan virtues stood up one by one to support him . 
Andrew , courageously evading the interdict that forbade him to visit Evan , would meet him by appointment at City taverns , and flatly offered him a place in the brewery . 
Evan declined it , on the pretext that , having received old Tom 's money for the year , he must at least work out that term according to the conditions . 
Evan said that there was peace in Mr. Goren 's shop . 
His sharp senses discerned in Andrew 's sneer a certain sincerity , and he revolted against it . 
In the mirror of Evan 's little world , he beheld the great one from which he was banished . 
The lady entered , and said that she wished to speak to Mr. Harrington . 
Evan asked permission to occupy the parlour . 
Alone together , Evan was about to ease his own feelings by remarking to the effect that Mr. Goren was human like the rest of us , but Caroline cried , with unwonted vivacity : `` Yes , yes , I know ; but I thought only of you . 
asked Evan , pressing her against his breast . 
It 's a very honourable post , that gentlemen take : and the income you are to have , Evan , will be near a thousand a year . 
looked Evan 's eyes . 
she said , smiling , and feasting on his bewilderment . 
After the bubbling in his brain had a little subsided , Evan breathed as a man on whom fresh air is blown . 
His ridiculous pride must nevertheless inquire whether Caroline had been begging this for him . 
`` It 's something that you yourself have done that has pleased him . 
Only he says , he believes you are a man to be trusted with the keys of anything -- and so you are . 
You are to call on him to-morrow . 
While Evan was replying , her face became white . 
His military step advanced , and Caroline , exclaiming , `` Do n't let me see him ! '' 
Evan nodded , and she slipped through . 
The next moment he was facing the stiff marine . 
`` There is not one that I would introduce to you , '' said Evan . 
The Major nodded a brief recognition of the compliment , and then , throwing his back against the chair , fired out : `` Come , sir , is this your doing ? '' 
In military phrase , Evan now changed front . 
His first thought had been that the Major had come for his wife . 
Evan waited till the sharp rattle of the Major 's close had quieted . 
Evan heard the words `` beggarly tailor '' mumbled : `` out of the gutters , '' and `` cursed connection . '' 
He stood in the attitude of attention , while the Major continued : `` Now , young man , listen to these facts . 
The Major tried to tower over Evan powerfully , as he put this query . 
They were of a common height , and to do so he had to rise on his toes , so that the effect was but momentary . 
`` I think I am not bound to reply , '' said Evan . 
`` I must beg you to stop , now , '' said Evan . 
This being presently complied with , though not before a glare of the Major 's eyes had shown his doubt whether it might not be construed into insolence , Evan pursued : `` I came to you and informed you that I could not reconcile the cash-accounts of the Company , and that certain of the later proceedings appeared to me to jeopardise its prosperity . 
He squared his figure before Evan , eyeing him under a hard frown , `` You have been playing your game again , as you did down at that place in Hampshire . 
... '' The Major paused , for half a word was on his mouth which had drawn lightning to Evan 's eyes . 
Not to be baffled , he added : `` But look you , sir . 
The Major delivered this culminating remark with a well-timed deflection of his forefinger , and slightly turned aside when he had done . 
You might have seen Evan 's figure rocking , as he stood with his eyes steadily levelled on his sister 's husband . 
Evan walked to the door , opened it , and said , between his teeth , `` You must go at once . '' 
Evan displayed no such a presence . 
He returned to the little parlour , shut and locked the door to the shop , and forgetting that one was near , sat down , covered his eyes , and gave way to a fit of tearless sobbing . 
With one foot in the room Caroline hung watching him . 
His whole manhood seemed to be shaken , as if by regular pulsations of intensest misery . 
She stood in awe of the sight till her limbs failed her , and then staggering to him she fell on her knees , clasping his , passionately kissing them . 
Nevertheless , he passed them with indifference , for it was merely the principle he objected to ; and , indeed , he was so wrapped in his own conceptions , that his name had to be called behind him twice before he recognised Evan Harrington , Mrs. Strike , and Miss Bonner . 
Mrs. Strike reposed her fair hand upon Jack 's arm , and Juliana , with a timid glance of pleasure , walked ahead in Evan 's charge . 
Then he saw it ; then he groaned in soul , and besought Evan to have one more promenade , saying , with characteristic cleverness in the masking of his real thoughts : `` It gives us an appetite , you know . '' 
In Evan 's face and Juliana 's there was not much sign that any protraction of their walk together would aid this beneficent process of nature . 
He took her hand gently , and when he quitted it , it dropped . 
Evan 's face was white , and Juliana , whose eyes were fixed on him , shuddered . 
Caroline eyed Evan with a meaning sadness . 
They were seen to make a little circuit so as not to approach Rose ; after whom , thoughtless of his cruelty , Evan bent his steps slowly , halting when she reached her carriage . 
He believed -- rather , he knew that she had seen him . 
Let her hate him , if she pleased . 
It recompensed him that the air she wore should make her appearance more womanly ; and that black dress and crape-bonnet , in some way , touched him to mournful thoughts of her that helped a partial forgetfulness of wounded self . 
Juliana 's head shook mournfully at her ; and now Caroline knew what Juliana meant when she begged so earnestly that Evan should be kept ignorant of her change of fortune . 
Of course the ladies took this compliment to themselves , but Evan began to wax in importance . 
The Countess thought it nearly time to acknowledge him , and supported the idea by a citation of the doctrine , that to forgive is Christian . 
She would not relent when the Countess pointed out a dim , a dazzling prospect , growing out of Evan 's proximity to the heiress of Beckley Court ; she was not to be moved when Caroline suggested that the specific for the frail invalid was Evan 's presence . 
The pretext served also to make him the subject of many conversations . 
Twice a week a bunch of the best flowers that could be got were sorted and arranged by her , and sent namelessly to brighten Evan 's chamber . 
The sight of a love so humble in its strength and affluence , sent Caroline to Evan on a fruitless errand . 
What availed it that , accused of giving lead to his pride in refusing the heiress , Evan should declare that he did not love her ? 
He did not , Caroline admitted as possible , but he might . 
He might learn to love her , and therefore he was wrong in wounding her heart . 
She drew tearful pictures of Juliana 's love for him ; and noticing how he seemed to prize his bouquet of flowers , said : `` Do you love them for themselves , or the hand that sent them ? '' 
Evan blushed , for it had been a struggle for him to receive them , as he thought , from Rose in secret . 
Evan wrote to Juliana . 
Incidentally he expressed a wish to see her . 
Juliana was under doctor 's interdict : but she was not to be prevented from going when Evan wished her to go . 
They met in the park , as before , and he talked to her five minutes through the carriage window . 
Caroline never knew that she had as much as told her the moral suicide Evan had committed at Beckley ; so cunningly had she been probed at intervals with little casual question ; random interjections , that one who loved him could not fail to meet ; petty doubts requiring elucidations . 
Instead of shrieking out against such a debasement of his worth and gentility , as was to be expected , Juliana said : `` That 's what Mr. Harrington thought of doing . '' 
`` He ! 
If he 'd had the pluck he would . '' 
`` His duty forbade it , and he did not . '' 
What fools we were to have him at Beckley ! '' 
`` Have you repaid Mr. Harrington yet ? '' 
But mind that Evan has due warning when she is to meet him . 
Mind that he is dressed becomingly . '' 
`` Because , my dear , she is enamoured of his person . 
She thinks it to be Evan 's qualities . 
I know better : it is his person . 
if Evan would only marry this little sufferer , who was so sure to die within a year ! 
She stepped across the threshold of Tailordom , won Mr. Goren 's heart by her condescension , and worked Evan into a sorrowful mood concerning the invalid . 
Was not Juliana his only active friend ? 
In return , he said things which only required a little colouring to be very acceptable to her . 
The three sisters were almost wrought to perform a sacrifice far exceeding Evan 's . 
They nearly decided to summon him to the house : but the matter being broached at table one evening , Major Strike objected to it so angrily that they abandoned it , with the satisfactory conclusion that if they did wrong it was the Major 's fault . 
She knew Evan to be innocent , and she allowed Rose to think him guilty . 
It became a question whether Evan should be admitted to the house in spite of the Major . 
Having the Count with her in the carriage one day , she stopped in front of Mr. Goren 's shop , and Evan had to come out . 
`` Evan has written to tell Lady Jocelyn the state of her health , and -- '' `` And that naturally has aggravated her malady ! '' 
`` The child heard it from him yesterday ! 
Now , you would have thought Evan 's companions , right and left of him , were the wretches under sentence , to judge from appearances . 
In contrast with his look of insolent pleasure , Andrew , the moment an eye was on him , exhibited the cleverest impersonation of the dumps ever seen : while Mr John Raikes was from head to foot nothing better than a moan made visible . 
Nevertheless , they both agreed to rally Evan , and bid him be of good cheer . 
Evan answered , laughing . 
`` Well , I hope you 're acting too , '' said Evan . 
Jack let his chest fall like a collapsing bellows . 
At the end of five minutes , he remarked : `` I 've been sitting on it the whole morning ! 
Evan turned to Andrew . 
Catching another glimpse of Evan 's serious face , Andrew fell into louder laughter ; checking it with doleful solemnity , as Evan said : `` You know Andrew , that if your brother will come to me with you for a time -- I am in his debt doubly : I owe him both for the money , and a lesson ; if he does n't mind coming , I shall be very happy to receive him . '' 
With a desperate effort , he avoided either crying or laughing , but at the expense of Evan 's ribs , into which he drove his elbow with a `` pooh '' and an apology , and then commenced a conversation with the coachman . 
Up hill and down hill , and past little home-steads shining with yellow crocuses ; across wide brown heaths , whose outlines raised in Evan 's mind the night of his funeral walk , and tossed up old feelings dead as the whirling dust . 
Evan gave Andrew 's hand an affectionate squeeze , at which Andrew had to gulp down something -- reciprocal emotion , doubtless . 
`` I suppose , '' said Evan , `` it 's just as natural to you as the effect produced by a small circular tube of brass . '' 
The three passengers having descended , a controversy commenced between Evan and Andrew as to which should pay . 
Evan had his money out ; Andrew dashed it behind him ; Evan remonstrated . 
Evan looked so ingenuously surprised and hurt at his lack of principle , that Andrew chucked a sixpence at a small boy , saying , `` If you do n't let me have my own way , Van , I 'll shy my purse after it . 
`` She was willing , too , till Lady Jocelyn came and took Miss Bonner home to Beckley , and because Evan had written to my lady to fetch her , the Countess -- she was angry . 
They were all willing enough to have Evan there , but the Major refused . 
I did n't hear him . 
I was n't going to ask him . 
There 's a Duke of Belfield the fellow had hooked into his Company ; and -- through Evan I heard -- the Duke had his name struck off . 
Of this great festival be it simply told that the supply was copious and of good quality -- much too good and copious for a bankrupt host : that Evan and Mr. John Raikes were formally introduced to Old Tom before the repast commenced , and welcomed some three minutes after he had decided the flavour of his first glass : that Mr. John Raikes in due time preferred his petition for release from a dreadful engagement , and furnished vast amusement to the company under old Tom 's hand , until by chance he quoted a scrap of Latin , at which the brothers Cogglesby , who would have faced peers and princes without being disconcerted or performing mental genuflexions , shut their mouths and looked injured , unhappy , and in the presence of a superior : Mr. John Raikes not being the man to spare them . 
Moreover , a surprise was afforded to Evan , Andrew stated to Old Tom that the hospitality of Main Street , Lymport , was open to him . 
Lying in this utter stillness , Juliana thought of Rose ; of her beloved by Evan . 
Evan , too , she saw . 
Juliana looked very little to his qualities . 
She loved him when she thought him guilty , which made her conceive that her love was of a diviner cast than Rose was capable of . 
Generous to Evan , she would be just to Rose . 
Dorothy , she remembered , had danced up to her one day , to relate what the maids of the house said of the gentlemen -- -LRB- at whom , it is known , they look with the licence of cats towards kings -RRB- ; and Dorothy 's fresh , careless mouth had told how one observant maid , amorously minded , proclaimed of Evan , to a companion of her sex , that , `` he was the only gentleman who gave you an idea of how he would look when he was kissing you . '' 
Evan guiltless ! 
-- all she had thought him ! 
But why , why had he hidden his sacrifice from her ? 
Evan dispersed the gloomy shades like sunshine . 
Confirmatory answers coming , flung her back under the shield of Ferdinand : if for a moment her soul stood up armed and defiant , it was Evan 's hand she took . 
To her ideas , if Evan was not chargeable with that baseness which had sundered them he might claim her yet , if he would . 
If he did , what then ? 
Must she go to him ? 
Besides , what a din of laughter there would be to see her led away by him . 
Evan 's present condition she plainly stated : and Rose , when the bitter pangs had ceased , made oath to her soul she would rescue him from it . 
In addition to the task of clearing Evan 's character , and rescuing him , Rose now conceived that her engagement to Ferdinand must stand icebound till Evan had given her back her troth . 
She conquered the sneers of the world in her soul : but her sensitive skin was yet alive to the pangs of the scorching it had been subjected to when weak , helpless , and betrayed by Evan , she stood with no philosophic parent to cry fair play for her , among the skilful torturers of Elburne House . 
An hour afterwards it was rumoured and confirmed that Juliana Bonner had willed all the worldly property she held in her own right , comprising Beckley Court , to Mr. Evan Harrington , of Lymport , tailor . 
Was Evan also a foul schemer ? 
Was he of a piece with his intriguing sister ? 
His close kinship with the Countess had led her to think baseness possible to him when it was confessed by his own mouth once . 
She heard black names cast at him and the whole of the great Mel 's brood , and incapable of quite disbelieving them merited , unable to challenge and rebut them , she dropped into her recent state of self-contempt : into her lately-instilled doubt whether it really was in Nature 's power , unaided by family-portraits , coats-of-arms , ball-room practice , and at least one small phial of Essence of Society , to make a Gentleman . 
But not the Countess de Saldar , scaling the embattled fortress of Society ; or Rose , tossing its keys to her lover from the shining turret-tops ; or Evan , keeping bright the lamp of self-respect in his bosom against south wind and east ; none excel friend Andrew Cogglesby , who , having fallen into Old Tom 's plot to humiliate his wife and her sisters , simply for Evan 's sake , and without any distinct notion of the terror , confusion , and universal upset he was bringing on his home , could yet , after a scared contemplation of the scene when he returned from his expedition to Fallowfield , continue to wear his rueful mask ; and persevere in treacherously outraging his lofty wife . 
He did it to vindicate the ties of blood against accidents of position . 
Was he justified ? 
`` Then , will you go to Evan ? '' 
`` Evan ? 
I hate him ! '' 
It is in verity , as if my senseless clay were pelted , as we heard of Evan at his first Lymport boys ' school . 
You remember when he told us the story ? 
He lisped a trifle then . 
`` Know you Evan so little ? 
He will receive us anywhere : his arms are open to his kindred : but to his heart the road is through humiliation , and it is to his heart we seek admittance . '' 
`` Just this , '' the Countess answered in bold English : and her eyes were lively , her figure elastic : `` We must all of us go down to the old shop and shake his hand there -- every man Jack of us ! 
-- I 'm only quoting the sailors , Harriet -- and that 's the way to win him . '' 
Evan Harrington over the door ! 
Evan was not visible . 
A man in the shop , with a yard measure negligently adorning his shoulders , said that Mr. Harrington was in the habit of quitting the shop at five . 
Well , Mr. Cogglesby , I may tell you that I hold here in my hands a document by which Mr. Evan Harrington transfers the whole of the property bequeathed to him to Mr. Harry Jocelyn , in reversion from my lady , his mother , and that I have his orders to execute it instantly , and deliver it over to her ladyship , after the will is settled , probate , and so forth : I presume there will be an arrangement about his father 's debts . 
Under the first lustre of a May-night , Evan was galloping over the moon-shadowed downs towards Beckley . 
At the ridge commanding the woods , the park , and the stream , his horse stopped , as if from habit , snorted , and puffed its sides , while he gazed steadily across the long lighted vale . 
Soon he began to wind down the glaring chalk-track , and reached grass levels . 
Here he broke into a round pace , till , gaining the first straggling cottages of the village , he knocked the head of his whip against the garden-gate of one , and a man came out , who saluted him , and held the reins . 
Evan gave directions for it to be looked to , and went on to the doorway , where he was met by a young woman . 
She uttered a respectful greeting , and begged him to enter . 
The door closed , he flung himself into a chair , and said : `` Well , Susan , how is the child ? '' 
he 's always well , Mr. Harrington ; he do n't know the tricks o ' trouble yet . '' 
Evan bade her sit down . 
After examining her features quietly , he said : `` I 'm glad to see you here , Susan . 
`` I shall cry , if I begin , Mr. Harrington . '' 
`` I tried to stop him , knowing how it 'd vex you , Mr. Harrington ; but he 's heady about points , though a quiet man ordinary ; and he says he do n't expect -- and I know now no gentleman 'd marry such as me -- I ai n't such a stupid gaper at words as I used to be ; but father says it 's for the child 's sake , and he does it to have him provided for . 
While Evan was awaiting the return of her calmer senses , the latch was lifted , and Polly appeared . 
was her sneering comment , after a short survey of her apron-screened sister ; and then she bobbed to Evan . 
`` No , Polly , '' said Evan ; `` but you must be charitable , or I shall think you want a lesson yourself . 
Polly replied : `` Oh , no , Mr. Harrington : only accidental ones -- when something particular 's to be said . 
And he dances -- like on the paper , so that you ca n't help laughing . 
Is n't he a very eccentric gentleman , sir ? '' 
`` Very , '' said Evan . 
I 'm treated better than her , Mr. Harrington , and I know I ai n't worth half of her . 
Mr. Harrington ! 
In spite of all his self-control , Evan breathed quickly and looked eagerly . 
`` Mr. Laxley 's become a lord now , Mr. Harrington . '' 
Evan tasted in his soul the sweets of contrast . 
Moved by the keen hunger of his eyes , Polly hesitated . 
Evan stood up , so pale that Polly was frightened . 
`` Please do n't take it so , Mr. Harrington ? '' 
Evan commanded her to tell him what her mistress had said . 
She was positive her mistress did want to see him . 
She had been about to confide to him her young mistress 's position towards Lord Laxley , when his sharp interrogation stopped her . 
said Evan . 
Evan had opened the door . 
He would not allow Polly an instant for expostulation ; but drew her out , saying ; `` You will attend to the gates yourself . 
`` Mr. Harrington ! 
`` I understand , '' said Evan , hoarsely , scarcely feeling it , as is the case with men who are shot through the heart . 
Ten minutes later he was on horseback by the Fallowfield gates , with the tidings shrieking through his frame . 
He sat there , neither thinking of them nor reproached in his manhood for the tears that rolled down his cheeks . 
Presently his horse 's ears pricked , and the animal gave a low neigh . 
Evan 's eyes fixed harder on the length of gravel leading to the house . 
He heard nothing till one spoke . 
Evan started from his trance . 
Evan bowed , and moved beside him a short way down the lane , Harry following . 
Evan did not reply . 
said Evan . 
It was enough for Harry that Evan did not deny it . 
The calm disdain which he read on Evan 's face acted on his fury , and digging his heels into his horse 's flanks he rushed full at him and dealt him a sharp flock with his whip . 
Evan 's beast reared . 
`` You do me great honour , my lord , but I have told you I can not , '' said Evan , curbing his horse . 
Evan raised his hat , as did Laxley . 
Harry , a little behind the others , performed a laborious mock salute , and then ordered her back to the house . 
`` I have particular business with Mr. Harrington . '' 
`` I came to see him , '' said Rose , in a clear voice . 
`` Then tell him at once you want to be rid of him , '' her brother called to her . 
Rose looked at Evan . 
Could he not see that she had no word in her soul for him of that kind ? 
`` Rose , '' he said . 
He paused . 
Did he expect her to say there that she wished nothing of the sort ? 
Entering it , she remembered that Evan had dwelt there . 
What she had done for Evan , she did for him . 
But now , as if the Fates had been lying in watch to entrap her and chain her , that they might have her at their mercy , her dreams of Evan 's high nature -- hitherto dreams only -- were to be realised . 
With the purposeless waywardness of her sex , Polly Wheedle , while dressing her young mistress , and though quite aware that the parting had been spoken , must needs relate her sister 's story and Evan 's share in it . 
It gave no beating of the heart to Rose to hear good of Evan now : but an increased serenity of confidence in the accuracy of her judgment of persons . 
No one was less astonished than Rose at the news that Evan renounced the estate . 
Now , in what way was Evan to be thanked ? 
how was he to be treated ? 
She said : `` Ferdinand and Mr. Harrington came to an understanding last night , in my presence . '' 
Caroline had informed her sisters up-stairs that their mother was ignorant of Evan 's change of fortune , and that Evan desired her to continue so for the present . 
Caroline appeared to be pained by the subject , and was glad when Louisa sounded his mysterious behaviour by saying : `` Evan has a native love of concealment -- he must be humoured . '' 
The Countess said she would wait up for Evan , but hearing that his hours of return were about the chime of matins , she cried exultingly : `` Darling papa all over ! '' 
Andrew , with some effort , held his tongue concerning the news of Evan -- his fortune and his folly , till he could talk to the youth in person . 
`` Has Evan not come home yet ? '' 
About the hour of ten Evan arrived . 
He was subjected to the hottest embrace he had ever yet received from his sister Louisa . 
she called him before them all . 
Evan heard him , and laughed . 
`` You will fill Evan 's head with nonsense till you make him knock up a horse a week , and never go to his natural bed , '' said Mrs. Mel , angrily . 
`` Look at him ! 
`` Well , mother , the horse is dismissed , -- you wo n't have to complain any more , '' said Evan , touching her hand . 
The Countess watched him admiringly . 
Such powers of acting she could not have ascribed to him . 
The Countess did not perceive its fitness , till Evan burst into a laugh , and then she said : `` Oh ! 
At this Andrew , coming from a private interview with Evan , threw up his hands and eyes as one who foretold astonishment but counselled humility . 
What with the effort of those who knew a little to imply a great deal ; of those who knew all to betray nothing ; and of those who were kept in ignorance to strain a fact out of the conflicting inuendos , the general mystification waxed apace , and was at its height , when a name struck on Evan 's ear that went through his blood like a touch of the torpedo . 
He had been called into the parlour to assist at a consultation over the brewery affairs . 
What could she have come for but to humiliate , or play with him ? 
But they thanked Evan . 
All this while Rose sat talking to Mrs. Andrew Cogglesby , Mrs. Strike , and Evan 's mother . 
She saw by his face the offence she had committed , and acted on by one of her impulses , said : `` Mama , I think if I were to speak to Mr. Harrington -- '' Ere her mother could make light of the suggestion , Old Tom had jumped up , and bowed out his arm . 
He 'll follow , safe enough ! '' 
Nevertheless , seeing no cloud on her mother 's face , or her father 's , she gave Old Tom her hand , and awaited a movement from Evan . 
`` Evan , you forgive me ? '' 
Oh , Evan ! 
Evan ! 
`` Then why , why did you betray me , Evan ? 
`` Can I do anything else but regret it all my life , Evan ? '' 
`` Oh , Evan ! '' 
`` But my honour , Evan ! 
I do not love him ; for I can love but one . 
He has my pledge . 
`` Oh , Evan ! 
Why did she trust me to be with you here , but that she thinks me engaged to him , and has such faith in me ? 
`` Not if you marry him ! '' 
said Evan , bitterly . 
And then thinking as men will think when they look on the figure of a fair girl marching serenely to a sacrifice , the horrors of which they insist that she ought to know : -- half-hating her for her calmness -- adoring her for her innocence : he said : `` It rests with you , Rose . 
Did she expect more to be said by him ? 
Her hand and her whole shape he took , and she with closed eyes let him strain her to his breast . 
Rose , with a deep blush on her cheeks , stepped from Evan to her mother . 
Rose turned to Evan . 
After a short , uneasy pause , she said , glancing at Evan : `` You know his romantic nature . 
She believed that Evan had been wheedled by Rose into the acceptance of a small sum of money , in return for his egregious gift ! 
Evan 's heart was too full of its dim young happiness to speak , or care for words . 
The cold elegance of the Countess 's curtsey to Lady Jocelyn : her ladyship 's kindly pressure of his hand : Rose 's stedfast look into his eyes : Old Tom 's smothered exclamation that he was not such a fool as he seemed : all passed dream-like , and when he was left to the fury of the Countess , he did not ask her to spare him , nor did he defend himself . 
She bade adieu to him and their mutual relationship that very day . 
I will talk of Evan first . 
I have totally forgiven him . 
In such a position I can rejoice to see him , for it permits me to acknowledge him . 
He is quite of my opinion , that Evan will never wash out the trade stain on him until he comes over to the Church of Rome . 
Was it not evident in the way she stuck to Evan after I had once brought them together ? 
He was rightly sent away , for to think of the folly Evan put into his empty head ! 
No ; he shall have another wife , and Protestantism shall be his forsaken mistress ! 
This shows that your religion precludes any possibility of the being the real gentleman , and whatever Evan may think of himself , or Rose think of him , I know the thing . '' 
