Send to 26 , and ask George Osborne if he 'll come . '' 
`` Amelia had better write a note , '' said her father ; `` and let George Osborne see what a beautiful hand-writing we have brought back from Miss Pinkerton 's . 
Do you remember when you wrote to him to come on Twelfth-night , Emmy , and spelt twelfth without the f ? '' 
For on the evening appointed for the Vauxhall party , George Osborne having come to dinner , and the elders of the house having departed , according to invitation , to dine with Alderman Balls , at Highbury Barn , there came on such a thunder-storm as only happens on Vauxhall nights , and as obliged the young people , perforce , to remain at home . 
Mr. Osborne did not seem in the least disappointed at this occurrence . 
He and Joseph Sedley drank a fitting quantity of port-wine , tête-à-tête , in the dining-room , during the drinking of which Sedley told a number of his best Indian stories ; for he was extremely talkative in man 's society , and afterwards Miss Amelia Sedley did the honours of the drawing-room ; and these four young persons passed such a comfortable evening together , that they declared they were rather glad of the thunder-storm than otherwise , which had caused them to put off their visit to Vauxhall . 
Osborne was Sedley 's godson , and had been one of the family any time these three-and-twenty years . 
At six weeks old , he had received from John Sedley a present of a silver cup ; at six months old , a coral with gold whistle and bells ; from his youth , upwards , he was `` tipped '' regularly by the old gentleman at Christmas ; and on going back to school , remembered perfectly well being thrashed by Joseph Sedley , when the latter was a big , swaggering , hobbadyhoy , and George an impudent urchin of ten years old . 
In a word , George was as familiar with the family as such daily acts of kindness and intercourse could make him . 
-- how Amelia rescued me from a beating , by falling down on her knees and crying out to her brother Jos , not to beat little George ? '' 
said George Osborne , `` you who are so clever an artist , you must make a grand historical picture of the scene of the boots . 
George Osborne looked at the two young women with a touched curiosity ; and Joseph Sedley heaved something very like a sigh out of his big chest , as he cast his eyes down towards his favourite Hessian boots . 
`` Let us have some music , Miss Sedley -- Amelia , '' said George , who felt at that moment an extraordinary , almost irresistible impulse to seize the above-mentioned young woman in his arms , and to kiss her in the face of the company ; and she looked at him for a moment , and if I should say that they fell in love with each other at that single instant of time , I should perhaps be telling an untruth , for the fact is , that these two young people had been bred up by their parents for this very purpose , and their banns had , as it were , been read in their respective families any time these ten years . 
They went off to the piano , which was situated , as pianos usually are , in the back drawing-room ; and as it was rather dark , Miss Amelia , in the most unaffected way in the world , put her hand into Mr. Osborne 's , who , of course , could see the way among the chairs and ottomans a great deal better than she could . 
George Osborne is as good a fellow as ever breathed . '' 
whispered Mr. Osborne to Amelia . 
`` You would not have listened to me , '' she said to Mr. Osborne , -LRB- though she knew she was telling a fib , -RRB- `` had you heard Rebecca first . '' 
`` I give Miss Sharp warning , though , '' said Osborne , `` that , right or wrong , I consider Miss Amelia Sedley the first singer in the world . '' 
Osborne hinted that he should like quite as well to sit in the dark ; but Miss Sedley , laughing , declined to bear him company any farther , and the two accordingly followed Mr. Joseph . 
Rebecca sang far better than her friend , -LRB- though of course Osborne was free to keep his opinion , -RRB- and exerted herself to the utmost , and , indeed , to the wonder of Amelia , who had never known her perform so well . 
She sang a French song , which Joseph did not understand in the least , and which George confessed he did not understand , and then a number of those simple ballads which were the fashion forty years ago , and in which British tars , our King , poor Susan , blue-eyed Mary , and the like , were the principal themes . 
If he had had the courage ; if George and Miss Sedley had remained according to the former 's proposal , in the farther room , Joseph Sedley 's bachelorhood would have been at an end , and this work would never have been written . 
George Osborne was somehow there already -LRB- sadly `` putting out '' Amelia , who was writing to her twelve dearest friends at Chiswick Mall -RRB- , and Rebecca was employed upon her yesterday 's work . 
As Joe 's buggy drove up , and while , after his usual thundering knock and pompous bustle at the door , the Collector of Boggley Wollah laboured up stairs to the drawing-room , knowing glances were telegraphed between Osborne and Miss Sedley , and the pair , smiling archly , looked at Rebecca , who actually blushed as she bent her fair ringlets over her netting . 
cried Osborne . 
asked Osborne , laughing . 
I do n't know on what pretext Osborne left the room , or why , presently , Amelia went away , perhaps to superintend the slicing of the pine-apple ; but Jos was left alone with Rebecca , who had resumed her work , and the green silk and the shining needles were quivering rapidly under her white slender fingers . 
In this romantic position Osborne and Amelia found the interesting pair , when they entered to announce that tiffin was ready . 
`` Your father 's only a merchant , Osborne , '' Dobbin said in private to the little boy who had brought down the storm upon him . 
At which the latter replied haughtily , `` My father 's a gentleman , and keeps his carriage ; '' and Mr. William Dobbin retreated to a remote outhouse in the play-ground , where he passed a half-holiday in the bitterest sadness and wo . 
`` I 'll give you the worst thrashing you ever had in your life , '' Dobbin said , in reply to the first part of Cuff 's sentence ; and little Osborne , gasping and in tears , looked up with wonder and incredulity at seeing this amazing champion put up suddenly to defend him : while Cuff 's astonishment was scarcely less . 
`` You must be my bottle-holder , Osborne . '' 
`` Well , if you like , '' little Osborne replied ; for you see his papa kept a carriage , and he was rather ashamed of his champion . 
Yes , when the hour of battle came , he was almost ashamed to say , `` Go it , Figs ; '' and not a single other boy in the place uttered that cry for the first two or three rounds of this famous combat ; at the commencement of which the scientific cuff , with a contemptuous smile on his face , and as light and as gay as if he was at a ball , planted his blows upon his adversary , and floored that unlucky champion three times running . 
`` What a licking I shall get when it 's over , '' young Osborne thought , picking up his man . 
`` You 'd best give in , '' he said to Dobbin ; `` it 's only a thrashing , Figs , and you know I 'm used to it . '' 
`` Well hit , by Jove , '' says little Osborne , with the air of a connoisseur , clapping his man on the back . 
`` Give it him with the left , Figs , my boy . '' 
Young Osborne wrote home to his parents an account of the transaction . 
`` After all , it 's not his fault that his father 's a grocer , '' George Osborne said , who , though a little chap , had a very high popularity among the Swishtail youth ; and his opinion was received with great applause . 
Dobbin was much too modest a young fellow to suppose that this happy change in all his circumstances arose from his own generous and manly disposition : he chose , from some perverseness , to attribute his good fortune to the sole agency and benevolence of little George Osborne , to whom henceforth he vowed such a love and affection as is only felt by children -- such an affection , as we read in the charming fairy-book , uncouth Orson had for splendid young Valentine his conqueror . 
He flung himself down at little Osborne 's feet , and loved him . 
Even before they were acquainted , he had admired Osborne in secret . 
Now he was his valet , his dog , his man Friday . 
He believed Osborne to be the possessor of every perfection , to be the handsomest , the bravest , the most active , the cleverest , the most generous of created boys . 
He shared his money with him : bought him uncountable presents of knives , pencil-cases , gold seals , toffee , Little Warblers , and romantic books , with large coloured pictures of knights and robbers , in many of which latter you might read inscriptions to George Sedley Osborne , Esquire , from his attached friend William Dobbin -- the which tokens of homage George received very graciously , as became his superior merit . 
So that when Lieutenant Osborne , coming to Russell Square on the day of the Vauxhall party , said to the ladies , `` Mrs. Sedley , Ma'am , I hope you have room ; I 've asked Dobbin of ours to come and dine here , and go with us to Vauxhall . 
`` He is -- but you are incomparably more graceful , Sedley , '' Osborne added , laughing . 
Osborne said archly . 
Mrs. Sedley said : at which speech Miss Amelia only made a smile and a blush ; and looking at Mr. George Osborne 's pale interesting countenance , and those beautiful black , curling , shining whiskers , which the young gentleman himself regarded with no ordinary complacency , she thought in her little heart , that in His Majesty 's army , or in the wide world , there never was such a face or such a hero . 
I shall always like him , I know ; '' her little reason being , that he was the friend and champion of George . 
`` There 's not a finer fellow in the service , '' Osborne said , `` nor a better officer , though he is not an Adonis , certainly . '' 
And he looked towards the glass himself with much naïveté ; and in so doing , caught Miss Sharp 's eye fixed keenly upon him , at which he blushed a little , and Rebecca thought in her heart , ` Ah , mon beau Monsieur ! 
Are you the little girl that George Osborne said should marry him ? 
Colonel Dobbin 's corps , in which old Mr. Osborne himself was but an indifferent corporal , had been reviewed by the Sovereign and the Duke of York ; and the colonel and alderman had been knighted . 
His son had entered the army : and young Osborne followed presently in the same regiment . 
Their regiment had just come home , and the attachment of Dobbin to George Osborne was as warm and generous now , as it had been , when the two were schoolboys . 
`` He 's priming himself , '' Osborne whispered to Dobbin , and at length the hour and the carriage arrived for Vauxhall . 
The argument stands thus -- Osborne in love with Amelia , has asked an old friend to dinner and to Vauxhall -- Jos Sedley is in love with Rebecca . 
Suppose we had shown how Lord Joseph Sedley fell in love , and the Marquis of Osborne became attached to Lady Amelia , with the full consent of the Duke , her noble father : or instead of the supremely genteel , suppose we had resorted to the entirely low , and described what was going on in Mr. Sedley 's kitchen ; -- how black Sambo was in love with the cook , -LRB- as indeed he was -RRB- , and how he fought a battle with the coachman in her behalf ; how the knife-boy was caught stealing a cold shoulder of mutton , and Miss Sedley 's new femme de chambre refused to go to bed without a wax candle ; such incidents might be made to provoke much delightful laughter , and be supposed to represent scenes of `` life . '' 
The Marquis of Osborne has just despatched his petit tigre with a billet-doux to the Lady Amelia . 
Mr. Osborne sitting bodkin opposite , between Captain Dobbin and Amelia . 
George , of course , took charge of Amelia . 
`` I say , Dobbin , '' says George , `` just look to the shawls and things , there 's a good fellow . '' 
And so while he paired off with Miss Sedley , and Jos squeezed through the gate into the Gardens with Rebecca at his side , honest Dobbin contented himself by giving an arm to the shawls , and by paying at the door for the whole party . 
But he thought Amelia worthy even of the brilliant George Osborne , and as he saw that good-looking couple , threading the walks to the girl 's delight and wonder , he watched her artless happiness with a sort of fatherly pleasure . 
Perhaps he felt that he would have liked to have something on his own arm besides a shawl -LRB- the people laughed at seeing the gawky young officer carrying this female burthen -RRB- ; but William Dobbin was very little addicted to selfish calculation at all ; and so long as his friend was enjoying himself , how should he be discontented ? 
What were the adventures of Mr. Osborne and Miss Amelia ? 
The young ladies did not drink it ; Osborne did not like it ; and the consequence was that Jos , that fat gourmand , drank up the whole contents of the bowl ; and the consequence of his drinking up the whole contents of the bowl was , a liveliness which at first was astonishing , and then became almost painful ; for he talked and laughed so loud as to bring scores of listeners round the box , much to the confusion of the innocent party within it ; and , volunteering to sing a song -LRB- which he did in that maudlin high-key peculiar to gentlemen in an inebriated state -RRB- , he almost drew away the audience who were gathered round the musicians in the gilt scollop-shell , and received from his hearers a great deal of applause . 
exclaimed another wag , to the inexpressible alarm of the ladies , and the great anger of Mr. Osborne . 
Mr. Osborne was just on the point of knocking down a gentleman in top-boots , who proposed to take advantage of this invitation , and a commotion seemed to be inevitable , when by the greatest good luck a gentleman of the name of Dobbin , who had been walking about the gardens , stepped up to the box . 
Osborne said , seizing the white cashmere shawl from his friend 's arm , and huddling up Amelia in it . 
Jos was for rising to interfere -- but a single push from Osborne 's finger sent him puffing back into his seat again , and the lieutenant was enabled to remove the ladies in safety . 
George Osborne conducted the girls home in safety : and when the door was closed upon them , and as he walked across Russell-square , laughed so as to astonish the watchman . 
With this mild beverage before him , George Osborne found the ex-collector of Boggleywollah groaning on the sofa at his lodgings . 
N6311026 `` Mr. Sedley was uncommon wild last night , sir , '' he whispered in confidence to Osborne , as the latter mounted the stair . 
I thought you civilians had no pluck ; but I 'll never get in your way when you are in your cups , Jos. '' `` I believe I 'm very terrible , when I 'm roused , '' ejaculated Jos from the sofa , and made a grimace so dreary and ludicrous , that the Captain 's politeness could restrain him no longer , and he and Osborne fired off a ringing volley of laughter . 
Osborne pursued his advantage pitilessly . 
He thought Jos a milksop . 
He had been revolving in his mind the marriage-question pending between Jos and Rebecca , and was not over-well pleased that a member of a family into which he , George Osborne , of the -- th , was going to marry , should make a mésalliance with a little nobody -- a little upstart governess . 
said Osborne . 
Osborne said to his friend 's remonstrances , when they quitted the invalid , leaving him under the hands of Doctor Glauber . 
But , '' -- `` Come and see the girls , and make love to Miss Sharp yourself , '' the lieutenant here interrupted his friend ; but Captain Dobbin declined to join Osborne in his daily visit to the young ladies in Russell Square . 
The fact is , Miss Amelia , in the drawing-room balcony , was looking very eagerly towards the opposite side of the Square , where Mr. Osborne dwelt , on the watch for the lieutenant himself ; and Miss Sharp , from her little bed-room on the second-floor , was in observation until Mr. Joseph 's great form should heave in sight . 
`` I think it 's very cruel of you to laugh , George , '' she said , looking particularly unhappy ; but George only laughed the more at her piteous and discomfited men , persisted in thinking the joke a most diverting one , and when Miss Sharp came down stairs , bantered her with a great deal of liveliness upon the effect of her charms on the fat civilian . 
if you could but see him this morning , '' he said -- `` moaning in his flowered dressing-gown -- writhing on his sofa ; if you could but have seen him lolling out his tongue to Glauber the apothecary . '' 
`` Of course you did , '' cried Osborne , still on the laugh . 
`` Very good , Miss Sharp , I 'll tell him , '' Osborne said ; and as he spoke Miss Sharp began to have a feeling of distrust and hatred towards this young officer , which he was quite unconscious of having inspired . 
`` Joke away , Mr. George ; there 's nobody to defend me . '' 
And George Osborne , as she walked away -- and Amelia looked reprovingly at him -- felt some little manly compunction for having inflicted any unnecessary unkindness upon this helpless creature . 
`` My dearest Amelia , '' said he , `` you are too good -- too kind . 
He was off laughing again ; and he did it so drolly that Emmy laughed too . 
She even made George Osborne contribute , and nothing loth -LRB- for he was as free-handed a young fellow as any in the army -RRB- , he went to Bond Street , and bought the best hat and spencer that money could buy . 
`` That 's George 's present to you , Rebecca , dear , '' said Amelia , quite proud of the bandbox conveying these gifts.It was the author 's intention , faithful to history , to history , to depict all the characters of this tale in their proper costumes , as they wore them at the commencement of the century . 
`` What a taste he has ! 
There 's nobody like him . '' 
`` How thankful I am to him ! '' 
She was thinking in her heart , `` It was George Osborne who prevented my marriage . 
-- And she loved George Osborne accordingly . 
Sir Pitt Crawley -LRB- named after the great Commoner -RRB- , was the son of Walpole Crawley , first Baronet , of the Tape and Sealing-Wax Office in the reign of George II. , when he was impeached for peculation , as were a great number of other honest gentlemen of those days ; and Walpole Crawley was , as need scarcely be said , son of John Churchill Crawley , named after the celebrated military commander of the reign of Queen Anne . 
She brought him two sons : Pitt , named not so much after his father as after the heaven-born minister ; and Rawdon Crawley , from the Prince of Wales 's friend , whom his Majesty George IV . 
For instance , there was scarcely any point upon which the Miss Osbornes , George 's sisters , and the Mesdemoiselles Dobbin agreed so well as in their estimate of her very trifling merits : and their wonder that their brothers could find any charms in her . 
`` We are kind to her , '' the Misses Osborne said , a pair of fine black-browed young ladies who had had the best of governesses , masters , and milliners ; and they treated her with such extreme kindness and condescension , and patronised her so insufferably , that the poor little thing was in fact perfectly dumb in their presence , and to all outward appearance as stupid as they thought her . 
Miss Osborne and Miss Maria Osborne , and Miss Wirt , the vestal governess , asked each other with increased wonder , `` What could George find in that creature ? '' 
When George , their handsome brother , ran off directly after breakfast , and dined from home half-a-dozen times a-week ; no wonder the neglected sisters felt a little vexation . 
`` She 's engaged to my brother George ; there 's not much in her , but she 's the best-natured and most unaffected young creature : at home we 're all so fond of her . '' 
Miss Wirt and these two affectionate young women so earnestly and frequently impressed upon George Osborne 's mind the enormity of the sacrifice he was making , and his romantic generosity in throwing himself away upon Amelia , that I 'm not sure but that he really thought he was one of the most deserving characters in the British army , and gave himself up to be loved with a good deal of easy resignation . 
Somehow , although he left home every morning , as was stated , and dined abroad six days in the week , when his sister believed the infatuated youth to be at Miss Sedley 's apron-strings : he was not always with Amelia , whilst the world supposed him at her feet . 
Certain it is that on more occasions than one , when Captain Dobbin called to look for his friend , Miss Osborne -LRB- who was very attentive to the Captain , and anxious to hear his military stories , and to know about the health of his dear Mamma -RRB- , Miss Osborne would laughingly point to the opposite side of the square , and say , `` Oh , you must go to the Sedley 's to ask for George ; we never see him from morning till night . '' 
`` Did you see how he blushed at the mention of poor George on duty ? '' 
that he had been calling at Mr. Sedley 's house already , on the pretence of seeing George , of course , and George was n't there , only poor little Amelia , with rather a sad wistful face , seated near the drawing-room window , who , after some very trifling stupid talk , ventured to ask , was there any truth in the report that the regiment was soon to be ordered abroad ; and had Captain Dobbin seen Mr. Osborne that day ? 
The regiment was not ordered abroad as yet ; and Captain Dobbin had not seen George . 
So she gave him her hand kindly and gratefully : and he crossed the square ; and she waited and waited , but George never came . 
Only one feeling all day -- when will he come ? 
I believe George was playing billiards with Captain Cannon in Swallow Street at the time when Amelia was asking Captain Dobbin about him ; for he was a jolly sociable fellow , and excellent in all games of skill . 
Once , after three days of absence , Miss Amelia put on her bonnet ; and actually invaded the Osborne house . 
And this day she was so perfectly stupid and awkward , that the Miss Osbornes and their governess , who stared after her as she went sadly away , wondered more than ever what George could see in poor little Amelia . 
and flung herself into George Osborne 's arms with all her soul , to the astonishment of every body who witnessed that ebullition of sentiment . 
The fact is , peace was declared , Europe was going to be at rest ; the Corsican was overthrown , and Lieutenant Osborne 's regiment would not be ordered on service . 
The fate of Europe was Lieutenant George Osborne to her . 
His dangers being over , she sang to Heaven . 
He was her Europe : her emperor : her allied monarchs and august prince regent . 
He was her sun and moon ; and I believe she thought the grand illumination and ball at the Mansion House , given to the sovereigns , were especially in honour of George Osborne . 
what was it to George 's ? 
Compare such a person as that to her George ! 
Not amongst all the beaux at the Opera -LRB- and there were beaux in those days with actual opera hats -RRB- was there any one to equal him . 
He was only good enough to be a fairy prince ; and oh , what magnanimity to stoop to such a humble Cinderella ! 
too much to herself sometimes -- not that she ever doubted ; for , to be sure , George must be at the Horse-Guards ; and he ca n't always get leave from Chatham ; and he must see his friends and sisters , and mingle in society when in town -LRB- he such an ornament to every society ! -RRB- 
; and when he is with the regiment , he is too tired to write long letters . 
But if Osborne 's were short and soldierlike letters , it must be confessed , that were Miss Sedley 's letters to Mr. Osborne to be published , we should have to extend this novel to such a multiplicity of volumes as not the most sentimental reader could support ; that she not only filled sheets of large paper , but crossed them with the most astonishing perverseness ; that she wrote whole pages out of poetry-books without the least pity ; that she underlined words and passages with quite a frantic emphasis ; and , in fine , gave the usual tokens of her condition . 
Such a number of notes followed Lieutenant Osborne about the country , that he became almost ashamed of the jokes of his mess-room companions regarding them , and ordered his servant never to deliver them , except at his private apartment . 
He was seen lighting his cigar with one , to the horror of Captain Dobbin , who , it is my belief , would have given a bank-note for the document . 
For some time George strove to keep the liaison a secret . 
There was a woman in the case , that he admitted . 
`` That Osborne 's a devil of a fellow . 
There was a judge 's daughter at Demerara went almost mad about him ; then there was that beautiful quadroon girl , Miss Pye , at St. Vincent 's , you know ; and since he 's been home , they say he 's a regular Don Giovanni , by Jove . '' 
Stubbles and Spooney thought that to be a `` regular Don Giovanni by Jove '' was one of the finest qualities a man could possess ; and Osborne 's reputation was prodigious amongst the young men of the regiment . 
He was famous in field-sports , famous at a song , famous on parade ; free with his money , which was bountifully supplied by his father . 
His coats were better made than any man 's in the regiment , and he had more of them . 
He was adored by the men . 
He could drink more than any officer of the whole mess , including old Heavytop , the colonel . 
Well , Stubbles and Spooney and the rest indulged in most romantic conjectures regarding this female correspondence of Osborne 's , -- opining that it was a Duchess in London , who was in love with him , -- or that it was a General 's daughter , who was engaged to somebody else , and madly attached to him , -- or that it was a Member of Parliament 's lady , who proposed four horses and an elopement , -- or that it was some other victim of a passion delightfully exciting , romantic , and disgraceful to all parties , on none of which conjectures would Osborne throw the least light , leaving his young admirers and friends to invent and arrange their whole history . 
The Captain was eating his breakfast one day in the mess-room , while Cackle , the assistant-surgeon , and the two above-named worthies were speculating upon Osborne 's intrigue -- Stubbles holding out that the lady was a Duchess about Queen Charlotte 's court , and Cackle vowing she was an opera-singer of the worst reputation . 
The story was over the regiment in half-an-hour ; and that very evening Mrs. Major O'Dowd wrote off to her sister Glorvina at O'Dowdstown not to hurry from Dublin , -- young Osborne being prematurely engaged already . 
`` Who the deuce asked you to talk about my affairs , '' Osborne shouted indignantly . 
I should like to know , '' George said . 
`` In other words , you ask me if I 'm a man of honour , '' said Osborne , fiercely ; `` is that what you mean ? 
I 've told you you were neglecting a sweet girl , George . 
`` You want your money back , I suppose , '' said George , with a sneer . 
`` No , hang it , William , I beg your pardon '' -- here George interposed in a fit of remorse ; `` you have been my friend in a hundred ways , Heaven knows . 
`` It 's impossible to be long angry with you , George , '' said the good-natured Captain ; `` and as for the money , old boy , you know if I wanted it you 'd share your last shilling with me . '' 
`` That I would , by Jove , Dobbin , '' George said , with the greatest generosity , thought by the way he never had any money to spare . 
`` Only I wish you had sown those wild oats of yours , George . 
Amelia meanwhile , in Russell Square , was looking at the moon , which was shining upon that peaceful spot , as well as upon the square of the Chatham barracks , where Lieutenant Osborne was quartered , and thinking to herself how her hero was employed . 
And her kind thoughts sped away as if they were angels and had wings , and flying down the river to Chatham and Rochester , strove to peep into the barracks where George was . 
The day after the little conversation at Chatham barracks , young Osborne , to show that he would be as good as his word , prepared to go to town , thereby incurring Captain Dobbin 's applause . 
`` I should have liked to make her a little present , '' Osborne said to his friend in confidence , `` only I am quite out of cash until my father tips up . '' 
But Dobbin would not allow this good nature and generosity to be balked , and so accommodated Mr. Osborne with a few pound notes , which the latter took after a little faint scruple . 
And I dare say he would have bought something very handsome for Amelia ; only , getting off the coach in Fleet Street , he was attracted by a handsome shirt-pin in a jeweller 's window , which he could not resist ; and having paid for that , had very little money to spare for indulging in any further exercise of kindness . 
Sambo , whose face as he announced Captain Osbin -LRB- having conferred a brevet rank on that young officer -RRB- blazed with a sympathetic grin , saw the little girl start , and flush , and jump up from her watching-place in the window ; and Sambo retreated : and as soon as the door was shut , she went fluttering to Lieutenant George Osborne 's heart as if it was the only natural home for her to nestle in . 
In the meanwhile , George kissed her very kindly on her forehead and glistening eyes , and was very gracious and good ; and she thought his diamond shirt-pin -LRB- which she had not known him to wear before -RRB- the prettiest ornament ever seen . 
The observant reader , who has marked our young Lieutenant 's previous behaviour , and has preserved our report of the brief conversation which he has just had with Captain Dobbin , has possibly come to certain conclusions regarding the character of Mr. Osborne . 
But this is certain , that Amelia believed her lover to be one of the most gallant and brilliant men in the empire : and it is possible Lieutenant Osborne thought so too . 
He was a little wild : how many young men are ; and do n't girls like a rake better than a milksop ? 
He had n't sown his wild oats as yet , but he would soon : and quit the army , now that peace was proclaimed ; the Corsican monster locked up at Elba ; promotion by consequence over ; and no chance left for the display of his undoubted military talents and valour : and his allowance , with Amelia 's settlement , would enable them to take a snug place in the country somewhere , in a good sporting neighbourhood ; and he would hunt a little , and farm a little ; and they would be very happy . 
Amelia died with laughing at Osborne 's stories about Mrs. Major O'Dowd . 
He loved her much too fondly to subject her to that horrid woman and her vulgarities , and the rough treatment of a soldier 's wife . 
Holding this kind of conversation , and building numberless castles in the air -LRB- which Amelia adorned with all sorts of flower-gardens , rustic walks , country churches , sunday schools , and the like ; while George had his mind 's eye directed to the stables , the kennel , and the cellar -RRB- , this young pair passed away a couple of hours very pleasantly ; and as the Lieutenant had only that single day in town , and a great deal of most important business to transact , it was proposed that Miss Emmy should dine with her future sisters-in-law . 
He conducted her to his sisters ; where he left her talking and prattling in a way that astonished those ladies , who thought that George might make something of her ; and then went off to transact his business . 
In a word , he went out and ate ices at a pastry-cook 's shop in Charing Cross ; tried a new coat in Pall Mall ; dropped in at the Old Slaughters ' , and called for Captain Cannon ; played eleven games at billiards with the Captain , of which he won eight , and returned to Russell Square half-an-hour late for dinner , but in very good humour . 
It was not so with old Mr. Osborne . 
said at once : -- `` George is in town , Papa ; and has gone to the Horse Guards , and will be back to dinner . '' 
`` O he is , is he ? 
I wo n't have the dinner kept waiting for him , Maria : '' with which this worthy man lapsed into his particular chair , and then the utter silence in his genteel , well-furnished drawing-room , was only interrupted by the alarmed ticking of the great French clock . 
When that chronometer , which was surmounted by a cheerful brass group of the sacrifice of Iphigenia , tolled five in a heavy cathedral tone , Mr. Osborne pulled the bell at his right hand violently , and the butler rushed up . 
roared Mr. Osborne . 
`` Mr. George is n't come in , sir , '' interposed the man . 
`` Damn Mr. George , sir . 
Mr. Osborne scowled . 
The tolling over , the head of the family thrust his hands into the great tail-pockets of his great blue coat and brass buttons , and without waiting for a further announcement , strode down stairs alone , scowling over his shoulder at the four females . 
Amelia trembled in her place , for she was next to the awful Osborne , and alone on her side of the table , -- the gap being occasioned by the absence of George . 
says Mr. Osborne , clutching the ladle , fixing his eyes on her , in a sepulchral tone ; and having helped her and the rest , did not speak for a while . 
`` Take Miss Sedley 's plate away , '' at last he said . 
Having concluded his observations upon the soup , Mr. Osborne made a few curt remarks respecting the fish , also of a savage and satirical tendency , and cursed Billingsgate with an emphasis quite worthy of the place . 
Then he lapsed into silence , and swallowed sundry glasses of wine , looking more and more terrible , till a brisk knock at the door told of George 's arrival , when everybody began to rally . 
His goodhumour contrasted with his father 's severity ; and he rattled on unceasingly during dinner , to the delight of all -- of one especially , who need not be mentioned . 
As soon as the young ladies had discussed the orange and the glass of wine which formed the ordinary conclusion of the dismal banquets at Mr. Osborne 's house , the signal to make sail for the drawing-room was given , and they all arose and departed . 
Amelia hoped George would soon join them there . 
She began playing some of his favourite waltzes -LRB- then newly imported -RRB- at the great carved-legged , leather-cased grand piano in the drawing-room overhead . 
This little artifice did not bring him . 
He was deaf to the waltzes ; they grew fainter and fainter ; the discomfited performer left the huge instrument presently ; and though her three friends performed some of the loudest and most brilliant new pieces of their répertoire , she did not hear a single note , but sate thinking , and boding evil . 
Old Osborne 's scowl , terrific always , had never before looked so deadly to her . 
His eyes followed her out of the room , as if she had been guilty of something . 
The gloom on the paternal countenance had also impressed George Osborne with anxiety . 
With such eyebrows , and a look so decidedly bilious , how was he to extract that money from the governor , of which George was consumedly in want ? 
He began praising his father 's wine . 
said George , with a laugh . 
`` It is devilish fine wine , '' said the Eyebrows , and they looked more good-humoured ; and George was going to take advantage of this complacency , and bring the supply question on the mahogany ; when the father , relapsing into solemnity , though rather cordial in manner , bade him ring the bell for claret . 
`` And we 'll see if that 's as good as the Madeira , George , to which his Royal Highness is welcome , I 'm sure . 
`` What I want to know , George , '' the old gentleman said , after slowly smacking his first bumper . 
`` I think , sir , it 's not hard to see , '' George said , with a self-satisfied grin . 
Whenever he met a great man he grovelled before him , and my-lorded him as only a free-born Briton can do . 
George was alarmed when he heard the names . 
He feared his father might have been informed of certain transactions at play . 
But the old moralist eased him by saying serenely , `` Well , well , young men will be young men . 
And the comfort to me is , George , that living in the best society in England , as I hope you do ; as I think you do ; as my means will allow you to do -- '' `` Thank you , sir , '' says George , making his point at once . 
`` One ca n't live with these great folks for nothing ; and my purse , sir , look at it ; '' and he held up a little token which had been netted by Amelia , and contained the very last of Dobbin 's pound notes . 
My guineas are as good as theirs George , my boy ; and I dont grudge 'em . 
`` Oh , of course , sir , '' said George . 
`` But to return to the other business about Amelia : why should n't you marry higher than a stockbroker 's daughter , George -- that 's what I want to know ? '' 
`` It 's a family business , sir , '' says George , cracking filberts . 
George ! 
With which Mr. Osborne spread out the evening-paper , and George knew from this signal that the colloquy was ended , and that his Papa was about to take a nap . 
He hurried up stairs to Amelia in the highest spirits . 
What was it that made him more attentive to her on that night than he had been for a long time -- more eager to amuse her , more tender , more brilliant in talk ? 
Was it that his generous heart warmed to her at the prospect of misfortune ; or that the idea of losing the dear little prize made him value it more ? 
She lived upon the recollections of that happy evening for many days afterwards , remembering his words ; his looks ; the song he sang ; his attitude , as he leant over her or looked at her from a distance . 
As it seemed to her , no night ever passed so quickly at Mr. Osborne 's house before ; and for once this young person was almost provoked to be angry by the premature arrival of Mr. Sambo with her shawl . 
George came and took a tender leave of her the next morning : and then hurried off to the City , where he visited Mr. Chopper , his father 's head man , and received from that gentleman a document which he exchanged at Hulker and Bullock 's for a whole pocket-full of money . 
As George entered the house , old John Sedley was passing out of the banker 's parlour , looking very dismal . 
`` Mr. George Osborne , sir , how will you take it ? '' 
George crammed eagerly a quantity of notes into his pockets , and paid Dobbin fifty pounds that very evening at mess . 
That very evening Amelia wrote him the tenderest of long letters . 
What was the cause of Mr. Osborne 's dark looks ? 
Had any difference arisen between him and her Papa ? 
How fond she is of me , '' George said , as he perused the missive -- `` and , Gad , what a headache that mixed punch has given me ! '' 
Of course , on this Rebecca instantly stated , that Amelia was engaged to be married -- to a Lieutenant Osborne -- a very old flame . 
I know him ; and Osborne 's a goodish-looking fellow , with large black whiskers ? '' 
`` He fancies he can play at billiards , '' said he . 
`` I won two hundred of him at the Cocoa Tree . 
He play , the young flat ! 
He 'd have played for anything that day , but his friend Captain Dobbin carried him off , hang him ! '' 
Miss Sharp told Crawley the Lieutenant 's town address ; and a few days after this conversation , Lieutenant Osborne received a letter , in Captain Rawdon 's school-boy hand , and enclosing a note of invitation from Miss Crawley . 
Rebecca despatched also an invitation to her darling Amelia , who , you may be sure , was ready enough to accept it when she heard that George was to be of the party . 
George came to dinner -- a repast en gar & ccedil ; on with Captain Crawley . 
The great family coach of the Osbornes transported him to Park Lane from Russell Square ; where the young ladies , who were not themselves invited , and professed the greatest indifference at that slight , nevertheless looked at Sir Pitt Crawley 's name in the baronetage ; and learned everything which that work had to teach about the Crawley family and their pedigree , and the Binkies , their relatives , & c. , & c. Rawdon Crawley received George Osborne with great frankness and graciousness : praised his play at billiards : asked him when he would have his revenge : was interested about Osborne 's regiment : and would have proposed picquet to him that very evening , but Miss Crawley absolutely forbade any gambling in her house ; so that the young Lieutenant 's purse was not lightened by his gallant patron , for that day at least . 
`` Monstrous nice girl , ` pon my honour , though , Osborne , '' he was good enough to add . 
Osborne was n't on duty ; he would join Crawley with pleasure : and the latter , when they met the next day , praised his new friend 's horsemanship -- as he might with perfect honesty -- and introduced him to three or four young men of the first fashion , whose acquaintance immensely elated the simple young officer . 
`` How 's little Miss Sharp , by-the-bye , '' Osborne inquired of his friend over their wine , with a dandified air . 
Her conduct must have relieved Crawley if there was any jealousy in the bosom of that life-guardsman . 
When the young men went up stairs , and after Osborne 's introduction to Miss Crawley , he walked up to Rebecca with a patronising , easy swagger . 
He was going to be kind to her and protect her . 
He would even shake hands with her , as a friend of Amelia 's ; and saying , `` Ah , Miss Sharp ! 
Mr. Osborne said , amazed . 
Osborne ejaculated . 
Osborne was quite savage . 
The little Governess patronised him and persiffléd him until this young British Lion felt quite uneasy ; nor could he muster sufficient presence of mind to find a pretext for backing out of this most delectable conversation . 
`` I thought you liked the City families pretty well , '' he said haughtily . 
But oh , Mr. Osborne , what a difference eighteen months ' experience makes ! 
`` It seems to me you did n't dislike that wonderful Mr. Joseph last year , '' Osborne said kindly . 
Mr. Osborne gave a look as much as to say , `` Indeed , how very obliging ! '' 
To be sister-in-law to George Osborne , Esquire , son of John Osborne , Esquire , son of -- what was your grandpapa , Mr. Osborne ? 
Amelia dear , Mr. Osborne and I were talking about your poor brother Joseph . 
Thus was George utterly routed . 
Not that Rebecca was in the right ; but she had managed most successfully to put him in the wrong . 
And he now shamefully fled , feeling if he stayed another minute , that he would have been made to look foolish in the presence of Amelia . 
Though Rebecca had had the better of him , George was above the meanness of tale-bearing or revenge upon a lady , -- only he could not help cleverly confiding to Captain Crawley , next day , some notions of his regarding Miss Rebecca -- that she was a sharp one , a dangerous one , a desperate flirt , & c. ; in all of which opinions Crawley agreed laughingly , and with every one of which Miss Rebecca was made acquainted before twenty-four hours were over . 
They added to her original regard for Mr. Osborne . 
Her woman 's instinct had told her , that it was George who had interrupted the success of her first love-passage , and she esteemed him accordingly . 
`` I only just warn you , '' he said to Rawdon Crawley , with a knowing look -- he had bought the horse , and lost some score of guineas after dinner , `` I just warn you -- I know women , and counsel you to be on the look-out . '' 
And George went off , thinking Crawley was quite right . 
He told Amelia of what he had done , and how he had counselled Rawdon Crawley -- a devilish good , straight-forward fellow -- to be on his guard against that little sly , scheming Rebecca . 
`` O George , what have you done ? '' 
For her woman 's eyes , which Love had made sharp-sighted , had in one instant discovered a secret which was invisible to Miss Crawley , to poor virgin Briggs , and , above all , to the stupid peepers of that young whiskered prig , Lieutenant Osborne . 
IF there is any exhibition in all Vanity Fair which Satire and Sentiment can visit arm in arm together ; where you light on the strangest contrasts laughable and tearful : where you may be gentle and pathetic , or savage and cynical with perfect propriety : it is at one of those public assemblies , a crowd of which are advertised every day in the last page of the Times newspaper , and over which the late Mr. George Robins used to preside with so much dignity . 
Mr. Osborne 's butler came to buy some of the famous port wine to transfer to the cellars over the way . 
A month after her flight , she had bethought her of Amelia , and Rawdon , with a horse laugh , had expressed a perfect willingness to see young George Osborne again . 
by which sort of speech it is not to be supposed that Rawdon Crawley had a deliberate desire to cheat Mr. Osborne at play , but only wished to take that fair advantage of him which almost every sporting gentleman in Vanity Fair considers to be his due from his neighbour . 
`` What d'ye-call 'em ` Osborne , ' will cry off now , I suppose , since the family is smashed . 
`` George Osborne neglects her . 
The girls have not been in the house these three weeks ; and George has been twice in town without coming . 
Such a dandy as George has become . 
With his military airs , indeed ! 
Her heart tried to persist in asserting that George Osborne was worthy and faithful to her , though she knew otherwise . 
How many a thing had she said , and got no echo from him . 
Any one of these circumstances would account for the bitterness of Osborne 's opposition . 
Then Osborne had the intolerable sense of former benefits to goad and irritate him : these are always a cause of hostility aggravated . 
Finally , he had to break off the match between Sedley 's daughter and his son ; and as it had gone very far indeed , and as the poor girl 's happiness and perhaps character were compromised , it was necessary to show the strongest reasons for the rupture , and for John Osborne to prove John Sedley to be a very bad character indeed . 
On George 's intercourse with Amelia he put an instant veto -- menacing the youth with maledictions if he broke his commands , and vilipending the poor innocent girl as the basest and most artful of vixens . 
When the great crash came -- the announcement of ruin , and the departure from Russell Square , and the declaration that all was over between her and George -- all over between her and love , her and happiness , her and faith in the world -- a brutal letter from John Osborne told her in a few curt lines that her father 's conduct had been of such a nature that all engagements between the families were at an end -- when the final award came , it did not shock her so much as her parents , as her mother rather expected -LRB- for John Sedley himself was entirely prostrate in the ruins of his own affairs and shattered honour -RRB- . 
Whenever old John Sedley thought of the affair between George and Amelia , or alluded to it , it was with bitterness almost as great as Mr. Osborne himself had shown . 
He cursed Osborne and his family as heartless , wicked , and ungrateful . 
No power on earth , he swore , would induce him to marry his daughter to the son of such a villain , and he ordered Emmy to banish George from her mind , and to return all the presents and letters which she had ever had from him . 
Anything like William 's infatuation about that silly little flirting , ogling thing was never known , the mamma and sisters agreed together in thinking : and they trembled lest , her engagement being off with Osborne , she should take up immediately her other admirer and Captain . 
Our two friends -LRB- Dobbin and Osborne -RRB- were quite as much excited as the rest : and each in his way -- Mr. Dobbin very quietly , Mr. Osborne very loudly and energetically -- was bent upon doing his duty , and gaining his share of honour and distinction . 
The agitation thrilling through the country and army in consequence of this news was so great , that private matters were little heeded : and hence probably George Osborne , just gazetted to his company , busy with preparations for the march , which must come inevitably , and panting for further promotion -- was not so much affected by other incidents which would have interested him at a more quiet period . 
He was not , it must be confessed , very much cast down by good old Mr. Sedley 's catastrophe . 
Dobbin came in presently , cautioned him about the drink , which he only took , he said , because he was deuced low ; but when his friend began to put to him clumsy inquiries , and asked him for news in a significant manner , Osborne declined entering into conversation with him ; avowing , however , that he was devilish disturbed and unhappy . 
Three days afterwards , Dobbin found Osborne in his room at the barracks : -- his head on the table , a number of papers about , the young Captain evidently in a state of great despondency . 
There was a little packet directed in the well-known hand to Captain George Osborne , and some things lying about -- a ring , a silver knife he had bought , as a boy , for her at a fair ; a gold chain , and a locket with hair in it . 
`` It 's all over , '' said he , with a groan of sickening remorse . 
There was a little letter of a few lines , to which he pointed , which said : `` My papa has ordered me to return to you these presents , which you made in happier days to me ; and I am to write to you for the last time . 
I am sure you had no share in it , or in the cruel suspicions of Mr. Osborne , which are the hardest of all our griefs to bear . 
He swore that Amelia was an angel , to which Osborne said aye with all his heart . 
He , too , had been reviewing the history of their lives , -- and had seen her from her childhood to her present age , so sweet , so innocent , so charmingly simple , and artlessly fond and tender . 
A thousand homely scenes and recollections crowded on him -- in which he always saw her good and beautiful . 
And for himself , he blushed with remorse and shame , as the remembrance of his own selfishness and indifference contrasted with that perfect purity . 
Osborne asked , after a long talk , and a long pause , -- and , in truth , with no little shame at thinking that he had taken no steps to follow her . 
The good-natured fellow had found Mrs. Osborne only too willing to receive him , and greatly agitated by the arrival of the piano , which , as she conjectured , must have come from George , and was a signal of amity on his part . 
Captain Dobbin did not correct this error of the worthy lady , but listened to all her story of complaints and misfortunes with great sympathy -- condoled with her losses and privations , and agreed in reprehending the cruel conduct of Mr. Osborne towards his first benefactor . 
When she had eased her overflowing bosom somewhat , and poured forth many of her sorrows , he had the courage to ask actually to see Amelia , who was above in her room as usual , and whom her mother led trembling down stairs . 
After sitting in his company a minute or two , she put the packet into his hand , and said , `` Take this to Captain Osborne , if you please , and -- and I hope he 's quite well -- and it was very kind of you to come and see us -- and we like our new house very much . 
When Osborne heard that his friend had found her , he made hot and anxious inquiries regarding the poor child . 
His comrade took his hand , and looked him in the face . 
`` George , she 's dying , '' William Dobbin said , -- and could speak no more . 
Four hours after the talk between Dobbin and Osborne , this servant-maid came into Amelia 's room , where she sat as usual , brooding silently over her letters -- her little treasures . 
George and her mother were outside , waiting until she had read the letter . 
WITHOUT knowing how , Captain William Dobbin found himself the great promoter , arranger , and manager of the match between George Osborne and Amelia . 
But for him it never would have taken place : he could not but confess as much to himself , and smiled rather bitterly as he thought that he of all men in the world should be the person upon whom the care of this marriage had fallen . 
But though indeed the conducting of this negotiation was about as painful a task as could be set to him , yet when he had a duty to perform , Captain Dobbin was accustomed to go through it without many words or much hesitation ; and , having made up his mind completely , that if Miss Sedley was balked of her husband she would die of the disappointment , he was determined to use all his best endeavours to keep her alive . 
I forbear to enter into minute particulars of the interview between George and Amelia , when the former was brought back to the feet -LRB- or should we venture to say the arms ? -RRB- 
of his young mistress by the intervention of his friend honest William . 
A much harder heart than George 's would have melted at the sight of that sweet face so sadly ravaged by grief and despair , and at the simple tender accents in which she told her little broken-hearted story ; but as she did not faint when her mother , trembling , brought Osborne to her ; and as she only gave relief to her overcharged grief , by laying her head on her lover 's shoulder and there weeping for a while the most tender , copious , and refreshing tears -- old Mrs. Sedley , too greatly relieved , thought it was best to leave the young persons to themselves ; and so quitted Emmy crying over George 's hand , and kissing it humbly , as if it were her supreme chief and master , and as if she were quite a guilty and unworthy person needing every favour and grace from him . 
This prostration and sweet unrepining obedience exquisitely touched and flattered George Osborne . 
He saw a slave before him in that simple yielding faithful creature , and his soul within him thrilled secretly somehow at the knowledge of his power . 
He would be generous-minded , Sultan as he was , and raise up this kneeling Esther and make a queen of her : besides , her sadness and beauty touched him , as much as her submission , and so he cheered her , and raised her up and forgave her , so to speak . 
And the fact is , that George thought he was one of the generousest creatures alive : and that he was making a tremendous sacrifice in marrying this young creature . 
While she and Osborne were having their delightful tête-à-tête above stairs , old Mrs. Sedley and Captain Dobbin were conversing below upon the state of the affairs , and the chances and future arrangements of the young people . 
And she told a long story about happier days and their earlier splendours , when Osborne lived in a very humble way in the New Road , and his wife was too glad to receive some of Jos 's little baby things , with which Mrs. Sedley accommodated her at the birth of one of Osborne 's own children . 
He knew what a savage determined man Osborne was , and how he stuck by his word . 
`` The only chance George has of reconcilement , '' argued his friend , `` is by distinguishing himself in the coming campaign . 
If he dies they both go together . 
If he fails in distinction -- what then ? 
He has some money from his mother , I have heard -- enough to purchase his majority -- or he must sell out and go and dig in Canada or rough it in a cottage in the country . '' 
With such a partner Dobbin thought he would not mind Siberia -- and , strange to say , this absurd and utterly imprudent young fellow never for a moment considered that the want of means to keep a nice carriage and horses , and of an income which should enable its possessors to entertain their friends genteelly , ought to operate as bars to the union of George and Miss Sedley . 
It was these weighty considerations which made him think too that the marriage should take place as quickly as possible . 
Was he anxious himself , I wonder , to have it over ? 
He urged on George the necessity of immediate action : he showed the chances of reconciliation with his father , which a favourable mention of his name in the Gazette must bring about . 
If need were he would go himself and brave both the fathers in the business . 
At all events , he besought George to go through with it before the orders came , which everybody expected , for the departure of the regiment from England on foreign service . 
And here he paused ; reflecting on his own consummate hypocrisy ; for the day was as fine , and the sunshine as bright as it ever is in Coffin Court , where the Tapioca Coffee-house is situated ; and Mr. Dobbin remembered that he had seen Mrs. Sedley himself only an hour before , having driven Osborne down to Fulham in his gig , and left him there tête-à-tête with Miss Amelia . 
`` My wife will he very happy to see her ladyship , '' Sedley replied , pulling out his papers . 
The old gentleman 's eyes were wandering as he spoke , and he was thinking of something else , as he sate thrumming on his papers and fumbling at the worn red tape . 
`` You 're a military man , '' he went on ; `` I ask you , Bill Dobbin , could any man ever have speculated upon the return of that Corsican scoundrel from Elba ? 
`` I have heard something of this , Sir , from my friend George , '' Dobbin said , anxious to come to his point . 
`` The quarrel between you and his father has cut him up a great deal , Sir . 
Indeed , I 'm the bearer of a message from him . '' 
perhaps he condoles with me , does he ? 
Very kind of him , the stiff-backed prig with his dandified airs and West-end swagger . 
He 's hankering about my house , is he still ? 
`` His father 's harshness is not George 's fault , Sir . 
And what better answer can there be to Osborne 's charges against you , as charges there are , than that his son claims to enter your family and marry your daughter ? '' 
A light of something like satisfaction seemed to break over old Sedley as this point was put to him : but he still persisted that with his consent the marriage between Amelia and George should never take place . 
The idea of hitting his enemy Osborne such a blow soothed , perhaps , the old gentleman : and , their colloquy presently ending , he and Dobbin parted pretty good friends . 
N6311067 `` My sisters say she has diamonds as big as pigeons ' eggs , '' George said laughing . 
George , in conversation with Amelia , was rallying the appearance of a young lady of whom his father and sisters had lately made the acquaintance , and who was an object of vast respect to the Russell Square family . 
She was just from school , where she had completed her education , and George and his sisters had met her at an evening party at old Hulker 's house , Devonshire Place -LRB- Hulker , Bullock , & Co. were long the correspondents of her house in the West Indies -RRB- , and the girls had made the most cordial advances to her , which the heiress had received with great good humour . 
the Misses Osborne said . 
`` You should have seen her dress for court , Emmy , '' Osborne cried , laughing . 
asked Emmy , to whom George was rattling away regarding this dark paragon , on the morning of their re-union -- rattling away as no other man in the world surely could . 
`` The very name , '' George said . 
`` My dear child , they would have loved you if you had had two hundred thousand pounds , '' George replied . 
There is that jackass Fred Bullock , is going to marry Maria -- there 's Goldmore , the East India Director , there 's Dipley , in the tallow trade -- our trade , '' George said , with an uneasy laugh and a blush . 
Amelia 's confidence being perfectly restored to her , though she expressed a great deal of pretty jealousy about Miss Swartz , and professed to be dreadfully frightened -- like a hypocrite as she was -- lest George should forget her for the heiress and her money and her estates in Saint Kitts . 
But the fact is , she was a great deal too happy to have fears or doubts or misgivings of any sort : and having George at her side again , was not afraid of any heiress or beauty , or indeed of any sort of danger . 
When Captain Dobbin came back in the afternoon to these people -- which he did with a great deal of sympathy for them -- it did his heart good to see how Amelia had grown young again -- how she laughed , and chirped , and sang familiar old songs at the piano , which were only interrupted by the bell from without proelaiming Mr. Sedley 's return from the City , before whom George received a signal to retreat . 
Beyond the first smile of recognition -- and even that was an hypocrisy , for she thought his arrival rather provoking -- Miss Sedley did not once notice Dobbin during his visit . 
LOVE may be felt for any young lady endowed with such qualities as Miss Swartz possessed ; and a great dream of ambition entered into old Mr. Osborne 's soul , which she was to realize . 
He encouraged , with the utmost enthusiasm and friendliness , his daughter 's amiable attachment to the young heiress , and protested that it gave him the sincerest pleasure as a father to see the love of his girls so well disposed . 
There is little doubt that old Osborne believed all he said , and that the girls were quite earnest in their protestations of affection for Miss Swartz . 
And the proof is , that the major part of the Osborne family , who had not , in fifteen years , been able to get up a hearty regard for Amelia Sedley , became as fond of Miss Swartz in the course of a single evening as the most romantic advocate of friendship at first-sight could desire . 
What a match for George she 'd be -LRB- the sister and Miss Wirt agreed -RRB- , and how much better than that insignificant little Amelia ! 
Visions of balls in Portland Place , presentations at Court , and introductions to half the peerage , filled the minds of the young ladies ; who talked of nothing but George and his grand acquaintances to their beloved new friend . 
Old Osborne thought she would be a great match , too , for his son . 
He should leave the army ; he should go into Parliament ; he should cut a figure in the fashion and in the state . 
His blood boiled with honest British exultation , as he saw the name of Osborne ennobled in the person of his son , and thought that he might be the progenitor of a glorious line of baronets . 
He worked in the City and on ` Change , until he knew everything relating to the fortune of the heiress , how her money was placed , and where her estates lay . 
`` Let George cut in directly and win her , '' was his advice . 
The sooner it is done the better , Mr. Osborne ; them 's my sentiments , '' the wag said ; though , when Osborne had left the bank parlour , Mr. Bullock remembered Amelia , and what a pretty girl she was , and how attached to George Osborne ; and he gave up at least ten seconds of his valuable time to regretting the misfortune which had befallen that unlucky young woman . 
While thus George Osborne 's good feelings , and his good friend and genius , Dobbin , were carrying back the truant to Amelia 's feet , George 's parent and sisters were arranging this splendid match for him , which they never dreamed he would resist . 
When the elder Osborne gave what he called `` a hint , '' there was no possibility for the most obtuse to mistake his meaning . 
He called kicking a footman down stairs , a hint to the latter to leave his service . 
With his usual frankness and delicacy , he told Mrs. Haggistoun that he would give her a check for ten thousand pounds on the day his son was married to her ward ; and called that proposal a hint , and considered it a very dexterous piece of diplomacy . 
He gave George finally such another hint regarding the heiress ; and ordered him to marry her out of hand , as he would have ordered his butler to draw a cork , or his clerk to write a letter . 
This imperative hint disturbed George a good deal . 
He was in the very first enthusiasm and delight of his second courtship of Amelia , which was inexpressibly sweet to him . 
Carriages and opera-boxes , thought he ; fancy being seen in them by the side of such a Mahogany Charmer as that ! 
Add to all , that the Junior Osborne was quite as obstinate as the Senior : when he wanted a thing , quite as firm in his resolution to get it ; and quite as violent when angered , as his father in his most stern moments . 
On the first day when his father formally gave him the hint that he was to place his affections at Miss Swartz 's feet , George temporised with the old gentleman . 
`` You should have thought of the matter sooner , Sir , '' he said . 
Wait till my return , if I do return ; '' and then he represented , that the time when the regiment was daily expecting to quit England , was exceedingly ill-chosen : that the few days a week during which they were still to remain at home , must be devoted to business and not to love-making : time enough for that when he came home with his majority ; `` for , I promise you , '' said he , with a satisfied air , `` that one way or other you shall read the name of George Osborne in the Gazette . '' 
`` So that you would have me shown up as a coward , Sir , and our name dishonoured for the sake of Miss Swartz 's money , '' George interposed . 
This remark staggered the old gentleman ; but as he had to reply to it , and as his mind was nevertheless made up , he said , `` You will dine here to-morrow , Sir , and every day Miss Swartz comes , you will be here to pay your respects to her . 
Thus a new obstacle was in George 's way , to interfere with his plans regarding Amelia ; and about which he and Dobbin had more than one confidential consultation . 
His friend 's opinion respecting the line of conduct which he ought to pursue , we know already . 
And as for Osborne , when he was once bent on a thing , a fresh obstacle or two only rendered him the more resolute . 
The dark object of the conspiracy into which the chiefs of the Osborne family had entered , was quite ignorant of all their plans regarding her -LRB- which , strange to say , her friend and chaperon did not divulge -RRB- , and , taking all the young ladies ' flattery for genuine sentiment , and being , as we have before had occasion to show , of a very warm and impetuous nature , responded to their affection with quite a tropical ardour . 
And if the truth may be told , I dare say that she too had some selfish attraction in the Russell Square house ; and in a word , thought George Osborne a very nice young man . 
His whiskers had made an impression upon her , on the very first night she beheld them at the ball at Messrs. Hulkers ; and , as we know , she was not the first woman who had been charmed by them . 
George had an air at once swaggering and melancholy , languid and fierce . 
He looked like a man who had passions , secrets , and private harrowing griefs and adventures . 
His voice was rich and deep . 
He would say it was a warm evening , or ask his partner to take an ice , with a tone as sad and confidential as if he were breaking her mother 's death to her , or preluding a declaration of love . 
He trampled over all the young bucks of his father 's circle , and was the hero among those third-rate men . 
Some few sneered at him and hated him . 
The day after George had his hint from his father , and a short time before the hour of dinner , he was lolling upon a sofa in the drawing-room in a very becoming and perfectly natural attitude of melancholy . 
He had been , at his father 's request , to Mr. Chopper in the city , -LRB- the old gentleman , though he gave great sums to his son , would never specify any fixed allowance for him , and rewarded him only as he was in the humour -RRB- . 
`` Dammy , '' George said to a confidential friend , `` she looked like a China doll , which has nothing to do all day but to grin and wag its head . 
He restrained that exhibition of sentiment , however . 
`` Stop that d -- thing , '' George howled out in a fury from the sofa . 
Now it happened that this song , then in the height of the fashion , had been given to the young ladies by a young friend of theirs , whose name was on the title , and Miss Swartz , having concluded the ditty with George 's applause , -LRB- for he remembered that it was a favourite of Amelia 's -RRB- , was hoping for an encore perhaps , and fiddling with the leaves of the music , when her eye fell upon the title , and she saw `` Amelia Sedley '' written in the corner . 
This was Miss Maria 's return for George 's rudeness about the Battle of Prague . 
George said , bouncing up . 
She 's the best -- '' `` You know you 're not to speak about her , George , '' cried Jane . 
George cried out . 
Thank you , Miss Swartz ; '' and he went up and wrung her hand . 
`` George ! 
George ! '' 
`` I say , '' George said fiercely , `` I thank everybody who loves Amelia Sed -- '' . 
He stopped . 
Old Osborne was in the room with a face livid with rage , and eyes like hot coals . 
Though George had stopped in his sentence , yet , his blood being up , he was not to be cowed by all the generations of Osborne ; rallying instantly , he replied to the bullying look of his father , with another so indicative of resolution and defiance , that the elder man quailed in his turn , and looked away . 
`` Give your arm to Miss Swartz , George , '' and they marched . 
`` Miss Swartz , I love Amelia , and we 've been engaged almost all our lives , '' Osborne said to his partner ; and during all the dinner , George rattled on with a volubility which surprised himself , and made his father doubly nervous , for the fight which was to take place as soon as the ladies were gone . 
Old Osborne , on the contrary , was nervous , and drank much . 
He floundered in his conversation with the ladies , his neighbours ; George 's coolness only rendering him more angry . 
It made him half mad to see the calm way in which George , flapping his napkin , and with a swaggering bow , opened the door for the ladies to leave the room ; and filling himself a glass of wine , smacked it , and looked his father full in the face , as if to say , `` Gentlemen of the Guard , fire first . '' 
`` Stop , Sir , '' says George , `` do n't say dare , Sir . 
`` I 'm a gentleman though I am your son , Sir , '' George answered haughtily . 
Whenever the lad assumed his haughty manner , it always created either great awe or great irritation in the parent . 
Old Osborne stood in secret terror of his son as a better gentleman than himself ; and perhaps my readers may have remarked in their experience of this Vanity Fair of ours , that there is no character which a low-minded man so much mistrusts , as that of a gentleman . 
If I had kept the company some folks have had through my means , perhaps my son would n't have any reason to brag , Sir , of his superiority and West End airs -LRB- these words were uttered in the elder Osborne 's most sarcastic tones -RRB- . 
I know very well that you give me plenty of money , '' said George , -LRB- fingering a bundle of notes which he had got in the morning from Mr. Chopper -RRB- . 
George asked , with scarcely a sneer , filling another glass of claret . 
burst out his father with a screaming oath -- `` that the name of those Sedleys never be mentioned here , Sir -- not one of the whole damned lot of 'em , Sir . '' 
It 's a shame , by Heavens , '' said George , working himself up into passion and enthusiasm as he proceeded , `` to play at fast and loose with a young girl 's affections -- and with such an angel as that -- one so superior to the people amongst whom she lived that she might have excited envy , only she was so good and gentle , that it 's a wonder anybody dared to hate her . 
George said , pulling up his shirtcollars . 
Mr. Osborne pulled frantically at the cord by which he was accustomed to summon the butler when he wanted wine -- and , almost black in the face , ordered that functionary to call a coach for Captain Osborne . 
`` I 've done it , '' said George , coming into the Slaughters an hour afterwards , looking very pale . 
George told what had passed between his father and himself . 
`` I 'll marry her to-morrow , '' he said with an oath . 
ENEMIES the most obstinate and courageous ca n't hold out against starvation : so the elder Osborne felt himself pretty easy about his adversary in the encounter was have just described ; and as soon as George 's supplies fell short , confidently expected his unconditional submission . 
It was unlucky , to be sure , that the lad should have secured a stock of provisions on the very day when the first encounter took place ; but this relief was only temporary , old Osborne thought , and would but delay George 's surrender . 
The former was sulky at this silence , but not disquieted ; for , as he said , he knew where he could put the screw upon George , and only waited the result of that operation . 
He told the sisters the upshot of the dispute between them , but ordered them to take no notice of the matter , and welcome George on his return as if nothing had happened . 
His cover was laid as usual every day , and perhaps the old gentleman rather anxiously expected him ; but he never came . 
One gusty , raw day at the end of April , -- the rain whipping the pavement of that ancient street where the old Slaughter 's Coffee-house was once situated , -- George Osborne came into the coffee-room , looking very haggard and pale ; although dressed rather smartly in a blue coat and brass buttons , and a neat buff waistcoat of the fashion of those days . 
Here was his friend Captain Dobbin , in blue and brass too , having abandoned the military frock and French-grey trowsers , which were the usual coverings of his lanky person . 
At length Captain Osborne made his appearance , very smartly dressed , but very pale and agitated , as we have said . 
He wiped his pale face with a large yellow bandanna pocket-handkerchief that was prodigiously scented . 
He shook hands with Dobbin , looked at the clock , and told John , the waiter , to bring him some cura & ccedil ; oa . 
A coach , into which Captain Osborne 's servant put his master 's desk and dressing-case , had been in waiting for some time ; and into this the two gentlemen hurried under an umbrella , and the valet mounted on the box , cursing the rain and the dampness of the coachman who was steaming beside him . 
`` We shall find a better trap than this at the chutch-door , '' says he ; `` that 's a comfort . '' 
said George , `` I said only a pair . '' 
`` My master would have four , '' said Mr. Joseph Sedley 's servant , who was in waiting ; and he and Mr. Osborne 's man agreed as they followed George and William into the church , that it was a `` reg ` lar shabby turn hout ; and with scarce so much as a breakfast or a wedding faviour . '' 
`` You 're five minutes late , George , my boy . 
In a word , George had thrown the great cast . 
He was going to be married . 
Hence his pallor and nervousness -- his sleepless night and agitation in the morning . 
Old Osborne would not be present . 
Jos acted for his father , giving away the bride , whilst Captain Dobbin stepped up as groom 's - man to his friend George . 
Osborne 's `` I will '' was sounded in very deep base . 
When the service was completed , Jos Sedley came forward and kissed his sister , the bride , for the first time for many months -- George 's look of gloom had gone , and he seemed quite proud and radiant . 
`` It 's your turn , William , '' says he , putting his hand fondly upon Dobbin 's shoulder ; and Dobbin went up and touched Amelia on the cheek . 
`` God bless you , Old Dobbin , '' George said , grasping him by the hand , with something very like moisture glistening in his eyes . 
`` Write directly , and come down as soon as you can , you know , '' Osborne said . 
`` Get out of the way , you little devils , '' George cried to a small crowd of damp urchins , that were hanging about the chapel-door . 
`` Do n't he , Osborne ? 
How well he made that five stroke , eh ? '' 
`` Famous , '' Osborne said . 
Here George Osborne gave a yawn . 
`` It 's rather slow work , '' said he , `` down here ; what shall we do ? '' 
George said . 
`` We have had a delightful drive , George , '' she said , `` and -- and we 're so glad to come back ; and Joseph , do n't let him be late . '' 
Crawley and Osborne shook hands together cordially enough : and Becky , in the course of a very few hours , found means to make the latter forget that little unpleasant passage of words which had happened between them . 
Rebecca said , and she held out her hand with so frank and winning a grace , that Osborne could not but take it . 
Becky 's humility passed for sincerity with George Osborne . 
George 's marriage was to be made known to his father by his friend Captain Dobbin ; and young Osborne trembled rather for the result of that communication . 
there 's old Dobbin , '' George cried , quite delighted to see his old friend perched on the roof ; and whose promised visit to Brighton had been delayed until now . 
Emmy 'll be delighted to see you , '' Osborne said , shaking his comrade warmly by the hand as soon as his descent from the vehicle was effected -- and then he added , in a lower and agitated voice , `` What 's the news . 
I 'll tell you all the news presently : but I 've brought the great news of all : and that is -- '' `` Out with it , old fellow , '' George said . 
As Alexis , after a few passes from Dr. Elliotson , despises pain , reads with the back of his head , sees miles off , looks into next week , and performs other wonders , of which , in his own private normal condition , he is quite incapable ; so you see , in the affairs of the world and under the magnetism of friendship , the modest man become bold , the shy confident , the lazy active , or the impetuous prudent and peaceful . 
I throw out these queries for intelligent readers to answer , who know , at once , how credulous we are , and how sceptical , how soft and how obstinate , how firm for others and how diffident about ourselves : meanwhile it is certain that our friend William Dobbin , who was personally of so complying a disposition that if his parents had pressed him much , it is probable he would have stepped down into the kitchen and married the cook , and who , to further his own interests , would have found the most insuperable difficulty in walking across the street , found himself as busy and eager in the conduct of George Osborne 's affairs , as the most selfish tactician could be in the pursuit of his own . 
Whilst our friend George and his young wife were enjoying the first blushing days of the honeymoon at Brighton , honest William was left as George 's plenipotentiary in London , to transact all the business part of the marriage . 
His duty it was to call upon old Sedley and his wife , and to keep the former in good humour : to draw Jos and his brother-in-law nearer together , so that Jos 's position and dignity , as collector of Bogglywollah , might compensate for his father 's loss of station , and tend to reconcile old Osborne to the alliance : and finally , to communicate it to the latter in such a way as should least irritate the old gentleman . 
Now , before he faced the head of the Osborne house with the news which it was his duty to tell , Dobbin bethought him that it would be politic to make friends of the rest of the family , and , if possible , have the ladies on his side . 
A little crying out , and they must come round to their brother ; then the three of us will lay siege to old Mr. Osborne . 
So this Machiavellian captain of infantry cast about him for some happy means or stratagem by which he could gently and gradually bring the Miss Osbornes to a knowledge of their brother 's secret . 
By a little inquiry regarding his mother 's engagements , he was pretty soon able to find out by whom of her ladyship 's friends parties were given at that season ; where he would be likely to meet Osborne 's sisters ; and , though he had that abhorrence of routs and evening parties , which many sensible men , alas , entertain , he soon found one where the Miss Osbornes were to be present . 
Making his appearance at the ball , where he danced a couple of sets with both of them , and was prodigiously polite , he actually had the courage to ask Miss Osborne for a few minutes ' conversation at an early hour the next day , when he had , he said , to communicate to her news of the very greatest interest . 
What was it that made her start back , and gaze upon him for a moment , and then on the ground at her feet , and make as if she would faint on his arm , had he not by opportunely treading on her toes , brought the young lady back to self-control ? 
O Captain Dobbin , I tremble sometimes when I think of our dearest George , and the dangers of the poor soldier . 
`` But it 's not about marriage that I came to speak -- that is that marriage -- that is -- no , I mean -- my dear Miss Osborne , it 's about our dear friend George , '' Dobbin said . 
`` About George ? '' 
she said in a tone so discomfited that Maria and Miss Wirt laughed at the other side of the door , and even that abandoned wretch of a Dobbin felt inclined to smile himself ; for he was not altogether unconscious of the state of affairs ; George having often bantered him gracefully and said `` Hang it , Will , why do n't you take old Polly ? 
`` Yes , about George , then , '' he continued . 
`` There has been a difference between him and Mr. Osborne . 
And I regard him so much -- for you know we have been like brothers -- that I hope and pray the quarrel may be settled . 
`` We are expecting George back daily . 
I 'm not speaking about the West India heiress , Miss Osborne , but about a poor girl whom George once loved , and who was bred from her childhood to think of nobody but him . 
Be her friend -- she always loved you -- and -- and I am come here charged by George to tell you that he holds his engagement to her as the most sacred duty he has ; and to entreat you , at least , to be on his side . '' 
-- that George should fling away such a superb establishment as was offered to him , -- but at any rate he has found a very brave champion in you , Captain Dobbin . 
And a well brought up young woman you know , -- with a well regulated mind must -- George must give her up , dear Captain Dobbin , indeed he must . '' 
`` No , dear Miss Osborne , all men are not ; your brother is not ; George has loved Amelia Sedley ever since they were children ; no wealth would make him marry any but her . 
Ought he to forsake her ? 
Would you counsel him to do so ? '' 
`` George could not give up Amelia -- George was married to her '' -- and then he related the circumstances of the marriage as we know them already ; how the poor girl would have died had not her lover kept his faith : how Old Sedley had refused all consent to the match , and a licence had been got : and Jos Sedley had come from Cheltenham to give away the bride : how they had gone to Brighton in Jos 's chariot-and-four to pass the honey-moon : and how George counted on his dear kind sisters to befriend him with their father , as women -- so true and tender as they were -- assuredly would do . 
And so , asking permission -LRB- readily granted -RRB- to see her again , and rightly conjecturing that the news he had brought would be told in the next five minutes to the other ladies , Captain Dobbin made his bow and took his leave . 
He knew what money was , and the value of it : and a delightful throb of expectation lighted up his little eyes , and caused him to smile on his Maria , as he thought that by this piece of folly of Mr. George 's she might be worth thirty thousand pounds more than he had ever hoped to get with her . 
Jane , '' said he , surveying even the elder sister with some interest , `` Eels will be sorry he cried off . 
The idea of facing old Osborne rendered him not a little nervous , and more than once he thought of leaving the young ladies to communicate the secret , which , as he was aware , they could not long retain . 
But he had promised to report to George upon the manner in which the elder Osborne bore the intelligence ; so going into the City to the paternal counting-house in Thames Street , he despatched thence a note to Mr. Osborne begging for a half-hour 's conversation relative to the affairs of his son George . 
Dobbin 's messenger returned from Mr. Osborne 's house of business , with the compliments of the latter , who would be very happy to see the Captain immediately , and away accordingly Dobbin went to confront him . 
The Captain , with a half-guilty secret to confess , and with the prospect of a painful and stormy interview before him , entered Mr. Osborne 's offices with a most dismal countenance and abashed gait , and , passing through the outer room where Mr. Chopper presided , was greeted by that functionary from his desk with a waggish air which farther discomfited him . 
Osborne rose too , and shook him heartily by the hand , and said , `` How do , my dear boy ? '' 
with a cordiality that made poor George 's ambassador feel doubly guilty . 
His hand lay as if dead in the old gentleman 's grasp . 
He felt that he , Dobbin , was more or less the cause of all that had happened . 
It was he had brought back George to Amelia ; it was he had applauded , encouraged , transacted almost the marriage which he was come to reveal to George 's father ; and the latter was receiving him with smiles of welcome ; patting him on the shoulder , and calling him `` Dobbin , my dear boy . '' 
The envoy had indeed good reason to hang his head . 
Osborne fully believed that Dobbin had come to announce his son 's surrender . 
Mr. Chopper and his principal were talking over the matter between George and his father , at the very moment when Dobbin 's messenger arrived . 
Both agreed that George was sending in his submission . 
Chopper , what a marriage we 'll have , '' Mr. Osborne said to his clerk , snapping his big fingers , and jingling all the guineas and shillings in his great pockets as he eyed his subordinate with a look of triumph . 
With similar operations conducted in both pockets , and a knowing jolly air , Osborne from his chair regarded Dobbin seated blank and silent opposite to him . 
`` What a bumpkin he is for a Captain in the army , '' old Osborne thought . 
`` I wonder George has n't taught him better manners . '' 
Osborne looked grave . 
`` My s -- , the regiment will do its duty , Sir , I daresay , '' he said . 
`` I only mean , that before we go , and considering the great and certain risk that hangs over every one of us -- if there are any differences between you and George -- it would be as well , Sir , that -- that you should shake hands : would n't it ? 
Should anything happen to him , I think you would never forgive yourself if you had n't parted in charity . '' 
Why had not George 's marriage been delayed ? 
He felt that George would have parted from Amelia at any rate without a mortal pang . 
Amelia , too , might have recovered the shock of losing him . 
It was his counsel had brought about this marriage , and all that was to ensue from it . 
Because he loved her so much that he could not bear to see her unhappy : or because his own sufferings of suspense were so unendurable that he was glad to crush them at once -- as we hasten a funeral after a death , or , when a separation from those we love is imminent , can not rest until the parting be over . 
`` You are a good fellow , William , '' said Mr. Osborne in a softened voice ; `` and me and George should n't part in anger , that is true . 
I 've done for him as much as any father ever did . 
George is much too high-minded a man ever to marry for money . 
A threat on your part that you would disinherit him in case of disobedience would only be followed by resistance on his . '' 
`` Why , hang it , man , you do n't call offering him eight or ten thousand a year , threatening him ? '' 
Mr. Osborne said , with still provoking good humour . 
`` Gad , if Miss S. will have me , I 'm her man . 
You do n't mean , '' Mr. Osborne continued , gathering wrath and astonishment as the thought now first came upon him -- you do n't mean that he 's such a d -- fool as to be still hankering after that swindling old bankrupt 's daughter ? 
You 've not come here for to make me suppose that he wants to marry her ? 
George had not right to play fast and loose -- '' `` Fast and loose ! '' 
howled out old Osborne . 
Mr. George sent you here to insult his father , did he ? '' 
Osborne said , pulling at the bell-cord . 
`` Mr. Osborne , '' said Dobbin , with a faltering voice , `` it 's you who are insulting the best creature in the world . 
And with this , feeling that he could say no more , Dobbin went away , Osborne sinking back in his chair , and looking wildly after him . 
A clerk came in , obedient to the bell ; and the Captain was scarcely out of the court where Mr. Osborne 's offices were , when Mr. Chopper the chief clerk came rushing hatless after him . 
What has Mr. George been doing ? '' 
`` He married Miss Sedley five days ago , '' Dobbin replied . 
`` I was his groomsman , Mr. Chopper , and you must stand his friend . '' 
The ladies and Mr. Bullock who dined with them , felt that the news had been communicated to Mr. Osborne . 
His dark looks affected Mr. Bullock so far as to render him still and quiet : but he was unusually bland and attentive to Miss Maria , by whom he sat , and to her sister presiding at the head of the table . 
Now this was George 's place when he dined at home ; and his cover , as we said , was laid for him in expectation of that truant 's return . 
Mutes at funerals could not look more glum than the domestics of Mr. Osborne . 
The neck of venison of which he had invited Dobbin to partake , was carved by him in perfect silence ; but his own share went away almost untasted , though he drank much , and the butler assiduously filled his glass . 
At last , just at the end of the dinner , his eyes , which had been staring at everybody in turn , fixed themselves for a while upon the plate laid for George . 
He pointed to it presently with his left hand . 
His daughters looked at him and did not comprehend , or choose to comprehend , the signal ; nor did the servants at first understand it . 
`` Take that plate away , '' at last he said , getting up with an oath -- and with this pushing his chair back , he walked into his own room . 
Behind Mr. Osborne 's dining-room was the usual apartment which went in his house by the name of the study ; and was sacred to the master of the house . 
Hither Mr. Osborne would retire of a Sunday forenoon when not minded to go to church ; and here pass the morning in his crimson leather chair , reading the paper . 
From year 's end to year 's end he never took one of these volumes from the shelf ; but there was no member of the family that would dare for his life to touch one of the books , except upon those rare Sunday evenings when there was no dinner party , and when the great scarlet Bible and Prayer-book were taken out from the corner where they stood beside his copy of the Peerage , and the servants being rung up to the dining parlour , Osborne read the evening service to his family in a loud grating pompous voice . 
Hence he could command , across the clean gravel court-yard , the back entrance of the stables with which one of his bells communicated , and into this yard the coachman issued from his premises as into a dock , and Osborne swore at him from the study window . 
Four times a year Miss Wirt entered this apartment to get her salary ; and his daughters to receive their quarterly allowance . 
George as a boy had been horsewhipped in this room many times ; his mother sitting sick on the stair listening to the cuts of the whip . 
There was a picture of the family over the mantel-piece , removed thither from the front room after Mrs. Osborne 's death -- George was on a poney , the elder sister holding him up a bunch of flowers ; the younger led by her mother 's hand ; all with red checks and large red mouths , simpering on each other in the approved family-portrait manner . 
Osborne 's own stately portrait , with that of his great silver inkstand and arm-chair , had taken the place of honour in the dining-room , vacated by the family-piece . 
To this study old Osborne retired then , greatly to the relief of the small party whom he left . 
The master of the house sate in his chair , pretending to read the paper , and when the servant , placing the lights and refreshment on the table by him , retired , Mr. Osborne got up and locked the door after him . 
This time there was no mistaking the matter ; all the household knew that some great catastrophe was going to happen which was likely direly to affect Master George . 
In the large shining mahogany escrutoire Mr. Osborne had a drawer especially devoted to his son 's affairs and papers . 
Here he kept all the documents relating to him ever since he had been a boy : here were his prize copy-books and drawing-books , all bearing George 's hand , and that of the master : here were his first letters in large round hand sending his love to papa and mama , and conveying his petitions for a cake . 
Curses quivered on old Osborne 's livid lips , and horrid hatred and disappointment writhed in his heart , as looking through some of these papers he came on that name . 
In another packet were `` Dr. S. 's accounts '' -- `` G. 's tailor 's bills and outfit , drafts on me by G. Osborne , jun. '' & c. , -- his letters from the West Indies -- his agent 's letters , and the newspapers containing his commission : here was a whip he had when a boy , and in a paper a locket containing his hair , which his mother used to wear . 
He used to go down on speech-days with four horses and new liveries , and scatter new shillings among the boys at the school where George was : when he went with George to the depôt of his regiment , before the boy embarked for Canada , he gave the officers such a dinner as the Duke of York might have sat down to . 
Had he ever refused a bill when George drew one ? 
Many a general in the army could n't ride the horses he had ! 
He had the child before his eyes , on a hundred different days when he remembered George -- after dinner , when he used to come in as bold as a lord and drink off his glass by his father 's side , at the head of the table -- on the poney at Brighton , when he cleared the hedge and kept up with the huntsman -- on the day when he was presented to the Prince Regent at the levee , when all Saint James 's could n't produce a finer young fellow . 
Having examined these papers , and pondered over this one and the other , in that bitterest of all helpless woe , with which miserable men think of happy past times -- George 's father took the whole of the documents out of the drawer in which he had kept them so long , and locked them into a writing-box , which he tied and sealed with his seal . 
Then he opened the book-case , and took down the great red Bible we have spoken of -- a pompous book , seldom looked at , and shining all over with gold . 
Here , according to custom , Osborne had recorded on the fly-leaf , and in his large clerk-like hand , the dates of his marriage and his wife 's death , and the births and Christian names of his children . 
Taking a pen , he carefully obliterated George 's names from the page ; and when the leaf was quite dry , restored the volume to the place from which he had moved it . 
Then he took a document out of another drawer , where his own private papers were kept ; and having read it , crumpled it up and lighted it at one of the candles , and saw it burn entirely away in the grate . 
It was his will ; which being burned , he sate down and wrote off a letter , and rang for his servant , whom he charged to deliver it in the morning . 
It was morning already : as he went up to bed , the whole house was alight with the sunshine : and the birds were singing among the fresh green leaves in Russell Square . 
Anxious to keep all Mr. Osborne 's family and dependants in good humour , and to make as many friends as possible for George in his hour of adversity , William Dobbin , who knew the effect which good dinners and good wines have upon the soul of man , wrote off immediately on his return to his inn , the most hospitable of invitations to Thomas Chopper , Esquire , begging that gentleman to dine with him at the Slaughter 's next day . 
The note reached Mr. Chopper before he left the City , and the instant reply was , that `` Mr. Chopper presents his respectful compliments , and will have the honour and pleasure of waiting on Captain D. '' The invitation and the rough draft of the answer were shown to Mrs. Chopper and her daughters on his return to Somers ' Town that evening , and they talked about military gents and West End men with great exultation as the family sate and partook of tea . 
When he went in to Mr. Osborne , after Captain Dobbin 's departure , Mr. Chopper found his chief black in the face , and all but in a fit : some dreadful quarrel , he was certain , had occurred between Mr. O. and the young Captain . 
`` And a precious lot of money he has had too , '' the chief clerk said , and respected his old and young master the more , for the liberal way in which the guineas had been flung about . 
He respected the house of Osborne before all others in the city of London : and his hope and wish was , that Captain George should marry a nobleman 's daughter . 
The clerk slept a great deal sounder than his principal that night ; and , cuddling his children after breakfast , of which he partook with a very hearty appetite -LRB- though his modest cup of life was only sweetened with brown sugar -RRB- , he set off in his best Sunday suit and frilled shirt for business , promising his admiring wife not to punish Captain D. 's port too severely that evening . 
N6311074 Mr. Osborne 's countenance , when he arrived in the City at his usual time , struck those dependants who were accustomed , for good reasons , to watch its expression , as peculiarly ghastly and worn . 
At about one Mr. Chopper received a note brought by Captain Dobbin 's man , and containing an inclosure for Mr. Osborne , which the clerk went in and delivered . 
`` I 've been making a new will , '' Mr. Osborne said , to which these gentlemen appended their names accordingly . 
It was remarked that Mr. Osborne was particularly quiet and gentle all day , to the surprise of those who had augured ill from his darkling demeanour . 
He called no man names that day , and was not heard to swear once . 
He left business early ; and before going away , summoned his chief clerk once more , and having given him general instructions , asked him , after some seeming hesitation and reluctance to speak , if he knew whether Captain Dobbin was in town ? 
Osborne took a letter directed to that officer , and , giving it to the clerk , requested the latter to deliver it into Dobbin 's own hands immediately . 
Exactly as the clock struck two , -LRB- there was no doubt an appointment between the pair , -RRB- Mr. Frederick Bullock called , and he and Mr. Osborne walked away together . 
The Colonel of the -- th regiment , in which Messieurs Dobbin and Osborne had companies , was an old general who had made his first campaign under Wolf at Quebec , and was long since quite too old and feeble for command ; but he took some interest in the regiment of which he was the nominal head , and made certain of his young officers welcome at his table , a kind of hospitality which I believe is not altogether common amongst his brethren of the present day . 
This officer sent a summons to Dobbin to come and breakfast with him , on the morning when Mr. Osborne altered his will and Mr. Chopper put on his best shirt frill , and then informed his young favourite , a couple of days in advance , of that which they were all expecting -- a marching order to go to Belgium . 
This news made Dobbin grave , and he thought of our friends at Brighton , and then he was ashamed of himself that Amelia was always the first thing in his thoughts , -LRB- always before anybody -- before father and mother , sisters and duty -- always at waking and sleeping indeed , and all day long -RRB- ; and returning to his hotel , he sent off a brief note to Mr. Osborne acquainting him with the information which he had received , and which might tend farther , he hoped , to bring about a reconciliation with George . 
It was inclosed to him , and as he opened the letter he trembled lest the dinner should be put off on which he was calculating . 
His mind was inexpressibly relieved when he found that the envelope was only a reminder for himself . 
Seeing young Stubble engaged in composition at one of the coffee-room tables at the Slaughter 's , and the tears trickling down his nose on to the paper , -LRB- for the youngster was thinking of his mama , and that he might never see her again , -RRB- Dobbin , who was going to write off a letter to George Osborne , relented , and locked up his desk . 
said he . 
So he went up and laid his big hand on young Stubble 's shoulder , and backed up that young champion , and told him if he would leave off brandy and water he would be a good soldier , as he always was a gentlemanly good-hearted fellow . 
Chopper brought the letter from Mr. Osborne in which the latter briefly presented his compliments to Captain Dobbin , and requested him to forward the inclosed to Captain George Osborne . 
Chopper knew nothing further ; he described Mr. Osborne 's appearance , it is true , and his interview with his lawyer , wondered how the governor had sworn at nobody , and , especially as the wine circled round , abounded in speculations and conjectures . 
When Captain Dobbin took leave of Miss Osborne we have said that he asked leave to come and pay her another visit , and the spinster expected him for some hours the next day , when , perhaps , had he come , and had he asked her that question which she was prepared to answer , she would have declared herself as her brother 's friend , and a reconciliation might have been effected between George and his angry father . 
`` It is my opinion , George , '' he said , `` that the French Emperor will be upon us , horse and foot , before three weeks are over , and will give the Duke such a dance as shall make the Peninsula appear mere child 's play . 
She liked him for his attachment to her husband , -LRB- to be sure there was very little merit in that -RRB- , and she thought George was most generous and kind in extending his friendship to his brother officer . 
George had mimicked Dobbin 's , lisp and queer manners many times to her , though to do him justice , he always spoke most highly of his friend 's good qualities . 
In her little day of triumph , and not knowing him intimately as yet , she made light of honest William -- and he knew her opinions of him quite well , and acquiesced in them very humbly . 
When George and Dobbin were alone in the latter 's room , to which George had followed him , Dobbin took from his desk the letter which he had been charged by Mr. Osborne to deliver to his son . 
`` It 's not in my father 's hand-writing , '' said George , looking rather alarmed ; nor was it : the letter was from Mr. Osborne 's lawyer , and to the following effect : -- `` Bedford Row , May 7 , 1815 . 
`` Sir , `` I am commissioned by Mr. Osborne to inform you , that he abides by the determination which he before expressed to you , and that in consequence of the marriage which you have been pleased to contract , he ceases to consider you henceforth as a member of his family . 
`` Although the monies expended upon you in your minority , and the bills which you have drawn upon him so unsparingly of late years , far exceed in amount the sum to which you are entitled in your own right , -LRB- being the third part of the fortune of your mother , the late Mrs. Osborne , and which reverted to you at her decease and to Miss Jane Osborne and Miss Maria Frances Osborne ;-RRB- yet I am instructed by Mr. Osborne to say , that he waives all claim upon your estate , and that the sum of # 2000 , 4 per cent . 
`` P. S. -- Mr. Osborne desires me to say , once for all , that he declines to receive any messages , letters , or communications from you on this or any other subject . '' 
`` A pretty way you have managed the affair , '' said George , looking savagely at William Dobbin . 
`` Look there , Dobbin , '' and he flung over to the latter his parent 's letter . 
George cried out in great anger . 
But try and remember that you are only a dethroned prince now , George , my boy ; and be quiet whilst the tempest lasts . 
George answered . 
`` And if anything happens , you know , George , I have got a little , and I am not a marrying man , and I shall not forget my godson in my will , '' he added , with a smile . 
Whereupon the dispute ended , -- as many scores of such conversations between Osborne and his friend had concluded previously -- by the former declaring there was no possibility of being angry with Dobbin long , and forgiving him very gloriously after abusing him without cause . 
She called George Osborne , Cupid . 
They were only a week married , and here was George already suffering ennui and eager for others ' society ! 
thought she , I have been very wicked and selfish -- selfish in forgetting them in their sorrows -- selfish in forcing George to marry me . 
I know I 'm not worthy of him -- I know he would have been happy without me -- and yet -- I tried , I tried to give him up . 
But so it was , and the night before Dobbin came to join these young people -- on a fine brilliant moonlight night of May -- so warm and balmy that the windows were flung open to the balcony , from which George and Mrs. Crawley were gazing upon the calm ocean spread shining before them , while Rawdon and Jos were engaged at back gammon within -- Amelia couched in a great chair quite neglected , and watching both these parties , felt a despair and remorse such as were bitter companions for that tender lonely soul . 
George said , with a puff of his cigar , which went soaring up skywards . 
George burst out laughing at the idea of this aquatic meeting . 
George was too humane or too much occupied with the tie of his neckcloth to convey at once all the news to Amelia which his comrade had brought with him from London . 
He came into her room , however , holding the attorney 's letter in his hand , and with so solemn and important an air that his wife , always ingeniously on the watch for calamity , thought the worst was about to befal , and running up to her husband , besought her dearest George to tell her everything -- he was ordered abroad ; there would be a battle next week -- she knew there would . 
Dearest George parried the question about foreign service , and with a melancholy shake of the head said , `` No , Emmy ; it is n't that : it 's not myself I care about : it 's you . 
Amelia , with a look of tender alarm in her eyes , listened to her noble hero as he uttered the above generous sentiments , and sitting down on the bed read the letter which George gave her with such a pompous martyrlike air . 
Then , as usual , she was ashamed of herself for feeling happy at such an indecorous moment , and checked her pleasure , saying demurely , `` O , George , how your poor heart must bleed at the idea of being separated from your papa . '' 
`` It does , '' said George , with an agonised countenance . 
`` What vexes me , my poor Emmy , is not my misfortune , but yours , '' George said . 
`` That you have , '' interposed his wife , who thought that war should cease , and her husband should be made a general instantly . 
`` Yes , I shall make my way as well as another , '' Osborne went on ; `` but you , my dear girl , how can I bear your being deprived of the comforts and station in society which my wife had a right to expect ? 
`` Besides , '' she said , after a pause , during which she looked as pretty and happy as any young woman need , `` is n't two thousand pounds an immense deal of money , George ? '' 
George laughed at her naïveté ; and finally they went down to dinner , Amelia clinging on George 's arm , still warbling the tune of `` Wapping Old Stairs , '' and more pleased and light of mind than she had been for some days past . 
The excitement of the campaign counteracted in George 's mind the depression occasioned by the disinheriting letter . 
`` Is the regiment ordered away , George , -- is it ordered away ? '' 
A look of terror came over the sweet smiling face , and she clung to George as by an instinct . 
`` Do n't be afraid , dear , '' he said good-naturedly ; `` it is but a twelve hour 's passage . 
Rawdon laughed out with his usual roar . 
`` I must and will go , '' Amelia cried with the greatest spirit ; and George , applauding her resolution , patted her under the chin , and asked all the persons present if they ever saw such a termagant of a wife , and agreed that the lady should bear him company . 
`` We 'll have Mrs. O'Dowd to chaperon you , '' he said . 
But George was the master , and his friend did not think fit to remonstrate . 
In the course of the evening Rawdon got a little family-note from his wife , which although he crumpled it up and burnt it instantly in the candle , we had the good luck to read over Rebecca 's shoulder . 
-- R. '' So when the little company was about adjourning to coffee in the women 's apartment , Rawdon touched Osborne on the elbow , and said gracefully , `` I say , Osborne , my boy , if quite convenient , I 'll trouble you for that ` ere small trifle . '' 
It was not quite convenient , but nevertheless George gave him a considerable present instalment in bank notes from his pocket-book , and a bill on his agents at a week 's date , for the remaining sum . 
This matter arranged , George , and Jos , and Dobbin , held a council of war over their cigars , and agreed that a general move should be made for London in Jos 's open carriage the next day . 
Jos , I think , would have preferred staying until Rawdon Crawley quitted Brighton , but Dobbin and George overruled him , and he agreed to carry to carry the party to town , and ordered four horses , as became his dignity . 
Amelia had risen very early in the morning , and packed her little trunks with the greatest alacrity , while Osborne lay in bed deploring that she had not a maid to help her . 
`` When they do , we 'll find means to give them the slip , '' said dauntless little Becky , and further pointed out to her husband the great comfort and advantage of meeting Jos and Osborne , whose acquaintance had brought to Rawdon Crawley a most timely little supply of ready money . 
Out of Jos 's losings and George Osborne 's bank-notes , he paid his bill at the inn , the landlord whereof does not probably know to this day how doubtfully his account once stood . 
For , as a general sends his baggage to the rear before an action , Rebecca had wisely packed up all their chief valuables and sent them off under care of George 's servant , who went in charge of the trunks on the coach back to London . 
ON quitting Brighton , our friend George , as became a person of rank and fashion travelling in a barouche with four horses , drove in state to a fine hotel in Cavendish Square , where a suite of splendid rooms , and a table magnificently furnished with plate and surrounded by a half-dozen of black and silent waiters , was ready to receive the young gentleman and his bride . 
George did the honours of the place with a princely air to Jos and Dobbin ; and Amelia , for the first time , and with exceeding shyness and timidity , presided at what George called her own table . 
George pooh-poohed the wine and bullied the waiters royally , and Jos gobbled the turtle with immense satisfaction . 
`` I 've always been accustomed to travel like a gentleman , '' George said , `` and , damme , my wife shall travel like lady . 
As long as there 's a shot in the locker , she shall want for nothing , '' said the generous fellow , quite pleased with himself for his magnificence of spirit . 
A while after dinner , Amelia timidly expressed a wish to go and see her mamma , at Fulham : which permission George granted her with some grumbling . 
And she tripped away to her enormous bed-room , in the centre of which stood the enormous funereal bed , ` that the Emperor Halixander 's sister slep in when the allied sufferings was here , ' and put on her little bonnet and shawl with the utmost eagerness and pleasure , George was still drinking claret when she returned to the dining-room , and made no signs of moving . 
she asked him . 
His man should get her a coach and go with her . 
And the coach being at the door of the hotel , Amelia made George a little disappointed curtsey after looking vainly into his face once or twice , and went sadly down the great staircase , Captain Dobbin after , who handed her into the vehicle , and saw it drive away to its destination . 
George was evidently of quite a different taste ; for when he had taken wine enough , he went off to half-price at the play , to see Mr. Kean perform in Shylock . 
George 's valet was looking on in a very supercilious manner at Mr. Clapp in his shirt-sleeves , watering his rose-bushes . 
Here she sate , and recalled to herself fondly that image of George to which she had knelt before marriage . 
And so she sate for awhile indulging in her usual mood of selfish brooding , in that very listless melancholy attitude in which the honest maid-servant had found her , on the day when she brought up the letter in which George renewed his offer of marriage . 
But this may be said , that when the tea was finally announced , our young lady came down stairs a great deal more cheerful ; that she did not despond , or deplore her fate , or think about George 's coldness , or Rebecca 's eyes , as she had been wont to do of late . 
And in determining to make everybody else happy , she found herself so ; and was sound asleep in the great funereal pavilion , and only woke up with a smile when George arrived from the theatre . 
For the next day , George had more important ` business ' to transact than that which took him to see Mr. Kean in Shylock . 
If his mere past and personal merits did not succeed in mollifying the father , George determined that he would distinguish himself so prodigiously in the ensuing campaign that the old gentleman must give in to him . 
George meanwhile , with his hat on one side , his elbows squared , and his swaggering martial air , made for Bedford Row , and stalked into the attorney 's offices as if he was lord of every pale-faced clerk who was scribbling there . 
Perhaps George expected , when he entered Mr. Higgs 's apartment , to find that gentleman commissioned to give him some message of compromise or conciliation from his father ; perhaps his haughty and cold demeanour was adopted as a sign of his spirit and resolution : but if so , his fierceness was met by a chilling coolness and indifference on the attorney 's part , that rendered swaggering absurd . 
He pretended to be writing at a paper , when the Captain entered . 
And then another case was called , and Mr. George Osborne thenceforth dismissed from these worthy gentlemen 's memory . 
The draft was upon our friends Hulker and Bullock of Lombard Street , to whose house , still thinking he was doing business , George bent his way , and from whom he received his money . 
Frederick Bullock , Esq. , whose yellow face was over a ledger , at which sate a demure clerk , happened to be in the banking-room when George entered . 
His yellow face turned to a more deadly colour when he saw the Captain , and he slunk back guiltily into the inmost parlour . 
George was too busy gloating over the money -LRB- for he had never had such a sum before -RRB- , to mark the countenance or flight of the cadaverous suitor of his sister . 
Bullock told old Osborne of his son 's appearance and conduct . 
Osborne swore with a great oath that he little cared when or how soon he spend it . 
But altogether , George was highly pleased with his day 's business . 
All his own baggage and outfit was put into a state of speedy preparation , and he paid Amelia 's purchases with cheques on his agents , and with the splendour of a lord . 
highly applauding Osborne 's choice . 
George , always the champion of his regiment , rose immensely in the opinion of the youth of the corps , by his gallantry in marrying this portionless young creature , and by his choice of such a pretty kind partner . 
In the sitting-room which was awaiting the travellers , Amelia , to her surprise , found a letter addressed to Mrs. Captain Osborne . 
`` It 's Peggy O'Dowd 's fist , '' said George , laughing . 
`` You must go , '' George said . 
`` And small good he 's told you of me , '' Mrs. O'Dowd replied ; adding that `` George was a wicked divvle . '' 
`` That I 'll go bail for , '' said the Major , trying to look knowing , at which George laughed ; and Mrs. O'Dowd , with a tap of her whip , told the Major to be quite ; and then requested to be presented in form to Mrs. Captain Osborne . 
`` This , my dear , '' said George with great gravity , `` is my very good , kind , and excellent friend , Auralia Margaretta , otherwise called Peggy . '' 
`` Especially Mrs. Magenis , '' said George , laughing . 
Mrs. Major O'Dowd 's compliments to Colonel Tavish , and Captain Osborne has brought his brothernlaw down , and will bring him to the 150th mess at five o'clock sharp -- when you and I , my dear , will take a snack here , if you like . '' 
`` I hope Osborne has sown his wild oats , '' said Mrs. Magenis to Mrs. Bunny . 
George was proud of her popularity , and pleased with the manner -LRB- which was very gay and graceful though naïve and a little timid -RRB- with which she received the gentlemen 's attentions , and answered their compliments . 
And he in his uniform -- how much handsomer he was than any man in the room ! 
She felt that he was affectionately watching her , and glowed with pleasure at his kindness . 
George had meanwhile very carefully shawled his wife , and brought her away from Mrs. O'Dowd 's after a general handshaking from the young officers , who accompanied her to the fly , and cheered that vehicle as it drove off . 
He watched the lights vanish from George 's sitting-room windows , and shine out in the bedroom close at hand . 
It was almost morning when he returned to his own quarters . 
He could hear the cheering from the ships in the river , where the transports were already taking in their cargoes preparatory to dropping down the Thames . 
THE regiment with its officers was to be transported in ships provided by His Majesty 's government for the occasion : and in two days after the festive assembly at Mrs. O'Dowd 's apartments , in the midst of cheering from all the East India ships in the river , and the military on shore , the band playing ` God save the King , ' the officers waving their hats , and the crews hurrahing gallantly , the transports went down the river and proceeded under convoy to Ostend . 
Jos went in a collapsed state to an inn , while Captain Dobbin escorted the ladies , and then busied himself in freeing Jos 's carriage and luggage from the ship and the customhouse , for Mr. Jos was at present without a servant , Osborne 's man and his own pampered menial having conspired together at Chatham , and refused point-blank to cross the water . 
And as there is one well-known regiment of the army which travels with a goat heading the column , whilst another is led by a deer , George said with respect to his brother-in-law , that his regiment marched with an elephant . 
Since Amelia 's introduction to the regiment , George began to be rather ashamed of some of the company to which he had been forced to present her ; and determined , as he told Dobbin -LRB- with what satisfaction to the latter it need not be said -RRB- , to exchange into some better regiment soon , and to get his wife away from these damned vulgar women . 
Thus Mrs. O'Dowd had a cock 's plume in her hat , and a very large `` repayther '' on her stomach , which she used to ring on all occasions , narrating how it had been presented to her by her fawther , as she stipt into the car ` ge after her mar ` ge ; and these ornaments , with other outward peculiarities of the Major 's wife , gave excruciating agonies to Captain Osborne , when his wife and the Major 's came in contact ; whereas Amelia was only amused by the honest lady 's eccentricities , and not in the least ashamed of her company . 
Gambling was here in profusion , and dancing in plenty : feasting was there to fill with delight that great gourmand of a Jos : there was a theatre where a miraculous Catalani was delighting all hearers ; beautiful rides , all enlivened with martial splendour ; a rare old city , with strange costumes and wonderful architecture , to delight the eyes of little Amelia , who had never before seen a foreign country , and fill her with charming surprises : so that now and for a few weeks ' space , in a fine handsome lodging , whereof the expenses were borne by Jos and Osborne , who was flush of money and full of kind attentions to his wife -- for about a fortnight I say , during which her honeymoon ended , Mrs. Amelia was as pleased and happy as any little bride out of England . 
George taking out his wife to a new jaunt or junket every night , was quite pleased with himself as usual , and swore he was becoming quite a domestic character . 
And a jaunt or a junket with him ! 
The sight of the very great company of lords and ladies and fashionable persons who thronged the town and appeared in every public place , filled George 's truly British soul with intense delight . 
One night at a party given by the general of the division to which George 's regiment belonged , he had the honour of dancing with Lady Blanche Thistlewood , Lord Bareacres ' daughter ; he bustled for ices and refreshments for the two noble ladies ; he pushed and squeezed for Lady Bareacres ' carriage ; he bragged about the Countess when he got home , in a way which his own father could not have surpassed . 
`` Gracious Heaven , Mamma -- you do n't suppose the man would bring his wife , '' shrieked Lady Blanche , who had been languishing in George 's arms in the newly imported waltz for hours the night before . 
This festival , on which honest George spent a great deal of money , was the very dismallest of all the entertainments which Amelia had in her honey-moon . 
But though Amelia told all these stories , and wrote home regarding her guests ' rudeness , and her own discomfiture ; old Mrs. Sedley was mightily pleased nevertheless , and talked about Emmy 's friend , the Countess of Bareacres , with such assiduity that the news how his son was entertaining Peers and Peeresses actually came to Osborne 's ears in the City . 
Dobbin , who never used to ` draw out ' Mrs. O'Dowd as that wicked Osborne delighted in doing , -LRB- much to Amelia 's terror , who implored him to spare her , -RRB- fell back in the crowd , crowing and sputtering until he reached a safe distance , when he exploded amongst the astonished market-people with shrieks of yelling laughter . 
George asked . 
`` Where you got your step , '' said George with a laugh . 
George purchased a horse for his private riding , and he and Captain Dobbin would often accompany the carriage in which Jos and his sister took daily excursions of pleasure . 
They went out that day in the park for their accustomed diversion , and there , sure enough , George 's remark with regard to the arrival of Rawdon Crawley and his wife proved to be correct . 
George , who had been delayed behind , rode up almost immediately with Dobbin , and they touched their caps to the august personages , among whom Osborne at once perceived Mrs. Crawley . 
He was delighted to see Rawdon leaning over his carriage familiarly and talking to Amelia , and met the aide-de-camp 's cordial greeting with more than corresponding warmth . 
Crawley told George where they were stopping with General Tufto at the Hotel du Parc , and George made his friend promise to come speedily to Osborne 's own residence . 
`` Sorry I had n't seen you three days ago , '' George said . 
Having thus let his friend know his claims to be a man of fashion , Osborne parted from Rawdon , who followed the august squadron down an alley into which they cantered , while George and Dobbin resumed their places , one on each side of Amelia 's carriage . 
Her presence used to excruciate Osborne ; but go she would upon all parties of pleasure on which she heard her young friends were bent . 
`` She 's been useful to you , my dear , '' George said to his wife , whom he could leave alone with less scruple when she had this company . 
At the end of the act , George was out of the box in a moment , and he was even going to pay his respects to Rebecca in her loge . 
He met Crawley in the lobby , however , where they exchanged a few sentences upon the occurrences of the last fortnight . 
George said , with a knowing air . 
`` Not yet , '' said George , `` but he will ; and you know I 've some private fortune through my mother . 
George was only half pleased to be asked to dinner on that particular day when the General was not to dine . 
George parted from them , and strutted down the lobby to the General 's box , the number of which he had carefully counted . 
`` Entrez , '' said a clear little voice , and our friend found himself in Rebecca 's presence ; who jumped up , clapped her hands together , and held out both of them to George , so charmed was she to see him . 
George mentioned the -- th : how he wished he could have said it was a crack cavalry corps . 
`` We bear the same arms , '' George said , as indeed was the fact ; Mr. Osborne having consulted with a herald in Long Acre , and picked the L -- arms out of the peerage , when he set up his carriage fifteen years before . 
The General made no reply to this announcement ; but took up his opera-glass -- the double-barrelled lorgnon was not invented in those days -- and pretended to examine the house ; but Rebecca saw that his disengaged eye was working round in her direction , and shooting out blood-shot glances at her and George . 
`` Let me go , I entreat you , '' George said . 
She gave George the queerest , knowingest look , when they were together , a look which might have been interpreted , `` Do n't you see the state of affairs , and what a fool I 'm making of him ? '' 
But he did not perceive it . 
He was thinking of his own plans , and lost in pompous admiration of his own irresistible powers of pleasing . 
Amelia 's gentle eyes , too , had been fixed anxiously on the pair , whose conduct had so chafed the jealous General ; but when Rebecca entered her box , she flew to her friend with an affectionate rapture which showed itself , in spite of the publicity of the place ; for she embraced her dearest friend in the presence of the whole house , at least in full view of the General 's glass , now brought to bear upon the Osborne party . 
No , she would not have George 's : he must stay and talk to his dearest , best , little Amelia . 
`` What a humbug that woman is , '' honest old Dobbin mumbled to George , when he came back from Rebecca 's box , whither he had conducted her in perfect silence , and with a countenance as glum as an undertaker 's . 
All the time she was here , did n't you see , George , how she was acting at the General over the way ? '' 
Hang it , she 's the nicest little woman in England , '' George replied , showing his white teeth , and giving his ambrosial whiskers a twirl . 
`` When do you intend to give up play , George , as you have promised me any time these hundred years ? '' 
Osborne and Crawley were repeatedly together now . 
George was always welcome in the apartments -LRB- very close indeed to those of the General -RRB- , which the Aide-de-camp and his wife occupied in the hotel . 
Amelia 's manners were such when she and George visited Crawley and his wife at these quarters , that they had very nearly come to their first quarrel ; that is , George scolded his wife violently for her evident unwillingness to go , and the high and mighty manner in which she comported herself towards Mrs. Crawley , her old friend ; and Amelia did not say one single word in reply ; but with her husband 's eye upon her , and Rebecca scanning her as she felt , was , if possible , more bashful and awkward on the second visit which she paid to Mrs. Rawdon , than on her first call . 
`` I think Emmy has become prouder since her father 's name was in the -- , since Mr. Sedley 's misfortanes , '' Rebeeca said , softening the phrase charitably for George 's ear . 
answered George , `` all women are jealous . '' 
George accepted the invitation , although his wife was a little ailing . 
Another woman was laughing or sneering at her expense , and he not angry . 
He was not even angry with himself , this good-natured fellow . 
It is a shame , he owned to himself ; but hang it , if a pretty woman will throw herself into your way , why , what can a fellow do , you know ? 
So Mr. Osborne , having a firm conviction in his own mind that he was a woman-killer and destined to conquer , did not run counter to his fate , but yielded himself up to it quite complacently . 
And as Emmy did not say much or plague him with her jealousy , but merely became unhappy and pined over it miserably in secret , he chose to fancy that she was not suspicious of what all his acquaintance were perfectly aware -- namely , that he was carrying on a desperate flirtation with Mrs. Crawley . 
It is very likely that this worthy couple never absolutely conspired , and agreed together in so many words : the one to cajole the young gentleman , whilst the other won his money at cards : but they understood each other perfectly well , and Rawdon let Osborne come and go with entire good humour . 
George was so occupied with his new acquaintances that he and William Dobbin were by no means so much together as formerly . 
George avoided him in public and in the regiment , and , as we see , did not like those sermons which his senior was disposed to inflict upon him . 
If some parts of his conduct made Captain Dobbin exceedingly grave and cool ; of what use was it to tell George that though his whiskers were large , and his own opinion of his knowingness great , he was as green as a schoolboy ? 
He would not listen : and so , as Dobbin upon those days when he visited the Osborne house , seldom had the advantage of meeting his old friend , much painful and unavailing talk between them was spared . 
Our friend George was in the full career of the pleasures of Vanity Fair . 
For instance , through the interest of my Lord Bareacres , and as a set-off for the dinner at the restaurateur 's , George got a card for Captain and Mrs. Osborne ; which circumstance greatly elated him . 
Dobbin , who was a friend of the General commanding the division in which their regiment was , came laughing one day to Mrs. Osborne , and displayed a similar invitation , which made Jos envious , and George wonder how the deuce he should be getting into society . 
On the appointed night , George , having commanded new dresses and ornaments of all sorts for Amelia , drove to the famous ball , where his wife did not know a single soul . 
After looking about for Lady Bareacres , who cut him , thinking the card was quite enough -- and after placing Amelia on a bench , he left her to her own cogitations there , thinking , on his own part , that he had behaved very handsomely in getting her new clothes , and bringing her to the ball , where she was free to amuse herself as she liked . 
George , who had left Emmy on her bench on entering the ball-room , very soon found his way back when Rebecca was by her dear friend 's side . 
And she left her bouquet and shawl by Amelia 's side , and tripped off with George to dance . 
George danced with Rebecca twice or thrice -- how many times Amelia scarcely knew . 
He did not like to ask her why she was so sad ; but as a pretext for the tears which were filling in her eyes , she told him that Mrs. Crawley had alarmed her by telling her that George would go on playing . 
At last George came back for Rebecca 's shawl and flowers . 
George went away then with the bouquet ; but when he gave it to the owner , there lay a note , coiled like a snake among the flowers . 
He saw by her eyes as they met , that she was aware what she should find there . 
Rebecca gave George her hand with one of her usual quick knowing glances , and made a curtsey and walked away . 
George bowed over the hand , said nothing in reply to a remark of Crawley 's , did not hear it even , his brain was so throbbing with triumph and excitement , and allowed them to go away without a word . 
His wife saw the one part at least of the bouquet-scene . 
It was quite natural that George should come at Rebecca 's request to get her her scarf and flowers : it was no more than he had done twenty times before in the course of the last few days ; but now it was too much for her . 
She did not know she called him by his Christian name , as George was accustomed to do . 
He went away with her quickly . 
George had been angry twice or thrice at finding his wife up on his return from the parties which he frequented : so she went straight to bed now ; but although she did not sleep , and although the din and clatter , and the galloping of horsemen was incessant , she never heard any of these noises , having quite other disturbances to keep her awake . 
Osborne meanwhile , wild with elation , went off to a play-table , and began to bet frantically . 
He won repeatedly . 
`` Everything succeeds with me to-night , '' he said . 
But his luck at play even did not cure him of his restlessness , and he started up after awhile , pocketing his winnings , and went to a buffet , where he drank off many bumpers of wine . 
Here , as he was rattling away to the people around , laughing loudly and wild with spirits , Dobbin found him . 
`` Come out , George , '' said Dobbin , still gravely ; `` do n't drink . '' 
Dobbin went up and whispered something to him , at which George , giving a start and a wild hurray , tossed off his glass , clapped it on the table , and walked away speedily on his friend 's arm . 
Away went George , his nerves quivering with excitement at the news so long looked for , so sudden when it came . 
He thought about a thousand things but these in his rapid walk to his quarters -- his past life and future chances -- the fate which might be before him -- the wife , the child perhaps , from whom unseen he might be about to part . 
Oh , how he wished that night 's work undone ! 
and that with a clear conscience at least he might say farewell to the tender and guileless being by whose love he had set such little store ! 
He thought over his brief married life . 
In those few weeks he had frightfully dissipated his little capital . 
How wild and reckless he had been ! 
Should any mischance befal him : what was then left for her ? 
How unworthy he was of her . 
Why had he married her ? 
He was not fit for marriage . 
Why had he disobeyed his father , who had been always so generous to him ? 
Hope , remorse , ambition , tenderness , and selfish regret filled his heart . 
He sate down and wrote to his father , remembering what he had said once before , when he was engaged to fight a duel . 
Dawn faintly streaked the sky as he closed this farewell letter . 
He sealed it , and kissed the superscription . 
He thought how he had deserted that generous father , and of the thousand kindnesses which the stern old man had done him . 
George came in and looked at her again , entering still more softly . 
By the pale night-lamp he could see her sweet , pale face -- the purple eyelids were fringed and closed , and one round arm , smooth and white , lay outside of the coverlet . 
`` I am awake , George , '' the poor child said , with a sob fit to break the little heart that nestled so closely by his own . 
Mrs. Osborne had no watch , though , to do George justice , she might have had one for the asking , and the Honourable Mrs. Tufto in England had an old instrument of her mother 's that might have served for the plate warming-pan which Rawdon talked about . 
Among the notes in Rawdon 's pocket-book , was a draft for twenty pounds on Osborne 's banker . 
Being a great sleeper , and fond of his bed , it is possible he would have snoozed on until his usual hour of rising in the forenoon , in spite of all the drums , bugles , and bagpipes in the British army , but for an interruption , which did not come from George Osborne , who shared Jos 's quarters with him , and was as usual occupied too much with his own affairs , or with grief at parting with his wife , to think of taking leave of his slumbering brother-in-law -- it was not George , we say , who interposed between Jos Sedley and sleep , but Captain Dobbin , who came and roused him up , insisting on shaking hands with him before his departure . 
The hypocrite was looking and listening with all his might in the direction of George 's apartments , striding about the room , upsetting the chairs , beating the tattoo , biting his nails , and showing other signs of great inward emotion . 
`` I tell you what you can do , '' the Captain replied , coming up to the bed ; `` we march in a quarter of an hour , Sedley , and neither George nor I may ever come back . 
If anything happens to George , remember she has no one but you in the world to look to . 
`` You speak like a man of spirit , Jos , '' the other answered good-naturedly , `` and I am glad that George can leave her in such good hands . 
So I may give him your word of honour , may I , that in case of extremity you will stand by her ? '' 
George 's servant was packing in this room : Osborne coming in and out of the contiguous bed-room , flinging to the man such articles as he thought fit to carry on the campaign . 
By way of helping on the preparations for the departure , and showing that she too could be useful at a moment so critical , this poor soul had taken up a sash of George 's from the drawers whereon it lay , and followed him to and fro with the sash in her hand , looking on mutely as his packing proceeded . 
At last , George took Emmy 's hand , and led her back into the bed-room , from whence he came out alone . 
The parting had taken place in that moment , and he was gone . 
`` Thank Heaven that is over , '' George thought , bounding down the stair , his sword under his arm , and as he ran swiftly to the alarm-ground , where the regiment was mustered ; and whither trooped men and officers hurrying from their billets , his pulse was throbbing and his cheeks flushed : the great game of war was going to be played , and he one of the players . 
What were all the games of chance he had ever played compared to this one ? 
So , at the sound of that stirring call to battle , George jumped away from the gentle arms in which he had been dallying ; not without a feeling of shame -LRB- although his wife 's hold on him had been but feeble -RRB- , that he should have been detained there so long . 
The same feeling of eagerness and excitement was amongst all those friends of his of whom we have had occasional glimpses , from the stout senior Major , who led the regiment into action , to little Stubble , the Ensign , who was to bear its colours on that day . 
The sun was just rising as the march began -- it was a gallant sight -- the band led the column , playing the regimental march -- then came the Major in command , riding upon Pyramus , his stout charger -- then marched the grenadiers , their captain at their head ; in the centre were the colours , borne by the senior and junior Ensigns -- then George came marching at the head of his company . 
He looked up , and smiled at Amelia , and passed on ; and even the sound of the music died away . 
About George 's absence , his brother-in-law was very easy in mind . 
Perhaps Jos was rather pleased in his heart that Osborne was gone , for during George 's presence , the other had played but a very secondary part in the household , and Osborne did not scruple to show his contempt for the stout civilian . 
But Emmy had always been good and attentive to him . 
It was she who ministered to his comforts , who superintended the dishes that he liked , who walked or rode with him -LRB- as she had many , too many , opportunities of doing , for where was George ? -RRB- 
and who interposed her sweet kind face between his anger and her husband 's scorn . 
Many timid remonstrances had she uttered to George in behalf of her brother . 
But the latter in his trenchant way cut these entreaties short . 
`` I 'm an honest man , '' he said , `` and if I have a feeling I show it , as an honest man will . 
So Jos was pleased with George 's absence . 
He hated George too , whose insolence towards him was quite of the English sort . 
`` And ask if Madam is coming to breakfast , '' Mr. Sedley said with great majesty , ashamed to enter with a servant upon the subject of his dislike for George . 
The truth is , he had abused his brother to the valet a score of times before . 
Madam was a great deal too ill , and had been in a frightful state ever since her husband 's departure , so her bonne said . 
Jos showed his sympathy , by pouring her out a large cup of tea . 
It was his way of exhibiting kindness : and he improved on this ; he not only sent her breakfast , but he bethought him what delicacies she would most like for dinner . 
Isidor , the valet , had looked on very sulkily , while Osborne 's servant was disposing of his master 's baggage previous to the Captain 's departure : for in the first place he hated Mr. Osborne , whose conduct to him , and to all inferiors , was generally overbearing , -LRB- nor does the continental domestic like to be treated with insolence as our own better-tempered servants do ;-RRB- and secondly , he was angry that so many valuables should be removed from under his hands , to fall into other people 's possession when the English discomfiture should arrive . 
Of this defeat he and a vast number of other persons in Brussels and Belgium did not make the slightest doubt . 
He had never been presented to any of Rawdon Crawley 's great acquaintances : he had scarcely been invited to Rebecca 's parties ; for he was too timid to play much , and his presence bored George and Rawdon equally , who neither of them , perhaps , liked to have a witness of the amusements in which the pair chose to indulge . 
For she walked silently and almost with a smile on her face , towards the bed , and began to smooth down George 's pillow . 
`` It is George , I know it is ! '' 
It was not George , however , but it was the next best thing : it was news of him . 
`` Osborne -- and -- and Dobbin said I was ; and you are to give the man two Napoleons : my mother will pay you . '' 
The young ensign was conveyed up-stairs to Osborne 's quarters . 
And it was he who promised the driver two louis if he would make his way to Mr. Sedley 's hotel in the city ; and tell Mrs. Captain Osborne that the action was over , and that her husband was unhurt and well . 
To these parts of the conversation , Amelia lent a very distracted attention : it was only when George was spoken of that she listened , and when he was not mentioned , she thought about him . 
She clipped the bouquet which George had brought her , and gave fresh water to the flowers , and read over the letter which he had sent her . 
And then she fell to thinking what she should do if -- if anything happened to poor good Rawdon , and what a great piece of luck it was that he had left his horses behind . 
The darkness came down on the field and city , and Amelia was praying for George , who was lying on his face , dead , with a bullet through his heart . 
No communications were made to his future son-in-law , whose marriage-day had been fixed ; but there was enough in Mr. Osborne 's appearance to prevent Mr. Bullock from making any inquiries , or in any way pressing forward that ceremony . 
About three weeks after the 18th of June , Mr. Osborne 's acquaintance , Sir William Dobbin , called at Mr. Osborne 's house in Russell Square , with a very pale and agitated face , and insisted upon seeing that gentleman . 
My son 's letter contains one for you , Osborne . '' 
The Alderman placed the letter on the table , and Osborne stared at him for a moment or two in silence . 
His looks frightened the ambassador , who , after looking guiltily for a little time at the grief-stricken man , hurried away without a farther word . 
The letter was in George 's well-known bold hand-writing . 
It was that one which he had written before day-break on the 16th of June , and just before he took leave of Amelia . 
The great red seal was emblazoned with the sham coat of arms which Osborne had assumed from the Peerage , with `` Pax in bello '' for a motto ; that of the ducal house with which the vain old man tried to fancy himself connected . 
The very seal that sealed it had been robbed from George 's dead body as it lay on the field of battle . 
Osborne trembled long , before the letter from his dead son . 
He had been too proud to acknowledge the tenderness which his heart felt . 
He only said , that on the eve of a great battle , he wished to bid his father farewell , and solemnly to implore his good offices for the wife -- it might be for the child -- whom he left behind him . 
He owned with contrition that his irregularities and extravagance had already wasted a large part of his mother 's little fortune . 
He thanked his father for his former generous conduct ; and he promised him , that if he fell on the field or survived it , he would act in a manner worthy of the name of George osborne . 
His English habit , pride , awkwardness perhaps , had prevented him from saying more . 
His father could not see the kiss George had placed on the superscription of his letter . 
Mr. Osborne dropped it with the bitterest , deadliest pang of balked affection and revenge . 
His son was still beloved and unforgiven . 
Under the memorial in question were emblazoned the well known and pompous Osborne arms ; and the inscription said , that the monument was `` Sacred to the memory of George Osborne , Junior , Esq. , late a Captain in his Majesty 's -- th regiment of foot , who fell on the 18th of June , 1815 , aged 28 years , while fighting for his king and country in the glorious factory of Waterloo . 
Much conversation passed too among the acquaintances of the Osborne family , who knew of the rupture between the son and father caused by the former 's marriage , as to the chance of a reconciliation with the young widow . 
He did not say whither , but they knew at once that his steps would be turned towards Belgium , and were aware that George 's widow was still in Brussels . 
Mr. Osborne found out some of the -- th easily . 
He knew their uniform quite well , and had been used to follow all the promotions and exchanges in the regiment , and loved to talk about it and its officers as if he had been one of the number . 
On the day after his arrival at Brussels , and as he issued from his hotel , which faced the park , he saw a soldier in the well-known facings , reposing on a stone-bench in the garden , and went and sate down trembling by the wounded convalescent man . 
he said , and added , after a pause , `` he was my son , Sir . '' 
Osborne put a guinea into the soldier 's hand , and told him he should have another if he would bring the sergeant to the Hotel du Parc ; a promise which very soon brought the desired officer to Mr. Osborne 's presence . 
In the Serjeant 's company , who was also just convalescent , Osborne made the journey of Waterloo and Quatre Bras , a journey which thousands of his countrymen were then taking . 
He took the Sergeant with him in his carriage , and went through both fields under his guidance . 
He saw the point of the road where the regiment marched into action on the 16th , and the slope down which they drove the French cavalry who were pressing on the retreating Belgians . 
Osborne gave a sumptuous reward to the Sergeant when he parted with him , after having visited the scenes of his son 's last exploits . 
His burial place he had already seen . 
Indeed he had driven thither immediately after his arrival at Brussels . 
George 's body lay in the pretty burial-ground of Lacken , near the city ; in which place , having once visited it on a party of pleasure , he had lightly expressed a wish to have his grave made . 
It seemed a humiliation to old Osborne to think that his son , an English gentleman , a Captain in the famous British army , should not be found worthy to lie in ground where mere foreigners were buried . 
Old Osborne did not speculate much upon the mingled nature of his feelings , and how his instinct and selfishness were combating together . 
As after the drive to Waterloo , Mr. Osborne 's carriage was nearing the gates of the city at sunset , they met another open barouche , in which were a couple of ladies and a gentleman , and by the side of which an officer was riding . 
Osborne gave a start back , and the Sergeant , seated with him cast a look of surprise at his neighbour , as he touched his cap to the officer , who mechanically returned his salute . 
It was Amelia , but how changed from the fresh and comely girl Osborne knew . 
They stared blank in the face of Osborne , as the carriages crossed each other , but she did not know him ; nor did he recognise her , until looking up , he saw Dobbin riding by her , and then he knew who it was . 
A minute afterwards , a horse came clattering over the pavement behind Osborne 's carriage , and Dobbin rode up . 
His thoughts had been elsewhere as the carriages passed each other , and it was not until he had ridden some paces forward that he remembered it was Osborne who had just passed him . 
Then he turned to examine if the sight of her father-in-law had made any impression on Amelia , but the poor girl did not know who had passed . 
She did not remark that either : but sate looking before her , over the homely landscape towards the woods in the distance , by which George marched away . 
`` Mr. Osborne , Mr. Osborne ! '' 
Osborne made no motion to take it , but shouted out once more and with another curse to his servant to drive on . 
said Osborne , fiercely . 
`` No , '' replied the other , `` from your son ; '' at which Osborne fell back into the corner of his carriage , and Dobbin allowing it to pass on , rode close behind it , and so through the town until they reached Mr. Osborne 's hotel , and without a word . 
There he followed Osborne up to his apartments . 
George had often been in the rooms ; they were the lodgings which the Crawleys had occupied during their stay in Brussels . 
`` Pray , have you any commands for me , Captain Dobbin , or , I beg your pardon , I should say Major Dobbin , since better men than you are dead , and you step into their shoes , '' said Mr. Osborne , in that sarcastic tone which he sometimes was pleased to assume . 
`` I do n't know his widow , Sir , '' Osborne said . 
But the gentleman whom he addressed was determined to remain in good temper , and went on without heeding the interruption . 
or will you forgive the child for poor George 's sake ? '' 
Osborne broke out into a rhapsody of self-praise and imprecations . 
By the first , excusing himself to his own conscience for his conduct ; by the second , exaggerating the undutifulness of George . 
As for himself , Mr. Osborne , he was a man of his word . 
He had sworn never to speak to that woman or to recognise her as his son 's wife . 
`` And that 's what you may tell her , '' he concluded with an oath ; `` and that 's what I will stick to to the last day of my life . '' 
A day came -- of almost terrified delight and wonder -- when the poor widowed girl pressed a child upon her breast , -- a child , with the eyes of George who was gone -- a little boy , as beautiful as a cherub . 
`` Captain George Osborne , Sir -- perhaps you knew him . 
He died the death of a hero , Sir , fighting against the Corsican tyrant . '' 
WE must suppose little George Osborne has ridden from Knightsbridge towards Fulham , and will stop and make inquiries at that village regarding some friends whom we have left there . 
He has been known to treat some of these noncommissioned gentlemen to a glass of porter , and , indeed , in their first Sunday walks was disposed to spoil little Georgy , sadly gorging the boy with apples and parliament , to the detriment of his health -- until Amelia declared that George should never go out with his grandpapa , unless the latter promised solemnly , and on his honour , not to give the child any cakes , lollipops , or stall produce whatever . 
Between Mrs. Sedley and her daughter there was a sort of coolness about this boy , and a secret jealousy -- for one evening , in George 's very early days , Amelia , who had been seated at work in their little parlour scarcely remarking that the old lady had quitted the room , ran up stairs instinctively to the nursery at the cries of the child , who had been asleep until that moment -- and there found Mrs. Sedley in the act of surreptitiously administering Daffy 's Elixir to the infant . 
The elder George returned in him somehow , only improved , and as if come back form heaven . 
In a hundred little tones , looks , and movements , the child was so like his father , that the widow 's heart thrilled as she held him to it ; and he would often ask the cause of her tears . 
It was because of his likeness to his father , she did not scruple to tell him . 
She talked constantly to him about this dead father , and spoke of her love for George to the innocent and wondering child ; much more than she ever had done to George himself , or to any confidante of her youth . 
Little George very likely could understand no better than they ; but into his ears she poured her sentimental secrets unreservedly , and into his only . 
We have seen how in the regiment , though she spoke but to few of George 's comrades there , all the swords of the young fellows at the mess-table would have leapt from their scabbards to fight round her : and so it was in the little narrow lodging-house and circle of Fulham , she interested and pleased everybody . 
Whenever this powdered and courteous old man , who never missed a Sunday at the convent chapel at Hammersmith , and who was in all respects , thoughts , conduct , and bearing , utterly unlike the bearded savages of his nation , who curse perfidious Albion , and scowl at you from over their cigars , in the Quadrant arcades at the present day , -- whenever the old Chevalier de Talonrouge spoke of Mistress Osborne , he would first finish his pinch of snuff , flick away the remaining particles of dust with a graceful wave of his hand , gather up his fingers again into a bunch , and , bringing them up to his mouth , blow them open with a kiss , exclaiming , Ah , la divine créature ! 
Yes , one day , and greatly to her wonder , the Reverend Mr. Binny just mentioned , asked her to change her name of Osborne for his own ; when , with deep blushes , and tears in her eyes and voice , she thanked him for his regard for her , expressed gratitude for his attentions to her and to her poor little boy , but said that she never , never could think of any but -- but the husband whom she had lost . 
She had to teach George to read and to write , and a little to draw . 
She read books , in order that she might tell him stories from them . 
As his eyes opened , and his mind expanded , under the influence of the outward nature round about him , she taught the child , to the best of her humble power , to acknowledge the Maker of all ; and every night and every morning he and she -- -LRB- in that awful and touching communion which I think must bring a thrill to the heart of every man who witnesses or who remembers it -RRB- -- the mother and the little boy -- prayed to Our Father together , the mother pleading with all her gentle heart , the child lisping after as she spoke . 
But no more orders came after that first burst of good fortune , on which poor old Osborne was about to build a house in the city , a regiment of clerks , a dock to himself , and correspondents all over the world . 
Besides her pension of fifty pounds a-year , there had been five hundred pounds , as her husband 's executor stated , left in the agent 's hands at the time of Osborne 's demise , which sum , as George 's guardian , Dobbin proposed to put out at 8 per cent . 
`` I insist on your coming up the stairs , and I will show which is the injured party , poor George or I ; '' and , dragging the old gentleman up to his bed-room , he produced from his desk Osborne 's accounts , and a bundle of I O U which the latter had given , who , to do him justice , was always ready to give an I O U. `` He paid his bills in England , '' Dobbin added , `` but he had not a hundred pounds in the world when he fell . 
I and one or two of his brother-officers made up the little sum , which was all that we could spare , and you dare to tell us that we are trying to cheat the widow and orphan . '' 
About these expenses old Osborne had never given himself any trouble to think , nor any other relative of Amelia , nor Amelia herself , indeed . 
He sent over a pair of shawls , a white one for her , and a black one with palm-leaves for her mother , and a pair of red scarfs , as winter wrappers , for old Mr. Sedley and George . 
`` What a pity it is she wont think of him , '' Mrs. Sedley remarked to Mrs. Clapp , and to all her friends of Brompton . 
Amidst such humble scenes and associates George 's early youth was passed , and the boy grew up delicate , sensitive , imperious , woman-bred -- domineering the gentle mother whom he love with passionate affection . 
Three days before George 's sixth birth-day , a gentleman in a gig , accompanied by a servant , drove up to Mr. Sedley 's house , and asked to see Master George Osborne : it was Mr. Woolsey , military tailor , of Conduit Street , who came at the Major 's order to measure the young gentleman for a suit of cloth clothes . 
And by some impulse , of which I can not explain the meaning , she took George in her arms and kissed him with an extraordinary tenderness . 
CONSIDERABLE time had elapsed since we have seen our respectable friend , old Mr. Osborne of Russell Square . 
I doubt if Rebecca , whom we have seen piously praying for Consols , would have exchanged her poverty and the dare-devil excitement and chances of her life , for Osborne 's money and the humdrum gloom which enveloped him . 
He had proposed for Miss Swartz , but had been rejected scornfully by the partizans of that lady , who married her to a young sprig of Scotch nobility . 
He was a man to have married a woman out of low life , and bullied her dreadfully afterwards : but no person presented herself suitable to his taste ; and instead , he tyrannised over his unmarried daughter at home . 
George being dead and cut out of his father 's will , Frederic insisted that the half of the old gentleman 's property should be settled upon his Maria , and indeed , for a long time , refused `` to come to the scratch '' -LRB- it was Mr. Frederick 's own expression -RRB- on any other terms , Osborne said Fred had agreed to take his daughter with twenty thousand , and he should bind himself to no more . 
Fred , whose hopes had been raised when George had been disinherited , thought himself infamously swindled by the old merchant , and for some time made as if he would break off the match altogether . 
Osborne withdrew his account from Bullock and Hulker 's , went on Change with a horsewhip which he swore he would lay across the back of a certain scoundrel that should be nameless , and demeaned himself in his usual violent manner . 
Fred 's father and senior partners counselled him to take Maria , even with the twenty thousand settled , half down , and half at the death of Mr. Osborne , with the chances of the further division of the property . 
So he `` knuckled down , '' again to use his own phrase ; and sent old Hulker with peaceable overtures to Osborne . 
It was his father , he said , who would not hear of the match , and had made the difficulties ; he was most anxious to keep the engagement . 
The excuse was sulkily accepted by Mr. Osborne . 
Mr. Mango and Lady Mary Mango were there , with the dear young Gwendoline and Gwinever Mango as bridesmaids ; Colonel Bludyer of the Dragoon Guards -LRB- eldest son of the house of Bludyer Brothers , Mincing Lane -RRB- , another cousin of the bridegroom , and the Honourable Mrs. Bludyer ; the Honourable George Boulter , Lord Levant 's son , and his lady , Miss Mango that was ; Lord Viscount Castletoddy ; Honourable James McMull and Mrs. McMull -LRB- formerly Miss Swartz -RRB- , and a host of fashionables , who have all married into Lombard Street , and done a great deal to ennoble Cornhill . 
Jane Osborne could not but concur in these opinions respecting her sister 's conduct ; and when Mrs. Frederick 's first-born , Frederic Augustus Howard Stanley Devereux Bullock , was born , old Osborne , who was invited to the christening and to be godfather , contented himself with sending the child a gold cup , with twenty guineas inside it for the nurse . 
George 's picture was gone , and laid up-stairs in a lumber-room in the garret ; and though there was a consciousness of him , and father and daughter often instinctively knew that they were thinking of him , no mention was ever made of the brave and once darling son . 
At five o'clock Mr. Osborne came back to his dinner , which he and his daughter took in silence -LRB- seldom broken , except when he swore and was savage , if the cooking was not to his liking -RRB- , or which they shared twice in a month with a party of dismal friends of Osborne 's rank and age . 
Old Dr. Gulp and his lady from Bloomsbury Square : old Mr. Frowser , the attorney , from Bedford Row , a very great man , and from his business , hand-in-glove with the `` nobs at the West End : '' old Colonel Livermore , of the Bombay Army , and Mrs. Livermore , from Upper Bedford Place : old Serjeant Toffy and Mrs. Toffy ; and sometimes old Sir Thomas Coffin and Lady Coffin , from Bedford Square . 
Sir Thomas was celebrated as a hanging judge , and the particular tawny port was produced when he dined with Mr. Osborne . 
I know not whether she used to leave the room where the master and his pupil were painting , in order to give them an opportunity for exchanging those vows and sentiments which can not be uttered advantageously in the presence of a third party : I know not whether she hoped that should her cousin succeed in carrying off the rich merchant 's daughter , he would give Miss Wirt a portion of the wealth , which she had enabled him to win -- all that is certain is , that Mr. Osborne got some hint of the transaction , came back from the City abruptly , and entered the drawing-room with his bamboo cane ; found the painter , the pupil , and the companion all looking exceedingly pale there ; turned the former out of doors with menaces that he would break every bone in his skin , and half-an-hour afterwards dismissed Miss Wirt likewise , kicking her trunks down the stairs , trampling on her band-boxes , and shaking his fist at her hackney coach , as it bore her away . 
One day , after great entreaties , on the part of the Misses Dobbin , Amelia allowed little George to go and pass a day with them at Denmark Hill -- a part of which day she spent herself in writing to the Major in India . 
She congratulated him on the happy news which his sisters had just conveyed to her . 
She prayed for his prosperity , and that of the bride he had chosen . 
She thanked him for a thousand thousand kind offices and proofs of stedfast friendship to her in her affliction . 
She told him the last news about little Georgy , and how he was gone to spend that very day with his sisters in the country . 
`` O , Sir , '' she said , `` I 've seen little George . 
He is as beautiful as an angel -- and so like him ! '' 
A gentle little woman in black , with large eyes and brown hair , seldom speaking , save when spoken to , and then in a voice not the least resembling Miss Glorvina 's -- a soft young mother tending an infant and beckoning the Major up with a smile to look at him -- a rosy-cheeked lass coming singing into the room in Russell Square or hanging on George Osborne 's arm happy and loving -- there was but this image that filled our honest Major 's mind by day and by night and reigned over it always . 
Perhaps his grandpapa , not the bankrupt one , who is almost doting , but Mr. Osborne , of Russell Square , may be induced to relent towards the child of your friend , his erring and self-willed son . 
Out of the hundred pounds a year , which was about the amount of her income , the widow Osborne had been in the habit of giving up nearly three-fourths to her father and mother , for the expenses of herself and her little boy . 
Out of the small residue of her income , which Amelia kept back for herself , the widow had need of all the thrift and care possible in order to enable her to keep her darling boy dressed in such a manner as became George Osborne 's son , and to defray the expenses of the little school to which , after much misgiving and reluctance , and many secret pangs and fears on her own part , she had been induced to send the lad . 
Once , after a certain combat with Master Smith , George came home to his mother with a black eye , and bragged prodigiously to his parent and his delighted old grandfather about his valour in the fight , in which , if the truth was known , he did not behave with particular heroism , and in which he decidedly had the worst . 
She confided some of these specimens to Miss Dobbin : to show them to Miss Osborne , George 's aunt , to show them to Mr. Osborne himself -- to make that old man repent of his cruelty and ill-feeling towards him who was gone . 
We have seen how one of George 's grandfathers -LRB- Mr. Osborne -RRB- , in his easy chair in Russell Square , daily grew more violent and moody , and how his daughter , with her fine carriage , and her fine horses , and her name on half the public charity-lists of the town , was a lonely , miserable , persecuted old maid . 
Of late , the Miss Dobbins more than once repeated their entreaties to Amelia , to allow George to visit them . 
His aunt had shown her inclination ; perhaps his grandfather himself , they hinted , might be disposed to be reconciled to him . 
Such was George 's report on that night . 
Mr. Osborne formally offered to take the boy , and make him heir to the fortune which he had intended that his father should inherit . 
He would make Mrs. George Osborne an allowance , such as to assure her a decent competency . 
She was never seen angry but twice or thrice in her life , and it was in one of these moods that Mr. Osborne 's attorney had the fortune to behold her . 
Tell Mr. Osborne it is a cowardly letter , Sir -- a cowardly letter -- I will not answer it . 
Her cheeks flushed and her eyes shone with pleasure as she thought of this resource , and she kissed away George to school in the morning , smiling brightly after him . 
And she pleased herself by writing in the fly-leaf in her neatest little hand , `` George Osborne , A Christmas gift from his affectionate mother . '' 
She was going from her own room with the books in her hand to place them on George 's table , where he might find them on his return from school ; when in the passage , she and her mother met . 
There 's Jos deserts his father in his old age : and there 's George , who might be provided for , and who might be rich , going to school like a lord , with a gold watch and chain round his neck -- while my dear , dear old man is without a sh -- , shilling . '' 
But for her he might have wealth , station , education , and his father 's place , which the elder George had forfeited for her sake . 
I have often heard George Mac Turk , Lord Bajazet 's eldest son , say that if he had his will , when he came to the title , he would do what the sultans do , and clear the estate by chopping off all his younger brothers ' heads at once ; and so the case is , more or less , with them all . 
I may shut you up in a prison some day like your son George . 
Some few still exist who have beheld Frederick the Great , Doctor Johnson , Marie Antoinette , & c. -- be it our reasonable boast to our children , that we saw George the Good , the Magnificent , the Great . 
Gaunt 's tired o you ; and George 's wife is the only person in the family who does n't wish you were dead . 
-- He and George had been most intimate at Naples , and had gone up Vesuvius together . 
But George 's picture and dearest memory are there to rebuke her . 
She must give him up ; and then -- and then she would go to George ; and they would watch over the child , and wait for him until he came to them in Heaven . 
She put on her bonnet , scarcely knowing what she did , and went out to walk in the lanes by which George used to come back from school , and where she was in the habit of going on his return to meet the boy . 
And then , in her sweet simple way , George 's mother made commentaries to the boy upon this affecting story . 
Her own pittance was so small that it would barely enable her to support her parents , and would not suffice to give George the advantages which were his due . 
old Osborne said , when with a tremulous eager voice Miss Osborne read him the letter -- `` Reg ` lar starved out , hey ? 
He tried to keep his dignity and to read his paper as usual , -- but he could not follow it . 
He chuckled and swore to himself behind the sheet . 
At last he flung it down : and scowling at his daughter , as his wont was , went out of the room into his study adjoining , from whence he presently returned with a key . 
He flung it to Miss Osborne . 
`` Get the room over mine -- his room that was -- ready , '' he said . 
`` Yes , sir , '' his daughter relied in a tremble . 
It was George 's room . 
Some of his clothes , papers , handkerchiefs , whips and caps , fishing-rods and sporting gear , were still there . 
An army list of 1814 , with his name written on the cover ; a little dictionary he was wont to use in writing ; and the Bible his mother had given him , were on the mantel-piece ; with a pair of spurs , and a dried inkstand covered with the dust of ten years . 
The writing-book still on the table , was blotted with his hand . 
`` You had better send that woman some money , '' Mr. Osborne said , before he went out . 
With which brief speeches Mr. Osborne took leave of his daughter , and went on his accustomed way into the City . 
George was kept from school the next day , and saw his aunt . 
Indeed I have no heart , on account of our dear Amelia 's sake , to go through the story of George 's last days at home . 
At last the day came , the carriage drove up , the little humble packets containing tokens of love and remembrance were ready and disposed in the hall long since -- George was in his new suit , for which the tailor had come previously to measure him . 
He had sprung up with the sun and put on the new clothes ; his mother hearing him from the room close by , in which she had been lying , in speechless grief and watching . 
George stood by his mother , watching her arrangements without the least concern . 
Tears had fallen into his boxes ; passages had been scored in his favourite books : old toys , relics , treasures had been hoarded away for him , and packed with strange neatness and care , -- and of all these things the boy took no note . 
Of evenings on the days when he does not come , she takes a long walk into London -- yes , as far as Russell-square , and rests on the stone by the railing of the garden opposite Mr. Osborne 's house . 
One Sunday she happened to be walking in Russell-square , at some distance from Mr. Osborne 's house -LRB- she could see it from a distance though -RRB- when all the bells of Sabbath were ringing , and George and his aunt came out to go to church ; a little sweep asked for charity , and the footman , who carried the books , tried to drive him away ; but Georgy stopped and gave him money . 
Many hundred fresh children 's voices rose up there and sang hymns to the Father Beneficent ; and little George 's soul thrilled with delight at the burst of glorious psalmody . 
His mother could not see him for awhile , through the mist that dimmed her eyes . 
It is currently reported that even in the very inmost circles , they are no happier than the poor wanderers outside the zone ; and Becky , who penetrated into the very centre of fashion , and saw the great George IV . 
At the time whereof we are writing , though the Great George was on the throne and ladies wore gigots and large combs like tortoise-shell shovels in their hair , instead of the simple sleeves and lovely wreaths which are actually in fashion , the manners of the very polite world were not , I take it , essentially different from those of the present day : and their amusements pretty similar . 
There was George Kitely , Lord Ragland 's son , went through the Court last week , and was what they call white-washed , I believe . 
He had been at a fast supper-party , given the night before by Captain the Honourable George Cinqbars , at his house in Brompton Square , to several young men of the regiment , and a number of ladies of the corps de ballet , and old Mac , who was at home with people of all ages and ranks , and consorted with generals , dog-fanciers , opera-dancers , bruisers , and every kind of person , in a word , was resting himself after the night 's labours , and , not being on duty , was in bed . 
Mr. Osborne was as proud of him as ever he had been of the elder George . 
The child had many more luxuries and iudulgencies than had been awarded to his father . 
Osborne 's commerce had prospered greatly of late years . 
His wealth and importance in the City had very much increased . 
He had been glad enough in former days to put the elder George to a good private school ; and a commission in the army for his son had been a source of no small pride to him : for little George and his future prospects the old man looked much higher . 
He would make a gentleman of the little chap , was Mr. Osborne 's constant saying regarding little Georgy . 
He saw him in his mind 's eye , a collegian , a parliament-man , -- a Baronet , perhaps . 
When they met at dinner the grandsire used to ask the lad what he had been reading during the day , and was greatly interested at the report the boy gave of his own studies : pretending to understand little George when he spoke regarding them . 
He made a hundred blunders , and showed his ignorance many a time . 
It did not increase the respect which the child had for his senior . 
Well , then , Master George Osborne had every comfort and luxury that a wealthy and lavish old grandfather thought fit to provide . 
The coachman was instructed to purchase for him the handsomest pony which could be bought for money ; and on this George was taught to ride , first at a riding-school , whence , after he had performed satisfactorily without stirrups , and over the leaping-bar , he was conducted through the New Road to Regent 's Park , and then to Hyde Park , where he rode in state with Martin the coachman behind him . 
Old Osborne , who took matters more easily in the City now , where leaving his affairs to his junior partners , would often ride out with Miss O. in the same fashionable direction . 
As little Georgy came cantering up with his dandyfied air , and his heels down , his grandfather would nudge the lad 's aunt , and say , `` Look , Miss O. '' And he would laugh , and his face would grow red with pleasure , as he nodded out of the window to the boy , as the groom saluted the carriage , and the footman saluted Master George . 
Here too his aunt , Mrs. Frederick Bullock , -LRB- whose chariot might daily be seen in the Ring , with bullocks or emblazoned on the panels and harness , and three pasty-faced little Bullocks , covered with cockades and feathers , staring from the windows -RRB- , -- Mrs. Frederick Bullock , I say , flung glances of the bitterest hatred at the little upstart as he rode by with his hand on his side and his hat on one ear , as proud as a lord . 
N6311161 Though he was scarcely eleven years of age , Master George wore straps and the most beautiful little boots like a man . 
He had gilt spurs , and a gold-headed whip and a fine pin in his handkerchief ; and the neatest little kid gloves which Lamb 's Conduit Street could furnish . 
His grandfather had wished to have a picture of him by an artist whose works , exhibited in a shop-window , in Southampton Row , had caught the old gentleman 's eyes ; and George , who had plenty of money , bethought him of asking the painter how much a copy of the little portrait would cost , as to his mother , saying he would pay for it out of his own money , and that he wanted to give it to her . 
The pleased painter executed the copy for a small price ; and old Osborne himself , when he heard of the incident , growled out his satisfaction , and gave the boy twice as many sovereigns as he paid for the miniature . 
Since her parting with George she had had no such joy and consolation . 
At his new home Master George ruled like a lord : at dinner he invited the ladies to drink wine with the utmost coolness , and took off his champaigne in a way which charmed his old grandfather . 
`` Look at him , '' the old man would say , nudging his neighbour with a delighted purple face , `` did you ever see such a chap ? 
The antics of the lad did not , however , delight Mr. Osborne 's friends so much as they pleased the old gentleman . 
Mr. Serjeant Toffy 's lady felt no particular gratitude when , with a twist of his elbow , he tilted a glass of port-wine over her yellow satin , and laughed at the disaster : nor was she better pleased , although old Osborne was highly delighted , when Georgy `` wopped '' her third boy -LRB- a young gentleman a year older than Georgy , and by chance home for the holidays from Dr. Tickleus 's at Ealing School -RRB- in Russell Square . 
George 's grandfather gave the boy a couple of sovereigns for that feat , and promised to reward him further for every boy above his own size and age whom he wopped in a similar manner . 
Flushed with praise and victory over Master Toffy , George wished naturally to pursue his conquests further , and one day as he was strutting about in prodigiously dandified new clothes , near St. Pancras , and a young baker 's boy made sarcastic comments upon his appearance , the youthful patrician pulled off his dandy jacket with great spirit , and giving it in charge to the friend who accompanied him -LRB- Master Todd , of Great Coram Street , Russell Square , son of the junior partner of the house of Osborne and Co. -RRB- -- George tried to wop the little baker . 
This young Todd , of Coram Street , Russell Square , was Master George 's great friend and admirer . 
They both had a taste for painting theatrical characters ; for hard bake and raspberry tarts ; for sliding and skating in the Regent 's Park and the Serpentine , when the weather permitted ; for going to the play , whither they were often conducted , by Mr. Osborne 's orders , by Rowson , Master George 's appointed body-servant ; with whom they sate in great comfort in the pit . 
A famous tailor from the West End of the town , -- Mr. Osborne would have none of your City or Holborn bunglers he said , for the boy -LRB- though a City tailor was good enough for him -RRB- , -- was summoned to ornament little George 's person , and was told to spare no expense in so doing . 
Those who remembered the Captain his father , declared Master George was his Pa every inch of him . 
George 's education was confided to a neighbouring scholar and private pedagogue who `` prepared young noblemen and gentlemen for the Universities , the senate , and the learned professions : whose system did not embrace the degrading corporal severities , still practised at the ancient places of education , and in whose family the pupils would find the elegancies of refined society and the confidence and affection of a home . '' 
The Rev. Mr. Veal used to compliment Georgy upon it personally , warning him that he was destined for a high station ; that it became him to prepare , by sedulity and docility in youth , for the lofty duties to which he would be called in mature age ; that obedience in the child was the best preparation for command in the man ; and that he therefore begged George would not bring toffy into the school , and ruin the health of the Masters Bangles , who had everything they wanted at the elegant and abundant table of Mrs. Veal . 
Thus he would say to George in school , `` I observed on my return home from taking the indulgence of an evening 's scientific conversation with my excellènt friend Doctor Bulders -- a true archæologian , gentlemen , a true archæologian -- that the windows of your venerated grandfather 's almost princely mansion in Russell Square were illuminated as if for the purposes of festivity . 
Am I right in my conjecture , that Mr. Osborne entertained a society of chosen spirits round his sumptuous board last night ? '' 
`` Then those friends who had the honour of pertaking of Mr. Osborne 's hospitality , gentlemen , had no reason , I will lay any wager , to complain of their repast . 
-LRB- By the way , Master Osborne , you came a little late this morning , and have been a defaulter in this respect more than once -RRB- . 
I myself , I say , gentlemen , humble as I am , have been found not unworthy to share Mr. Osborne 's elegant hospitality . 
And though I have feasted with the great and noble of the world -- for I presume that I may call my excellent friend and patron , the Right Honourable George Earl of Bareacres , as one of the number -- yet I assure you that the board of the British merchant was to the full as richly served , and his reception as gratifying and noble . 
` Mr. Bluck , Sir , we will resume , if you please , that passage of Eutropius , which was interrupted by the late arrival of Master Osborne . 
''' To this great man George 's education was for some time entrusted . 
Amelia was bewildered by his phrases , but thought him a prodigy of learning . 
The family of this Master Todd were hangers-on of the house of Osborne . 
Mr. Osborne was the godfather of young Master Todd -LRB- who in subsequent life wrote Mr. Osborne Todd on his cards , and became a man of decided fashion -RRB- while Miss Osborne had accompanied Miss Maria Todd to the font , and gave her protegée a prayer-book , a collection of tracts , a volume of very low church poetry , or some such memento of her goodness every year . 
In Russell Square everybody was afraid of Mr. Osborne , and Mr. Osborne was afraid of Georgy . 
The boy 's dashing manners , and off-hand rattle about books and learning , his likeness to his father , -LRB- dead unreconciled in Brussels yonder -RRB- , awed the old gentleman , and gave the young boy the mastery . 
The old man would start at some hereditary feature or tone unconsciously used by the little lad , and fancy that George 's father was again before him . 
He tried by indulgence to the grandson to make up for harshness to the elder George . 
People were surprised at his gentleness to the boy . 
He growled and swore at Miss Osborne as usual : and would smile when George came down late for breakfast . 
Miss Osborne , George 's aunt , was a miserable old spinster , broken down by more than forty years of dullness and coarse usage . 
And whenever George wanted anything from her , from the jam-pots in her cupboards , to the cracked and dry old colours in her paint-box -LRB- the old paint-box which she had had when she was a pupil of Mr. Smee , and was still almost young and blooming -RRB- , Georgy took possession of the object of his desire , which obtained , he took no further notice of his aunt . 
Georgy , on his side , was in the constant habit of hearing coarse abuse and vulgar satire levied at John Sedley , by his pitiless old enemy , Mr. Osborne . 
Osborne used to call the other the old pauper , the old coal-man , the old bankrupt , and by many other such names of brutal contumely . 
How was little George to respect a man so prostrate ? 
A few months after he was with his paternal grandfather , Mrs. Sedley died . 
He did not care to show much grief . 
He came down to visit his mother in a fine new suit of mourning , and was very angry that he could not go to a play upon which he had set his heart . 
From her chair Amelia 's mother had taken to her bed , which she had never left : and from which Mrs. Osborne herself was never absent except when she ran to see George . 
The boy in the shabby livery , with the faded copper-buttons , who always thurst himself into the tight coat to open the door , came into the study and said , `` Two gentlemen want to see Master Osborne . '' 
The Professor had had a trifling altercation in the morning with that young gentleman , owing to a difference about the introduction of crackers in school-time ; but his face resumed its habitual expression of bland courtesy , as he said , `` Master Osborne , I give you full permission to go and see your carriage friends , -- to whom I beg you to convey the respectful compliments of myself and Mrs. Veal . '' 
`` Can you guess who we are , George ? '' 
IT was one of the many causes for personal pride with which old Osborne chose to recreate himself , that Sedley , his ancient rival , enemy , and benefactor , was in his last days so utterly defeated and humiliated , as to be forced to accept pecuniary obligations at the hands of the man who had most injured and insulted him . 
As he furnished George with money for his mother , he gave the boy to understand by hints , delivered in his brutal , coarse way , that George 's maternal grandfather was but a wretched old bankrupt and dependant , and that John Sedley might thank the man to whom he already owed ever so much money , for the aid which his generosity now chose to administer . 
George carried the pompous supplies to his mother and the shattered old widower whom it was now the main busines of her life to tend and comfort . 
A disposition naturally simple and demanding protection ; a long course of poverty and humility , of daily privations , and hard words , of kind offices and no returns , had been her lot ever since womanhood almost , or since her luckless marriage with George Osborne . 
`` There must be classes -- there must be rich and poor , '' Dives says , smacking his claret -- `` it is well if he even sends the broken meat out to Lazarus sitting under the window . '' 
Little George visited her captivity sometimes , and consoled it with feeble gleams of encouragement . 
They buried Amelia 's mother at the church-yard at Brompton ; upon just such a rainy , dark day , as Amelia recollected when first she had been there to marry George . 
But that she held George 's hand in her own , perhaps she would have liked to change places with ... Then , as usual , she felt ashamed of her selfish thoughts , and prayed inwardly to be strengthened to do her duty . 
The children running up and down the slopes and broad paths in the gardens , reminded her of George who was taken from her : the first George was taken from her : her selfish , guilty love , in both instances , had been rebuked and bitterly chastised . 
He desired to be buried with a little brown hair-chain which he wore round his neck , and which , if the truth must be known , he had got from Amelia 's maid at Brussels , when the young widow 's hair was cut off , during the fever which prostrated her after the death of George Osborne on the plateau of Mount St. John . 
He did not know as yet what events had happened in the little Sedley family ; and how death had removed the mother , and riches had carried off George from Amelia . 
Although the sight of that magnificent round of beef , and the silver tankard suggestive of real British home-brewed ale and porter , that perennially great the eyes of the traveller returning from foreign parts , who enters the coffee-room of the George , are so invigorating and delightful , that a man entering such a comfortable snug homely English inn , might well like to stop some days there , yet Dobbin began to talk about a post-chaise instantly , and was no sooner at Southampton than he wished to be on the road to London . 
Ten years had passed since he saw it last , since he and George , as young men , had enjoyed many a feast , and held many a revel there . 
He had now passed into the stage of old-fellow-hood . 
His hair was grizzled , and many a passion and feeling of his youth had grown grey in that interval . 
He remembered George pacing up and down the room , and biting his nails , and swearing that the Governor must come round , and that if he did n't , he did n't care a straw , on the day before he was married . 
I 'm George 's godfather , and just come back from India ? '' 
N6311166 The landlord and landlady of the house led the worthy Major into the Sedleys ' room -LRB- whereof he remembered every single article of furniture , from the old brass ornamented piano , once a natty little instrument , Stothard maker , to the screens and the alabaster miniature-tombstone , in the midst of which ticked Mr. Sedley 's gold watch -RRB- , and there as he sat down in the lodger 's vacant arm-chair , the father , the mother , and the daughter , with a thousand ejaculatory breaks in the narrative , informed Major Dobbin of what we know already , but of particulars in Amelia 's history of which he was not aware -- namely , of Mrs. Sedley 's death , of George 's reconcilement with his grandfather Osborne , of the way in which the widow took on at leaving him , and of other particulars of her life . 
Twice or thrice he was going to ask about the marriage-portion , but his heart failed him . 
He did not care to lay it bare to these people . 
Finally , he was informed that Mrs. O. was gone to walk with her Pa in Kensington Gardens , whiter she always went with the old gentleman -LRB- who was very weak and peevish now , and led her a sad life , though she behaved to him like an angel , to be sure , -RRB- of a fine afternoon after dinner . 
It is true she did not know that the Major had had no dinner , and that the cloth was laid for him at the Slaughter 's , and a plate laid thereon to mark that the table was retained , in that very box in which the Major and George had sate many a time carousing , when she was a child just come home from Miss Pinkerton 's school . 
To hear about Mr. Osborne and Russell Square was not agreeable to the old man , who very likely was unconscious that he had been living for some months past mainly on the bounty of his richer rival ; and lost his temper if allusion was made to the other . 
She described his angelic beauty ; narrated a hundred instances of his generosity and greatness of mind whilst living with her : how a Royal Duchess had stopped and admired him in Kensington Gardens ; how splendidly he was cared for now , and how he had a groom and a pony ; what quickness and cleverness he had , and what a prodigiously well-read and delightful person the Reverend Lawrence Veal was , George 's master . 
This great effort of genius , which is still in the possession of George 's mother , is as follows : On Selfishness . 
George S. Osborne . 
Oh , George , George , how little you knew the prize you had , though . '' 
But Amelia , looking up at her bed , over which hung the portraits of her husband and son , told her young protegée , never , never , to speak on that subject again ; that Major Dobbin had been her husband 's dearest friend , and her own and George 's most kind and affectionate guardian ; that she loved him as a brother -- but that a woman who had been married to such an angel as that , and she pointed to the wall , could never think of any other union . 
Mr. Jos was very lonely at Southampton , and got the landlord of the George to take a glass of wine with him that day ; at the very hour at which Major Dobbin was seated at the table of his father , Sir William , where his sister found out -LRB- for it was impossible for the Major to tell fibs -RRB- that he had been to see Mrs. George Osborne . 
And then it struck her , with inexpressible pain and mortification too , that it was William who was the giver of the piano ; and not George , as she had fancied . 
It was not George 's gift ; the only one which she had received from her lover , as she thought -- the thing she had cherished beyond all others -- her dearest relic and prize . 
She had spoken to it about George ; played his favourite airs upon it ; sate for long evening hours , touching , to the best of her simple art , melancholy harmonies on the keys , and weeping over them in silence . 
It was not George 's relic . 
I think I loved you from the first minute that I saw you , when George brought me to your house , to show me the Amelia whom he was engaged to . 
You are hurt in your heart at that discovery about the piano ; and that it came from me and not from George . 
`` George is my husband , here and in heaven . 
How could I love any other but him ? 
I am his now as when you first saw me , dear William . 
Old Osborne had no objection that Georgy should inherit his uncle 's property as well as his own . 
Emmy , you may be sure , was very glad to see her , and so be brought nearer to George . 
George could not help admiring his friend 's simplicity , his good-humour , his various learning quietly imparted , his general love of truth and justice . 
He had met no such man as yet in the course of his experience , and he had an instinctive liking for a gentleman . 
He hung fondly by his god-father 's side ; and it was his delight to walk in the Parks and hear Dobbin talk . 
William told George about his father , about India and Waterloo , about everything but himself . 
When George was more than usually pert and conceited , the Major made jokes at him , which Mrs. Osborne thought very cruel . 
George had seen the absurdity of his ways , and come down from the upper region . 
How charmed she was when she heard of this instance of George 's goodness ! 
She blushed , he thought , after looking at him so . 
If there was a sincere liking between George and the Major , it must be confessed that between the boy and his uncle no great love existed . 
George had got a way of blowing out his cheeks , and putting his hands in his waistcoat pockets , and saying , `` God bless my soul , you do n't say so , '' so exactly after the fashion of old Jos , that it was impossible to restrain from laughter . 
If George did not mimic his uncle to his face , it was only by Dobbin 's rebukes and Amelia 's terrified entreaties that the little scapegrace was induced to resist . 
After Jos went to Court , which we may be sure he did as a loyal subject of his Sovereign -LRB- showing himself in his full court suit at the Club , whither Dobbin came to fetch him in a very shabby old uniform , -RRB- he who had always been a staunch Loyalist and admirer of George IV. , became such a tremendous Tory and pillar of the State , that he was for having Amelia to go to a drawing-room , too . 
In these last hours and touched by her love and goodness , the old man forgot all his grief against her , and wrongs which he and his wife had many a long night debated : how she had given up everything for her boy : how she was careless of her parents in their old age and misfortune , and only thought of the child : how absurdly and foolishly , impiously indeed , she took on , when George was removed from her . 
Old Sedley forgot these charges as he was making up his last account , and did justice to the gentle and uncomplaining little martyr . 
One night when she stole into his room , she found him awake , when the broken old man made his confession . 
`` You see , '' said old Osborne to George , `` what comes of merit and industry , and judicious speculations , and that . 
When old Osborne first heard from his friend Colonel Buckler -LRB- as little Georgy has already informed us -RRB- how distinguished an officer . 
The Major 's position , as guardian to Georgy , whose possession had been ceded to his grandfather , rendered some meetings between the two gentlemen inevitable ; and it was in one of these that old Osborne , a keen man of business , looking into the Major 's accounts with his ward and the boy 's mother , got a hint which staggered him very much , and at once pained and pleased him , that it was out of William Dobbin 's own pocket that a part of the fund had been supplied upon which the poor widow and the child had subsisted . 
`` Major D. , '' Mr. Osborne said , looking hard at him , and turning very red too -- `` You did me a great injury ; but give me leave to tell you , Sir , you are an honest feller . 
On one or two evenings the Major came to dine with Mr. Osborne , -LRB- it was during the time of the sickness of Mr. Sedley -RRB- , and as the two sate together in the evening after dinner all their talk was about the departed hero . 
On the second evening old Osborne called Dobbin , William , just as he used to do at the time when Dobbin and George were boys together : and the honest gentleman was affected by that mark of reconciliation . 
That old Osborne 's mind was changing was pretty clear . 
He asked George about his uncle sometimes , and laughed at the boy 's imitation of the way in which Jos said `` God-bless-my-soul '' and gobbled his soup . 
The card was returned , and Jos and the Major were asked to dinner , -- to a dinner the most splendid and stupid that perhaps ever Mr. Osborne gave ; every inch of the family plate was exhibited , and the best company was asked . 
Mr. Sedley took down Miss O. to dinner , and she was very gracious to him ; whereas she hardly spoke to the Major , who sate apart from her , and by the side of Mr. Osborne , very timid . 
Jos said , with great solemnity , it was the best clear turtle soup he had ever tasted in his life ; and asked Mr. Osborne where he got his Madeira ? 
`` It is some of Sedley 's wine , '' whispered the butler to his master . 
`` I 've had it a long time , and paid a good figure for it , too , '' Mr. Osborne said aloud to his guest ; and then whispered to his right-hand neighbour how he had got it `` at the old chap 's sale . '' 
More than once he asked the Major about -- about Mrs. George Osborne -- a theme on which the Major could be very eloquent when he chose . 
He told Mr. Osborne of her sufferings -- of her passionate attachment to her husband , whose memory she worshipped still , -- of the tender and dutiful manner in which she had supported her parents , and given up her boy , when it seemed to her her duty to do so . 
If she took your son away from you , she gave hers to you ; and however much you loved your George , depend on it , she loved hers ten times more . '' 
`` By God you are a good feller , Sir , '' was all Mr. Osborne said . 
It had never struck him that the widow would feel any pain at parting with the boy , or that his having a fine fortune could grieve her . 
A reconciliation was announced as speedy and inevitable ; and Amelia 's heart already began to beat at the notion of the awful meeting with George 's father . 
That catastrophe and other events may have worked upon Mr. Osborne . 
He was much shaken of late , and aged , and his mind was working inwardly . 
He had sent for his lawyers , and probably changed something in his will . 
The medical man who looked in , pronounced him shaky , agitated , and talked of a little blood , and the sea-side ; but he took neither of these remedies . 
One day when he should have come down to breakfast , his servant missing him , went into his dressing-room , and found him lying at the foot of the dressing-table in a fit . 
Osborne partially regained cognizance ; but never could speak again , though he tried dreadfully once or twice , and in four days he died . 
They found in the pocket of his dressing-gown the letter with the great red seal , which George had written him from Waterloo . 
He had looked at the other papers too , relative to his son , for the key of the box in which he kept them was also in his pocket , and it was found the seals and envelopes had been broken -- very likely on the night before the seizure -- when the butler had taken him tea into his study , and found him reading in the great red family bible . 
When the will was opened , it was found that half the property was left to George , and the remainder between the two sisters . 
An annuity of five hundred pounds , chargeable on George 's property , was left to his mother , ` the widow of my beloved son George Osborne , ' who was to resume the guardianship of the boy . 
If she thought of any other return , the image of George stood up out of the grave , and said , `` You are mine , and mine only , now and for ever . '' 
When the nature of Mr. Osborne 's will became known to the world , it was edifying to remark how Mrs. George Osborne rose in the estimation of the people forming her circle of acquaintance . 
The coachman , who grumbled that his osses should be brought out , and his carriage made into an ospital for that old feller and Mrs. O. , drove her with the utmost alacrity now , and trembling lest he should be superseded by Mr. Osborne 's coachman , asked `` what them there Russell Square coachmen knew about town , and whether they was fit to sit on a box before a lady ? '' 
One day Emmy with George in her hand and clad in deep sables went to visit the deserted mansion which she had not entered since she was a girl . 
Then they went up the great blank stone-staircases into the upper rooms , into that where grandpapa died , as George said in a whisper , and then higher still into George 's own room . 
`` It was your father 's room long long before you were born , George , '' she said , and she blushed as she kissed the boy . 
Georgy at this time was removed from Mr. Veal 's on an unlimited holiday , and that gentleman was engaged to prepare an inscription for a fine marble slab , to be placed up in the Foundling under the monument of Captain George Osborne . 
`` He is just of the age for Rosa , '' the fond parent thought , and glanced towards that dear child , an unwholesome little Miss of seven years of age . 
`` Do n't you know me , George ? 
`` I know you well enough , '' George said ; `` but I do n't like kissing , please ; '' and he retreated from the obedient caresses of his cousin . 
But so , in a word , and before the period of grief for Mr. Osborne 's death had subsided , Emmy found herself in the centre of a very genteel circle indeed ; the members of which could not conceive that anybody belonging to it was not very lucky . 
He went to sleep under Frederick Bullock 's bald head , after dinner , at one of the banker 's best parties , -LRB- Fred was still anxious that the balance of the Osborne property should be transferred from Stumpy and Rowdy 's to them -RRB- , and whilst Amelia , who did not know Latin , or who wrote the last crack article in the Edinburgh , and did not in the least deplore , or otherwise , Mr. Peel 's late extraordinary tergiversation in the fatal Catholic Relief Bill , sate dumb amongst the ladies in the grand drawing-room , looking out upon velvet lawns , trim gravel walks , and glistening hot-houses . 
The imperious young gentleman who gobbled the biscuits , -LRB- and indeed it was time to refresh himself , for he had breakfasted at Richmond full three hours before -RRB- was our young friend George Osborne . 
He was the interpreter for the party , having a good military knowledge of the German language ; and he and the delighted George fought the campaigns of the Rhine and the Palatinate : in the course of a few weeks , and by assiduously conversing with Herr Kirsch on the box of the carriage , Georgy made prodigious advance in the knowledge of High Dutch , and could talk to hotel waiters and postillions in a way that charmed his mother , and amused his guardian . 
He certainly had very large hands and feet , which the two George Osbornes used to caricature and laugh at ; and their jeers and laughter perhaps led poor little Emmy astray as to his worth . 
She had a French master who complimented her upon the purity of her accent and her facility of learning ; the fact is she had learned long ago , and grounded herself subsequently in the grammar so as to be able to teach it to George ; and Madame Strumpff came to give her lessons in singing , which she performed so well and with such a true voice that the Major 's windows , who had lodgings opposite under the Prime Minister , were always open to hear the lesson . 
The Major made himself George 's tutor , and read Cæsar and mathematics with him , and they had a German master and rode out of evenings by the side of Emmy 's carriage -- she was always too timid , and made a dreadful outcry at the slightest disturbance on horseback . 
And she took from her bosom a purse , and out of it a gold piece , the only coin there , and she put it into George 's hand . 
`` My name 's Osborne , '' said Georgy , and was fingering in his own pockets for dollars , and just about to make a trial , when the Major , in his uniform , and Jos , en Marquis , from the Court ball , made their appearance . 
Then , looking round the room , he saw Kirsch employed as we have said , and going up to him , asked how he dared to bring Mr. George to such a place . 
Seeing his condition the Major did not choose to argue with the man ; but contented himself with drawing away George , and asking Jos if he would come away . 
`` Had ` nt you better come , Jos , '' the Major said , `` with George and me ? '' 
She went to Waterloo and to Lacken , where George Osborne 's monument much struck her . 
Everybody knows the melancholy end of that nobleman , which befel at Naples two months after the French Revolution of 1830 : when the Most Honourable George Gustavus , Marquis of Steyne , Earl of Gaunt and of Gaunt Castle , in the Peerage of Ireland , Viscount Hellborough , Baron Pitchley and Grillsby , a Knight of the Most Noble Order of the Garter , of the Golden Fleece of Spain , of the Russian Order of Saint Nicholas of the First Class , of the Turkish Order of the Crescent , First Lord of the Powder Closet and Groom of the Back Stairs , Colonel of the Gaunt or Regent 's Own Regiment of Militia , a Trustee of the British Museum , an elder Brother of the Trinity House , a Governor of the Grey Friars , and D.C.L. , -- died , after a series of fits , brought on , as the papers said , by the shock occasioned to his lordship 's sensibilities by the downfall of the ancient French monarchy . 
They had a very long , amicable , and confidential talk there ; in the course of which , Jos Sedley was somehow made aware -LRB- but in a manner that did not in the least scare or offend him -RRB- that Becky 's heart had first learned to beat at his enchanting presence : that George Osborne had certainly paid an unjustifiable court to her , which might account for Amelia 's jealousy , and their little rupture ; but that Becky never gave the least encouragement to the unfortunate officer , and that she had never ceased to think about Jos from the very first day she had seen him , though , of course , her duties as a married woman were paramount -- duties which she had always preserved , and would , to her dying day , or until the proverbially bad climate in which Colonel Crawley was living , should release her from a yoke which his cruelty had rendered odious to her . 
I remember the confounded blackleg , and the way in which he used to cheat and hoodwink poor George . 
He and George had often laughed over it subsequently , and until a few weeks after George 's marriage , when he seemed to be caught in the little Circe 's toils too , and had an understanding with her which his comrade might have suspected , but preferred to ignore . 
William was too much hurt or ashamed to ask to fathom that disgraceful mystery , although once , and evidently with remorse on his mind , George had alluded to it . 
It was on the morning of Waterloo as the young men stood together in front of their line , surveying the black masses of Frenchmen who crowned the opposite heights , and as the rain was coming down , `` I have been mixing in a foolish intrigue with a woman , '' George said . 
And William , he was pleased to think , and had more than once soothed poor George 's widow with the narrative , that Osborne , after quitting his wife , and after the action of Quatre Bras , on the first day , spoke gravely and affectionately to his comrade of his father and his wife . 
On these facts , too , William had insisted very strongly in his conversation with the elder Osborne : and had thus been the means of reconciling the old gentleman to his son 's memory , just at the close of the elder man 's life . 
`` Oh it was cruel of him to remind me of it , '' and she looked up at George 's picture , which hung there as usual , with the portrait of the boy underneath . 
He besought Jos eagerly to inquire at least regarding her : told him how he had heard that she was in the company of gamblers and people of ill repute : pointed out what evil she had done in former days : how she and Crawley had misled poor George into ruin : how she was now parted from her husband , by her own confession , and , perhaps , for good reason . 
`` The claims I mean , are those left me by George 's father , '' William said . 
`` Yes , and you insulted his memory . 
I think that George 's memory has not been injured by the way in which I have dealt with it , and if we are come to bandying reproaches , I at least merit none from his widow and the mother of his son . 
It had been new for the campaign of Waterloo , and had covered George and William after the night of Quatre Bras . 
screamed out George . 
George bounded in afterwards and flung his arms round the Major 's neck -LRB- as they saw from the window -RRB- , and began asking him multiplied questions . 
Then he felt in his waistcoat-pocket and gave him a note . 
She had hen picture of George for a consolation . 
She made George write to him constantly , and persisted in sending Mamma 's kind love in a postscript . 
The correspondence between George and his guardian had not ceased by any means : William had even written once or twice to her since his departure , but in a manner so unconstrainedly cold , that the poor woman felt now in her turn that she had lost her power over him , and that , as he had said , he was free . 
And the Captain made her advances that filled her with sickening dismay , nor would she ever see him unless she had George by her side . 
It was that which George had put into the bouquet and given to Becky on the night of the Duke of Richmond 's ball . 
Emmy tried to look through the telescope over George 's shoulder , but she could make nothing of it . 
George took the glass again and raked the vessel . 
he said . 
He clapped to the telescope and flung his arms round his mother . 
That young scape-grace George had fled too : and as the gentleman in the old cloak lined with red stuff stepped on to the shore , there was scarcely any one present to see what took place , which was briefly this : A lady in a dripping white bonnet and shawl , with her two little hands out before her , went up to him , and in the next minute she had altogether disappeared under the folds of the old cloak , and was kissing one of his hands with all her might ; whilst the other , I suppose , was engaged in holding her to his heart -LRB- which her head just about reached -RRB- and in preventing her from tumbling down . 
Emmy , whose shawl and bonnet were off in the passage in the hands of Mrs. Payne , now went to undo the clasp of William 's cloak , and -- we will , if you please , go with George , and look after breakfast for the Colonel . 
Emmy was very glad in her heart to think that she had written to her husband before she read or knew of that letter of George 's . 
Lady Jane and Mrs. Dobbin became great friends -- there was a perpetual crossing of pony-chaises between the Hall and the Evergreens , the Colonel 's place -LRB- rented of his friend Major Ponto , who was abroad with his family -RRB- Her Ladyship was godmother to Mrs. Dobbin 's child , which bore her name , and was christened by the Rev. James Crawley , who succeeded his father in the living : and a pretty close friendship subsisted between the two lads , George and Rawdon , who hunted and shot together in the vacations , were both entered of the same College at Cambridge , and quarrelled with each other about Lady Jane 's daughter , with whom they were both , of course , in love . 
A match between George and that young lady was long a favourite scheme of both the matrons , though I have heard that Miss Crawley herself inclined towards her cousin . 
She cast down her eyes demurely and smiled as they started away from her ; Emmy skurrying off on the arm of George , -LRB- now grown a dashing young gentleman , -RRB- and the Colonel seizing up his little Janey , of whom he is fonder than of anything in the world -- fonder even than of his `` History of the Punjaub . '' 
