I can sympathize with Smith ; yet he is used to reverses , being one of the identical persons who failed in receiving the prize offered by the ` Olympiad and Sunburst , ' as mentioned recently in this Magazine . 
He was determined to read the whole thing aloud , so that I could ascertain exactly every word , and thus prevent mistakes when I surveyed the proofsheets . 
` John Smith . ' 
There is every certainty that our townsman , John Jones Smith , Jr. , Esq. , will go to the Legislature ; and we can , with swelling bosoms , fearlessly assure the nation at large , and the friends of liberty everywhere , that Logtown is regenerated , and disenthralled -- erect , and sound to the core ! 
` Smith , Sir , was his name ; Smith , John Smith , of Smithopolis and surrogate of Smith County . 
He was the first man in Smithville ; was a blacksmith in his youth , a goldsmith a ` terwards , and John Smith through all . 
A consistent man , Sir ; no change with him ; always upright , but always poor ; unchanging , for he had nothing to change with ! 
He was a distinguished man ; had letters advertised in the post office ; owned a blood horse ; led the choir at church ; read ` the Declaration ' on every Fourth-of-July ; made all the acquaintances he could ; was exceedingly fussy on all occasions . 
Let me here register a letter which I have received from the Jehu who voted for Smith , of Smithopolis . 
He conveys several curious sentiments ; and among other matters , records the demise of the person to whom he was indebted for a lecture : ` I have seen a piece which you made and put into a perryoge published down into the city of New York , to which I am a-going to indict a reply . 
But with respect of that there diwine person you spoke of , I am sorry to remark , that he is uncommonly dead , and wont never give no more lectures . 
He was so onfortnight as to bu ` st a bloodvessel at a pertracted meeting ; and I ha n't hearn nothing onto him sence . 
His motives was probable good ; but in delivering on 'em , it struck me forcibly that he proximoted to the sassy . 
That 's what Smith used to say , when he published his self-nominations in the newspapers , that a man with a horn -LRB- they tell me that he has a very large circle of kindred -RRB- used to ride post about and distribit . 
One or two credulous persons have fancied that the sketch of ` Smith of Smithopolis ' was designed as an imputation upon the name . 
Who has never rode in a rail-car , a steam-boat , or a coach , with a person of the name of Smith ? 
Or heard him speak at a public meeting ? 
Or owed him a trifle ? 
Or had a trifle due from him , the Smith aforesaid ? 
My name is John Smith . 
John Jenkins Smith was my father 's name ; and , until my twelfth year , I was called John Jenkins Smith , Junior ; the middle appellation being in compliment to the sir-names of my uncle and aunt , Increase and Abundance Jenkins . 
After the demise of my father , it was my mother 's wish and advice , that I should drop the Jenkins and the Junior from my title , and adopt the simple cognomen of John Smith . 
I was informed that the man in brown had given a letter to the keeper , under my very nose , requesting lunches for two every morning , the bill to be sent monthly to John Smith , at the Adelphi . 
He came down with me in the steam-boat . 
I never saw him after he was ` blowed . ' 
` My name , sà ; I am not ashamed of my name , sà , as you appear to be of yours ; my name , sà , is -- John Smith ! ' 
The young damsel had accidentally made his acquaintance , a week or two previously , after an extensive interchange of oglings , at churches , and other public resorts , and they were , it was plain to see , quite desperate with each other . 
Another John Smith had stepped into my bower of hope , and plucked the brightest rose it ever grew . 
Reader , read : ` John Smith 's poetry is received , and has gone to that vast receptacle of things lost for the present upon earth , on the cover of which it is thus written : ` Rejected Balaam : Clauduntur in aternam noctem . ' 
We would advise John Smith to give up his visions of fame . 
I was convinced that John Smith would never make any respectable sensation in literature . 
The committee now proceed , with a feeling of serene and solemn exultation , to commit to the public eye at this era , and to that which shall lift its lid in future ages , the name of the distinguished person who has won the guerdon of twenty-five dollars , and a year 's gratuitous subscription to the Olympiad and Sunburst , It is John Smith , Esq. , of New-York . 
He will readily comprehend his putative identity , when the committee remark , that his effusion commences with a spirited invocation to the Nine . 
The committee will be prepared to meet him , and to administer into his hands the twenty-five dollars , and a year 's receipt for the popular journal aforesaid , on Tuesday evening next , at six o'clock , in the saloon of the City Hotel . 
But I am obliged to select him from yon troop of tuneful worthies now arranged before the assembly , every one of whom , by a singular concatenation of parental tastes , bears the name of John Smith ! ' 
A second thought told me , I might be the John Smith , and I determined to see the farce out . 
` Messieurs Smith , ' said the chairman , entirely disregarding the loquacious member , ` you are dismissed . 
A John Smith lives next door , to whom half my choice rounds and sirloins , selected personally in the market , for I love good provant , are sent without distinction . 
Yesterday morning the following police report met my eye : ` John Smith , a new offender , was on Monday last committed to Bridewell , charged with having stolen several descriptions of clothes from various hotels in Broadway . 
He formerly made his home at the Adelphi , where he practised his light fingered arts for a considerable time . 
He was at one period ` well-off , ' and lived in Broadway , but his thieving propensities have brought him up , at last , to a full stop . 
Bail having been procured , he is now at large , but so well known , that his career is now comparatively harmless . ' 
I have met scores of acquaintances since yesterday , and they all shun me as if they scented in my garments the air of a jail ; all but one puppy , and he asked me ` when I got out ! ' 
During that moneth he had numerous victims arrested as rebels , among whom was one John Smith -LRB- the name was extant even then -RRB- ; and all of whom he charged with a design to fire the city of London , so that while it was burning they might rescue Prince Edward and his brother the Duke of York , out of the tower : ` Now , ' says the honest Stowe , ` there fel myscheeves thick ; and as the thing euil gotten , is neuer wel kepit , thorough all Richard 's tyme neuer ceased there cruell deths and slawters till his own destruction ended them . 
