This was the stereotyped construction of all Manhattanese dwellings of any pretension , a quarter of a century since ; and that of Mr. Thomas Dunscomb , the owner and occupant of the house in question , had been built in rigid conformity with the fashion of its day . 
` Squire Dunscomb , as this gentleman was termed in all the adjacent country counties , where he was well known as a reliable and sound legal adviser ; Mr. Thomas Dunscomb , as he was styled by various single ladies , who wondered he never married ; or Tom Dunscomb , as he was familiarly called by a herd of unyoked youths , all of whom were turned of sixty , was a capital fellow in each of his many characters . 
In addition to these leading qualities , Dunscomb was known to be rich , having inherited a very tolerable estate , as well as having added much to his means , by a large and lucrative practice . 
Though a bachelor , Mr. Dunscomb did not live alone . 
He had a nephew and a niece in his family , the orphan children of a sister who had now been dead many years . 
We own ourselves to a strong predilection for old familiar sounds , as well as old familiar faces At half-past 8 , A. M. , of a fine morning , late in May , when the roses were beginning to show their tints amid the verdure of the leaves , in Mr. Dunscomb 's yard , the three individuals just mentioned were at the breakfast-table of what it is the fashion of New York to term a dining-room . 
We have said that Mr. Dunscomb was affluent , and he chose to enjoy his means , not à la Manhattan , in idle competition with the nouveaux riches , but in a more quiet and rational way . 
His father had occupied lots , `` running through , '' as it is termed ; building his house on one street and his stables on the other ; leaving himself a space in the rear of the former , that was prodigious for a town so squeezed into parallelograms of twenty-five feet by a hundred . 
As for Mr. Dunscomb , himself , he was fairly surrounded by documents of one sort and another . 
Two or three of the morning papers , glanced at but not read , lay opened on the floor ; on each side of his plate was a brief , or some lease or release ; while a copy of the new and much talked of code was in his hand . 
As we say in our American English , Mr. Dunscomb was `` emphatically '' a common-law lawyer ; and , as our transatlantic brethren would remark in their sometime cockney dialect , he was not at all `` agreeable '' to this great innovation on ` the perfection of human reason . ' 
He muttered occasionally as he read , and now and then he laid down the book , and seemed to muse . 
Not that Mr. Dunscomb was what is called an `` expounder , '' great or small ; but he never made a mistake on the subject in hand , and had often caused the best of the `` expounders '' to retrace their steps . 
He was an original thinker , but of the safest and most useful sort ; one who distinguished between the institutionsof England and America , while he submitted to the fair application of minor principles that are so common to both . 
As for his nephew , he knew no more of the great instrument he held in his hand , than he had gleaned from ill-digested newspaper remarks , vapid speeches in Congress , and the erroneous notions that float about the country , coming from `` nobody knows whom , '' and leading literally to nothing . 
The only answer Mr. Dunscomb condescended to make , was an expressive `` Umph ! '' 
As for Michael Millington , he was a little timid about expressing an opinion , and that for two reasons ; he had often experienced Mr. Dunscomb 's superior wisdom , and he knew that Sarah heard all that passed . 
`` Ay , '' said Mr. Dunscomb , smiling , `` much as are our religious and political liberties . 
`` But is it not true , Mr. Dunscomb , '' put in Millington , `` that the popular prejudice is usually against government , in all cases with private citizens ? '' 
As all present knew that Mr. Dunscomb was bitterly opposed to the new constitution , no one was surprised at this last assertion . 
Dunscomb laughed out , at the earnest manner in which his friend spoke , though conversations , like this we have been relating , were of frequent occurrence between them . 
As the doctor looked far more than he expressed , Dunscomb was struck with his manner . 
Some of the new judges are excellent -- but one of the very best men on the whole bench was run against one of the worst men who could have been put in his place . 
But , in the older counties , immediately around the great commercial capital of the entire republic , these large villages do not always exist ; or when they do exist , are not sufficiently central to meet the transcendental justice of democratic equality -- a quality that is sometimes of as exacting pretension , as of real imbecility ; as witness the remarks of Mr. Dunscomb , in our opening chapter . 
His friend Dunscomb had observed this peculiarity , thirty years before the commencement of our tale , and had quite recently told him , `` You are bold in the only thing in which I am timid , Ned , and that is in making up to the women . 
Thanking her informant for his information , and exchanging a few brief sentences on the melancholy business which had brought both there , the young woman arose , made a slight but very graceful inclination of her body , and withdrew . 
He saw very plainly that a fierce current of suspicion was setting against this pleasing , and , as it seemed to him , friendless young creature ; and he determined at once to hasten back to town , and get his friend to go out to Biberry , without a moment 's delay , that he might appear there that very afternoon in the character of counsel to the helpless . 
As for Dunscomb , he made the necessary disposition of some papers , wrote two or three notes , and held himself at the command of his friend . 
This affair was just the sort of professional business in which he liked to be engaged . 
Not that he had any sympathy with crime , for he was strongly averse to all communion with rogues ; but it appeared to him , by the representations of the doctor , to be a mission of mercy . 
He had not been out of town since the previous summer , and great was his delight at smelling the fragrance of the orchards , and feasting his eyes on their beauties . 
He had come out to assist a friendless woman , cheerfully and without a thought of the sacrifice , either as to time or money , though in reflecting on all the circumstances he began to have his doubts of the wisdom of the step he had taken . 
Nevertheless , he preserved his native calmness of manner , and coolness of head . 
She had not been arrested , however , it having been deemed premature for that ; but she was vigilantly watched , and two large trunks of which she was the mistress , as well as an oilskin-covered box of some size , if not absolutely seized , were so placed that their owner had no access to them . 
Had Dunscomb yielded to McBrain 's solicitations , he would have gone at once to the house in which Mary Monson was now lodged , but he preferred adopting a different course . 
He thought it the most prudent to be a looker-on , until after the next examination , which was now close at hand . 
Wary by long habit , and cool by temperament , he was disposed to observe the state of things before he committed himself . 
The presence of the reporters annoyed him ; not that he stood in any dread of the low tyranny that is so apt to characterize this class of men , for no member of the bar had held them , and the puny efforts of many among them to build up and take away professional character , in greater contempt than he had done ; but he disliked to have his name mixed up with a cause of this magnitude , unless he had made up his mind to go through with it . 
Dunscomb observed that the coroner looked grave , like a man who felt he had important business on his hands , while a stern expectation was the expression common to nearly all the others present . 
He was an utter stranger , himself , even by sight , to every being present , his own party and two or three of the reporters excepted . 
These last no sooner observed him , however , than out came their little note-books , and the gold pens were at work , scribbling something . 
It was probably a sentence to say , `` we observed among the crowd Thomas Dunscomb , Esquire , the well-known counsel from the city ; '' but Dunscomb cared very little for such vulgarisms , and continued passive . 
When Dunscomb learned this artifice , he saw how ungenerous and unmanly it was , readily imagined a dozen signs of weakness that a female might exhibit in such a strait , that had no real connection with crime , and felt a strong disposition to seek an interview , and put the suspected party on her guard . 
Once or twice Mrs. Jones spoke to her companion ; and it was when answering some question thus put , that Dunscomb first got a glimpse of his intended client 's face . 
The handkerchief was partly removed , and remained so long enough to enable him to make a few brief observations . 
It was then that he felt the perfect justice of his friend 's description . 
they never make any mistakes , especially in legal proceedings , '' quietly remarked Mr. Dunscomb to the doctor . 
Dunscomb had listened more to his feelings than to his legal knowledge , in offering this objection , inasmuch as no very searching question had , as yet , been put to Mary Monson . 
`` What great harm can it be to this young female to give her real name , Mr. Dunscomb , as I understand you are that distinguished counsellor , if she be perfectly innocent of the death of the Goodwins ? '' 
When you are through with your consultation , Mr. Dunscomb , we shall be ready to proceed with your client . '' 
Dunscomb offered his arm to the girl , and led her through the crowd , while a third medical man was sworn . 
It was fully an hour before Dunscomb returned , bringing Mary Monson on his arm . 
To state the truth , he was a little afraid of Mr. Thomas Dunscomb , whose reputation at the bar was of too high a character to have escaped his notice . 
`` The law allows the freest modes of enquiry in all such cases , Mr. Dunscomb . 
`` She has , then , regularly retained you , Mr. Dunscomb ? '' 
`` There is no wish , Mr. Dunscomb , to put any obstacles in your way . 
Your client can certainly refuse to answer any questions she may please , on the ground that the answer may tend to criminate herself ; and so may any one else . '' 
`` What do you call this piece , Mr. Dunscomb ? '' 
`` I think it is called after the reigning sovereign , whoever he may be . 
The simplicity , distinctness , not to say nerve , with which this was said , placed Dunscomb still more at his ease , and he now freely let the enquiry take its course . 
All this did not prevent his being astonished that one so young , and seemingly so friendless , should manifest so much coolness and self-possession , under circumstances so very trying . 
Such was the fact , however ; and he was fain to await further developments , in order better to comprehend the character of his client . 
Dunscomb probably put less faith in this bit of testimony , than any other person present ; and he was curious to note its effect on his client . 
To his great surprise , she betrayed no uneasiness ; her countenance maintaining a calm that he now began to apprehend denoted a practised art ; and he manifested a desire to examine the piece of gold for himself . 
It was put in his hand , and he glanced at its face a little eagerly . 
`` Your client sees the state of the question , Mr. Dunscomb , '' he said ; `` and you will look to her rights . 
Even the coroner took this view of the matter ; and Dunscomb saw that the explanation just made by his client was thought to prove too much . 
`` That question is improper , '' interposed Mr. Dunscomb . 
During this interval , Dunscomb ascertained how strongly the current was setting against his client . 
He had told her of the nature of the distrust that was attached to her situation , and she received his statement with a degree of emotion that , at first , had alarmed him . 
But an unaccountable calmness soon succeeded this burst of feeling , and he had found it necessary to draw confidence in the innocence of his client , from that strangely illuminated countenance , to study which was almost certain to subdue a man by its power . 
The doctor was firmly impressed with the conviction of Mary Monson 's innocence ; while Dunscomb , more experienced in the ways of crime and the infirmities of the human heart , had his misgivings . 
So many grounds of suspicion had occurred , or been laid open to his observation , during the hour of private communication , that it was not easy for one who had seen so much of the worst side of human nature , to cast them off under the mere influence of a graceful form , winning manner , and bright countenance . 
Dunscomb laughed outright , for he recollected his conversation with the young men , which we have already related . 
Then suppressing his risible propensity , he continued gravely -- `` Yes , one or two papers , well fee 'd by this young woman 's spare cash , might do her more good than any service I can render her . 
As Stephen made this remark , he very civilly offered the journal to Dunscomb , who took it ; but was not disposed to drop the conversation just then to read it , though his eye did glance at the article , as he continued the subject . 
This was a habit with him ; his clerks often saying , he could carry the chains of arguments of two subjects in his mind at the same moment . 
His present object , was to ascertain from this man what might be the popular feeling in regard to his client , at the place they had just left , and the scene of the events themselves . 
Dunscomb was amused at this exhibition of character , of which he had seen so much in his day , and felt disposed to follow it up . 
`` I believe you had some difficulty in choosing one of the horses , Stephen '' -- McBrain commissioned his coachman to do all the bargaining of this sort , and had never lost a cent by his confidence -- `` Pill , I think it was , that did n't bring as good a character as he might have done ? '' 
On hearing this , Dunscomb quickly turned to the columns of the journal again , and was soon reading their contents aloud to his friend ; in the meantime , Stephen set Marygoold and Dandelion in motion once more . 
It was while reading and commenting on these articles , that the carriage entered Broadway , and soon set Dunscomb down at his own door . 
The instructions left by Mr. Dunscomb with his nephew , also gave the latter some uneasiness . 
The part of his instructions which gave John Wilmeter most uneasiness , which really vexed him , related to the prisoner 's innocence or guilt . 
The two young men had been left on the ground , therefore , to take care of the interests of a client whom Dunscomb was compelled to admit was one that interested him more than any other in whose services he had ever been employed , strongly as he was disposed to fear that appearances might be deceitful . 
He saw how lively were the hopes of Tom , and how deeply his feelings were getting to be interested in the matter , while his own judgment , influenced , perhaps , by Mr. Dunscomb 's example , greatly inclined him to the worst foreboding of the result . 
Still he had an honest satisfaction in saying anything that might contribute to the gratification of Sarah 's brother , and a good opportunity now offering , he did not let it escape him . 
Here is a history for Uncle Tom , that will delight him ; for if he do not feel quite certain of Mary Monson 's innocence now , he would be delighted to learn its truth ! '' 
Among these signs , which afforded some such pleasant reading as an almanac , was one that bore this simple and reasonably intelligent inscription : `` Thomas Dunscomb , 2d floor , in front . '' 
Into those offices it has now become our duty to accompany one who seemed a little strange in that den of the profession , at the very moment he was perfectly at home . 
demanded this person , who had a decided rustic mien , though his dress had a sort of legal dye on it , speaking to one of the five or six clerks who raised their heads on the stranger 's entrance . 
`` I 'll wait till he is through , '' returned the stranger , helping himself coolly to a vacant chair , and taking his seat in the midst of dangers that might have alarmed one less familiar with the snares , and quirks , and quiddities of the law . 
Exchanging `` good morning '' with his professional friends , the last caught a glimpse of his patient visitor , whom he immediately saluted by the somewhat brief and familiar name of Timms , inviting him instantly , and with earnestness , to come within the limits of the privileged . 
`` Take a seat , Mr. Timms , '' said Dunscomb , motioning to a chair , while he resumed his own well-cushioned seat , and deliberately proceeded to light a segar , not without pressing several with a species of intelligent tenderness , between his thumb and finger . 
He was not particularly distinguished for elegance of deportment , but he was perfectly well-bred . 
Nevertheless , he did not flinch before this broad hint from vulgarity , but stood it unmoved . 
To own the truth , so large has been the inroad from the base of society , within the last five-and-twenty years , on the habits of those who once exclusively dwelt together , that he had got hardened even to thisinnovation . 
Dunscomb bore this infliction philosophically ; and well he might , for there was no remedy . 
`` So the grand jury has actually found a bill for murder and arson , my nephew writes me , '' Dunscomb observed , looking enquiringly at his companion , as if really anxious for further intelligence . 
`` Unanimously , they tell me , Mr. Dunscomb , '' answered Timms . 
It 's against the law , you know , Mr. Dunscomb , to talk of a case before a juror -- an indictable offence -- but one may make a case of a party 's general character , of his means , his miserly qualities , or his aristocracy ; and it will be hard to get hold of the talker for any of them qualities . 
`` If you love me , Timms , never repeat that diabolical phrase again , '' said Dunscomb , looking quite serious , however much there might have been of affectation in his aspect . 
Then he passed a hand across his brow , and seemed to muse . 
`` All this is very serious , '' he at length replied , `` and is really no laughing matter . 
`` Things are changed in Ameriky , Mr. Dunscomb . 
It 's a pity that so handsome and so agreeable a young lady should be hanged , Mr. Dunscomb ! '' 
Timms screwed up his mouth , passed a hand over his brow , and did not answer for near a minute . 
`` Perhaps it is right , after all , that we should understand each other on this subject , '' he then said . 
Dunscomb was youthful , in all respects , for his time of life ; and many a man has loved , and married , and become the parent of a flourishing family , who had seen all the days he had seen . 
This extraordinary demand had not been complied with , and Dunscomb had not seen any of the parties from the time he broke with his mistress . 
Once , indeed , he had been professionally consulted concerning the devises in favour of the granddaughter -- a certain Mildred Millington -- who was a second-cousin to Michael of that name , and as rich as he was poor . 
Dunscomb leaned back , stretched forth an arm , drew his cheque-book from its niche , and filled a cheque for the sum just mentioned . 
This he quietly handed to Timms , without asking for any receipt ; for , while he knew that his old student and fellow-practitioner was no more to be trusted in matters of practice than was an eel in the hand , he knew that he was scrupulously honest in matters of account . 
There was not a man in the state to whom Dunscomb would sooner confide the care of uncounted gold , or the administration of an estate , or the payment of a legacy , than this very individual ; who , he also well knew , would not scruple to set all the provisions of the law at naught , in order to obtain a verdict , when his feelings were really in the case . 
Dunscomb gave his companion a long and contemplative look . 
He saw that Timms did not entertain quite as favourable an opinion of Mary Monson as he did himself , or rather that he was fast getting to entertain ; for his own distrust originally was scarcely less than that of this hackneyed dealer with human vices . 
Thereader is not to be surprised at the intimacy which existed between Thomas Dunscomb and the half-educated semi-rude being who was associated with him as counsel in the important cause that was now soon to be tried . 
It may be questioned if Dunscomb really knew all the agencies set in motion by his coadjutor in difficult cases ; but , whether he did or not , it is quite certain that many of them were of a character not to see the light . 
It was certain , however , that while our worthy counsellor so far submitted to the force of things as frequently to close his eyes to Timms 's manœuvres , a weakness of which nearly every one is guilty who has much to do with the management of men and things , he was never known to do aught himself that was unworthy of his high standing and well-merited reputation at the bar . 
Such are the opinions of Mr. Thomas Dunscomb , at least . '' 
`` Ay , Mr. Thomas Dunscomb is an old bachelor ; and bachelors ' wives , and bachelors ' children , as we well know , are always admirably managed . 
All this was to Tom Dunscomb what he called `` nuts . '' 
Three times had he seen his old friend in this pleasant state of feeling , and three times was he chosen to be an attendant at the altar ; once in the recognised character of a groomsman , and on the other two occasions in that of a chosen friend . 
I have known him all my life , and he is , and ever has been , so intimate with uncle Tom , that I almost think him a near relation . '' 
`` And I have known him as long as I can remember , '' Anna steadily rejoined , `` and have not only a great respect , but a warm regard for him . 
`` Arson is setting fire to an inhabited house , '' she said , after a moment 's reflection ; `` and I know it from having been told its signification by Mr. Dunscomb . '' 
But Tom Dunscomb 's pleasantries had no influence on his friend 's happiness . 
Rattletrap was the singular name Tom Dunscomb had given to his country-house . 
Here Dunscomb concentrated all his out-of-the-way purchases , including ploughs that were never used , all sorts of farming utensils that were condemned to the same idleness , and such contrivances in the arts of fishing and shooting as struck his fancy ; though the lawyer never handled a rod or levelled a fowling-piece . 
But Tom Dunscomb , though he professed to despise love , had fancies of his own . 
It gave him a certain degree of pleasure to seemto have these several tastes ; and he threw away a good deal of money in purchasing these characteristic ornaments for Rattletrap . 
Dunscomb and his nephew drove out in a light vehicle of the latter 's ; and Michael Millington appeared later at the villa , bringing with him to dinner , Timms , who came on business connected with the approaching trial . 
Although Dunscomb did all he could to make the dinner gay , Rattletrap had seldom entertained a more silent company than that which sat down at its little round table on this occasion . 
`` We expected you to dinner , gentlemen , '' Dunscomb drily remarked , as he pushed the bottle to his guests . 
`` He 'll not be of much use to us next week , Timms , '' said the counsellor , coolly , filling his own and his neighbour 's glass as he spoke , with iced Madeira -- `` These capital cases demand the utmost vigilance ; more especially when popular prejudice sets in against them . '' 
It was a proof of the effect of habit that a person like Dunscomb , who was really a good man , and one who loved his fellow-creatures , could just then forget that a human life was , in some measure , dependent on the decisions of this very interview , and permit his thoughts to wander from so important an interest . 
So it was , however ; and the first topic that arose in this consultation had no reference whatever to Mary Monson or her approaching trial , though it soon led the colloquists round to her situation , as it might be without their intending it . 
`` It 's my way , Mr. Dunscomb , to try all sorts of med ` cines . 
Nevertheless , Dunscomb had a great reputation in his set , as a constitutional lawyer ; and the `` expounders '' were very apt to steal his demonstrations , without giving him credit for them . 
As before the nation , a school-boy would have carried equal weight ; but the direct , vigorous , common-sense arguments that he brought to the discussions , as well as the originality of his views , ever commanded the profound respect of the intelligent . 
For Mr. Dunscomb , however , this wily limb of the law , and skilful manager of men , had the most profound respect ; and he was very glad to draw him out still further on a subject that was getting to be of such intense interest to himself , as well as to the nation at large ; for , out of all doubt , it is thequestion , not only of the `` Hour , '' but for years to come . 
`` The threat is still used , Mr. Dunscomb ! '' 
He turned gloomily to the papers , shoved his glass aside , as if it gave him pleasure no longer , and began to read . 
For near four hours he and Timms were earnestly engaged in preparing a brief , and in otherwise getting the cause ready for trial . 
The same feeling prevails with Uncle Tom ; for I understand he has not received a cent of Miss Monson 's money , though she is liberal of it to profuseness . 
But this is a case altogether out of the common rule ; and Mr. Dunscomb works for love , and not for money . '' 
I dare say Miss Monson would have gladly given the same to uncle Tom , if he would have taken it . 
`` Mr. Dunscomb , like most elderly persons , has little taste for change . '' 
He thinks that minds of an ordinary stamp are running away with the conceit that they are on the road of progress ; and that most of our recent improvements , as they are called , are marked by empiricism . 
This ` tea-cup law , ' as he terms it , will set the women above their husbands , and create two sets of interests where there ought to be but one . '' 
`` Yes ; I am aware such is his opinion . 
He remarked , the day he brought home my mother 's settlement for the signatures , that it was the most ticklish part of his profession to prepare such papers . 
I remember one of his observations , which struck me as being very just . '' 
`` The remark of Mr. Dunscomb was this : -- He said that most family misunderstandings grew out of money ; and he thought it unwise to set it up as a bone of contention between man and wife . 
Where there was so close a union in all other matters , he thought there might safely be a community of interests in this respect . 
He saw no sufficient reason for altering the old law , which had the great merit of having been tried . '' 
`` He could hardly persuade rich fathers , and vigilant guardians , who have the interests of heiresses to look after , to subscribe to all his notions . 
I agree fully with Mr. Dunscomb , when he says that ` silken knots are too delicate to be rudely undone by dollars . ' 
`` It is wrong , and I have heard Mr. Dunscomb express great indignation at what he called the ` soft-soapiness ' of certain judges in cases of this nature . 
Dunscomb was extremely vexed ; but he was too proud to make any answer . 
He knew that he had done that which , among the mass of this nation , is a very capital mistake , in not placing before its observation an intelligible motive -- one on the level of the popular mind -- to prevent these freaks of the fancy dealing with his affairs . 
It is true , that the natural supposition would be that he worked for his fee , as did Timms , had not the contrary got out ; when he became subject to all the crude conjectures of those who ever look for the worst motives for everything . 
`` I certainly believe that a man can have affections , even at four-score -- and what is more , I believe that when the reason and judgment come in aid of the passions -- '' Dunscomb laughed outright ; nay , he even gave a little shout , his bachelor habits having rendered him more exuberant in manner than might otherwise have been the case . 
he cried , rubbing his hands , and looking round for Timms , that he might have some one to share in what he regarded as a capital joke . 
-- But , I 'll not reproach you again , since you have got so gentle and kind a creature , and one who is twenty years your junior -- '' `` Only eighteen , if you please , Mr. Dunscomb . '' 
`` He had best beware , '' said Dunscomb , his usually colourless but handsome face flushing as he spoke . 
Again Dunscomb regarded his associate intently ; something comical gleaming in his eye . 
`` Timms , you have fallen in love with our handsome client , '' he quietly remarked . 
A hearty laugh at his own wit concluded the discourse on the part of the great York counsellor ; though Timms remained some time longer with the Doctor , questioning the latter touching opinions and facts gleaned by the physician in the course of his circuit . 
`` Mr. Dunscomb , I declare ! '' 
I am glad to see you , sir ; welcome to Biberry , as is this young lady , who is your daughter , I presume , Mr. Dunscomb ? '' 
exclaimed Dunscomb , suddenly turning towards his hostess -- `` Has she a reputation for being attentive to gentlemen ? '' 
`` Yes , sir , that is true ; but this Mary Monson is in such a pickle already , that it is not easy to make hercase much worse , '' answered Mrs. Horton , a good deal frightened at the austerity of Dunscomb 's rebuke ; for his reputation was too high to render his good or bad opinion a matter of indifference to her . 
Dunscomb , who was working literally without other reward than the consciousness of doing his duty , smiled , while he frowned at this fresh instance of the absurdities into which rumour can lead its votaries . 
Bowing a little apology , he coolly lighted a segar , and proceeded . 
he quietly asked , when his segar was properly lighted . 
Still he saw that great caution must be used , Mrs. Horton choosing to affect much tenderness for her deceased neighbour 's character . 
`` He drank , ` Squire Dunscomb -- no , he guzzled , for that is the best word . 
`` You must be falling in love , Timms , to return with such an account , '' retorted Dunscomb , a cold but very sarcastic smile passing over his face . 
Dunscomb shrugged his shoulders , and his associate proceeded with his narrative . 
`` You are welcome , Mr. Dunscomb , '' said this well-disposed and gentle turnkey , as she led the way to the door that opened on the gallery of the gaol ; `` and welcome , again and again . 
`` So he has , Mr. Dunscomb ; but somehow -- I scarce know how myself -- but somehow , he does n't get along with thiscause , as well as I have known him to get along with others . 
The excitement in the county is terrible ; and Gott has had seven anonymous letters to let him know that if Mary Monson escape , his hopes from the public are gone for ever . 
I tell him not to mind such contemptible things ; but he is frightened half out of his wits . 
What makes the matter more provoking , Mary Monson might have had it all her own way , if she had been so minded ; for , at first , she was popularity itself with all the neighbours . 
Why , I thought that you were a democrat , Mr. Dunscomb ? '' 
As he was expected , his reception was natural and easy . 
After the first few words of salutation , Dunscomb took the chair he was invited to occupy , a good deal at a loss how to address a woman of his companion 's mien and general air as a culprit about to be tried for her life . 
He first attempted words of course . 
`` I see you have had a proper regard to your comforts in this miserable place , '' he remarked . 
`` Do not call it by so forbidding a name , Mr. Dunscomb , '' was the answer , given with a sorrowful , but exceedingly winning smile -- `` it is myplace of refuge . '' 
I have been a good deal abroad , Mr. Dunscomb , and can not say I perceive any great difference in men . '' 
`` Surely youwould not have me make an exhibition of myself , Mr. Dunscomb , at the window of a gaol ! '' 
It was indispensably necessary , however , that he should be explicit , and he did not shrink from his duty . 
Gently , but distinctly , and with a clearness that a far less gifted mind than that of the accused could comprehend , he now opened the subject of the approaching trial . 
Dunscomb passed a hand over his brow , as if he desired to clear his mental vision by friction of the physical , and , for a moment , sat absolutely lost in wonder . 
He scarce knew whether he was or was not dreaming . 
he exclaimed , at length . 
`` So they tell me , Mr. Dunscomb ; but as I have not escaped , or made any attempt to escape , and have returned regularly and in good season to my gaol , no one can be harmed for what I have done . 
It might be too much to say it was absolutely cunning ; but there was so much of the manœuvring of one accustomed to manage in it , that it awakened the unpleasant distrust that existed in the earlier days of his intercourse with this singular young woman , and which had now been dormant for several weeks . 
There was , however , so much of the cold polish of the upper classes in his client 's manner , that the offending expression was thrown off from the surface of her looks , as light is reflected from the ground and silvered mirror . 
`` As you say it is felony to aid a prisoner to escape , I can say neither yes nor no to this , Mr. Dunscomb , lest I betray an accomplice . 
He did not pause to analyze his feelings , notwithstanding , but rather sought to relieve his own curiosity , which had been a good deal aroused by the information just received . 
`` As you have not hesitated to tell me of what you call your ` excursions , ' Miss Monson , '' he continued , `` perhaps you will so far extend your confidence as to let me know where you go ? '' 
Will you do me the favour , Mr. Dunscomb , to accept that , which you will see has been some time in readiness to be offered . '' 
Dunscomb was too much of a professional man to feel any embarrassment at this act of justice ; but he took the letter , broke the seal , even before his client 's eyes , and held up for examination a note for a thousand dollars . 
Prepared as he was by Timms 's account for a liberal reward , this large sum took him a good deal by surprise . 
`` You have a niece , Mr. Dunscomb , '' she at length exclaimed -- `` as Marie Moulin informs me ? 
Dunscomb spoke earnestly , and at such times his manner was singularly sincere and impressive . 
It was this appearance of feeling and nature that gave him the power he possessed over juries ; and it may be said to have made no small part of his fortune . 
`` I know her precisely as she is known to your niece and Miss Updyke -- in other words , as a maid who is much esteemed by those she serves -- but , '' apparently wishing to change the discourse -- `` we are forgetting the purpose of your visit , all this time , Mr. Dunscomb . 
Dunscomb did as desired , when he opened on the details that were the object of his little journey . 
As had been the case in all his previous interviews with her , Mary Monson surprised him with the coolness with which she spoke of an issue that involved her own fate , for life or for death . 
`` I do not know , Mr. Dunscomb , '' Mary Monson suddenly said , while the subject of her trial was yet under discussion , `` that I have ever mentioned to you the fact that Mr. and Mrs. Goodwin were not happy together . 
Dunscomb did justice to his friend 's character , by relating how the matter really stood ; after which he asked permission to introduce Anna Updyke . 
Nor was Dunscomb pleased with all the expedients adopted by his client , in order to extract information from him . 
He thought they slightly indicated cunning , a quality that he might be said to abhor . 
Accustomed as he was to all the efforts of ingenuity in illustrating a principle or maintaining a proposition , he had always avoided everything like sophistry and falsehood . 
When she first made her proposal to Dunscomb to be permitted to visit his client , the wary and experienced counsellor strongly objected to the step . 
Surprised at the steadiness and warmth with which his young friend persevered in her request , Dunscomb , after obtaining the permission of her mother , and promising to take good care of his charge , was permitted to convey Anna to Biberry , in the manner related . 
Dunscomb returned to town that evening , leaving Anna Updyke behind him , ostensibly under the care of Mrs. Gott . 
The arrangement made , Dunscomb , as has already been mentioned , took his departure for town , with the understanding that he was to return the succeeding week ; the Circuit and Oyer and Terminer sitting on Monday ; and the District Attorney , Mr. Garth , having given notice to her counsel that the indictment against Mary Monson would be certainly traversed the second day of the sitting , which would be on Tuesday . 
Even Dunscomb seemed surprised at his own animation , and had the grace to change colour . 
The fact was , that he too was feeling the influence of woman , youthful , lovely , spirited , refined , and surrounded with difficulties . 
`` You mean , Stephen , '' said Dunscomb , who had regained all his sang froid , `` that Mary Monson has a bad-looking ankle , I suppose , wherein I think you miserably mistaken . 
muttered Dunscomb , arching his brows -- `` this is much of a piece with quite one-half of the knowledge that is poured into the popular mind , now-a-days . 
Although his entirely unexpected visiters were so much muffled in shawls and veils it was not possible to distinguish even the outlines of their persons , Dunscomb fancied each was youthful and handsome , the instant he cast his eyes on them . 
The result showed how well he guessed . 
Dunscomb started , and fancied there was felony , even in his hospitality . 
cried Dunscomb , dropping the hand that held the letter , as soon as he had read the first paragraph . 
As for Dunscomb , he passed his hand over his brows , and read the rest of a pretty long letter with grave attention . 
`` I have shown it to you , because I have not the remotest intention , Mr. Dunscomb , to attempt anything of the sort . 
You have a drawing-room , I take it for granted , Mr. Dunscomb ? '' 
In a minute or two she was stretched on a sofa , covered with a shawl , the door was closed on her , and Dunscomb was on his way to Mrs. McBrain 's residence , which was at some distance from his own , with Anna leaning on his arm . 
`` Of course , my dear , '' said the lawyer , as he and his beautiful companion left his own door at that late hour of the night , `` we shall see no more of Mary Monson ? '' 
I should be half in love with her myself '' -- This was exactly the state of the counsellor 's feelings towards his client , in spite of his bravado and affected discernment ; a woman 's charms often overshadowing a philosophy that is deeper even than his -- `` but for this very trait , which I find little to my taste . 
`` It is well a certain lady of our acquaintance was not of your way of thinking , '' returned Dunscomb , laughing ; for his good humour always returned when he could give his friend a rub on his matrimonial propensities , `` else would McBrain have been troubled to get his last and best . 
`` And why all this , Mr. Dunscomb ? '' 
So far from believing Mary Monson to be flying to any out-of-the-way place , I have no doubt that we shall find her fast asleep on Mr. Dunscomb 's sofa . '' 
`` You are severe on us women , Mr. Dunscomb , '' said the bride . 
`` I should have a good deal to say about this affair , '' observed Dunscomb , when his beautiful companion was done , `` did I believe that we shall find Mary Monson on our return to my house . 
For a few minutes Dunscomb conversed with his agreeable companion in his own library . 
Dunscomb thought he had seldom seen a female of higher tone of manners , or greater personal charms , than this singular and mysterious young woman appeared to be , as she curtsied her adieu . 
But Mr. Dunscomb is also retained , and will be engaged in the New York Superior Court until Wednesday , in an insurance case of great magnitude . '' 
Here Dunscomb had been duly installed , and here he early set up `` his traps , '' as he termed his flesh-brushes , sponges , briefs , and calfskin-covered volumes . 
Dunscomb , on the other hand , received his guest with urbanity , and like one who felt that the wrangling of the bar , in which , by the way , he had too much self-respect and good temper to indulge , had no necessary connection with the courtesies of private life . 
A sarcastic smile passed over the steeled countenance of the other , his appearance being literally sardonic for an instant . 
Here Williams laughed heartily at his own wit ; but Dunscomb looked grave , while his associate counsel looked angry . 
By the way , Mr. Dunscomb , I am instructed to make a proposal to you ; and as Timms is in the court , this may be as good a moment as another to present it for consideration . 
Williams maintained a countenance so unmoved that even the judicious Timms was a little shaken ; while Dunscomb , who had all the reluctance of a gentleman to believe in an act of meanness , felt outraged by his associate 's suspicions . 
A thread of smoke arose from the end of his segar ; but the volume no longer poured from between his lips . 
He was ruminating too intensely even to smoke . 
Rising suddenly , he took his hat , and motioned towards the door . 
`` Timms , we must go to the gaol , '' he said ; `` Mary Monson must be spoken to at once . '' 
It is probable Dunscomb was influenced by his companion ; for he left the house without putting his threat in execution . 
In a few minutes he and Timms were at the gaol . 
Of course , Mary Monson was notified of the visit ; and she received them with Anna Updyke , the good , gentle , considerate Anna , who was ever disposed to help the weak and to console the unhappy , at her side . 
Dunscomb had no notion that the intimacy had grown to this head ; but when he came to reflect that one of the parties was to be tried for her life next day , he was disposed to overlook the manifest indiscretion of his old favourite in being in such a place . 
Mrs. McBrain 's presence released him from all responsibility ; and he returned the warm pressure of Anna 's hand in kindness , if not with positive approbation . 
In a few clear , pointed words , Dunscomb let the motive of his visit be known . 
There was little time to throw away , and he went directly at his object , stating everything succinctly , but in the most intelligible manner . 
Nothing could have been more calm than the manner in which Mary Monson listened to his statement ; her deportment being as steady as that of one sitting in judgment herself , rather than that of a person whose own fate was involved in the issue . 
`` As respects the money , Mr. Dunscomb , '' returned the fair prisoner , in the most easy and natural manner , `` thatneed give us no concern . 
`` It may be immaterial whether I pay money under one form or another , Mr. Dunscomb ; but it can not be immaterial to my future standing , whether I am acquitted in the teeth of this Mr. Williams 's opposition , or under favour of his purchase . '' 
As for Dunscomb , he gazed at the handsome prisoner in a sort of stupefied wonder . 
The place , the hour , the business of the succeeding day , and all the accessories of the scene , had an effect to increase the confusion of his mind , and , for the moment , to call in question the fidelity of his senses . 
As he gazed at the prison-like aspect of the gallery , his eye fell on the countenance of Marie Moulin , and rested there in surprise for half a minute . 
For the first time it flashed on his mind that Mary Monson might be a lunatic , and that the defence so often set up in capital cases as to weary the common mind , might be rendered justly available in this particular instance . 
All these considerations quickly chased the rising distrust from Dunscomb 's mind , and his thoughts reverted to the business that had brought him there . 
We were created for dependence , Mr. Dunscomb ; dependence on our fathers , on our brothers , and perhaps on our husbands '' -- here there was another pause ; and the cheeks of the fair speaker flushed , while her eyes became brilliant to light . 
`` Surely , Mr. Dunscomb , a man of your integrity , character , manliness , and principles , would defend the weaker sex in the maintenance of its rights against prodigality , tyranny , and neglect ! '' 
`` You do not give to woman her proper place in society , Mr. Dunscomb , '' returned Mary Monson , haughtily ; `` your comments are those of a bachelor . 
Dunscomb turned as white as a sheet ; his hand and lip quivered ; and all desire to continue the discourse suddenly left him . 
The gentle Anna , ever attentive to his wishes and ailings , stole to his side , silently offering a glass of water . 
She had seen this agitation before , and knew there was a leaf in `` Uncle Tom 's '' history that he did not wish every vulgar eye to read . 
After a few minutes taken by Dunscomb to regain his self-command , and a brief consultation together , the two lawyers quitted the prison . 
At length , this awkward pause came to a close , and Dunscomb raised his head , the face still pale and agitated . 
His eye immediately sought that of Millington . 
`` On the ground , ` Squire , '' answered that worthy from the outer room -- `` just despatching my clerk '' -- this word he pronounced ` clurk ' instead of ` clark , ' by way of showing he knew how to spell -- `` with a message to one of my men . 
`` I believe you are more than half right , Johnson '' -- Here Dunscomb , his nephew , and Millington left the office , quite unnoticed by the two worthies , who had entered on a subject as engrossing as that of Timms 's elevation to the Senate . 
`` Where is Mr. Dunscomb ? '' 
`` He stepp 'd out with the young gentlemen , a few moments since . 
`` Perhaps I do , Mr. Dunscomb , and perhaps I do not . 
During this interval Dunscomb retired , perceiving that it was useless to urge anything on his client while weeping almost convulsively ; and aware that he had several things to do before the court met . 
Besides , he left the place quite satisfied on an allimportant point ; and he and Millington walked by themselves towards the court-house , their heads close together , and their voices reduced nearly to whispers . 
Even on this solemn occasion , when a human being was to be put on trial for her life , and she a woman , there was no departure from the naked simplicity that has been set up on the pedestal of reason , in open opposition to the ancient accessories by which the Law asserted its power . 
This was something , and he hoped it might counteract much of the man œuvring of Davis and Williams . 
`` The juror can stand aside , '' said Dunscomb , rising in his slow dignified manner . 
But Dunscomb 's manner was very different from that of his nephew . 
No one knew this better than Dunscomb , who had not been an indifferent spectator of his nephew 's course , and who fancied this a favourable moment to say a word to him , on a subject that he felt to be important . 
Dunscomb turned a vacant look at his nephew , as if his thoughts were far away , and his chin dropped on his bosom . 
Dunscomb soon recovered his self-command . 
Reaching forth an arm , he took his nephew 's hand , and said affectionately -- `` I am not often thus , Jack , as you must know , A vivid recollection of days that have long been past came freshly over me , and I believe I have been a little unmanned . 
Why , I regard youas a sort of aristocrat , Mr. Dunscomb . '' 
Here Dunscomb and his nephew burst out in a laugh ; and , for a few minutes , Mary Monson was forgotten . 
With his habits , railroad speed or lightning-line eating could find no favour ; and he and Jack got their dinner , as best they might , amid the confusion and remnants of the close of such a repast . 
A few clients were already holding their lawyers by the button ; and here and there one of the latter led the way to his room to `` settle '' some slander cause in which the plaintiff had got frightened . 
Notwithstanding these embarrassments and unpleasant accompaniments , Dunscomb and his nephew got their dinners , and were about to quit the table as McBrain entered . 
As Dunscomb was a favourite , he was not likely to escape on the present occasion ; the room being clear of all the guests but those of his own party . 
`` It is my duty and my wish , Mrs. Horton , to believe as much , and to make others believe it also , if I can , '' he answered , now anxious to prolong a discourse that a moment before he had found tiresome . 
asked Dunscomb , in one of his softest tones . 
asked the counsellor , rising , perceiving that he had no more to expect from the woman just then ; `` or is he only drunk ? 
How wonderfully Timms is getting along , Mr. Dunscomb ! '' 
`` I believe his practice increases ; and they tell me he stands next to Mr. Williams in Duke 's . '' 
`` He does , indeed ; and a ` bright particular star , ' as the poet says , has he got to be ! '' 
`` If he be a star at all , '' answered the counsellor , curling his lip , `` it must be a very particular one , indeed . 
Dunscomb gave a little friendly nod , which the landlady returned ; the former went his way with singular coolness of manner , when it is remembered that on him rested the responsibility of defending a fellow-creature from the gallows . 
What rendered this deliberation more remarkable , was the fact that he had no faith in the virtue of Mrs. Horton 's dream . 
`` If it please the court , '' said Dunscomb , rising in his deliberate way , `` before the prosecution proceeds with its witnesses , I could wish to appeal to the courtesy of the gentlemen on the other side for a list of their names . '' 
He was close , discriminating , and judicious . 
Separating the hearsay and gossip from the facts known , he at once threw the former to the winds , as matter not to be received by the jury . 
We shall give a few of his questions and their answers that have a bearing on the more material points of the trial . 
`` Is this material , Mr. Dunscomb ? '' 
The witness assented to the view of Dunscomb ; and having been so far sifted as to show he knew no more than all the rest of the neighbours , he was suffered to quit the stand . 
Dunscomb thought it might be well to throw in a hint to this effect in the present state of the case , as he now did by remarking -- `` I trust that the District Attorney will see precisely where he stands . 
`` It is certainly material , Mr. Dunscomb , that there should have been such persons as the Goodwins , and that they have disappeared since the night of the fire ; and this much is proved , unless you impeach the witnesses , '' observed the judge . 
Dunscomb 's cross-examination was very brief ; for he perceived it was useless to attempt to deny what had been thus proved . 
`` Your name , '' said Dunscomb , holding his pen over the paper . 
Dunscomb detected the contradictions ; but he had the tact to see their cause , saw that they were not material , and wisely abstained from confounding whatever of justice there was in the defenee with points that the jury had probably sufficient sagacity to see were of no great moment . 
He made no note , therefore , of these little oversights , and allowed the woman to tell her whole story uninterrupted . 
When it came to his turn to cross-examine , however , the duty of so doing was not neglected . 
`` It is scarcely necessary to continue this cross-examination , '' said Dunscomb , looking at his watch . 
There were two rooms , however , that the providence of Horton and his wife had set apart for a very different purpose . 
In the parlour of Mrs. McBrain , late Dunscomb 's Widow Updyke , as he used to call her , a little table was set in the middle of the room , at which Dunscomb himself , the doctor , his new wife and Sarah were seated , at a game of whist . 
`` I have not half liked the game , '' said the quiet Mrs. McBrain , `` but Mr. Dunscomb seemed so much bent on a rubber , I scarce knew how to refuse him . '' 
He made a clutch at the cards , laughed , then drew back , and began to mutter . 
said Dunscomb , regarding his companion , in surprise . 
The footstep of Mrs. Horton was heard in the passage ; and the extraordinary being vanished as suddenly and as stealthily as he had entered . 
The anxious mother gave a ready assent ; and McBrain went one way , while Dunscomb retired to his own room , not without stopping before his neighbour 's door , whom he heard muttering and menacing within . 
I will not rob that excellent Mr. Dunscomb of his honest triumph . 
How calm and gentlemanlike he was to-day ; yet how firm and prompt , when it became necessary to show these qualities . '' 
`` Uncle Tom is all that is good ; and we love him as we would love a parent . '' 
And Uncle Tom , Anna -- what do you think of his real opinion ? 
`` Mr. Dunscomb ! '' 
I wish it had not reached him , of all men , Mr. Timms . '' 
Dunscomb smiled as he answered -- `` The zeal of the learned gentleman runs ahead of his knowledge of the rules of evidence . 
We shall not follow Dunscomb through his long and arduous cross-examination of the sisters of Burton ; but confine ourselves to a few of the more pertinent of the interrogatories that he put to the eldest , and which were duly repeated when the other two were placed on the stand . 
`` I understand that , '' said Dunscomb , arching his brows -- `` I am called uncle , and by very charming young persons , on the same principle . 
Dunscomb smiled ; he understood how common it was for persons in this country to say they are `` well acquainted '' with this or that individual , when their whole knowledge is derived from the common tongue . 
An infinity of mischief is done by this practice ; but the ordinary American who will admit that he lives near any one , without having an acquaintance with him , if acquaintance is supposed to confer credit , is an extraordinary exception to a very general rule . 
he demanded . 
`` Is this necessary , Mr. Dunscomb ? '' 
Dunscomb felt that he had made a false step ; and he had the self-command to stop . 
he continued , bowing slightly to the judge to denote submission to hispleasure . 
`` Let the gentleman proceed -- time is precious , and a discussion would lose us more of it than to let him proceed -- go on , Mr. Dunscomb . '' 
Dunscomb understood all this perfectly , as well as the feeling which lay at its bottom , but he saw that the jury did not ; and he was forced to abandon the inquiry , as often happens on such occasions , on account of the ignorance of those to whom the testimony was addressed . 
He soon after abandoned the cross-examination of the sister of Burton ; when his wife was brought upon the stand by the prosecution . 
Dunscomb soon saw that this was the witness the defence had most reason to dread , and he used the greatest care in having every word she said written out with precision . 
This suited Dunscomb 's views altogether , for he knew he might lose an essential advantage by allowing the witness a night to arrange her thoughts , pending so searching a process . 
Dunscomb left the court-house , that night , dejected , and with no great expectation of the acquittal of his client . 
Do you two , dear , warm-hearted friends as you are , now leave me ; and when you reach the inn , send Mr. Dunscomb hither , as soon as possible . 
Not that Timms ; but noble , honest , upright Mr. Dunscomb . 
His conference with his client was long , intensely interesting , and it quite unsettled the notions he had now , for some time , entertained of her guilt . 
Dunscomb left her , at a late hour , with views entirely changed , hopes revived , and his resolution stimulated . 
He made ample entries in his brief ; nor did he lay his head on his pillow until it was very late . 
Sooth to say , this answer made a strong impression in favour of the accused , and Dunscomb saw with satisfaction that , in-so-much , he had materially gained ground . 
He was not a man to gain it , however , by dramatic airs ; he merely paused for a few moments , in order to give full effect to this advantage . 
The witness raised a hand to her brow , and appeared to meditate . 
Her reputation for taciturnity and gravity of deportment was such , that most of those in court believed she was endeavouring to recollect the past , in order to say neither more nor less than the truth . 
In point of fact , she was weighing well the effect of her words , for she was a person of extreme caution , and of great reputed probity of character . 
The reply came at length -- `` She did speak on the subject , '' she said , `` and did state something of the kind . '' 
The witness now spoke with extreme caution , seeming to feel her way among the facts , as a cat steals on its prey . 
Here Dunscomb 's face was lighted with a smile ; he evidently was encouraged . 
`` This was very wrong , '' observed his honour . 
This was a task that Dunscomb took on himself , Timms , in his judgment , being unequal to it . 
His opening was very effective , in the way of argument , though necessarily not conclusive , the case not making in favour of his client . 
Mary Monson maintained all her reserve , and Millington did not return . 
He consequently complained that the prosecution had neglected to show anything in the past life of the accused to render it probable she had been guilty of the offences with which she was charged . 
This was altogether circumstantial ; and the circumstances , as he hoped to be able to convince the jury , were of a nature that admitted of more than one construction . 
It is true , the insufficiency of that which had been produced by the prosecution might avail her much ; and on this Dunscomb saw that his hopes of an acquittal must depend ; but he could not refrain from regretting , and that bitterly , that the unmoved resolution of his client not to let her past life be known , must so much weaken his case , were she innocent , and so much fortify that of the prosecution , under the contrary supposition . 
He had spun out the little he did possess , in order to give it an appearance of importance which it did not actually bring with it , and to divert the minds of the jurors from the impression they had probably obtained , of the remains necessarily being those of Goodwin and his wife . 
It was the best possible proof , he admitted , when the circumstances were sufficiently clear and sufficiently shown to be themselves beyond controversy . 
That Mary Monson dwelt with the Goodwins , was in the house at the time of the arson and murder , if such crimes were ever committed at all ; that she escaped and all her property was saved , would of themselves amount to nothing . 
The testimony , indeed , on several of these heads , rather told in her favour than the reverse . 
The witnesses for the prosecution proved that she was in her room , beneath the roof , when the flames broke out , and was saved with difficulty . 
Would an incendiary be apt to place herself in a situation in which her own life was in danger ; and this , too , under circumstances that rendered no such measure necessary ? 
Then , all the facts connected with Mary Monson 's residence and habits told in her favour . 
Why should she remain so long at the cottage , if robbery was her only purpose ? 
The idea of her belonging to a gang that had sent her to make discoveries and to execute its plans , was preposterous ; for what hindered any of the men of that gang from committing the crimes in the most direct manner , and with the least loss of time ? 
No ; if Mary Monson were guilty , she was undoubtedly guilty on her own account ; and had been acting with the uncertain aim and hand of a woman . 
So clear were his statements , so logical his inferences , and so candid his mode of arguing , that he had produced a great effect ere he closed this branch of his subject . 
It is true , that one far more difficult remained to be met ; to answer which he now set about with fear and trembling . 
Dunscomb had very little difficulty in disposing of the flippant widow Pope ; but the Burton family gave him more trouble . 
Nevertheless , it was his duty to endeavour to get rid of them , or at least so far to weaken their testimony as to give his client the benefit of the doubt . 
He spoke of a lone and defenceless female , surrounded by strangers , being dragged to the bar on charges of such gravity ; pointed to his client where she sat enthralled by his language , with all the signs of polished refinement on her dress , person , and manners ; delicate , feminine , and beautiful ; and asked if any one , who had the soul and feelings of a man , could believe that such a being had committed the crimes imputed to Mary Monson . 
I have mentioned this distrust to Mr. Dunscomb , and he cross-examined in reference to this fact ; though nothing very satisfactory was extracted . 
`` Before the court pronounces sentence , Mr. Dunscomb , '' observed that functionary , `` it will cheerfully hear anything you may have to offer in behalf of the prisoner , or it will hear the prisoner herself . 
`` In my judgment , may it please your honour , we shall have to go to the executive , and it were , perhaps , better to get all the most revolting parts of the case over , while the accused -- '' `` Convicted , Mr. Dunscomb -- it is a distinction painful to make , but one that can not now be avoided . '' 
`` What say you , Mr. Dunscomb -- shall there be delay , or shall I sentence ? '' 
`` It may be well to caution your client , Mr. Dunscomb , against hasty and indiscreet admissions . 
Dunscomb saw that his honour was offended , and much in earnest . 
He was offended himself , and half disposed to throw up his brief ; but he felt for the situation of a lovely and defenceless woman . 
Then his doubts touching his client 's sanity began to take the character of certainty ; and he saw how odious it would be to abandon one so afflicted in her emergency . 
He hinted his suspicion to the court ; but was told that the fact , under all the circumstances of the case , was one properly for the jury . 
`` What did you say on that occasion '' -- looking at his notes of the other trial , `` touching the sex of the persons to whom those skeletons were thought to have belonged ? '' 
In the first place , he was adroitly offered to the jury , as the professional man who had , from the first , given it as his opinion that both the skeletons were those of females ; and this in the face of all the collected wisdom of Duke 's county ; an opinion that was now rendered so probable as almost to amount to certainty . 
He -LRB- Dunscomb -RRB- believed most firmly that the remains were those of Dorothy Goodwin and the German woman who was missing . 
demanded Williams , with one of those demoniacal sneers of his , by means of which he sometimes carried off a verdict . 
He had been successful , notwithstanding his original disappointment , and had ascertained all about the hitherto mysterious prisoner of the Biberry gaol . 
Of her qualified insanity he did not entertain a doubt ; though it was a madness so concealed by the blandishments of education and the graces of a refined woman , that few saw it , and fewer still wished to believe it true . 
It was this circumstance that rendered it so difficult to take any steps to deprive her of its control ; though Dunscomb had seen enough , in the course of the recent trial , to satisfy him that such a measure ought to be resorted to in the interest of her own character . 
Dunscomb explained to him the situation of his handsome client , without adverting to the state of her mind ; when the attorney at once caught at the chances of a divorce . 
Dunscomb retained much of his original tenderness for Mildred , the grandmother of his guest of that name , and he granted her descendant every indulgence she could ask . 
`` Exactly so , Mr. Dunscomb . '' 
`` You needs must , Mr. Dunscomb -- I do not comprehend you . 
`` Then followed the serious consequences which involved you in so many fearful dangers -- '' `` True , '' interrupted the lady , laying her small , gloved hand hastily on his arm -- `` very true , dear Mr. Dunscomb ; but how cleverly I contrived to escape them all ! 
Dunscomb turned , astonished , to his companion , and stared her in the face . 
He has told Mildred , and he has told Timms , that nuptial knots tied in one community , can not be so readily unloosed in another , as many imagine ; and that there must , at least , be good faith -- the animus revertendi -- in the change of residence that usually precedes the application . 
Although as much opposed as Dunscomb to the course she was taking , he did not shrink from his duties as a relative ; and it is understood that his house is Mildred 's home when in town . 
Dunscomb announced his intention to retire from practice at the end of a twelvemonth , the morning that Michael and Sarah were married . 
Dunscomb was there , as were Millington and his wife ; Dr. and Mrs. McBrain , of course , and two or three other relations on the side of the bride 's father , besides Mildred . 
Dunscomb and his nephew drove over from Rattletrap , early in the morning , even while the dew was glittering on the meadows , and Millington and his wife met them at a cross-road , less than a mile from McBrain 's country-house . 
Dunscomb started ; turned his quick glance on her face , where he read all her contrition and regrets . 
It had an effect , however , and Dunscomb coming in aid of his niece , this singular woman was gradually drawn from the exaggerated notions she had ever entertained of herself and her rights to the contemplation of her duties , as they are exercised in humility . 
If there were no other evidence of the divine origin of the rules of conduct taught by the Redeemer than the profound knowledge of the human heart , that is so closely connected with the great lessons in humility everywhere given in his teachings , we conceive it would be sufficient in itself to establish their claim to our reverence . 
No one knew this better than Dunscomb ; and he so directed the reading , thoughts and feelings of his interesting charge , as to produce an early and a very sensible change on her character . 
Dunscomb had several interviews with the vicomte -- no-vicomte -- whom he found a much more agreeable person than he had been prepared to meet , though certainly addicted to snuff . 
He was made acquainted with the mental hallucinations of his wife as well as with the fact of their being hereditary , when a great change came over the spirit of his dream ! 
He had married to perpetuate the family de Larocheforte , but he had no fancy for a race of madmen . 
Dunscomb found him very reasonable , in consequence , and an arrangement was soon made , under the advice of this able counsellor , by means of which Mildred virtually became her own mistress . 
M. de Larocheforte accepted an ample provision from the estate , and willingly returned to Europe , a part of the world that is much more agreeable , usually , to men of his class than our own `` happy country . '' 
His absence has proved a great assistance to those who have assumed the care of Mildred 's mental state . 
