My apprehension that such might be its fate , was excited by hearing , the very evening after I had completed this compilation from the notes of Mr. Clenning , a critical dialogue between two old , spectacled , female , novel-reading , tea-drinking cronies , as they discussed the merits of a recently published novel over their evening tea . 
If the reader still inquire , why adventures , like these of Mr. Clenning , have not found their way to the Atlantic country before , I answer , that many of these personages , who have encountered so many moving accidents by flood and field , have come to the stillness and repose of our woods , in many instances , to avoid the annoyance of scribblers , and newspapers , and biographers , in the hope that they might here live unnoticed , and die in peace , without caricature , puff , or eulogy . 
I ought also to advertise the reader , that the complimentary views of Mr. Clenning 's character are found to be in the hand writing of another person , supposed to be that of Mrs. Clenning . 
The Captain was a native of Plattsburg , had known Mr. Clenning , and , on a particular occasion , had received favours from him , which he had never forgotten . 
Mr. Clenning learned , that there were at least a dozen applications for this single birth of steward , all accompanied by certificates and recommendations of uncles and cousins , with testimonials of uncommon cleverness and education . 
Most of the people entertained precisely the same apprehensions with Mr. Clenning , touching the reception he would probably receive from the father of his wife . 
Almost every one repeated that it was a shame that such people should not be supplied with money , whether the loaners ever recovered it from Mr. Wellman or not . 
With this opportune offering of benevolence , Mr. Clenning hastened home to his disconsolate wife and faithful servant . 
`` Courage , '' said he , `` my dear Augusta . 
Their bill was paid . 
Mr. Clenning and his wife were soon modestly , but respectably , provided with all that was necessary for propriety of appearance , conformable to their uncertain expectations . 
He had much feared the effect of the return to society upon the tastes and wishes of his wife . 
It gave him inexpressible satisfaction , to observe that she was considerate ; and in all her arrangements , rather looked to their present means , than to the inclinations inspired by her former condition . 
`` Now , '' said he , as he made this discovery , `` Augusta , you have done that in society , which I had thought impossible : you have inspired me with increasing love and admiration , in discovering that you are as considerate and wise , as you were always lovely . '' 
The beauty and expectations of his wife gave them an easy and immediate introduction to the best society in that place and vicinity . 
Well and deeply was this maxim engraved on the minds of Mr. Clenning and his wife , that the `` true is the only beautiful . '' 
As respected the general society of the colony , all the elements of bitterness , scandal , heart-burning , mutual rivalry , jealousy , and distrust , that are so apt to have an abundant existence in small , detached , and newly formed societies , existed here in combinations and forms , and to an extent that would have been ludicrous and amusing , if the predominance of evil in the picture had not thrown over it the aspect of disgust . 
Already had Mr. Clenning touched gently upon his wish to fix his family finally in his own native country . 
He often spoke of it with all the earnest feeling of instinctive patriotism . 
So often , and so eloquently had he compared his own great and good country with all others , that he made a firm convert of Rescue to his own predilections ; and in her view , the United States were the home of all that is pleasant and desirable . 
He did by no means fully enter into the sanguine confidence of his wife , that her father would receive them kindly . 
He thought it probable that his pride , if not his affection , might induce him to allow his daughter a pittance of his wealth , on condition of their agreeing to settle in America , where he might not be reminded of what he would doubtless deem his daughter 's misalliance and disgrace . 
Hence his own hopes and dreamings of the future , constantly rested in America . 
A thousand circumstances conspired to make them both anxious to leave New Holland . 
Nameless circumstances of disgust were created constantly for him in the deportment of the people towards his wife , whom they affected , even to his face , to pity as a ruined heiress . 
They , of course , took a passage in the first packet ship that sailed for England ; and were traversing the immense wastes of ocean for that country . 
It gave a succinct , but clear and impressive account of the manner in which Mr. Clenning had found his daughter . 
It presented an affecting , because a just and true account of the condition from which he had rescued her . 
It proceeded , with guarded delicacy , to unfold the various motives and circumstances that led to their union . 
It dwelt upon the honour and decorum of her husband , before their union ; and of his entire devotedness to her comfort and happiness , during all their residence together . 
It generously exonerated him from having originated the project of marriage . 
With equal delicacy and tenderness , she described the progress of affection and gratitude , in view of his deportment towards her . 
She stated , that they had been subsequently united by the laws of the country , and with all the solemnities of religion , and that in whatever light her father might choose to view him , in the sight of heaven and earth , and by all laws , human and divine , he was the true and lawful husband of her legal duties and obligations , as well as those of her affection and her heart . 
Mr. Clenning replied , that this would not pass with him ; and if his master was at home , he had business of importance with him and must see him . 
He had the satisfaction to remark , that his erect and stern manner induced the servant to survey him again . 
He had been used to seeing the poor , at once obsequious and timid . 
He appeared to think , that there must be more in this applicant than showed externally . 
This peremptory manner associated in his thoughts with concealed importance , and he showed him in with some degree of deference , observing that perhaps he was mistaken , and he would inquire if his master was about the house . 
He followed this servant along a corridor of patrician grandeur . 
The frowning portraits of the great ancestors seemed to upbraid the humble stranger for his unhallowed alliance with their blood , as they looked at him from their walls . 
Notwithstanding the change wrought by six years , Mr. Clenning instantly recognized his countenance , and had the satisfaction to perceive , that his was as well remembered , though Mr. Wellman affected not to know him . 
He was received with a cold and measured civility , and was asked his commands . 
Mr. Clenning swallowed the first words that arose to his tongue . 
Mr. Wellman visibly enjoyed his embarrassment and hesitation , little divining the motive from which it arose . 
Mr. Clenning replied , that she had ; and proceeded to a detail of the prominent incidents of their residence together on the island . 
Mr. Clenning was surprised one evening on his return from his daily toil , to find in their humble apartment a young gentleman apparently of the age of twenty-five , with a fine person , superbly dressed , and in his whole appearance and bearing , discovering to the most superficial glance , that he was of high rank and one of the favourites of fortune . 
He saw , too , that his wife had been in tears . 
The stranger evidently had studied to preserve the insolent indifference , proper to carry him through his purpose ; which was , against the remonstrances of Augusta , to see and converse with her husband . 
Mr. Clenning remembered in a moment , that he had heard his wife mention the name a hundred times , and speak of him as the most interesting and favoured of her admirers . 
He was titled , rich , accomplished , and of extensive country influence . 
Mr. Wellman , however , had formerly espoused a different interest ; and to a man rich , proud , wilful , and devoted inflexibly to his opinions , this difference had proved a barrier in the way of accepting him as a favoured lover for his daughter . 
He proceeded with dissembled calmness , to announce the purport of his visit , very adroitly prefacing his speech with the kindest and most generous intentions towards Mr. Clenning , and hoping that in the issue he should make it appear that he had his interests in view , as well as those of all the parties concerned . 
The comparison which flashed across Mr. Clenning 's mind , in reference to the difference of their personal appearance in the eye of Augusta , was certainly calculated to excite no small jealousy and heart burning . 
He surveyed him , however , with a cool sternness , which clearly disconcerted the young nobleman exceedingly , and begged him to be prompt in disclosing his statements . 
It was neither more not less than to pay over to Mr. Clenning a considerable sum of money , on condition that he would take the babe and embark with it for America . 
His passage he said should be paid ; and if even a greater sum than he had offered was necessary , he requested him to name such an amount as would be satisfactory . 
He remarked that on those terms Augusta would be received and owned by her father . 
He proceeded with a great degree of acuteness and even eloquence to demonstrate that it was impossible either of the parties could be supposed to be happy , or to have any grounds of hoping to be so hereafter , as affairs then stood : this arrangement would be preferable in every point of view to all concerned . 
To Mr. Clenning it would bring comparative opulence and consequent consideration in his own country . 
It would restore his wife , he added , with some hesitation , to her own walk and condition in life , and to the bosom , the house , and wealth of the most affectionate of fathers . 
He concluded , by remarking , that it was easy to talk of affection , but that it had never been found capable of sustaining the pinching influence of poverty ; and that he hoped Mrs. Clenning would not fail to see that the only real proof which her husband could give her of disinterested regard , was to promote her real interest , more especially as at the same time he advanced his own . 
He earnestly hoped that she would see in its true light any hesitancy on the part of Mr. Clenning , to comply with proposals so indispensable to her happiness . 
Tears started to her eyes , but her countenance glowed with indignation , and she looked to her husband to reply . 
`` You see , sir , '' said Mr. Clenning to the noble visiter , `` how matters are here . 
Mr. Clenning held the candle for him to the street door . 
He there muttered something about his dignity , and Mr. Clenning 's unworthiness of his chastisement . 
The latter replied , `` My lord , if that is your title , should you ever see fit to visit my family again in this way , I shall practise more humility than your lordship ; and shall find you worthy of a most thorough correction ; and with that information , I kiss your lordship 's hands . '' 
Mr. Clenning , who had formerly felt rather self-righteous in comparing his views with those of his wife , now was obliged to confess to himself , that the drudgery of his occupation , and his confinement away from his family , excited more impatience than he saw in her . 
But when he did at last drop his pen , he hied home with the eagerness of one who felt that he was going to impart joy , and receive it . 
Rescue 's wild , but kind eye , sparkled with delight . 
Mr. Clenning changed the conversation , and spoke of the range , the noble forests , the independence , abundance and comfort of his native country , and assured Rescue that when they should once be there , she would have no more reason to regret their island . 
Their impatience to get there , induced Mr. Clenning to continue his efforts to find a passage partly on credit . 
But , he had been disappointed so often , and had experienced so much humiliation in the case , that he only continued the pursuit with a kind of desperate purpose to submit to any rebuff , in order to be in the way of the remotest chance for such a desirable event . 
He met with an American captain of quick and tender feelings , who heard his little story with a very different air from the icy indifference with which it had been received in all cases before . 
He became interested in the narrative ; and when Mr. Clenning expressed his fears that he should tire him by too much detail , he begged him to be particular , and his heart evidently entered into the story . 
At some passages he turned away to hide his emotion . 
`` I am part owner of the ship . 
You shall not experience the humiliation of a steerage passage . 
This language was so utterly unlike what he commonly heard in such cases , that Mr. Clenning watched his countenance , to see if he was not dealing out some of that contemptible and unmeaning language of falsehood and deception , with which the worthless sometimes try to raise the hopes of the inexperienced in such cases , merely to disappoint them . 
Mr. Clenning hurried home with the joyful tidings to his family , that they must immediately commence their preparations for a voyage to New York . 
Their little , dark apartment was converted in a moment to a scene of jubilee . 
His wife embraced him , declaring , that she longed to put her foot on the soil of freedom and independence ; and that she felt she was born to be a republican . 
Mr. Clenning , meanwhile , had been accustomed to go regularly to the post-office , expecting , yet dreading to hear from his disappointed friend in New Holland , and possibly entertaining the latent hope that Augusta 's father might yet relent and do something for them . 
We will not believe that there are many who can not imagine how Mr. Clenning 's heart danced for joy , during his progress home from the post office . 
Imagine him then opening the letter , and spreading the bills before his wife and Rescue , who by this time understood but too well by the want of them , the magic efficacy of these powerful slips of paper . 
Get him , make glad too much . '' 
Mr. Clenning asked her if she did not now believe that there were some good white people . 
There can be no doubt that Mr. Clenning felt a particular pride in repairing to the excellent and noble-minded captain , and paying the passage for his family in advance . 
The captain seemed even reluctant to take the money , informing him that this unknown benefactor had deprived him of the pleasure of the generous action which he contemplated ; but he added , that if Mr. Clenning should resolve , as he had expressed himself , to purchase a farm after his arrival in the United States , he would add to what might remain to him after the passage , the loan of a sufficient sum to enable him to make his proposed purchase . 
Their farewell to London was one in which pleasure and pain were mixed . 
They certainly left their mean and dark apartment with pleasure . 
There were no pleasant associations to detain her . 
But it was painful to leave those kind , though humble friends , who really cherished them . 
She took an impressive leave of her kind neighbours who accompanied her to the ship . 
The parting for a voyage over the trackless and dangerous deep , is always an affecting spectacle . 
Mr. Clenning and his wife quietly seated themselves on the deck , with Rescue holding the hand of her little charge , close beside them , and calmly watched the feverish and tumultuous spectacle of leave-taking . 
From familiarity , their manners gradually advanced to rudeness , and they attempted to play the amiable , with an insolence and confidence resulting from their ignorance and vanity , which induced Mr. Clenning one evening to announce to one of them , when no person was present , save themselves and the captain , that if ever he should have the audacity to conduct in the same way towards Mrs. Clenning a second time , he would have the honour of administering the sea bath to him , by throwing him overboard . 
With him Mr. Clenning passed many pleasant hours on the voyage , and thus contracted a friendship which he afterwards found of essential service to him . 
The other was a sample of that poor and spoiled race of young men , of which our country annually imports so many ; who return from abroad to annoy the inhabitants of the cities with the intolerable garrulity of travelled coxcombs , and to learn the people in the country how trifling , vain , and contemptible a young man may become , from the very circumstance of having extended his sphere of observation . 
In the society of the captain , and his young travelled friend , Mr. Clenning lost sight for a time of his anxieties . 
But , as it ought to be , all his home and deep felt enjoyments were in the privacy of his little state room , into which the father and mother , the little Augusta and Rescue , could just crowd . 
Mr. Clenning saw affection and hope written in letters of gold on the polished brow of his wife , and was satisfied that in love for him , she was compensated for all the privations which it had brought upon her . 
Augusta grew in beauty , strength , and endearment . 
Mr. Clenning had talked so much of the glorious freedom and independence of his country , and had drawn such delightful contrasts in its favour , compared with England , and they had so often meditated upon its green fields , compared with the gloomy brick walls and dark alleys of London , that when they came in view of the delightful shores of Long Island , and the beautiful environs of New York , Mrs. Clenning viewed the scenery with unsated admiration . 
Besides , circumstances soon convinced Mr. Clenning , that all these painful feelings of obscurity and neglect existed alone in his mind ; and that a very different train of thought from that , which he had so gloomily imagined , had been passing in hers . 
Perfectly secure in the sense of his protection , and satisfied in the singleness of her affection for him , her thoughts had been expatiating in the new scene before her , with all the eagerness of curiosity . 
Rescue bounded along with little Augusta in her arms , exulting in the thought , that in a few days more she should be in the woods . 
How certain it is , that most of our miseries are of our own creation ! 
All this inward torture of ambition and pining through want of consequence , had been the single heritage of Mr. Clenning , who imagined the while , that disinterested feeling for another had originated the whole . 
The kind captain , true to all he had promised , proffered endorsement to the amount of a thousand dollars , of which Mr. Clenning assured him he would thankfully avail himself , whenever he could find in the country such a place as he should like to purchase . 
The other passengers made their cold congés , and were dispersing in their coaches to the hotels , or their different residences . 
Mr. Clenning and his wife , having fixed upon the hotel where they proposed to stay , were traversing the streets with that peculiar kind of inspection , which always designates strangers to citizens . 
In their way to the hotel , they most fortunately stumbled upon the minister of Mr. Clenning 's native village . 
It was with inexpressible delight he heard that his father 's family were all in health . 
The minister was a dignified and respectable man . 
He was in the city , with two of his church officers , in the discharge of his ecclesiastical duties . 
Mr. Clenning had always been a favourite with him , and he now enjoyed this happy meeting from a variety of considerations . 
Augusta saw , in a moment , that the minister was a gentleman of amiable and polished manners , while her grace and sweetness struck him in such a way , as immediately to produce that winning deference and respect , which are so pleasant to those who have been born and reared in good society . 
This would happily fill up the hours of their residence together in the city , and of their journey , which , they agreed , should also be together , to Mr. Clenning 's place of nativity . 
Mr. Clenning remarked , with new sensibility , that his wife , notwithstanding all the depressing anxieties that must crowd on her mind in relation to the future , had native enthusiasm , genius , and admiration for natural beauty and grandeur . 
Mr. Clenning looked at the enthusiastic and delighted contemplation of his wife as they were propelled rapidly up this noble stream , and especially as they passed West Point . 
thought he , this world was made for Cæsar , and not for the unhappy fortune-stinted beings who have cultivated the endowment of keen sensibilities , and those vivid perceptions , which equally expand with pleasure and shrink with pain , and who have neither money , nor that kind of fame which brings the value of money . 
Much as they talked of spiritual mindedness , and having the world , as they phrased it , under their feet , and their affections simply on things above , could they have been informed what offers Mr. Clenning had slighted to retain this incumbrance , their contempt no doubt would have been greater still . 
In short , they were saints at particular times and places ; and during the six days for work and calculation , they were shrewd , worldly wise men , who valued a man by his ready money , and by his credit in bank . 
The rural and charming ride through the country to Mr. Clenning 's native village , caused the eyes of Rescue to sparkle with something of their wonted brightness when in her native island . 
At length , from afar , the eye of Mr. Clenning caught the spire of Whitehall , and the beautiful sleeping waters of his native lake . 
How his heart bounded at the view ! 
`` There , '' said he , `` dear Augusta , is the humble home where I was born . 
You will not think the less of me because you will find that I first saw the light in a cottage . 
But after all , when Mr. Clenning stopped at the paternal door , he was obliged to pay the tribute to poor human nature . 
He was compelled to admit , that unequal alliances are `` a sore evil under the sun . '' 
He was constrained to allow the wisdom and justice of that order of society , which brings equals together , and tends to raise difficulties in the way of incompatible and unequal unions . 
He knew that , not an hour after their arrival would elapse ; the joyful greetings would be scarcely past ; the hair-breadth escapes only touched upon , before there would be mental calculations within , touching the difficulty of lodging , feeding and accommodating , such an additional number of people in their family . 
The family poured upon them , and the good father and mother embraced their lost , and returned son , in the fullness of unrestrained parental affection . 
All parties had had time to breathe , and settle their estimate of Mr. Clenning 's lady . 
Mr. Clenning soon after their arrival , had a conversation with his mother upon the subject . 
She admitted , that if beauty were the first point in a wife , her son had made an admirable choice . 
Mr. Clenning was aware , that as soon as things should have found their ancient bearings in the family , and the first flow of kind feeling , created by his return should have worn away , and the thoughts of the family should have resumed their ancient channel , they would begin to manifest a disposition to get rid of him , as a burden upon them . 
He knew too , that the less a man needs kindness and sustenance , the more ready people are to bestow it upon him , and the reverse . 
Mr. Clenning wished his interest with the post-mastergeneral . 
This little great man received him as a Mandarin of the blue button , and drew himself up in his chair . 
Mr. Clenning 's voice clung to his jaws . 
The lion to Mr. Clenning , instantly became a spaniel to this mover of the sovereign people . 
So , requesting Mr. Clenning to remain , they retired and were closeted . 
When he returned , the member was a great man again , and resumed the question , What were Mr. Clenning 's pretensions ? 
The latter suggested that he was a good penman , accountant and so forth ; the only qualifications which he supposed important , after integrity , in a post-master . 
He showed a beautiful specimen of his penmanship . 
replied the great man , `` every one is a scholar in these times . 
Mr. Clenning replied , that he respected himself and the people too much , to think of any thing of the kind . 
`` Then , sir , you are not the man for a post-master . 
The question finally turned upon his capability at writing , and he showed Mr. Clenning a most abusive electioneering article in the newspaper , traducing an important public functionary , and lauding a candidate intended to supplant him . 
Mr. Clenning answered , that he saw nothing difficult in writing it , for that of all writing , such kind of abuse was the easiest ; and that a wooden writen might be easily invented , to utter as good ; but that a man , who was either an honest man or a gentleman , could never condescend to use such language for any person , or with any inducement . 
Mr. Clenning , equally in disappointment and disgust , turned away . 
He passed the beautiful place , which he described , on his way back again . 
Its bignonias and honey-suckles were unfolded in all their splendour , and the gentle ripples of the lake lulled at the foot of the garden . 
He had been flattered that the great man would help him to this sweet place , and that he would create an agreeable surprise for his wife , by imparting the good news in the first instance himself . 
He was not a little piqued by the reference of the congressman to him , and he probably served Mr. Clenning from motives compounded partly of temper , and partly of benevolence . 
The minister was fourth cousin to Mr. C. of New York , and was allowed the privilege of intimacy with that distinguished man . 
In a few days , Mr. Clenning received an answer from him , that he would exert his influence with the postmaster general . 
As soon as the mail could return from Washington the appointment arrived . 
Mr. Clenning 's family took a pew , made themselves as fine as they could , and made their entré at church the first Sabbath after this appointment . 
When a strange family , like that of Mr. Clenning 's enters , there is such a consentaneous movement of heads , such a rustling of gowns , such a rattling of the little falling trap tables , so conveniently devised either as an asylum for the head for profound meditation or a profound nap ! 
Mr. Clenning was ready for this solemn affair in good season , and begged Augusta to be also in season . 
Augusta blushed , became a little nervous , and probably thought her husband , for that time , in bad temper , but did not nevertheless remit adding one touch of finish to her own dress , and that of her beautiful and fairy-like daughter . 
Mr. Clenning , who knew the estimate of the audience , could have sunk to the earth to avoid observation . 
Mr. Clenning had returned to the society of his native village , under circumstances which naturally raised him from the place occupied by his father 's family . 
It was in vain by humility , and gentleness , and courtesy to them , that he endeavoured to keep this truth out of sight . 
He soon found , that in discussing him and his family , his foes were those of his own household . 
A large proportion of the villagers soon found him , as they said , insupportably proud , and that he felt himself rising too rapidly in his business . 
A defeated expectant of the place of postmaster started a party against him . 
A paper was soon handed round for subscribers to a memorial to the postmaster general , to dismiss him for maladministration . 
Mr. Clenning had often allayed the indignant feelings of his wife , by predicting that it would be so , and that like the atmosphere after the passing thunder-cloud , the air would be more pure and calm afterwards ; and that if they persisted in their moderation , they would ultimately achieve the most glorious and difficult of all triumphs , the triumph over envy . 
Mr. Clenning was weary of wandering ; but he was more weary of the pitiful slander , the petty contentions , and everlasting squabbles , of the villagers . 
His thoughts expatiated in the deep beechen forests , or wandered over the flowery expanse of the prairies . 
A feeling which he should have repressed , not exactly misanthropy , but something too near like it , impelled him to wish for more solitude and a retirement from the crowded haunts of men . 
He had probably associated in his mind the idea of more innocence and freshness in the heart of man in those countries , with the virgin freshness of the soil ; an association , which after-experience convinced him had originated in a mistaken opinion . 
Fancy had spread over the picture of a residence there , all the beauty and brightness of her own creations . 
Added to this , it was the country to which the physicians advised him to take his wife , for her health . 
This circumstance fixed his purpose , and he mentioned his feelings and views upon the subject to her . 
The kindness of his motive affected her , but she was unwilling to part with him for the time which a journey to look at the country would require . 
She was entirely willing to move there whenever he saw fit to go ; and she insisted , in the language of the affectionate Ruth , `` when and where thou goest , I will go , '' and we will make the journey together . 
It was not until after long and almost painful reasonings , and statings of the necessity of the case , that he could induce her to consent to his going before , to make a purchase , should he be pleased , and prepare a place for her reception . 
It was one of the hardest struggles he had ever encountered , to leave his wife , still feeble and delicate , with Augusta clinging to her , and crying from sympathy , and the little Arthur in her arms . 
Poor fellows , thought Mr. Clenning , you will soon be growling at each other , like hungry dogs quarreling for a single bone . 
Mr. Clenning 's heart was gladdened to see the health of his wife improving every day , and her mind invigorated by convalescence , exercise , and the delightful weather of this season , regained its elasticity and cheerfulness . 
Upon their arrival , Mr. Clenning was gratified to find that his wife and Rescue were as much struck with the beauty of the spot he had chosen , as he had been . 
Here then this family was placed in the midst of a new order of things , in the skirt of a noble forest of cotton wood , sycamores , and elms , on the margin of a plain , still covered with a waste of flowers , as rich , as primitive , and as charming as that of Mamre . 
Could any thing have added to Mr. Clenning 's affection for his wife , it would have been to see her , as he did , study her new duties , as the head of a farmer 's establishment . 
In performing these duties , she was compelled to combat the wishes both of her husband and Rescue . 
Near Mr. Clenning were two thousand acres for sale . 
He had a distant hope that he should yet come to his wife 's rights , when he intended to purchase this , and settle all his relations around him , and become to them a sustaining Mordecai , speaking peace , and doing good to all his race . 
Mr. Clenning paid for his land , and stocked it well in comparison with his neighbours . 
With such a beginning , he bade fair soon to become one of the best farmers in the vicinity . 
A large field was shortly enclosed , and the land being perfectly smooth , without a tree or shrub , it was at once ready for the plough . 
Just in the edge of the prairie , and under the shade of peccans , sycamores , elms , and horse-chesnuts , Mr. Clenning built his log house . 
But if the reader has never been in a respectable building of this kind , he has , I dare say , very little idea what a tight , snug , and comfortable house this is . 
They see from their mother earth -- `` Life 's blessings grow , '' The reader may perhaps think that Mr. Clenning has praised his wife too much . 
His extenuation , is that from what he hears he is led to believe , that every one is not as fortunate as himself , with regard to this point ; and as he is so happy , and in such good temper with every living thing , as to be desirous of general happiness , he is willing that the world should have the benefit of his wife 's example . 
That wives should be good is the more necessary , as , after all , according to the good old saw , `` A man must ask his wife 's leave to thrive . '' 
Mr. Clenning often consults atlasses , and globes , and navigators , and is not a little disturbed with Symmes ' hole at the poles . 
His wife tells him , that he must have the wandering lump in his skull ; but that she has surveyed their beautiful fields , springing orchards , the grand `` truckpatch '' of a garden , the chickens , turkies , and ducks , so often , and has enjoyed such home-felt , and undisturbed happiness here , as to prevent her mind from dwelling for a moment upon the possibility of finding a better conntry or of making a remove , before the final one . 
There is a part of this story , which , as it comes in the shape of a confession from Mr. Clenning , the reader must be lenient in judging . 
Mr. Clenning , ever since his marriage , had concealed at the bottom of his heart an ardent desire to become a great man , and reflect back upon his wife something of that unborrowed splendour , which she eclipsed on his account . 
Prompted by this feeling , as soon as he became easy in his circumstances , he commenced the career of popularity . 
He made himself as thick as he could at all the common places of meeting in the country , and the county towns ; and he studied the little arts of ingratiating himself in the good opinion of the people , as closely as possible . 
He squeezed the good farmers ' hands , and praised their chubby sons and daughters as far as he dared , without betraying his motive , and inquired how their cattle thrived , and how they managed their crops , and listened to the details of their affairs , apparently with great interest , at the same time that all his thoughts were a hundred miles from the matter . 
Economy was the burden of all his conversations with them , which were spiced with accounts of the extravagance and court airs at Washington . 
He took care occasionally to insinuate , that though every thing was going on wrong now , it would be the easiest thing in the world to have affairs straight , if they would have the discretion to send a certain person there . 
The reader will acknowledge that this has been to some purpose , when he is informed , that Mr. Clenning has been successively member of assembly , judge of the county court , bridge and canal commissioner , and speech drafter , besides having delivered two fourth of July orations , and made six stump speeches . 
This person 's wealth is to Mr. Clenning 's in the proportion of six to one . 
He is six feet five inches tall , and wears rich broad-cloth , cut in the Quaker fashion , to hide under this meek and modest garb avarice enough to make a Gripus , and ambition enough for a Napoleon . 
This man stood the poll against Mr. Clenning , and he knew all that Mr. Clenning knew about playing the amiable , and a few things more . 
He understood the state of the pulse of the country , and how to calculate his almanac to its meridian . 
He beat Mr. Clenning without succeeding himself ; and , as happened to the two beasts quarrelling for the royalty , a third person , taking advantage of the disagreement , came in between them , and carried the election . 
In the remote and peaceful log house of Mr. Clenning , on the plains of Illinois , and under the shade of the nature-planted elms , a letter was received from Grosvenor-square , London , and these were the electrifying contents : Sir , -- It has become my duty , as administrator on the estates of the late Augustus Wellman , to notify you , that his daughter , your lady , has become sole heir to all his estates , real and personal . 
The reader will find little difficulty in conceiving all that happened in Mr. Clenning 's dwelling on the arrival of this overwhelming intelligence . 
Mrs. Clenning advocated the sending an agent ; but it was finally concluded that they owed it to their children that Mr. Clenning should attend to the business himself . 
But , to be short , Mr. Clenning parted once more from his wife , and it was like being torn asunder , and away he went over the Atlantic safely , was put into full and legal possession of his property , and had ample leisure to observe what a different personage he now was from the Arthur Clenning who had formerly landed at Liverpool . 
He was introduced at court , kissed the king 's hand , and was often assured , that no man could be so stupid , while inheriting such beautiful estates in England , as to think of returning to live in wild woods in the interior of America . 
said Mr. Clenning . 
And now , if Mr. Clenning chooses to stand again for congress , let his competitors , the old Quaker among the rest , look to it . 
He can knock open a barrel of whiskey , as easily as any of them , although he has some scruples and doubts whether he shall take that method of getting along . 
The truth is , he went to Washington to inspect the premises , by way of foretaste : On his return he told his wife , that it was an everlasting and long-winded establishment ; that , as he was never strong at the lungs , it actually made him short breathed , to hear a famous speaker spout . 
He heard the moving speeches , that moved all the audience , but toadeaters and persons directly interested , from the house . 
`` Hurricane '' has explained himself to Mr. Clenning in form , and it is to be a conditional match , that is to say , if he will leave the red skins , and come and fix in a cabin on the grounds of Mr. Clenning . 
