My name , Mr. Horsey , is Vernon -- Harry Vernon . 
Vernon , Vernon -- it 's a good name enough -- comes smooth and easy to the tongue as a gentleman 's name ought to do always ; but Harry , Harry Vernon ! 
You was n't christened Harry , I reckon , Mr. Vernon ? 
Must have been Henry , and they call you Harry for short . '' 
`` The old people living , Mr. Vernon ? 
Old Crumbaugh warrants that stuff , and gets his price for it . 
Did I hear you , Mr. Vernon ? 
`` Try another sip , Mr. Vernon , '' said the other consolingly , `` peach perfectly harmless ; Crumbaugh keeps the temperate society house ; warrants his peach ; calls it sobriety peach ; and so you 've lost both parents , Mr. Vernon ? '' 
`` Do n't say that , Mr. Vernon , do n't say that . 
Fathers , sir , are apt to leave children where they never look for them ; there 's something of that sort at my own door , Mr. Vernon , and so -- '' `` La , John , how you do talk . '' 
The chuckle of the veteran was arrested , and probably a long string of confessions , by the timely ejaculation of his wife , who happened to be busy in the closet , -- `` these women , Mr. Vernon -- but you 're married ? '' 
-- It 's gospel truth , Mr. Harry Vernon , from that day there 's been but one pack-horse in our family , and that 's Jack Horsey himself . '' 
Mr. Vernon , Mr. Harry Vernon ; remember , now , it 's not Henry , but Harry Vernon . 
-- Mr. Vernon , this is my wife . 
And now , Bess , be off , and look after supper ; -- a silent wife , and a singing kettle -- it 's not always we can have 'em , Mr. Vernon , but that only helps to make them the more desirable . '' 
Thus it is , Mr. Vernon , a wife will make a man swear , sir , when there 's nothing in the world farther from his wish . 
`` A good woman enough , Mr. Vernon ; but women , sir , are women ; and the very best of them are incapable of serious concerns : they are all triflers -- mere children -- a sort of gingerbread creatures , the ginger of which lasts a deused sight longer than the molasses . 
But , as you were saying , Mr. Vernon , you are a lawyer . '' 
But there , it seems to me , Mr. Vernon , that your difficulty lies . 
`` I have better hopes of you now , Mr. Harry Vernon . 
It 's a strange infirmity , Mr. Vernon ; do n't you think so ? '' 
`` We shall see , we shall see , '' said Vernon confidently , and with a smile of good nature ; while the old man , with whose humour the course which the youth had taken seemed admirably to tally , told him a dozen anecdotes of the young lawyers round about the country , with most of whom he had had sharp passes of wit , and in all cases , according to his own phrase and showing , had `` come down uppermost . '' 
`` Fall to , Harry Vernon , and do n't wait on me , '' was the frank command of Horsey , as , grunting and growling the while , he worked his rocking chair , foot by foot , up to the side of the table , and drew from it one of the plates into his lap . 
Vernon had his good word for the hostess , and in a little time proved himself to be in possession of the best wisdom of the traveller , whom experience teaches , that good humour and a cheerful spirit are the most valuable stores which he can take with him in a course of western travel . 
Vernon had been already something of a wayfarer . 
Necessities of one sort or another , had schooled him into a knowledge of men of every sort , and it was a rational boast which he was sometimes wont to make , in the glow of a youthful and pardonable vanity , that he could go from Tampa bay to the Rocky mountains , and win good usage and a smile with his supper every night . 
Vernon , as we have said , was of very different temper ; lively , bold , frank , generous , he was just the sort of person to commend himself to the southern and western people . 
His dignity never apprehensive of doubt and denial , was never on the watch to take offence at every thing in the least degree equivocal . 
To avoid controversy , to avoid the crowd , to yield gracefully in argument , and to forbear pressing his advantage at the proper moment -- were some few of the maxims by which , avoiding every prospect of offence , he gained the most substantial victories , as well over the hearts as the understandings of those with whom he contended . 
Fluent in speech , with a memory abounding in illustration and anecdote , a fancy lively and playful , an imagination vigorous and bold , the profession which it seems he had chosen , appeared to be that in which , above all others , he promised most to excel . 
Such , we may add , was the opinion of his friends , and such , were it proper for the narrator to predict , was the appropriate event after the lapse of that usual period of probation , to which it is natural and well that all ambitious minds should be subjected . 
There was that superiority in the mind of Harry Vernon , which never suffered him to think himself above the occasion . 
He could descend from the abstract to the practical with an ease and rapidity at once singular and successful . 
To accommodate himself to the understandings of those he addressed without degrading his own , was another of those advantages -- the result of actual experience in the busy world , which , added to the store of our young traveller , and supplied to him as it was supplied to others , in many instances , the lack of money and the aid of powerful friends . 
The youth requited him with story for story , joke for joke , and when , at the usual hour for retiring in the country , where folks are very apt to go to bed with the fowls , the worthy dame intimated to Vernon that his bed was ready whenever he wished `` to lie down ; '' her spouse blazed out like a splinter of fat lightwood -- bade her be gone and not send the young man to bed at dark , to tumble about half the night in sleeplessness and stupor . 
`` That 's the way , Harry ; and by the Lord Harry , it 's a monstrous vexing way , my wife has got . 
Vernon , it was mighty sweet eating in that fashion . 
And so we 'd pass the night , Mr. Vernon ; and in the morning , betimes , we 'd brush up and gear the animals , and put on our packs , and be ready for a start by dawn ; and many 's the time , Vernon , my boy , in them days , that I 've taken ` Sweetlips , ' that ugly long-shanked rifle you see there in the corner , and dropped a turkey from his roost in the tree jist over the horses , so fat that his breast-bone split open by the time he thumped the ground . 
them days , Mr. Vernon , them blessed days , with all their troubles , and all their dangers , I 'd give all I 'm worth , or ever hope to be worth , if they only were to go over again . 
We ca n't always be young , Mr. Vernon , and if we could , pack-horses are gone out of use , and there 's no Indians to make us lie snug and suspicious , telling stories that helped to frighten us the more . 
You can tell though , Mr. Vernon , seeing you 're jist from Mobile . '' 
`` Psha , Harry Vernon , say what you want in plain terms . 
Am I right in my guess , Vernon ? '' 
A small man , in woman 's clothes , might very easily pass himself off for one , '' said Vernon , with an air of musing . 
Your chap has no such hope , I reckon , Mr. Vernon . '' 
A hearty laugh of Vernon followed these praises of the wife , which she was no longer in a condition to hear ; and drawing nigher to his companion , he renewed his inquiries , though with a slight change of topic . 
Are you sure I told you I had been in the ` nation , ' Mr. Vernon ? '' 
It 's how to keep your senses about you , Harry Vernon , that 's the greatest question . 
Now , Harry , you see the danger before you . 
Depend upon steel and bullet , Harry Vernon , when you 're on the Yazoo . 
`` The counsel of one who has certainly done more by their help than most men ; '' responded Vernon , with a compliment that was not displeasing to the veteran , and showed a degree of intimacy with his history on the part of his guest , which proved him to have been no inattentive auditor of himself and of his friend Carter ; -- `` but , '' continued the youth , `` what can you tell me of the ` Braxley settlement . '' ' 
It 's a place to shun , Mr. Vernon . '' 
I know the country well enough , but , bless your soul , Mr. Harry Vernon , it 's no sign of ignorance in Massissippi , not to know the towns by their names . 
`` Look you , Mr. Vernon , if you want that we should keep friends , and part friends , say no more of that player-fellow and his cursed books ; do n't I beg you . '' 
`` The world , Mr. Vernon , may honour as it pleases , and it frequently gives honour where very little is due . 
`` I have a son , Mr. Vernon ; you have n't seen him in my house ; nor , till this minute , have you heard his name from my lips ; nor , perhaps , from the lips of Ben Carter , though you may have got a good deal out of him . 
But mind you , I do n't mean to say that he died in airnest -- it was all pretence -- all make b ` lieve ; but , by the Eternal , Mr. Vernon , I 'd rather a thousand times he had died in raal airnest in a fair fight , than to have fallen into such a folly , and brought disgrace upon his family . '' 
A playful commentary upon this speech rose to the lips of Vernon , as the old man concluded ; but the youth saw that the grief was too serious and sacred , to suffer any light or irreverential remark . 
`` The saints know best , Mr. Vernon . 
`` But you hear from him ? '' 
`` Ay , sir , and of him . 
I hear from him when he wants money , and of him when he has it . 
He makes me hear when he 's out , and makes every body else hear when his pockets are full . 
He brings with him late hours and strong drink , and damned bad company , Mr. Vernon ; and what with him and them , Tom Horsey is in the broad road to destruction . '' 
`` But do you provide him with money when he demands it for such indulgences . '' 
`` Fill your glass , Vernon ; let us drink , and say no more . 
The boy 's my only boy , bad as he is , Harry Vernon ; and he gets more money from me than I ought to give him . 
Did you hear nothing , Mr. Vernon ? 
In another instant , the room rang with a loud burst of declamation from without , in which Vernon detected some lines from the bard whom the old man had so terribly denounced , but which now seemed to awaken in his mind any other than hostile feelings . 
he comes at last , with his player-verses in his mouth -- '' `` Ay ; but how truly do they suit , Mr. Horsey ! '' 
was the reply of Vernon . 
A loud knocking from without answered this resolve ; and , following the glance of the father 's eye , Vernon rose quietly and opened the door to the son . 
The habits of the player-men , however , got the better of his misgivings , and , without yielding any farther notice to Vernon , after the first glance , he advanced towards the father , prefacing his movement with a hearty rowdy salutation , which made the old man wince in his seat , at the gross disregard of his dignity which it betrayed . 
gone to bed , I reckon , and fast ; so I take it for granted she 's as she should be , and you , sir , you and -- '' Here his eyes wandered to the seat which Vernon had re-occupied . 
That , sir , is my friend , Mr. Vernon , Mr. Harry Vernon , of Natchez , or New Orleans , or elsewhere . '' 
`` Sir , Mr. Vernon , of elsewhere , I am glad to know you . 
cried the more literal father ; `` Vernon , I said , Tom Horsey , -- Mr. Harry Vernon . '' 
Mr. Vernon , as I said before , ` there 's matter in this ; ' and , some allowances must be made for the prejudices of age , and a hard school , sir , against the drama . 
When it was concluded , he turned to the little table that stood between the elder Horsey and Vernon , filled a glass for himself , and drawing a chair from the corner of the apartment , placed himself , with a show of sang froid , which was not altogether felt , directly beside the father . 
`` We 'll have a rouse to-night , sir , -- Mr. Vernon , ` the king drinks to Hamlet . ' 
-- but you sha n't impose on Mr. Vernon . 
You shall say what these pitiful sums are ; you shall tell him what money I sent you , and let him say whether I have not been almost as great a spendthrift as yourself . '' 
Vernon watched the scene with curious interest , and he remarked the sudden flush which mounted up into the son 's cheeks at the accusation , as if conscious innocence revolted within him at the injustice . 
I 'm sick , -- I ca n't bear it easily ; and besides , I do n't want Mr. Harry Vernon to see what a d -- d fool I am to let you treat me as you do . 
But now count up , count up , Mr. Vernon , these moneys as I call them out to you , and then say whether I 'm parsimonious , or whether there 's a spendthrift in my family , that 'll let out at a thousand mouths what his father was compelled to take in at one . '' 
You shall hear particulars some day , Mr. Monmouth ; a devilish good story -- but -- '' `` Look you , Tom , this gentleman 's name is Vernon , and not Monmouth . 
`` Vernon , is it ? 
I ask pardon , but I thought it was Monmouth -- Harry Monmouth -- it was Harry you said -- I 'll swear to that . '' 
and would n't it be justly deserved , Mr. Vernon ? '' 
`` Nay , father , do not bother Mr. Vernon any more in this matter , and above all matters eschew the sin of swearing . 
An excellent adventure , by the way , Mr. Vernon , and I must tell it . 
-- an excellent joke -- fill , Mr. Vernon ! 
The son winked to Vernon , as he replied -- `` Ah , dad , Stubbs is not the only tailor in Orleans ; and one suit is not all that a poor devil actor has to suffer before his wardrobe 's complete . 
What do you think I did , Harry Monmouth -- Master Vernon , I mean -- how do you think I fixed him ? 
Vernon confessed his inability , and the father , now an attentive auditor , and a pleased one too , as he beheld the evident attention of his guest , and observed the more modest demeanour of his son , disclaimed with equal readiness any ability to conjecture the ruse de guerremade use of by the debtor to extort from the dying actor , the loan he found necessary to keep him from his tailor 's clutches . 
It is an art of speech which I possess , and of which , Mr. Vernon , you shall have a sample some day . 
Was it not shocking , Mr. Vernon ? 
But he had no soul to feel it -- none , none ! '' 
Before Vernon or the father could answer the question , or comment upon the transaction , another person entered the apartment and interrupted the dialogue . 
The quick eye of Vernon distinguished his friend at a glance , nor was that of the other less observant . 
Vernon could not have been much more than twenty-five ; his temperament was evidently lively , if not rash ; and good humour and a playful spirit , seemed to predominate in his disposition . 
The gravity , the almost sadness , of Carter 's countenance , was unreflected in his own ; and yet , it may be added , the sympathy was quite as close between them , as could be hoped for under any circumstances ; and whatever might be the difference of their moods and wishes , under the influence of unequal ages , there was none of that exacting severity , on the part of Carter , or of that distaste to discipline , on the side of Vernon , which might endanger the relation . 
Vernon , on the other hand , warm , impetuous , and lively , never once forgot the superior years of his patron -- for such was Carter -- nor suffered his veneration to undergo diminution , because the latter sometimes encouraged him by the familiar freedoms of the companion . 
Vernon was no less assured of the high virtues of one who had been to him a protecting and wisely indulgent parent , in the place of all others , from his very first moment of reflecting consciousness , to that in which they meet the reader . 
`` Perhaps , Harry , since such is your resolution , it is due to you that I should unfold myself a little more . 
I loved her , Harry , with all the ardour of a heart as purely unselfish in its pursuit as belongs to mortal ; but I told her not my love . 
He rose from his chair and paced the room a while , the eyes of Vernon in the meantime being fixed upon the fireplace . 
`` I had thought myself too old and too strong for these weaknesses , Harry , but the affections which grow up in solitude seldom become obtuse . 
`` Do not , then , pursue it , sir , I beg you , -- at least not on my account , '' said Vernon . 
`` Nay , nay , Harry , it is begun , and the beginning is half the battle always . 
I kissed them , Harry , in a fond requital , when the angel had left the tenement in which it had been so troubled ! 
I kissed them , Harry , when , colder than the marble which was so soon to cover her , I well knew that there was no danger that hislips would remove the sad and sacred seal which mine had set upon them ! '' 
The struggling tear of Harry Vernon soon followed that of his patron . 
His silence was the best show of sympathy that his good sense suffered him to make . 
But for her , Harry , I had not given him my name , for I had sufficient reason then to distrust him ; and , but for her -- but that I still loved , rashly enough for any sacrifice -- I had not been guilty of the greater folly of persuading our friend Gamage to a similar risk . 
I am guilty of no ill-advised or idle flattery , my dear Harry , when I declare my perfect willingness to rely upon your judgment and to abide by any course which you may resolve upon . 
I have wearied out your patience , Harry , but I have now finished . '' 
I make no secret to you , Harry , of the fact that my own responsibilities to the Bank , and the resolve which I have taken that Gamage shall go harmless , will leave me destitute , -- utterly destitute , -- unless we recover something of this loss . '' 
And now to bed , Harry , as Master Tom would phrase it , with what appetite we may . '' 
WhenHarry Vernon entered the hall the next morning , the first person he met was Master Thomas Horsey , who encountered him , selon des règles , in the most approved fashion of the theatrical world , with a fitting quotation , to provide himself with which , he had , no doubt , groped half the night through his pocket Shakspeare . 
`` ` My cousin Vernon ! 
`` You are not serious , Mr. Vernon ? 
The habit were not a bad one , Mr. Vernon , nevertheless ; and I commend you to better examples in this particular than it has been your fortune to fall upon . 
I tell you what , Master Vernon , though no man can think of Ben Carter more worthily than I do , yet , by the faith that is within me , I fear him , something -- that is ` I rather tell thee what is to be feared than what I fear . ' 
He 's a relation of yours , Master Vernon ? '' 
He finished his breakfast before the rest , and , as he left the room , catching the eye of Vernon , he put on the aspect and manner of an awkward clown , terrified at finding himself in so solemn presence , and striving to leave it with as little noise as necessary , by moving on tip-toe and backward to the entrance . 
Once there , he bounded from the steps , and by a single agile movement was in the middle of the road . 
The next moment he might be heard , spouting a favourite passage at the very top of his voice . 
He told us all about it last night -- I did n't quite see into the fun of the thing , but Tom says it was deused funny , and Mr. Vernon was mightily tickled at the story . 
I think there is a change in Tom , and as he promises so fair -- '' `` Do n't rely too much upon his promises . 
He can not so soon break away from his old habits , and must be allowed some little farther swing before he dismisses his levities sufficiently to suffer him to come home and go to work . 
Only do not by unnecessary harshness drive him into them . 
Notice his follies as little as may be , and tolerate his speeches even where you do not exactly understand them . 
This stranger Vernon , lodges with his father . 
It is known that he inquired for Carter on his first arrival , and received directions to the house of Horsey . '' 
He will glean from his father all that he knows of Carter and Vernon , and if they are not exceedingly sly , he will see into their concerns as far as themselves . '' 
`` It can do no harm to sound him . 
He draws nigh . '' 
Was not this young fellow Vernon , one of his men ? '' 
He came into town last night , '' replied Hawkins . 
Harry -- Harry Vernon ! 
`` This young man Vernon , they say , is going up into the Yazoo . 
Did he tell you that ? '' 
If he only once dreamed that Harry Vernon had such a notion , he 'd throw up his hand in a minute . 
If Vernon knows this of Carter , as without doubt he does , would not this be reason enough why he should keep his secret while under the old man 's eye , particularly , if he has any favour to look for at Carter 's hands , as it is said he has . 
Now , they do say , and I may as well tell you , I heard it from Tilton himself on board the Georgiana , that Vernon was engaged secretly to play first characters . '' 
We must satisfy it before this youth , Vernon , leaves Raymond . '' 
Vernon , meanwhile , accompanied by his friend and patron , proceeded to the court-house , in the area in front of which he encountered the curious gaze of all the natives to whom the face of a stranger is instantly obvious , and in the examination of whom they do not always content themselves with the keen scrutiny of the eye . 
The crowd was fast assembling , and Vernon left alone by Mr. Carter , who was required to attend to some pressing business elsewhere , was , of course , compelled to go through his examination like all the rest , and bore it with the most becoming fortitude and good nature . 
Not that he answered his inquisitors with a strict regard to the truth ; this might have exposed him to defeat in the purposes which he had in view ; but with that ready adroitness which is the sign of keen and quick imagination , and which , by the way , is one of the very first requisites in a country circuit lawyer ; he answered them in such a way as to reveal nothing , and yet satisfy them that he had nothing more to reveal . 
When asked about New Orleans , he could tell them a long story about the new big steamboat of which they had heard wonders ; and by conversing freely with Tom , Dick and Harry , about matters with which neither himself nor Tom , Dick or Harry had any thing to do , convinced all around that he was no starched , stiffnecked upstart , so solicitous of his own birth , family and fortune , as to dread the effect of their contact upon his nobility . 
`` A ` cute chap , '' said one , `` that fellow , Vernon ; knows all about that Orleans railroad and the big steamboat ; says Madame Lalaurie , she that licked her poor niggers to death , and tied 'em week after week without hog or hominy , will get mightily smashed among the Orleans lawyers . '' 
`` He 's an Orleans lawyer , then ? '' 
`` I rether reckon so , '' was the reply , `` though , by the powers , he did n't tell me that . '' 
`` Well , but now he 's moved into Massissippi , or how could he come to plead here in Raymond . '' 
`` That 's true -- I 'll go and ax him where he lives now ; I rather like the chap , '' was the opinion and resolve of the baffled inquisitor , whom Vernon had contrived to lead from himself by freely enlarging upon other matters , which , for the moment , amply satisfied the hearer 's curiosity . 
But the youth had disappeared from the spot , and was then in the rear of the court-house where he had been called by Carter who held him in close conference . 
Meanwhile , the court was convened , his honour had taken his seat , and the crowd , hurrying with that strange curiosity which is never so well satisfied as when it hears of the misdeeds of its own nature , and which is never so active and apprehensive as in a secluded country village , soon forgot all concern for the interesting stranger , and gave itself up , soul and body , to the clamours of officers , silencing clamour ; the calls of jurymen and witnesses ; the small wit of small lawyers , and the sapient wisdom of the judge , whose oracles , generally monosyllabic , are accompanied by a shake of the head , worse-wise than Burleigh 's . 
Carter answered by introducing Vernon more formally to the interrogator , whom Vernon himself satisfied on the subject of his other interrogatories . 
`` Your business is his , Mr. Shippen , '' said Carter , anticipating the reply of Vernon , `` and I think that my friend will do justice to himself and you at the same time . '' 
asked Vernon . 
`` I do n't know that I can do much more for you than Graham , '' said Vernon , modestly ; `` you , at least know , Mr. Shippen , that the law favours him most who suffers the first injury . '' 
Vernon laughed at the humour of the proposition , but seemed disposed to hesitate , when Carter , fearing that some nice point of objection might suggest it . 
From that very feature , last related in the case , which Graham thought the most unfavourable , the quickwitted Vernon argued the very best results ; and having appointed to meet Shippen within the hour , to make the acquaintance of Graham and confer with him on the business so far as it had gone , the stouthearted defendant left him for awhile , as fully satisfied with the proceeding , as if his case was already won . 
When he had gone , Carter resumed his conference with Vernon , which related , we need scarcely say , to the projected mission of the latter . 
When Vernon entered the court-house he found his new client awaiting him with the `` mealy-mouthed '' lawyer Graham . 
A few moments sufficed to put Vernon in possession of all the facts so far as their litigated character had become apparent to the attorney on record . 
It was amusing enough to Vernon to survey the countenance of Shippen as these opinions fell from the lips of his lawyer . 
With the first sounds of his name , Shippen perched himself behind Vernon , and renewed his exhortations and his promises . 
`` You see , '' said Graham , in a half whisper to Vernon ; `` it is as I have told you . 
The words , spoken however slightly , were audible to the keen ears of the defendant behind , who , smarting with the declamation of Perkins , retorted before Vernon could speak . 
A sly twinkle of Vernon 's eyes was perceptible to the court , as , arising from his seat , he coolly took out his watch , and noted the precise minute before he commenced his operations . 
Vernon did not belie public expectation . 
Cool in temper , rapid in reflection , and singularly fluent of speech , he commenced his task by reviewing briefly the evidence which had been given . 
He dwelt with much more emphasis than Perkins on the gross insult which had been offered to a young child , of good parents , and one of a sex , which needed , from the delicacy of its structure , the kindness and indulgence of man ; and could not live either in his harshness or disesteem . 
`` It is very well , '' proceeded Vernon , `` to insist upon the integrity of the laws , to prevent the brutality of violence , to compel the strong arm to desist from strife , and refer to the authorities assigned by society for such purposes , to redress its wrongs ; but there are some cases , '' he said , `` where outraged humanity becomes a rebel ; and when , to wait for the dilatory process of the laws , might be to ruin her for ever . 
And , so universal , '' he continued , `` are these laws , that I can not bring myself to believe that his honour , who now sits upon the bench , and you , gentlemen of the jury , or any man of proper spirit and feeling , could forbear , in like circumstances , to do as my client has done . 
The half hour had elapsed , and Vernon sat down amidst a half suppressed murmur of applause . 
Shippen , as soon as he had touched his seat , jumped up , clapped him upon his shoulder and exclaimed , so as to be heard by all around , `` At him ag ` in , Harry , only for a quarter more , and you shall have another fifty . '' 
But Vernon declined his offer . 
He felt that he had made the proper impression , and that any thing more would only tend to weaken and impair it . 
He was one of those fortunate men , of whom there are so few in our hemisphere , whether in the senate , the forum , or the pulpit , who know where to stop ; and , though flattered by the obvious effect of his argument , so novel , and in some respects ingenious -- of which we have given , however , a very feeble report -- he firmly resisted all the persuasions of Shippen to renew the speech . 
The jury retired from the box , but before the verdict was returned -- which , par parenthese , gave only nominal damages as Vernon had suggested -- Carter entered the court room suddenly , and in a whisper summoned the young lawyer away . 
Shippen would have detained him , and released him only with a promise that he should go home and spend a night with him , and see his wife Susan , and Bella , the little girl who had been the innocent cause of the trial , and his ploughing oxen , and a fine blood mare that he had just got from Georgia , and a thousand other matters , most of which , at that moment , Vernon might have had for the asking . 
The cool , wily outlaw , for such he was , listened patiently to all the youth 's recitations , and even encouraged him to continue them by suggesting the quotations , but , at decent intervals he would contrive to insinuate a side question touching other matters and in relation to persons , by which he contrived , in the overflow of the youth 's garrulity , to get from him every thing in his knowledge in relation to his father 's concerns , and those of Carter his lodger and Vernon his guest . 
Some particular interest seemed , in his mind , to hang over the probable proceedings of the latter , and all his remarks , even when he spoke of playing -- the topic on which Horsey could always be commanded -- were calculated to fill the latter with the persuasion that Vernon was about to go up the country . 
`` What of this young fellow , Vernon ; if he be one of the company ? '' 
Harry Vernon may be a smart chap enough , and certainly looks like one , but the stage requires something more than that . 
Is he a reader , say you ; has he discretion of points ; knows he his author ; knows he his audience ; and to sum up all in little , has he the divine gift , the born intelligence which makes the actor a born actor , as completely as the poet is a born poet , if one at all ? 
To speak plainly , though I would not have it reach Harry 's ears , my best reason for doubting his being an actor is that I believe he has no turn , no talent for the stage . 
I like Harry so much already , that I should be sorry to see him fail . '' 
I have just got away from the court house , where I left your friend Vernon in full argument . '' 
Watson got no more than he deserved , and your man Vernon 's serving him like all the world . 
Vernon 's put a new colour on the colt , and people who thought him rather black when he was first carried into court , now look upon him as a rather pretty cream . 
He 'll get off slick and easy ; that Vernon 's a smart fellow . '' 
`` By the ghost of Cæsar , but I must hear Harry , I must . 
There is no saving them else , and I misdoubt that this fellow Vernon is employed on some business above against us , which , it is absolutely necessary that we should gain a knowledge of . '' 
`` And Vernon lodges with Carter ! 
When Hawkins had closed his door , he gave Saxon to understand that but a few moments had passed since Carter , accompanied by Vernon , had gone into the governor 's room , and this intelligence quickened the anxiety of Saxon to inquire into the purport of their business . 
We shall lose little by our delay , since the preliminaries of introduction -- those little formalities without which the world does no business civilly -- occupied the brief space between the entrance of Vernon to the conference , and the beginning of our own and the outlaw 's espionage upon its progress . 
`` Our mutual friend , Mr. Carter , assures me , Mr. Vernon , of your perfect capacity to do for me a certain business which is important to the interests of the state , and which requires as much secrecy and courage as intelligence . 
Vernon heard the speaker with close attention . 
When these facts had been obtained , the answer of Vernon was immediate . 
Vernon resumed . 
And as the governor put this question his finger pointed to the inner door , leading to the stairway . 
A slight rustling movement was evident at this moment , and instantly approaching it , his hand was extended to the latch , when it partially unclosed without his aid , as if in consequence of the sudden withdrawal of one 's grasp from without . 
The moments were precious , and with that promptness of movement which was a prime and distinctive feature in the character of Vernon , and tallied well with his keen intellect , no less than with his great personal strength , he threw his weight with a bound against the obstruction , and tore it with a single effort from its hinges . 
He accompanied these words with a threatening action , which Vernon , to whom they were addressed , only answered by hurling him to the ground with as much ease as if he had been an infant ; setting his knee upon his bosom , and drawing thence the bowie-knife , the possession of which he suspected , as he saw the fellow unbuttoning his vest . 
`` You carry me not from this house , '' growled the fellow from beneath the knee of Vernon . 
Thenecessary documents had come , court was over in Raymond , and on a cold , frosty morning , while yet the day only glimmered with a faint redness through the eastern chinks , Harry Vernon , booted and spurred , prepared to mount his good steed , on his journey of adventure . 
`` And yet , Harry , my son , '' said he , `` when I hear of this banditti , and behold the audacity with which they act , I am afraid to let you go . 
`` I have then only to repeat what I have said before , Harry : I have no desire to drive this man to utter destitution . 
It so happened that this very course was that taken by Vernon , though the latter , as his progress was straight-forward , was necessarily much in advance of the outlaw . 
To one like Vernon , however , bold , and governed by a temperament that gloried in a dash of romance , the occasional perils of such a course were lost altogether in the novelty of the circumstances ; and he dashed through the creek with a confident spur , without stopping like more wary adventurers to probe his footing with a pole , then drive his horse through the stream , while he `` cooned a log '' above it . 
These little obstructions were not unfrequent in his route , but they offered no impediment to him . 
The duties of life and manhood , opening for the first time upon his consciousness fairly , were provocative of that stimulant only , which we are apt to see in the forward boy , to whom nothing gives so much delight as being permitted to flourish with the tools of full-grown men . 
To have asked for them , would have been to declare the purpose of travel which Vernon had in view , and this , once known to the mother would have been soon known to son Tom , and through his communicative medium to every third person , at least , in the little world of Raymond . 
Vernon started to his feet as the horseman came in sight , and was absolutely dumb with astonishment to recognize at a single glance the person of our eccentric friend , Tom Horsey . 
`` Ah , Harry , Harry -- what shall I say to thee , Harry ! 
I did not think it of thee , Harry ! 
Much annoyed at his pursuit and presence , Vernon was quite too much surprised at the event , and too curious to know the cause of the actor 's pertinacity , to express himself as freely , and perhaps as harshly , as he might otherwise have done . 
By Pluto , Harry Vernon , I can be as close as Ben Carter himself , and the dry cock should never have heard a syllable . 
`` Devil a bit , Harry , devil a bit . 
He deserves to lose him for not having a better in the stable , and I will trade him off the first chance , though I get one old as Methusaleh . '' 
He did not wait to be answered , but clapped the bottle , which lay with the bread and beef at Vernon 's feet , to his mouth , and long and fervent was the draught which he made therefrom . 
And now , Harry , a bite of your biscuit . 
But you do not eat , Vernon . '' 
demanded Vernon , with some curiosity , interrupting the garrulous speaker . 
You thought to blink me , Harry , but you must know I had a hint of your true business two days before from some clever chaps in Raymond . '' 
The wonder of Vernon increased , but the other suffered him as little time to indulge it as to make inquiries . 
I have found you , however , my dear Harry , and I do n't value the skinning . 
`` Indeed , Mr. Horsey , but there go two words to that bargain , '' replied Vernon , with an air of resoluteness , and a face of but half-concealed chagrin . 
``` Agreed ' shall be one of them , Harry , '' replied the unembarrassed actor . 
-- they do not , Harry -- by my soul they do not ! 
was the unspoken soliloquy of Vernon , ere he replied to the speaker . 
But I can hardly forgive you , Harry , for keeping a dumb side to me when you knew my passion . 
exclaimed Vernon , now more than ever convinced that his companion was mad . 
I do n't like that so well , Harry Vernon . 
By the powers , Harry , I care not much where I come in , whether as one , two , or three , when a friend 's fortune and desires are concerned . 
Harry Vernon , I drink to our joint success . '' 
The actor repeated his draught , but Vernon began to be seriously annoyed by the intrusion , and thought it high time to put an end to it . 
Never dreaming of the conjecture which had taken such possession of his companion 's brain , and ignorant , of course , of the stories which had been told him , he could form no positive idea of the subject of his ravings , and began seriously to consider him a fitting inmate for the calaboose or bedlam , as he had already suggested to the other 's momentary discomfiture . 
His first movement , therefore , was to restore his spirit-flask to the valise , then , assuming what calmness of manner he could , and taking especial care that while his words should be inoffensive , they should be to the point at least , he addressed him in a manner which was intended to bring his play at cross-purposes to a conclusion . 
exclaimed Vernon in profound astonishment , mingled with something more of good humour than before , as it now became obvious to him that Horsey had blundered upon the wrong man , and knew nothing of his secret , of which he had been in some little apprehension . 
He , who has now set up to be an actor , a manager , and what not ; and is going to open at Benton , where thou and I -- if thy stomach be not too proud , Harry Vernon , for such companionship , as I greatly fear me , -- will star it together , to the confusion and admiration of the natives . 
In short , thy ambition leads thee not to emulate the Garricks and the Keans , the Macreadys , the Forrests , the Coopers , the -- '' The unmitigated laughter of Vernon silenced the actor , whose face of exultation it turned of a sudden into soberness . 
`` What do you laugh at , Mr. Vernon , I should like to know ! '' 
I see nothing silly about it , Master Vernon , and wonder that you should . 
`` It wo n't do -- that cock wo n't fight , Harry Vernon , '' responded the other , after a pause . 
`` You 're angry with me , Harry . 
`` Nay , nay , Harry Vernon ; but you are quite too hard upon me . 
So , whither thou goest , thither will I go also , -- where thou leadest there will I follow , -- at least , until the manager gives out the casts , and then , Harry , as thou wilt , and the author pleases . '' 
This resolution , though it annoyed Vernon , as it expressed a determination to keep with him whether he would or not , and might for a while operate against his objects , was yet expressed in terms and a manner so very conciliatory , and the poor histrion seemed so completely to speak from his heart , that Vernon resolved to bear with him awhile , nothing doubting , that when the other found , as he was like to do in another day , that his footsteps did not incline to the place where the actors had pitched their tents , he would be very willing to leave him without more words . 
He contented himself , therefore , with renewing his assertion that he had nothing to do with the players , and that Horsey deceived himself , or had been grossly misled on the subject of his inclining to the stage . 
The faith was infixed too deeply , and with a chuckle , as he mounted his nag , the enthusiastic actor replied -- `` Oh , what 's the use , Harry , my boy , of keeping up that ball ? 
It was scarce possible for Vernon to resist laughter ; certainly , he found it impossible to keep anger with such a creature ; a thing so light , so weak , so utterly wanting in all those timely calculations of propriety and good providence , as to make it seem a sort of brutality to visit upon his faults with harshness . 
Vernon strove at every opportunity to disabuse his mind of the error which it had adopted in reference to himself ; but his very earnestness seemed only the more to convince the other to the contrary . 
His answer to all such efforts consisted only of a half laughing rebuke to his companion , who aimed at the monopoly of the best character , and was jealous of that interposition and rivalship on his part , which he studiously assured Vernon , at the same time , should never annoy him . 
The latter gave up the effort which he found so perfectly unavailing , leaving it to time , the general rectifier of man 's mistakes , to put a conclusion to this . 
Harry Vernon , besides being of a just and generous nature , was also of a cheerful and social one , and he soon discovered that there was no good reason for keeping up a cloudy front to the vacillating and wayward creature who rode beside him , and whom an erring judgment and , probably , fine but misdirected endowments , were hurrying on to his own destruction . 
By degrees he resumed his kindly manner to the obtrusive but well-meaning actor , and as he found that he could not rid himself of his company , he resolved to make the most of it . 
This resolution once taken , it required but few words on the part of Vernon to unlock all the stores of memory and experience in Horsey 's possession . 
The woods soon rang with his sonorous passages , and Vernon , with the feeling of the cautious citizen always alive to ridicule , could not help now and then looking around him , as if apprehensive that other ears were suffering from those clamours that seemed almost to perforate his own anew . 
These declamations , be it understood , however , were not given with the reckless rapidity of one who has nothing beside in store of his own ; but the actor ingeniously contrived that they should only occur in such places in his own dissertations where they might enforce and illustrate what he said . 
This was one of his arts additional , by which he contrived that his masterpieces should be brought in play ; and , like the fellow who had a gun-story , and in order to introduce it fairly into company , acquired the art of imitating the report of a pistol , so Tom Horsey practised , when alone , those generalizing opinions on a thousand subjects , under some one of which he could always classify the fine things of Brutus and Cassius , Hamlet , Hotspur , and Macbeth . 
`` But , could you hear me , Harry , when the scene is filling , when the characters are by , the audience silent and watchful , and the curtain drawn -- it would be something . 
I feel that I have it in me , Harry Vernon , and , by the Lord Harry , but it shall come out . 
But let us bully little Tilton , and play our own characters , work our way up the Mississippi , break out like little comets with a double length of tail in Louisville and Cincinnati , and , by-and-by , touch the Park boards -- the zenith of theatrical eminence in America , where , Mr. Kean told us , with an equivocal sort of compliment , that the taste for the drama was periodical -- and then , the devil take the hindmost -- hey , for the crown and the triumph , the chariots and the horsemen -- `` Supper first , '' said Vernon , `` or I shall never sufficiently ascend that highest heaven of invention , to behold with you so respectable an audience , or to regard it with any sort of satisfaction when I do so . 
By the ghost of David , Harry Vernon , an ' if it shall be a large one , we 'll have a few passages -- we 'll make a rouse . 
said Vernon , with singular gravity . 
Are you serious , Master Vernon ? '' 
muttered Horsey , as , giving spur to his steed , he led the way to the wigwam , leaving Vernon to follow at his leisure . 
`` Nay , my good madam , that will hardly suit us , '' replied Vernon , riding up -- `` we have already ridden near forty miles to-day , having come from Raymond , and I am resolved , unless you positively deny us shelter , to go no farther to-night . '' 
Now , ten miles beyond -- '' `` No more , my good madam , '' said Vernon , alighting from his horse ; `` we stop with you to-night ; and the sooner you give us supper the better . 
`` Chickens -- '' The speech of the woman was cut short by Horsey , who had been steadily watching her features with an air of interest , and who now advanced , laid his hand on her shoulder , with a degree of familiarity that made her start and look disquieted , if not angry , as she strove to withdraw herself from so great a freedom . 
This , however , he would not suffer . 
exclaimed Horsey to Vernon in a manner of affected misery . 
`` Well , Vernon , only think now that this is the representation of one of my best performances , -- my debut in Macbeth , for my benefit -- when it so happened that a cargo of Ishmaelites from Pearl River , that had crossed Ponchartrain that day , came to the ` American , ' with ` every particular hair on end , ' to see their ` old schoolfellow , Tom Horsey , son of John Horsey , the lame man that kept tavern on the river-road : ' and this is the d -- nable report which they carried back to the country in their ignorance and envy . 
It makes me melancholy to think of it ; so let 's in to supper , Vernon , with what appetite we may . 
I was saying , sir , '' here she addressed herself to Vernon , `` I was saying , Mr. Castor -- '' `` Ha ! 
`` Vernon is my name , '' said his companion gravely . 
The old woman gave Horsey a single look of reproof , then turning to Vernon proceeded to repeat what she had already said touching the propriety of his riding to the next tavern , which was at the lower ferry , and only ten miles off , for his night 's lodging . 
was the unexpressed thought of Vernon , and he drew his conclusion as much from the earnest and bewildered countenance of the woman , as from her words . 
His self-communion went farther : `` I am on the borders of the Chittaloosa , and my labours should now properly begin . 
He spoke this determination aloud . 
The fellow would scarce have heeded his threats , but by this time the vigorous arm of Vernon had grasped him about the middle , and flung him to the other end of the room . 
Nor have we deemed it necessary to say that old Yarbers -- a fellow almost overcome with fat -- offered sundry expostulations to the course of his companion , which , however , as he never hurried to enforce them , were as little heeded by the fierce young rustic as were the screams aforesaid . 
The effect of Vernon 's movement was more obvious . 
The youth glared now upon him and now upon Horsey , who had taken advantage of the interval to recover his feet , as if doubtful which to attack . 
His hesitation resulted from no want of hostile feeling , but simply from the consciousness that there were two to contend with now ; and one of them , however easy he found it to trip the heels of the other , had convinced him that the play in his case could never be all of one side . 
While he stood glowing and glaring , Vernon , like a man satisfied that he had done all that was required , resumed his seat , and with the assistance of the woman of the house , made such an acquaintance with its master , as suited the relation of guest and landlord . 
` This is a sorry sight , ' Harry . 
By the way , I must not forget to thank you , Harry , for taking that fellow 's fingers from my eyes . '' 
Vernon was amused at the pains which the actor took to vindicate his youth ; and the result of his calculations seemed still farther to increase the annoyance of his rustic rival , who , after a little while spent in a condition of fever-heat , got up and left the room . 
He was followed by old Yarbers . 
Meanwhile , Horsey continued a playful chat with the mother and daughter , -- his philosophy under his bruises seeming to commend him to additional favour , and both listening to him with pleased attention . 
But , catching the eye of Vernon , in the midst of one of his random speeches , he made him a sign , then rising , declared his intention to see what sort of night it was , and left the house . 
Vernon soon followed . 
-- That spark jealousy falling into his dry melancholy brain , had well near set the whole house on fire . 
-- No matter , let it work ; I did but pay him in 's own coin . 
`` I amdecidedly one of the best-natured mortals in existence , '' said Horsey , when Vernon joined him in the little area in front of the cottage , `` but there is something , Harry , in being knocked over , that would turn the sweet milk sour in the best of bosoms . 
It must out , and nothing will help me , Harry , but a clip or two at the muzzle of this same Master Mabry . 
Doubt not that I can do it , Harry . 
She is something more than a child , and the customs of our country -- '' `` I know all that , Harry , and had I not been a sort of chicken under the wings , at one time , of the good old clucking hen , her mother , I had , perhaps , never thought of kissing the girl ; though by the divinity of Rosalind , there 's justification enough in the lips themselves for the rashness of my pursuit . 
`` You are supported in this notion , '' said Vernon , with a smile , `` by an authority no less moral than that of Dr. Johnson , who says that if you tempt a man you do him an injury , and if you overcome him you share his guilt . 
`` ` Gad , Harry , those were wise fellows . 
Was n't it so , Harry ? '' 
`` You shall see , Harry . 
I have what he has not . 
`` I will stand by you , '' said Vernon , with recovered gravity , `` and see yo through with this business , but while we keep together , Mr. Horsey , I trust , for my sake , you will provoke no more difficulties . 
`` Pshaw , Harry , my dear boy , ` still harping on my daughter , ' still at thy old ` humours ; '' ' replied the unthinking fellow . 
We can do as we please then with all the arrangements -- get our own terms , declare our own casts , and -- -- ` All furnish 'd , all in arms , All plumed like estridges , that with the wind Bated like eagles having lately bathed : Glittering in golden coats -- ' By the way , Harry , you have not seen my dress in Hal . 
Oh , Harry , what a scene ! 
Yarbers strove with Mabry , and Vernon , though to a far more moderate extent , with Horsey . 
Vernon regarded this threat as so unequivocal that he interposed , and insisted upon `` an up-and-down , straight fight , fist , head and feet , but no gouging -- no rough-and-tumble ; '' but this was to deprive the enemy of one of his most favourite weapons , and that which he meditated to use with more malignant efficiency in this strife than any other . 
Do n't trouble yourself , Harry , about me , -- ` egad I 'll swallow him , claws and all , though his scales were as rough and large as those of the biggest alligator that ever picked his teeth with a cypress on the banks of Pontchartrain . '' 
`` Blow for blow is quite enough in all ordinary cases ; but this fellow tumbled me unawares , and in the presence of the women , and , by the valour of Orlando , he shall have another fall , ere our accounts balance . 
This I have sworn to , Harry , -- as firm an oath as if I had pressed my lips on the pocket Shakspeare . 
His approach was met with cool , keen-eyed determination -- a characteristic in which Vernon never could have conceived his companion to have been so strong . 
Talking all the while , and quoting as much Shakspeare as ever , he parried the blows of the rustic , for awhile utterly forbearing to put in any of his own . 
At length , as if he had yielded a sufficiently fair time to his opponent 's play , he exclaimed -- `` Now , sir , is my turn . 
roared the other in a rage of fury that increased with every failure of his own efforts . 
Restrained in this , his hand suddenly plucked a spring-knife from his bosom , the blade of which was instantly shot out , and , but for the timely grasp of Vernon , he had sheathed it in the body of the man who held him . 
`` I 'm truly sorry I had to thump him so hard , Harry , '' said Horsey apologetically to his companion , as they took their way back to the cottage , `` but I had sworn it , you know , and could n't so well get off . 
Years hence he would have a history for Dick Jenkins , and Jim Dobbins , and Peter Pinchback and a dozen others , of the dandy from below that he met at Yarbers ' house , and ` how he caught , '' ' -- imitating the patois of the country -- ``` how he caught the chap mighty soptious with the gal , and how he gin him the cross-buttock , and , before he could say Jack Robinson , had a finger in his shock and a thumb in his eye , and sent him off with the blind-staggers and two holes in his forehead that could make no use of specks , though he was mighty glad to wear them ; ' and then , to prove the truth of what he said , he would bring forth a bottle of eyes preserved in whisky -- my eyes with fifty others , the Tom 's , Dick 's , and Harry 's , the Ned 's , Ben 's and Peter 's , the Billy 's and Timothy 's , that have been the heroes of the barbacue and gin-shop from time immemorial -- all in attestation of the superior excellence of the claws that plucked them out . 
Eyes , Harry Vernon , are absolutely necessary to an actor . '' 
`` To-morrow , Harry -- you would not have me set off to-night ? '' 
Now hear me , Harry Percy , I look on it that you fear me -- I hold thee jealous of my attributes , my attitudes , my carriage , my certain something , which , being peculiar to the individual man , is vulgarly called genius . 
Look to it , Harry , -- the gall rises within me . '' 
Vernon regarded the speaker with mixed feelings of pity and vexation . 
But the monomania was too strong to be overcome by argument , or resisted by any thing short of violence -- a measure to which , as there was no present necessity to rid himself of his companion , there was no occasion to resort . 
Suppressing , therefore , some stern expressions which had risen to his lips , he suffered the other to chuckle in the prospect of his theatrical superiority , inly consoling himself with the idea that before the close of another day he should be rid of his thoughtless but well-intentioned tormentor ; and he , disabused of the unhappy error which had probably , more than any thing beside , seduced him from the home to which he had only just returned . 
It was fully an hour after Vernon had retired before Horsey followed his example . 
He sat up talking with the hostess , to whom his sudden re-appearance after so long an interval had brought back as many associations as her ancient features had awakened in him ; and the ball of conversation , so busied were they mutually in asking and answering questions , was seldom suffered to fall for more than a single moment in all that space of time . 
To this moment Vernon had not closed his eyes . 
His mind was just in that condition of quickening cogitation when , yet unpossessed of its definite purpose , it compares plans , analyzes its resources and dependencies , and from pregnant and critical doubts conceives and gathers hopes and resolutions . 
There was much in the position of Vernon to keep him watchful , and the smallest unusual event was calculated to make his blood bound , and his fancy spring into activity . 
Thus , after Yarbers ' return to the cottage , and while he meditated a thousand different courses of conduct for the better prosecution of his leading object , his ear , quickened by thought , under the influence of an imagination warmed and strengthened by the drowsy midnight horn that sounded throughout the world of silence , caught the sudden baying of a beagle , and a crowd of suspicious fancies thronged upon him . 
Silence succeeded for a moment ; then arose a stunning bay from the hound , almost at the threshhold of the dwelling , a prolonged note like that which had awakened the attention of Vernon a few moments before . 
Vernon was in the mood to conjecture a thousand strange matters , and to convert into causes of suspicion many things that might be innocent enough . 
To one in his situation , and with his objects , this was sufficiently proper ; and the occasion for his excitation in the present instance was well founded . 
The beagles that were in the wood then , run not on four legs ; and the last sound that reached his ears , issuing from the lungs of Yarbers , was an annunciation to a companion that the coast was clear . 
That this fellow , Vernon , is employed by the state , I have no sort of doubt , -- but there 's no telling to what extent -- what are the powers given him , or what is the object he aims at . 
For this other fellow , now -- '' `` Vernon ? '' 
This of Vernon does . 
Did you note whether his saddle had pockets ? '' 
They may hear his footsteps if we take the path . '' 
Beforethis long conference was ended , sleep had overcome the limbs of Harry Vernon . 
The imagination which had so long kept him wakeful in spite of the day 's fatigue , now busied itself only in his dreams , which were all of a kind natural to the young beginner on the weary paths of life . 
With a heart as yet unfettered , and a fancy free as that of the bird for the first time winging its way from the forests to the ocean , he was conscious only of that void and vacant region in his bosom , which is intended to be filled by love . 
Warm and waiting for the advent , the heart of Harry Vernon did not yet repine in inconclusive fancies , hoping and sighing , and surrendering itself to imbecility . 
He suffered himself but little time to brood over the vague desires which he felt , but summoning to his side the thoughts which attend on duty , he addressed himself with ardour to the actual demands of existence , without yielding up more mind than was necessary to such as were eventual and prospective . 
It was only while he slept that his fancy gave itself up to the desires of his heart ; and all the struggles before his pathway were thrust from sight , and all his duties and dangers forgotten , to give place to as lovely a vision as youthful bard ever conceived and young imagination ever desired . 
She was tall and graceful ; her skin pure as marble and smooth as ivory ; her eyes black and streaming with a melting light ; her lips soft as the leaf and richer than the rose ; her cheeks pale but radiant , almost transparent with a light like that which glistened from her eyes ; and her forehead lofty , spiritually narrow , and shaded by the voluminous masses of silk-like hair , darker than that which shines on the shoulders of the raven . 
She stood beside him -- such was his dreaming fancy -- in a vision of his sleep . 
He had sunk for shelter beneath the shadows of a group of mighty oaks that surmounted the brow of a hill , and were surrounded by a dense and untrodden forest . 
His horse drank the while and cropped the herbage upon the banks of a little stream that wandered down the hillside , and lost itself in the deep groves of a thicket which hid from sight the dark and gloomy recesses of an inland swamp . 
The midday sun shone above him in melting fervour , but the dense foliage shielded him from the oppressive heat , and but a few strange straggling gleams , trembling and retreating as if conscious of intrusion , stole in at intervals between the branches , as they slowly yielded to the capricious wind . 
A dark shadow , as if from an overhanging cloud , suddenly overspread the scene the moment ere she entered upon it , but at her approach the cloud disappeared , a glory like that of the moon enveloped him with its soft , fleecy edges , and his very soul seemed to melt within him as the entrancing vision drew nigh to his side . 
Other forms followed and crowded upon the scene -- strange events and mingling action disturbed its quiet , and his eye toiled in the survey of a thousand features , each changing at his glance and distracting his attention . 
But the lovely form which had fixed his eye and fastened upon his soul at first , was still to be seen amidst the crowd -- now here , now there , nigh and then remote , but still present , hallowing the scene to softness , modifying the strife , stilling the clamour , and subduing the turbulence , until , -- such was the strange fancy , -- the sudden obtrusion of Horsey , and his fierce declamation , affrighted the delicate and ethereal beauty from the spot ; and he started from his sleep with a harsher mood in his bosom towards his self-appointed companion than any which he had ever entertained before . 
When he first fell asleep , his nose performed such vigorous airs that Vernon was apprehensive lest they might greatly interfere with his own desired rest . 
But the mastery of this solemn member was disputed at frequent periods by his tongue ; which , as if never needing rest , continued at intervals to pour forth choice fragments from his favourite Shakspeare , growling at one moment in all the emphatic terrors of the tragic muse ; at another softening down to the most dulcet parts of love , the sweet significant nothings with which every hero regales his `` Amaryllis in the shade . '' 
Sometimes , the sentences would be broken , sometimes complete ; at first , they were usually short , consisting of two or three consecutive words of a single phrase ; but Vernon , who listened to him for awhile with smiling curiosity , observed , as the night advanced , that he rose from fragments to entire passages , and when he himself was sinking into that sleep which yielded him a vision so entrancing , he was conscious that the actor was gliding into the dialogue in which he personated the love-sick Montague , and wooed the fair Capulet beneath the window . 
Something Vernon caught ere he himself slept , of -- `` -- strides the lazy pacing clouds And sails upon the bosom of the air , '' followed by an intense ebullition of the nostrils which probably answered all the purposes of a reply from Juliet ; when he himself , surrendering to the oppressive sleep , lost all farther apprehension of the dialogue . 
`` But the other fellow -- Vernon ! '' 
It was easy to undo the hooks which secured the door , but the continued declamation of Horsey , in spite of all the assurances of Saxon that he slept , disturbed the nerves of the intruder , and he once more returned to the entrance to assure his companion that it was certainly Vernon who snored and Horsey who spoke ; and that the speaking had none of the obstructions or hesitation of a sleeping man , and came most certainly from the throat of one as perfectly conscious as he ever was in daylight . 
`` But which is Vernon 's ? '' 
To withdraw and let down the door at that moment , might be to arouse the sleeper , and defeat the object which he had in view ; and no possible effort which he could make , short of rushing into the room itself , would enable him -- this he discovered -- to reach the opposite end of the fire-place where the valise of Vernon had been placed . 
The direction given to Horsey by the arms of Saxon , carried him upon the couch of Vernon , whom the struggling actor , now emerging into actual bodily consciousness , grappled with as he was rising up in alarm , and continued to contend with as if County Paris still remained to be slain . 
But he met with no better treatment at the hands of Vernon than from those of Saxon , being tumbled , by a very unscrupulous movement , backward upon the floor , where he lay , for a moment , actually at a loss to determine where he was and what was his condition . 
Vernon had been as roughly awakened from a pleasant dream as the actor , and , still in doubt as to whence the annoyance arose , he was soon out of bed and standing above Romeo , the moment he had flung him from him . 
`` Why Harry , my dear boy , is that you ? 
Was that your bed , Harry ? 
asked Vernon , now beginning to conjecture the whole affair . 
It was our first night at Benton , Harry . 
After satisfying her , he was very glad to slink back into bed , as he found Vernon unwilling any longer to listen to his description of the scene , and the detail of points newly-made , which had broken in upon fancies of his own no less dear and exciting , though , possibly -- it was his own reflection -- not more real and stable than those of his companion . 
Vernon 's was a well-bred nose , that seldom violated the rules of decorum ; and hopeless of the plan , the progress of which had been so forcibly interrupted in the first instance , the outlaw concluded to defer to another opportunity his intended purpose . 
Look here , Harry Vernon , what a bunch I 've made of it in my sleep ; a bag from a beggar 's press -- and the garment perfectly new -- a splendid garment , for which that skunk of a tailor amerced me in a greater number of dad 's dollars than I should be altogether willing to count up in his hearing . 
They had been already summoned to an early breakfast , which Vernon , before retiring for the night , had especially solicited . 
He now ventured to remind the actor that the family and breakfast waited upon them . 
The exclamation of the actor , distinguished by tones expressive not merely of surprise , but consternation and horror , drew the attention of Vernon to the dress , in which an envious nail -- probably while old Yarbers was inspecting the glittering sack beneath the house -- had torn a finger 's breadth . 
`` It 's but a small hole : it 's easily mended , '' said Vernon . 
By St. David 's best buckles , Harry , you have a strangely irreverent way about you ! 
Vernon expostulated against the delay , but in vain . 
A new measure suggested itself to his companion . 
Vernon saw that expostulation and entreaty were alike vain . 
A man 's blood gets up wondrously , Harry , when he 's in the fury of a fifth act -- when he 's warmed by opposition , and , more than all , by his own rising consciousness of what is called for by the character . 
At such a time his action increases accordingly , and it would be the most awkward thing in the world , if , extending his arm to convey the idea of command , to order Buckingham 's head off , or any matter of equal tragic signification , he should discover to the inquisitive audience a rent under the arm , and a glimmer of a white cotton shirt beneath his buckram . 
The breakfast over , Vernon , with some consternation , beheld him proceeding to assist the mother and daughter in removing the plates and dishes in order to convert the table into a tailor 's board , on which he could perform the last-needed office of smoothing out the rumpled Romeo . 
Harry Vernon , meanwhile , became impatient to the last degree . 
Not that he had any reason to wait for Horsey , beyond that of mere civility . 
He well knew that , before the day was out , they would reach the spot where diverging roads should prove convincingly to the actor that his course was other than that which he had so precipitately and erroneously assumed to be the same with his own . 
To hurry off before his companion was ready , in order that he might anticipate this truth , would at least seem rude , if it were not so in reality ; and then the utter simplicity and good nature of the actor pleaded in his behalf , and made Vernon , who was generously and nobly constituted , reluctant to do any thing which might inflict unnecessary pain , even though he well knew that a nature so mercurial as that of Horsey would not feel it long . 
Vernon interposed . 
`` True , true , my cousin of Vernon , that is a good thought ; and Bess -- hold me your debtor for a set of china , the best that money can get in Natchez . 
Harry , my dear fellow , what an accident ! 
`` Right , Harry , -- there 's right and reason in what you say . 
Come , Harry Vernon , I am ready now . '' 
The actor had prolonged the parting words and moments to the last possible limits , and somewhat to the surprise of Vernon , he saw , or fancied he saw , an expression of seriousness and interest , rather beyond that of his ordinary manner , conspicuous in what he said and looked to the lovely forest damsel . 
Nor , on the other hand , did it seem to Vernon that the girl was entirely without some consciousness of the interest which she occasioned , and that which she felt , for her little rosy lips quivered as she spoke to them at parting , and the `` good-bye '' trembled in imperfect expression upon her scarcely opened mouth . 
`` There is something monstrous uncomfortable at parting , Harry , even with acquaintances of yesterday . 
I know nothing about her husband , who seems but a curmudgeon ; but that dear little creature -- that Mary -- do n't you think her devilish handsome , Harry ? 
Celia , Rosalind , and Helen , melted into one ; and yet , Harry , she did not speak twenty words to me the whole time she was present . '' 
replied Vernon , laughing , `` you out-talked the whole family . '' 
By my faith , Harry , but that I heard you make a long and good speech at Raymond , I should be inclined to say you had taken up the wrong profession . 
`` Egad , if that be the case , Harry , I should be soon swallowed up ; for , as to stopping to think when I should speak , and what I should say , that would seem to be the most idle , as it would certainly be , in my case , the most impracticable thing in the world . 
Ride up with me for a minute , and you shall see as good an imitation of Forrest -- did you ever meet with Forrest , Harry ? 
But I will show you Forrest in Damon , -- you shall have the strangling scene -- I 'll choke a pine sapling for Lucullus -- I 'll -- '' He commenced riding up the hill as he spoke , but Vernon stopped him . 
`` Harry Vernon , you are a bundle of mysteries . 
`` Your remark reminds me of the error under which you have laboured so long and under which you still labour ; '' was the reply of Vernon expressed in looks equally grave with his language . 
`` Say you so , Harry ? 
But , Harry , do you really think from what you have seen that I should become a proper actor ? '' 
They have denied all my hopes and decried all my talents ; and then came doubts to my mind ; -- doubts -- dark , dirty , earth-whelming , miserable doubts , Mr. Vernon , that made my soul sick , and made me feel as if I could steal away into some dark corner of the woods and die ; satisfied , if out of human sight , that they spoke nothing but the truth -- that I had deceived myself -- that , in short , I had none of that genius , the fires of which I fancied to be blazing away proudly and in-extinguishably in soul and brain . 
Oh , Harry Vernon , these were killing , crushing doubts , and when they came to me , as they always did when I was out of money , and the d -- d tailors and tavern-keepers at my heels , I felt all over as the meanest of all possible beings . 
But you cheer me ; your words -- for I believe you , Harry , to be a d -- d smart fellow -- your words reassure me . 
But , though you give me life , Harry , curse me but you crush me again when you tell me you are not one of us . 
`` Something strange , at least , in all this business , '' said Vernon , curiously . 
The actor , without hesitation , gave full details of the conference with Hawkins and Saxon in the village of Raymond , narrated such portions of the dialogue as had special reference to theatricals and his companion 's probable connexion with them , and from the succinctness of his statements , and the clearness with which he repeated the several parts taken by the two , he soon convinced Vernon that there must have been a sinister purpose in the minds of the men who made such seemingly gratuitous mis-statements . 
`` Ah , Harry , there you have me . 
`` Spoken like a book , Harry . 
So you havesecrets , Harry -- there is a mystery -- there -- '' `` Professional and personal , purely , Mr. Horsey , and when I tell you this much , I trust , I secure myself against further inquiry . 
Remember the noble chorus in your own favourite play , ` A kingdom for a stage , princes to act , And monarchs to behold the swelling scene , Then should the warlike Harry , like himself , Assume the port of Mars -- ' It is only , you perceive , where the field is large , -- commensurate to the greatness of the actor -- that he can be like himself , -- that he can do justice to himself , or feel that ambitious spurring of the soul which is conscious always of her true occasions . '' 
Horsey was gratified at the interest which Vernon seemed to take in his fortunes , for the simple but dignified manners of the young lawyer had impressed him with a respectful deference , which had the effect , not unfrequently , of restraining his exuberance of character , and compelling him to meditate awhile before speaking ; a practice exceedingly novel to him , and one which kept him from sundry outbreaks of folly while they were in company together . 
He listened with unaccustomed patience to the exhortations of Vernon , and though he had not the courage to forbear the small game which he was even then pecking at , he acknowledged the generally beneficial tenor of the advice given him . 
He was not willing to believe that the forest world in which he was about to penetrate was unsusceptible of present dramatic improvement , and still less was he willing to tolerate the suspicion which his companion threw out , that the story of Tilton 's theatrical establishment at Benton was a falsehood -- a hoax invented for the simple purpose of securing him as an instrument in the prosecution of some ulterior purpose as yet unaccountable to either party . 
`` And should you want help , Harry , '' he cried out as they rode asunder , `` should you get into any spree and want a backer to see you safe , give me a sign , a signal -- let me have the cue -- and by the ghost of Garrick , I will need no prompter to tell me what my part should be in the business . 
While the actor communed after this manner with his uneasy steed , Harry Vernon , better mounted , was making his forward way with a speed rather greater than his wont , as it was his object to make up for the time lost in waiting upon Horsey 's operations at the hut of Yarbers , and , subsequently , in that which had been consumed in their parting . 
Vernon drew up and awaited him -- readily guessing the purpose of his pursuit , and really glad that Horsey had taken another course , and got so greatly the start of one whose desperate hostility was apparent in every glance of his eye , and in every motion of his malignant , and now wretched countenance . 
His eyes were so swollen that the orbs were barely perceptible , and the sight must have been barely sufficient to enable him to ride . 
This condition of his face made the rage which appeared its leading expression , look monstrous and fiendish . 
His lips were tremulous though closed , the veins upon his forehead tensely corded ; and the skin around , affected by the injuries done to his eyes , had assumed in spots , a dark , dirty green colour , which added to the general hideousness of his present aspect . 
He was armed with a rifle , which , perhaps , in the present situation of his eyes , would be found far less formidable than usual . 
Glaring upon Vernon with an expression of hostility which almost left it doubtful in our hero 's mind if he himself were not also the object of his pursuit , he demanded to know what had become of his companion . 
His words were few and passionate , and the disrespectful manner in which he spoke , and the brutal epithets which he applied at the same time to the person for whom he inquired , had the effect of producing a certain degree of irritation in the mind of Vernon , which kept his answer in suspense . 
`` I have no desire to quarrel with you , '' said Vernon , `` but still less am I disposed to satisfy the demands of any one who makes them disrespectfully . 
You shall answer for him yourself , '' cried the other , dropping his reins and grasping his rifle in both hands . 
The instinctive and natural movement of Vernon was to close with him at once , and thus defeat the contemplated employment of the deadly weapon with which he threatened him . 
He wheeled his horse instantly beside that of the assailant , and his left hand grasped the weapon also . 
demanded Vernon , sternly . 
Such at least seemed his object to Vernon , whose efforts were directed to defeat this purpose ; and suffering the other to recede , he addressed all his strength to obtaining possession of the weapon , which Mabry , in the sudden backward movement of his horse , was compelled to yield up , or suffer himself to be drawn with it between the two animals . 
But a few paces divided them , and the rapidity of his assailant 's movement was such that Vernon felt he could neither take aim , nor prepare the weapon in time to anticipate his attack . 
With this conviction he put spurs to his horse and drew him up only after he had put a space of fifty yards between them . 
`` I will make no promise , '' replied the other , leaping again upon his steed , `` we shall soon be at closer quarters . '' 
And with these words , with a fury even more blind than his hurt vision , the madman was preparing to urge his horse forward upon the speaker , heedless of warning , and in utter defiance of the lifted rifle . 
`` I warn you again , -- once , twice , thrice , I warn you , '' were the slow , deliberate tones of Vernon 's voice , as , dropping the rifle in his left hand , he lifted the ranging sights before his eye , `` approach me , Mr. Mabry , with bared weapon , and I will certainly shoot you . '' 
I fear you not , '' said the fellow , as he put spurs to his horse . 
cried the voice of one who darted before his path , emerging into the main road from a little Indian trail that crossed it at nearly equal distances between the contending parties . 
Vernon had already cocked the rifle , and the approach , by ten steps more , of his furious assailant , would have had the effect of drawing his fire . 
The entrance of the third personage relieved him from a dreadful necessity . 
The abrupt salutation arrested the rash onset of the youth , and probably saved his life . 
He rode a coalblack horse of proportions and strength of corresponding greatness with his own -- a keen , fire-eyed animal , broad chested , strongly quartered , slim in fetlock , small in hoof , long necked , narrow headed , and with a mane , which , though plaited and divided on either side , seemed scarcely less copious than that of the full possession of the ordinary horse . 
His own person was no less symmetrical and erect than it was large and powerful . 
His cheeks were of a fine sanguine hue , his eyes bright , blue and lively , denoting good nature , with an arch , lurking humour , that perhaps indicated a fondness for his jest in defiance of the broken bones which are sometimes apt to follow it . 
His nose was finely Roman , and his forehead , though neither broad nor high , was yet full , suitably large , and contributed to that general expression of character , rather than talents , which belonged to his other features . 
He looked earnestly for a few minutes upon Vernon while addressing Mabry , to whom he spoke in the familiar language of an old acquaintance . 
Look you , stranger , '' turning to Vernon , to whom the sudden arrival of a third person , who seemed an associate of his enemy , only cautioned to greater watchfulness ; `` look you , stranger , you must n't take it hard that this mad fellow set upon you , seeing you 've took his sweetheart from him , and put his two eyes in double-mourning . 
`` But I 've done neither , '' said Vernon ; `` I 've neither beaten him , nor took his sweetheart from him . 
On Vernon 's side this was no great difficulty . 
He confirmed the promise made in his behalf by the latter to Vernon , that he would offer him no farther injury or insult , and , at his solicitation , he returned the rifle to Mabry , though not until he had pushed the flint from the teeth of the cock , thus depriving him of the power of doing any immediate harm with the instrument , unless he went better provided than usual . 
As for this business of Yarbers himself , '' continued the pacificator , drawing his companion away to some little distance from the place where Vernon stood , and lowering his voice to a whisper -- `` say nothing till you see me . 
Vernon meanwhile bade them a courteous `` good-day , '' and was about to set forward , when the voice of Rawlins arrested him . 
So you see -- '' `` Say no more , '' said Vernon ; `` it will please me to have your company . '' 
Vernon was joined by Rawlins , and in a few moments , on the place which they had just occupied , stood the outlaw Saxon , who emerged from the woods on one hand , and was immediately after joined by a comrade named Jones , who came to the spot from an opposite quarter . 
Yarbers , certainly , would have been the gainer ; and we should have had good reason for tying the arms of this fellow Vernon behind him . 
He and Vernon know each other for the first time , and they will probably separate at Brother Badger 's turn-out . 
`` A good rule , '' said Vernon ; `` and without saying whether I will go with you or not , let me know whether Mr. Badger is in the habit of receiving company . '' 
I tell you , sir , Mr. Vernon , he looks like all the Laws and the Prophets ; and he speaks as if he stood on a high place , and we were all put below to listen to him . '' 
`` The very thing , Mr. Vernon ; but then he 's really kind as any man alive , though , for that matter , he haint the knack of showing it kindly . 
He 'll help you up from the road with the look of the same fellow that knocked you down ; and bind up your wounds with as sour a face all the while , as if his own bowie-knife had made them . 
`` I 've met with such a character before , '' said Vernon ; `` it is neither unusual nor unnatural , and only indicates a predominating self-esteem , that asserts its superiority by eccentricities of thought and manner . 
`` Ah , Mr. Vernon , you 're a keen one . 
I confess to you , Mr. Vernon , I do like Rachel . '' 
His confession increased the respect which the lawyer had begun to entertain for him . 
He replied playfully -- `` And reasoning , Mr. Rawlins , from what you have said of Gideon , I presume , one of your best arguments for liking Rachel is found in her liking you . 
The words of Vernon unsealed the fountain , and took the stone from its lips . 
`` Do , that 's a friend , Mr. Vernon ; it does me good when a man of sense and education talks with Rachel . 
In this country , a man may git rich in double quick time , if he 's only constant and sober to his business ; and if the Lord spares me , Mr. Vernon , I 'm bent on making my children men of substance and education . 
It amused Vernon to hear his companion counting his chickens with so much complacency , and making his arrangements how to train them , even before they were hatched . 
He smiled with an expression of that humour upon his countenance which formed no small portion of his character . 
It was only last week -- I go to see her about once a week , Mr. Vernon -- it was only last week I tried to get her to say , if she had a son , which she would like best to have him , a lawyer or a doctor ; and it was a great worry to me to get her to talk about the matter at all , and what she did say was as much as to say , ` have your own way about it , ' for it came to as little . 
Now , Mr. Vernon , I know that there 's nothing so troublesome in families as a difference between man and wife about these things , and I wanted to put the matter out of all danger of dispute . 
`` Well , that 's true , there may be something in that , Mr. Vernon , but then , again , you know it 's an equal chance that we should have boys as well as girls . 
The unsophisticated lover impressed Vernon favourably as regarded both himself and mistress , by the naturalness with which he detailed his own secret thoughts and desires , and the manners of the damsel . 
He was checked by an abrupt inquiry of Vernon , and brought back to the more earthly objects of humanity , with some slowness and a little reluctance . 
I do n't hear any , Mr. Vernon . '' 
I do n't think there 's such a thing in the county , Mr. Vernon . 
`` No men , no men , Mr. Vernon ! 
Besides , I 'm not afraid of any fellow that ever I saw yet , that had no better help than flesh and blood , broad shoulders , and solid muscle , can give him ; and when I 've turned and challenged them that made these noises , and put into the swamps after them -- and I 've a keen nose , and a quick eye among the bushes , Mr. Vernon -- and after all could find nothing to lay a finger on , why then it was time to think of saying one 's prayers , and using one 's spurs . 
`` Give your horse a light spur now , Mr. Rawlins , '' said Vernon , gravely , `` and let us ride on a little faster . 
`` I will not fail you , Mr. Vernon , '' said the other , in suppressed accents , and bringing his horse more closely to the side of his companion . 
exclaimed Vernon , impatiently , `` but get your pistols out , my good fellow ; it may be a word and a blow with us . 
Speaking thus , Vernon spurred his horse forward in a smart canter , while Rawlins , obeying his suggestion , prepared his weapons , and followed him at a horse 's length behind . 
Mr. Vernon , if it should be Rachel ! '' 
The animal , though fleet , and now doing his best , yet lacked the speed of Vernon 's , and the distance , small at first , was increasing fast between them . 
The fear that another should do for the safety of his sweetheart that which he alone aimed to accomplish , was wormwood to his spirit ; and his apostrophe to his steed was coupled with the driving and constant application of the spur , until the flanks of the generous animal soon grew red under the infliction . 
The shrieks were renewed -- fast , sharp , imploring , -- terminating , at length , in a long , piercing scream , which grew feeble , at last , as if from exhaustion ; and when it closed , the thrilling words of Vernon , as he looked behind , and cried to Rawlins to follow , sent a creeping chill of terror to the heart of the rustic . 
Vernon had already entered upon the scene of action . 
A single glance at the objects before him , gave Vernon a correct notion of the affair . 
Her efforts were those of prayer , expostulation and entreaty , until the approach of Vernon , whom she first beheld , suggested new hopes of rescue ; and then her screams were joined to those of her younger sister , and gave a new impulse to the movements of our hero and his companion , who followed close upon his heels . 
There was but little time for reflection -- none for hesitation , and the mood and character of Vernon were such as to require neither . 
The ruffian who bestrid the prostrate gentleman turned about at the signal , only to receive the bullet of Vernon , unerringly aimed at his head . 
He fell prostrate upon the body of the old man , and his blood and brains covered his face and garments . 
In the next moment , the robber in possession of the carriage fired at Vernon , and was about to leap with a second pistol upon him , when the appearance of Rawlins , who made his entréewith a shout which might have done credit to the lungs of Stentor , determined the assailant to trust his heels rather than his weapon ; and without giving a look to his comrade , he darted into the opposite woods , leaving the carriage between himself and his foes . 
Vernon was the first to pursue the escaping ruffians , but he had scarcely entered the wood ere he felt himself growing sick and faint ; and then , for the first time , he found himself wounded in the thigh . 
He returned to the scene of action , and with difficulty alighted from his horse . 
The old man and his daughters , whom he had rescued , came about him to acknowledge and thank him for his services ; but exhaustion , from loss of blood , now overcame him , and he sunk to the ground with a dim consciousness while he was falling , that the old man was the very person whom he sought -- the very William Maitland who had defrauded the bank and involved Carter , to the loss of so many thousands . 
Ignorant of the hurt of Vernon , whom he had seen enter the forest in pursuit , like himself , he shook his hand in anger at the sheltering recesses in which the robbers were lost from sight , and returned towards the scene of action , with a degree of composure , which seemed to regard the fatigue of his horse as superior to all other considerations . 
His astonishment and concern , when he discovered the insensible condition of his companion , was worthy of a much longer acquaintance , and a more social and equal relationship than had existed between them . 
A few moments sufficed to convince him that his friend was not dead , nor , perhaps , badly injured ; and a few more enabled him to kick the dead robber with a quiet conviction that he could do no more hurt . 
The features of the ruffian he inspected carefully ; but if he had any knowledge of them before , he kept the matter to himself , and having emptied the pockets of all that they contained of value , and possessed himself of the pistols with which the fellow had been armed , but which the true and prompt shot of Vernon had prevented him from using , he left the carcass in the highway , with probably some such motive as that of the woodman when he kills a snake -- namely , the start and momentary terror which such a spectacle will provoke in the spectator . 
So since you 're safe now , and do n't seem to have lost any thing , take your seat in your wagon , while I help Vernon into the bottom of it . 
You must make some room for him , young lady , and do n't be frightened at a little blood . 
Her whispers became full and perfect sounds at the close , and were silenced in much agitation by the father , who pointed to Rawlins , now approaching with the body of Vernon , which he had lifted upon his massive shoulders , and was bearing to the carriage . 
Having effected all the arrangements , to his own satisfaction at least , Rawlins took charge of Vernon 's horse , which he led ; and congratulating the old man upon his slowly-recovered humanity , he proceeded to guide him to the dwelling which he had assigned for their temporary lodging-house , leaving the dead robber to the possible care of his comrades . 
`` He will have no more knowledge of Weston , '' said the woodman , `` than he has already , and that I can give you now , since Weston was the very man who was shot down by Mr. Vernon : -- he sat on the top of the old gentleman , there , Mr. Wilson , with pistol out , and another loaded in his breast , when Vernon tumbled him . 
Here are the pistols which I took from him , here 's his knife , and these nick-nacks also came out of his pocket . 
His carcass lies in the cross-roads at this moment , where any body who wants , can have it for the carriage . '' 
Still , though perhaps rather from the promptings of his eldest daughter than the instigations of his own heart , he took some pains to assure himself of the favourable condition of the young man who had been wounded in succouring him ; and did not resolve upon his journey , or , at least , did not commence his visible preparations for it , until he learned from the sober report of Badger , and the no less credible , but less solemn statements of Rawlins , that Vernon 's hurts were not such as could detain him more than a day in his chamber . 
This ascertained , he bade adieu to Zion 's Hill and his friendly entertainers , and by the time the sun had fairly purpled the green tops of the forest , he was speeding fast along the by-road which conducted to Badger 's , and which he had taken the night before with so much unwillingness , and so little grace . 
It was some hours after his departure , before Vernon awakened from the deep sleep into which he had been thrown by the opiate which had been given him the night before . 
Nor could he be said to have awakened to perfect consciousness , because he awakened to the light . 
The stupifying effect of the laudanum benumbed his energies , and seemed to confuse his faculties of thought and observation . 
A sort of dreamy consciousness of what had taken place , in which all things floated incoherently and indistinctly before his mental vision , disturbed the certainty of his conceptions ; and it was only by the aid of Rawlins , who sat beside his couch when his eyes opened , that he recovered the knowledge of the events which had taken place the afternoon before . 
This difficulty , upon reflection , seemed , to the sanguine mind of Vernon , scarcely less trivial than that of the name . 
Carter spoke of the children as he had known them , and probably with some reference to his own greater age ; and as Vernon threw back his thoughts to the period when Maitland practised his treachery upon his friend , and married Ellen Taylor , the probabilities gained strength , as he found that , allowing them to have had children within a reasonable space of time after marriage , those children might very well be sixteen or seventeen , the apparent age of the eldest daughter of the traveller . 
Vernon derived a greater degree of gratification from this detail of his companion , than the long , rambling sentences of Rawlins were usually apt to afford him . 
But though he lingered over the narrative with a silent pleasure , he did not forego his purpose of rising from his couch of inactivity , and of pursuing the task which he had too deliberately and resolutely undertaken to forego without shame . 
He was one of those , who , regarding evils as masked benefits , looked upon Vernon as particularly fortunate in the favour of Providence , and rated the extent of his good by the degree of dissatisfaction and impatience which the victim displayed beneath it . 
His voluminous history , fortunately for Vernon , had its own interest , apart from the savoury Christian deductions which the narrator never failed to make from all its leading details ; and if the youth was not greatly enlightened and strengthened in moral respects by what he heard , he was certainly edified , amused , and sometimes excited , by adventures on `` field and flood , '' in forest and prairie , in which , like one half of the settlers of Mississippi , William Badger had proved the possession of a manly soul and strength , contending with savage beasts and forests , and not unfrequently with more savage men . 
But for these details , which gave action and vitality to the old man 's prosing , Vernon might have made his retreat in utter desperation ; but he bore it with becoming fortitude , until relieved by more exciting details , which put a stop to those of the Methodist , and sent all parties to new subjects of cogitation and remark . 
Vernon was indulged with a small table beside the sofa on which he lay , upon which was placed some thin soup and a few well-boiled fragments of chicken , such being thought the least hurtful diet for an invalid . 
I will confer with this young man , Vernon , who speaks sensibly on most subjects , and he hath shown himself bold enough to be a leader in any strife that may follow , and is surely not to be suspected of any connexion with these outlaws of whom you speak . 
If he will go forth with us , it were something ; for thou and thy ten men would go but a little way to compass all the points of the swamp , and beleaguer those who harbour therein . 
Vernon heard him with a degree of pleasure and interest which he found it not so easy to suppress ; but he regarded the young Badger with eyes of too much keenness and suspicion to suffer his real sentiments to be known . 
Without hesitation , he joined issue with the venerable elder , as well on the propriety as the necessity of the course he proposed to pursue ; deliberately questioning the correctness of the assumption , that there was any number of men engaged in the outlawry which had troubled the neighbourhood ; and insisting upon the strong probability of all the detailed offences having been committed by the same two or three individuals who had been conspicuous in each . 
Much of his argument was founded upon the broad , patriotic text , that in a country like ours , where the means of life are so readily and universally to be obtained , it was morally impossible that any numerous set of men could be found , wilfully disregarding the laws , and making themselves liable to their penalties . 
His views were supported at large , and with much more earnestness , by Gideon Badger , who took especial care to wind up his notions of the subject , by an elaborate eulogy upon the moral and religious influences which had been exercised over the neighbourhood by the burning and shining light fixed upon Zion 's Hill . 
But neither the well-tempered courtesy with which Vernon had spoken , nor the closing and rather bald flattery of Gideon 's speech , saved them from the charge of vaingloriousness and presumption from the venerable elder , who was never more full of Christian texts than when he was following his own mind , and resolved upon making others do so likewise . 
His resolution to obey the commission which had been given him , was followed by a direct demand of Vernon 's services , to assist in carrying out his purposes , which he resolved to begin forthwith . 
was the reply of Vernon . 
The elder was not to be gainsayed , and he showed himself as tenacious on the present , as upon most other occasions . 
`` You forget , Mr. Badger , '' replied Vernon , availing himself of his own expressed opinions rather than those which he really felt ; `` you forget , Mr. Badger , that I take a different view of these facts from yourself ; that I see not the same dangers , and do not recognise the same necessity ; but , even were it otherwise , I see not how I could assist you materially , and acknowledge the presence of other , and as you may think them , selfish obligations , which compel me elsewhere . 
But the reluctance of Vernon rather stimulated than discouraged the Methodist , who was always strengthened in purpose and performance by the increase of his own personal responsibilities . 
But Vernon , though he refrained from yielding himself to the importunities of Badger , had no such indifference to his project , nor did he entertain those doubts of the necessity of proceeding against the outlaws which he yet professed . 
This done , and assured that there was none to hear but Rawlins , Vernon proceeded to inform the astounded woodman of those facts in the history of the mystic brotherhood , and the flight of Clem Foster from Alabama , and his probable presence in the neighbourhood , all of which had been gathered by him in his interview with the Governor of Mississippi . 
Vernon studiously counselled the other to forbear taking any active part in the affair , until events had more completely developed the persons , the aims , and the particular whereabouts of the outlaws . 
In all circumstances he especially counselled the sturdy woodman -- who already regarded him as an oracle , -- while using the influence of William Badger , on no account to admit his privity to any plan which he might deem it advisable to pursue . 
That night Vernon prepared his letters for the Governor , and his friend and patron , Carter . 
But it might have been remarked that though Vernon spoke freely and fully of all other matters , he yet found , on finishing the letter , that he had said not a word on the subject of the two daughters -- or , rather , the one daughter of Maitland -- who accompanied him . 
While the conference was going on between Vernon and Rawlins , Gideon Badger was making his way to the woods , where he found Saxon , Jones , and another of the confederates . 
What you tell me of this young fellow , Vernon , is the most surprising of all . 
The family , guests and all , had retired to their several chambers for the night ; and in the silent review which she made of the scene she had just witnessed , a most annoying conviction rose in her mind of the probable danger awaiting the young traveller , Vernon , who , she knew , had appointed to resume his journey on the morrow . 
`` Walter , '' she said , `` your friend Mr. Vernon must be on his guard while he rides . 
There is danger awaiting him -- let him see to his arms , and be heedful of the company he meets . '' 
`` Nothing that is of any service to him , and nothing more of his danger . 
The robbers are near us ; they will be on the lookout for him . 
The woodman instantly returned to the chamber of Vernon , and apprised him of what he had heard . 
An early breakfast had been prepared , after which , and the unusually long grace which preceded it , Vernon bade adieu to his rigid , but hospitable host , and joined by Rawlins , rode forth upon his way . 
The latter escorted him to the river , and on their way to this point , Vernon suggested to him all those plans and precautions , by which the woodman was to conduct the contemplated operations against the robbers . 
Before the hour was ended , the trampling of a steed was heard , and Vernon went by . 
With the first sound of approaching footsteps , Vernon prepared himself for an enemy , but the sight of the stranger somewhat disarmed his apprehensions . 
Saxon was seemingly without arms of any kind , and there was that in the frank and manly expression of his face , in the free , hearty salutation which he used , and the quiet and simple manner of his address , that Vernon , as a mere physiognomist , had he annexed any importance to this idle study , would have been disposed rather to confide in the new-comer , than to regard him with distrust . 
He answered the salutation of the stranger with equal frankness , and it was agreed , as they both aimed for Lucchesa , that they should ride on their way together . 
`` A few years more , sir , '' said Saxon , in reply to a remark of Vernon , touching the sparse settlements along the Yazoo ; `` a few years more , and this country must become exceedingly populous . 
`` If a more sudden elevation does not anticipate such slow results , '' said Vernon with a smile ; `` but , '' he continued , `` I have no faith in half the monstrous robber-tales which are told of every new country . 
Saxon concurred with Vernon in his brief and natural view of the subject , and the conversation proceeded with a mutually increasing interest on both sides . 
The quick , sensitive mind of Vernon , which , like that of most ambitious men , had an instinctive dread of ridicule , was at once checked in its familiarity , and sunk back upon its caution and self-esteem for defence and protection . 
But the nice sense of moral delicacy once startled , it was not so easy for him to overcome the reluctance of Vernon to engage in any new freedom of dialogue . 
He spoke of them , as all spoke of them , as frequent and sometimes coupled with greater crimes ; but at the same time , seizing upon an expressed opinion of Vernon , he declared them to be infamously exaggerated , and deplored the evils to the country of such an unhappy notoriety as belonged to it . 
This was all very fairly and frankly said ; the truth of the latter opinion could not well be denied ; but Vernon , though suppressing every thing like apparent suspicion , was yet suspicious ; and once startled , he was one of those keen , restless minds that can not be quieted , short of utter confirmation on one side or the other . 
At all events , the effect upon Vernon was to counsel him to more caution , but to no reserve ; and with this policy in view , he expressed himself very freely in accordance with the opinions of Saxon , which , indeed , happened to be precisely such as he had uttered at the council-board of old Badger , -- if that might be called a place of council where the chairman -- as very often happens to venerable chairmen -- was pretty much resolved from the beginning to have his own way . 
The keen eye of Saxon surveyed the speaker with a glance which seemed intended to penetrate his soul ; but the calm , indifferent countenance of Vernon baffled the inquiry . 
was the natural question of Vernon . 
While Vernon looked round admiringly upon a scene that seemed strangely placed on the very confines of savage life , he suddenly found himself confronted by two persons , who , with the air of men having a perfect right to his attention , demanded to know his name . 
-- my name is Vernon ; but your demand is something singular . 
`` Oh , yes ; that 's all fair enough ; Harry , or Henry Vernon -- that 's right , a 'n' t it , sir ? '' 
`` It is , sir , '' was the reply of Vernon with increasing surprise , and a slight increase of colour in the cheek , and that dilation of the nostril which denotes the swelling choler . 
`` Let us go into the tavern , Mr. Vernon , '' said Saxon , sympathisingly , `` and you can there look more calmly into this business . '' 
Here , with feelings of no enviable character , Vernon examined the instrument which had been issued for his taking . 
He found it to be a criminal warrant , proper in its forms , and issued by one William Nawls , a regularly acting magistrate . 
`` Be quiet , man , before I put a spur into you , '' cried one of the fellows , taking him at the same time by the collar , and putting on a threatening and insolent look , that goaded Vernon to a degree of forgetfulness and fury , to which the sudden arrest of his previous movement had already greatly moved him . 
he exclaimed , striking down the arm that grasped his collar , and driving his clenched fist into the fellow 's face in the instant with a force that sent him to the floor , `` do you think I will suffer this ? '' 
exclaimed Vernon , `` I seek not to escape . 
His words were disregarded ; the constable clung to him with the tenacity of a bull-dog , that clings still though it may not conquer , and Vernon had already dragged him almost to the entrance , when a short , stout Irishman , who lay upon a bench in the room , and who , to this moment , had looked on the fray with the most placid indifference , now sprang to his feet , and lifting a bludgeon that had lain concealed behind him , felled Vernon to the ground with a single blow . 
He would have repeated the stroke , when a stranger interposed , -- a young Alabamian who had also just arrived in the village -- and catching the lifted arm with a grasp that fixed it in its position , exclaimed : `` Stick down , my lad ! 
Let us change the scene , and follow Vernon into the apartment into which he was carried at the moment when the blow from the shillelah of Dennis O'Dougherty had laid him senseless on the floor . 
Whilethe uproarious controversy was in progress between the Alabamian and his Irish opponent in the tavern-hall , Vernon , through the considerateness and care of Saxon , was conveyed to an inner apartment in a state of insensibility . 
A sudden regard for Vernon had been the fruit of the first moment of their meeting ; as he saw , or fancied he saw , even through the reserve which is usually the accompaniment of superior endowments and education , a frankness of manner and character in the youth , which , while resembling , was grateful to his own . 
Leaving these good companions for awhile , let us seek the chamber to which Vernon had been carried . 
He examined the hurt of Vernon with the assistance of the Alabamian who , on the arrival of the physician , left the company without , and with the anxiety of an old friend awaited the result . 
Vernon had overtasked himself . 
The wound in his thigh which had bled so copiously was irritated by the hard riding of the day . 
He had ridden rapidly in order to overtake the carriage of Wilson , and had overcome a distance of more than forty miles . 
The matter was soon explained , the doctor announced himself , and coming slowly to a recollection of what had taken place in the tavern , Vernon quietly submitted himself to his hands . 
Meanwhile , in the possession of his prize and anxious for its examination , Saxon availed himself of the coming of the physician to retire to another apartment . 
The others comprised a brief narration of his own doings as Clem Foster in Alabama ; copies of affidavits sworn to in that state , and a list of names , -- a copy of which had been given to Rawlins by Vernon the night before , -- of suspected persons in Mississippi . 
With exemplary composure he proceeded to the apartment of Vernon which was still occupied by the physician and the Alabamian , and placing himself on one side of the patient , congratulated him on his improved looks and restoration . 
said Saxon , with an incredulous expression -- `` what mistake , Mr. Vernon ? '' 
`` I thank you , sir , again I thank you , '' replied Vernon -- `` it is due to the kindness of your interposition , and to the attention of these gentlemen , that I should assure you , that I am wholly guiltless of the crime which is charged against me , -- that , so far from seeking to harm the unfortunate young man , whose fate I have heard of for the first time from this proceeding , I should feel myself bound by every duty and feeling to succour and to save him . 
`` The truth 's in your face , Mr. Vernon , -- I saw it from the first , and that made me so willing to give Paddy O'Rafferty or O'Dougherty , or whatever O ' it may be , an ugly hoist , for the liberty he took with you , bringing you soon to an acquaintance , all on one side , between your head and his shillelah . 
I know well enough you 'll get out of this scrape , so cheer up , Mr. Vernon . 
The expressive eye of Vernon made an acknowledgment to the hearty volunteer , which his lips did not articulate ; and his hand freely returned the pressure which the latter gave him as he concluded his characteristic speech . 
The sympathies of the stranger , however rudely expressed , were grateful to the youth in the feeling of discontent and depression which was natural to his condition ; and the unstudied frankness of his utterance was only an additional proof that his sentiments came from the fellow 's heart . 
The reflections of Vernon 's mind were no ways cheering at this moment . 
His course , upon which he had entered with so much confidence and hope , had been attended with disasters from the beginning , produced , not through his own measures or management , but by influences entirely foreign . 
Pursued by Horsey and annoyed by his prying curiosity -- scarcely freed from him , before suffering in an encounter into which he was forced by a sense of duty which no honourable mind could shrink from ; and now , arrested and suffering for the alleged murder of the man whose presence was so perfectly unsought and so undesirable : -- these continuous events seemed to hold forth auguries the most inauspicious to that adventure which had been undertaken with so much hope . 
The wounds upon Vernon 's thigh were re-dressed -- the irritation of the part soothed by the application of external dressings ; his head , which had suffered a severe contusion , was properly bandaged , a nostrum given intended to lessen the fever , in the attainment of which object , a vein was also opened . 
This was no other than the traveller whom Vernon had pursued -- certainly , with no sort of apprehension on the part of the former , that such had been the case . 
`` Gentlemen , I would like to know -- sorry to stop you -- but is there not a young gentleman here by the name of Vernon ? '' 
`` Can I be suffered to see and speak with him ? '' 
`` Mr. Vernon has suffered some serious hurts which have brought on fever . 
Even the noise of this bar-room is unfavourable to him in his present situation . 
His mind is very much excited , and inclines to wander . 
I would prefer that he should not be disturbed . '' 
There was some eagerness in the expression of Wilson 's face , and in his manner , as he replied -- `` I have heard of his hurts , sir , and as I partly know him , and believe him to be a worthy young man , I came to propose that he might be taken to my house , while his illness lasted . 
It will be more quiet than he can possibly find it here , and -- '' `` You , perhaps , have not heard of the accusation against him ? '' 
`` I 'm sure nobody who knows Vernon would think him guilty of the thing after his own lips had told 'em he had n't done it . '' 
Thearrangement thus effected needed but the consent of the principal party to its immediate operation ; and Mr. Wilson was ushered into Vernon 's chamber by the ready aid of Dick Jamison . 
The nice and jealous sensibility of Harry Vernon was busy to produce this determination ; and feelings which he did not then seek to analyze -- which he might not at that moment have perceived -- influenced his declared resolution when all the obvious reasons of his mind fought against it . 
He remembered the lovely daughter of the defaulter ; and when he reflected that it might become necessary to expose the crime of the father , he was unwilling to incur the reproaches -- the probable and perhaps well-founded hostility -- of one whose favourable opinion already grew in his mind the embodied standard of a becoming excellence . 
The objections of Vernon gradually vanished when he heard from the lips of the father that such was the argument of his daughter by which he had been moved to the offer ; and it needed but the reasseveration of Dr. Saunders that the removal was full of promised benefit and might promote his more speedy restoration , to induce his full consent to the arrangement . 
This was the image of Vernon . 
She saw him once more as , bounding from the wood , he rushed forward without fear to the rescue of her father . 
She heard the clear , silvery accents of his voice , sweet , though stern , as he shouted to his companion to follow , and to the robbers as he pursued . 
She beheld the grace of all his movements , as , bending in the saddle , he passed the carriage at full speed in chase of the assailants , though already wounded ; and a sudden tremor was renewed at her heart , as she remembered his faint accents when he returned , and when , sinking down before her in the road , he lay unconscious until they reached the dwelling of the Methodist , a noble specimen of manly grace and beauty . 
We have already afforded to the reader a brief and passing glimpse of Lucchesa , on the approach of Vernon to that lovely village . 
They had but a little while returned from this ride before they were apprised by a talkative African , who was employed as a sort of gardener , of the events which had taken place at the tavern -- the arrest of Vernon -- his supposed attempt to escape , and the injuries which he received from the officers in consequence . 
He was , according to the prevailing rules among the stagestricken heroes , simply reserving his powers for the fifth act -- and when he reached the part where he proceeded to show the conflict between Vernon and the officers -- when he described their joint rush upon him and the descending blow of the Irishman 's shillelah -- he did it with such terrific truth , that Virginia screamed aloud , and Mr. Wilson , grasping the arm of the negro , demanded to know if the youth was killed . 
But such was not the case with Vernon . 
He was himself young , and his face , distinguished by the clear skin and features of a nice symmetry , wore an expression too unequivocally noble and manly , even while his eyes were closed in the swooning fit which had overcome him during their brief ride to the house of Badger , to suffer her to suppose him wanting in those advantages of birth , education , and a proper taste and character , with which her hoping fancy had already endowed him . 
It might have been that Virginia Wilson would have soon forgotten Vernon , had they not a second time encountered . 
But the crisis was soon over -- a few days effected a favourable change -- the returning consciousness of the patient , in freeing her from her attendance , deprived her of the sweet privilege which his situation had afforded ; and the languid eyes of Vernon looked round him vainly and impatiently for that lovely countenance of which he had some sweet and partial glimpses in the intervals of his disease . 
As Vernon grew better , his anxieties at his situation were renewed He felt the difficulties in crease of declaring his true character , as the agent of justice , to his hospitable entertainer ; and the annoying character of this feeling was not a little heightened as he looked upon the bewitching grace , and encountered the timid glances of his lovely daughter . 
Vernon , he knew not why himself , felt uneasy at these rambles . 
Had he been a just as well as a close observer , he would have discovered that , on those evenings when Saxon returned with the maiden from her walk , she always came back at a much earlier hour , and her reserve was no less obvious than the obtrusive attention of her companion . 
Could he have been permitted a glance at them in their rambles , he would have been as much struck with the cold courtesy of her tones in replying to her companion , and the evident unwillingness which she displayed to receive those thousand little attentions which are so apt , where the parties incline to each other , to sweeten the dull ramble , and shorten the prolonged paths of the forest . 
But Vernon already watched all things with eyes readily disposed to see them through a false medium , and a spirit that conjectured the worst of all things which it is not permitted to see . 
His inability to share in the rambles of the maiden necessarily increased his apprehensions of the more fortunate person who happened to be her companion ; and his distrust of the outlaw , which had been a sort of instinct , making him reluctant to assimilate with that person from the first , was now heightened to a feeling of positive dislike , as he contemplated the superior advantages which he possessed , and dreaded the events which might spring out of them . 
Why had the words of Vernon such power over her ? 
Meanwhile , Vernon improved hourly , and the attendance of the physician ceased to be necessary . 
Such was a portion of the elaborate letter which Vernon prepared for the persual of his guardian . 
Vernon 's own conscience smote him for the suppression of particulars which he knew must interest his patron to know ; but he strove in vain to overcome a reluctance , the sources of which he was unwilling to examine . 
He was yet writing , when he heard the fall of a light footstep passing through the gallery . 
He knew the step -- and he hurried to the window with a movement , which , in his feeble state , it required some effort to make . 
His eyes followed the slowly moving form -- the form of perfect symmetry -- the movement of perfect grace . 
Her course lay through the garden to the shrouding woods beyond it . 
This was her accustomed walk . 
He forgot himself while he gazed -- his thoughts were steeped in the dews of a most elysian fancy -- his worship was oblivious of all other objects than the one of its adoration . 
On a sudden she looked behind her -- she looked upward -- their eyes encountered , and then she fled -- fled even as the young fawn , that , wandering forth from the forest for a single instant , and for the first time -- in that single instant , encounters the glance of the hunter . 
Vernon was a youth of calm , good sense , and he was determined to keep his emotions of blood and fancy from having their own way . 
He assumed a lightness and gayety of tone when he addressed her , which called for an effort . 
He took her hand , re-conducted her to her seat , and placed himself beside her while he spoke . 
`` I have done but little , Mr. Vernon -- I am very happy that any thing that we could do should have been agreeable to one to whom we owe so much . 
`` Enjoyed , Mr. Vernon ? '' 
`` Do not speak of it , Mr. Vernon . 
My father has only done his duty . 
Mr. Vernon -- it was a pleasure , sir -- to -- '' She paused -- the jealousy of a nice maiden delicacy became apprehensive that her gratitude might express itself too warmly . 
Perhaps Vernon detected something of this consciousness , for he put his hand upon hers with a gentle effort to detain it in his grasp , as he said , hurriedly -- `` Speak , Miss Wilson -- go on . '' 
A moment followed of awkward silence to them both , which was only broken by a strong and decided effort on the part of Vernon . 
`` Oh , think not , Mr. Vernon , that we believe -- that we can believe this foolish charge -- I am sure -- I know that it is groundless . '' 
His convictions in your favour seemed to arise from his prepossessions ; you are fortunate , Mr. Vernon , in finding friends so readily -- perhaps that fact alone may be considered a presumption in your defence . '' 
Vernon himself felt that it could not be concluded as it then stood . 
He wisely stopped short -- short where he was -- and she breathed less freely under the pressure of a sentiment which was strangely sweet , though almost suffocating . 
And he -- the glow upon his cheek made itself felt -- the tremors at his heart grew almost to a murmur like the swift dropping of distant falling rain . 
Was it , indeed , friendship that he solicited from the favouring estimate of Virginia Wilson ? 
Vernon was no lovesick fantastic , though warmed by a temperament never subdued , not always measured , and sometimes endowed with no limited tongue for utterance ; but his passions were perhaps more governable than those of most young men , and he had gone through a long course of severe self-study , by which they had not only been regulated to a certain movement , but his reason had also been advanced to a certain supremacy . 
This self-acquired power kept his utterance within the bounds of good taste and propriety -- his love was that of the man and the gentleman -- his passions were those of civilization . 
He had learned to know that bloodfrequently presumes in the language of affection , and becomes obtrusive because of a selfishness which it disguises by another name , -- he also knew that the first lesson which true love has ever taught , is one of humility -- but that humility which is always allied to hope . 
Vernon , to his own surprise , discovered that he had won a heart long before he ever dreamed of looking for one ; and Virginia Wilson -- certainly , until she met with our hero , she had never thought it worth while to take any care of that , which she now discovered it to be so seriously sweet a business to surrender . 
The mortification of his pride increased the pang of his disappointment , and the vindictive determination with which he had before regarded Vernon , now assumed a deeper character in his mind . 
You would bind the outlaw , Harry Vernon ! 
They were already on their way -- the hand of the maiden in that of Vernon 's ; her eyes cast upon the ground as she listened to those accents so dear to the young heart -- those idle words and whispers , which , though they sound sillily enough in the ears of third persons , seem to the initiate more precious than manna in the wilderness . 
demanded Vernon , who did not at first recognise them . 
You 're not Mr. Harry Vernon , that killed one Thomas Horsey , and we aint the men that ` Squire Nawls sent to catch you . 
The action of the ruffian corresponded with his words . 
His hand was already extended toward the collar of Vernon 's coat , when , stepping back a pace , the indignant youth lifted his staff with a promptness and determination which drove the fellow back much faster than he had advanced . 
In another instant , however , a calmer mood filled the mind of Vernon . 
Such were his thoughts as he turned to Virginia . 
He led her forward until they had passed the officers , then left her to proceed alone while he returned to them . 
The youth would have expostulated , but while he spoke one of the ruffians threw himself upon him , bore him to the earth , and , in spite of all his assurances that he would quietly accompany them , proceeded to bind his arms with a cord which the providence of Saxon had procured for the purpose , and which the assistance of his companion enabled him to use in spite of the angry but feeble resistance of the prisoner . 
The fellow showed a monstrous bowie-knife as he spoke these words , and by his reckless expression of countenance , suited to his bold and unfeeling language , Vernon readily believed that his better policy was to obey quietly . 
He went forward , and encountered the hardy Alabamian , Jamison , who was just about setting out for Wilson 's , on his customary afternoon visit to his friend . 
He was at once for fighting the officers , and nothing but the most earnest appeals from Vernon kept him from violence . 
One thing , however , he was resolved to do , and in this particular our hero was satisfied he should have his own way -- that was to cut the cords which bound the arms of the prisoner . 
Without heeding their clamour , or suffering any thing to divert him from his purpose until it was finished , Jamison cut the cords of the prisoner , and seizing the moment when the officers were most noisy and most remote , he whispered in his ear -- `` Be off now , Harry Vernon -- there 's my own horse hitched close beside you , and I 'll keep off the rascals while you 're mounting . 
The Alabamian was astounded when Vernon thanked him , but declared he had no purpose of the kind . 
That 's right enough ; but guilty or innocent , you see , Harry , when they 're for putting ropes on a freeman , that 's a time to be off , or to fight with tiger 's tusk . 
The scene ended with the quiet departure of Vernon , accompanied by his friend Jamison , under the enforced escort of the officers . 
Lo , how he mocks me ! 
wilt thou let him , my lord ? 
Havingnow fairly lodged Vernon for the murder of Horsey , it is high time that we should retrace our steps and look into the progress of the latter important personage . 
Another brief conference with his coadjutor , Jones -- that dexterous agent , who had so successfully entrapped and deceived the unwary actor -- by which he was provided with final instructions for the future dispensations of that unconscious worthy ; and then the outlaw sped off to those other performances , which have been already narrated , and which ended in the arrest of Harry Vernon . 
He soon got upon the track of the outlaw , and followed him to Lucchesa , where he arrived in time to become privy to the position of Vernon in the house of Mr. Wilson , and that of Saxon in reference to his daughter . 
He saw that the affair was rapidly advancing to a close , and on the afternoon of the day when Vernon was hurried from his mistress by the self-created officers of justice , he availed himself of an opportunity to emerge from his cover and present himself boldly before the outlaw . 
The place chosen for this revelation , was a thick copse in the very wood in which the final scene had taken place between Vernon and the maiden . 
Vernon would not have written such a letter ; but Virginia Wilson was no critic . 
He might be the trusted friend of Vernon on this occasion , as he had always appeared hitherto -- but where was Vernon ? 
She looked round anxiously , but without a single doubt of his near neighbourhood , until the outlaw approached and addressed her -- `` You look for Mr. Vernon , Miss Wilson -- but I come from him . 
He has told me all -- I am his friend -- he has sent me to bring you to him . '' 
`` But where is he , sir ? 
He should have met me here -- here -- it was so written in the note . '' 
`` Did not the note also tell you , Miss Wilson , that he is a fugitive ? 
He has need , let me assure you , of every precaution . 
He is in danger -- he dare not show himself . '' 
What may this mean -- what is his danger ? '' 
`` He has escaped from the officers -- they are even now in pursuit of him ! '' 
But why should he escape , if innocent ? 
But he is here ! 
You are his friend -- and I ! 
-- What can he fear from me ? 
-- Why should he not come forward ? 
My voice shall re-assure him -- when he hears me , he will know that there is no danger here . 
Vernon ! 
Vernon ! '' 
If Mr. Vernon be not within hearing now , I can advance no farther . 
screamed the maiden , with a voice of equal indignation and terror -- `` Vernon ! 
Vernon ! 
Vernon is not near -- not within hearing -- the billet which brought you to my arms was a forged one . 
The life of Vernon is forfeit to the laws . '' 
It is Vernon -- it is my father . 
Let us now return to Harry Vernon , whom we left , attended by the faithful Jamison and the two constables , on his way to Mr. Justice Nawls , to undergo his examination for the murder of Thomas Horsey , Esquire . 
It was proved that Horsey and Vernon were seen together last -- that the time of their separation was unknown -- and that , a short time after , poor Horsey was found in the woods bored through with bullets , dirked in sundry places , his ribs literally riddled and laid bare -- and his bloody coat and breeches were finally produced in damning confirmation of this tragedy . 
Vernon examined these two worthies with the utmost care and vigilance , but they were as impenetrable as they had shown themselves incorrigible . 
They just swore to enough to place the offence at his door , without committing themselves by the positive asseveration that they had seen him do it . 
Poor Vernon was in a quandary . 
He saw that Squire Nawls could do no less than commit him , on the strength of the testimony offered ; and though this testimony fell short of convicting him of the offence , he yet could not but feel that the refined rascals whose deposition had been just taken , had wrought him some very troublesome meshes , from which it would not be so easy to extricate himself upon trial . 
Still the awkwardness , if not the danger of his own situation troubled him less than his particular arrest at such a moment . 
And she -- just won , and so soon lost . 
If Vernon was annoyed , poor Jamison , his Alabama friend , was utterly confounded at the aspect of his affairs . 
Unwilling to believe the youth guilty , for whom he had taken a liking as extreme as sudden , he was yet staggered by the closeness of the testimony against him -- the nice linking together of the circumstances as declared by the joint evidence of Messrs. Mortimer and Montmorenci , and the grave , deliberate , and very genteel appearance of those worthy witnesses . 
It was in vain that he added to the cross-examination of Vernon , as many questions as , in his sagacity , he thought might be instrumental in bringing out a difference in their statements . 
So also did Vernon himself , and Justice Nawls proceeded to write out and sign the commitment of the prisoner , for further and final trial -- a manual performance , not so easy to one whose skill in penmanship was of that `` d -- d cramp '' sort , which bothered Tony Lumpkin . 
The deed was done , however , and the constables were just beginning to bustle about for the resumption of their charge in conveying Vernon to prison , when a hubbub was heard without , and the accents of a voice which , to the ear of our hero , seemed no less sweet than familiar . 
exclaimed Harry Vernon , `` that is Mr. Horsey himself . '' 
`` So it is , Harry , my boy , '' cried the actor , rushing in and bearing on his arm the shrinking form of the half-affrighted Mary Stinson , whose cheeks , glowing with the deepest tints of the carnation , betrayed the mingled effects of a ten mile ride with her lover , and the not unpleasant novelty which she felt to exist in such a situation . 
`` They 'll have fleet steeds that follow , Harry , my boy , '' he continued , `` though , truth to speak , had they started as soon on the chase of old Bowline , as they did after Lochinvar , Tom Horsey would have won no bride to-day . 
You recollect my little Juliet , Harry ? 
Come forward , Mary -- do n't be shy -- do n't be scary , -- it 's Mr. Vernon , that came with me to your house -- Mr. Harry Vernon ; and there 's the squire that 's to make us man and wife , -- and these gentlemen , why I take it , they 're all friends to a frolic , and a good fellow when he 's about to go off , like a comedy , in a happy ending . '' 
`` Mr. Horsey , I was never more rejoiced to see any one in my life , than I am to see you ; '' said Vernon . 
`` You see , gentlemen , '' continued Vernon , turning to them also , `` that the body which you found and buried was that of some other person , and the clothes which you have shown -- '' `` Were those of Mr. Thomas Horsey and no other , '' said Mr. Augustus Mortimer , with the utmost coolness and a quiet imperturbable composure , that obsolutely shocked the Alabamian , whom the promise of a change in the colour of Vernon 's fortunes had provoked to a shouting , cheering , and dancing , which , for several moments , utterly banished silence and stateliness from the hall of justice . 
Harry Vernon , do n't think I am indifferent to your concern , my boy ; but Mary 's here alone with me -- a sort of runaway match you see , though we have the mother 's consent , -- and I sha n't be easy any more than herself , till she has a lawful right to look to me , and I have my lawful rights as well as herself . 
Your account is easily squared with the state 's attorney -- there 's the proof on which you committed Vernon to prison , and that 's enough . 
Send him on his way , and let Cane Castle do the rest . 
I 'll engage you never hear of him again from that quarter . '' 
The commitment of Vernon was accordingly made out and delivered to the two emissaries of Saxon , in whose custody he had been left before . 
Meanwhile , the keen-searching mind of Vernon had discovered the true circumstances and secret of those difficulties by which he was involved . 
While he was under the impression that Horsey had really been murdered , he had little cause to think himself the object of an organised plan of injustice or detention . 
A look , and the significant application of his finger to his lips , at a moment when Horsey was about to blurt out in public , the whole burden of his discoveries in the swamp , fortunately served to check the torrent of his speech , and to impose upon him the necessity of a caution like that of Vernon , whose composure had seemed in his eyes very much like the most unmanly tameness . 
When the resolve of the magistrate was made known , Vernon remarked quietly , without any show of anger or suspicion to the justice -- `` I can not blame you , sir , -- as a lawyer , I should , perhaps , say that you have done nothing but your duty . 
`` And what are we to do for you , Harry Vernon ? '' 
`` You shall say yourselves what you shall do for me , when I tell you how I stand , '' said Vernon . 
After this startling preliminary , Vernon proceeded to classify those details of fact -- those floating circumstances , which , picked up from sundry quarters , formed the groundwork of the faith that was in him . 
Vernon was too good a politician , too keen a lawyer , not to see that , left to their own judgments , Dick Jamison might lose the game by his rashness , and Horsey by his frivolity . 
It will suffice to say that the manner in which Vernon carried their minds forward , step by step , with his , confirmed in him that tacit superiority which , from the first , neither of them had seemed willing to dispute . 
He had never been much trusted with matters of importance before ; and the idea seemed suddenly , though , perhaps , imperfectly , to open upon him ; that , after all , Mr. Aristophanes Bull was not so great a booby , when he denounced tragedies as not `` ser ` ous things ; '' certainly , the new task before him of getting Vernon out of his present hobbles , seemed the most serious business of any to which he had ever yet set his hand . 
But he had just entered upon a new and exquisitely delicate condition . 
He had just formed a new and responsible relationship in life ; and when he heard from Vernon that there was no doubt that he should be hurried off that very evening on his way to prison , and that any attempt to rescue him , to be successful , must be made that very night , he could only exclaim with a tribulation in his accents and countenance , which compelled the smile to the lips of his two companions -- `` But , dear me , Harry Vernon , what the deuse am I to do with Mary ? '' 
Vernon had not been inconsiderate on this subject . 
He had prepared himself to meet this difficulty , and by his counsel , Horsey was persuaded to make application to Squire Nawls for a temporary lodging for his new wife , until he could procure facilities for conveying her home to Raymond . 
This pretext enabled him to set forth that very evening , and simultaneously with the departure of Vernon under his guard , as if for Lucchesa , where he proposed to find a horse and side-saddle on sale . 
Vernon communicated to both his companions the knowledge which he had acquired from his intimacy with Walter Rawlins and the methodist Badger . 
But the resolution of Vernon , his sanguine temper and great self-confidence conspired to make him still hopeful even against the great odds of the beagle confederacy . 
Having satisfied himself , to his great relief , that the other packet , which contained the papers of Carter , remained in its original integrity , he determined still to keep it in his possession ; as it was now fair to assume that the outlaw , convinced that he had obtained all that was hidden , and that he had found a sufficient clue to the progress of Vernon , would never dream of looking in the same place for a second deposit . 
With this conviction , he ceased to feel the loss of the one packet as a very serious evil . 
That packet involved none of hisconfederates -- none of his friends . 
He alone was singled out as the victim , and , bating the loss of the commissions , which might be perverted to evil use by the outlaw , the utmost extent of his misfortune was already known in his own capture , and threatened imprisonment , if not murder . 
Vernon was not insensible to the risk he incurred among the outlaws , as one whose supposed endeavour had been to expose their haunts , detect their doings , and entrap their persons . 
He felt that should his two allies fail him at the fortunate moment , his blood would probably be poured out in some lone swamp fastness , while his mangled body would be left uncovered to yield a midnight repast to the gaunt and famished wolves , that traversed , at that period , the savage and uncultivated hills of the Choctaw purchase . 
These were annoying convictions , but Harry Vernon was a man . 
He spoke none of his apprehensions , and contenting himself with obtaining from Horsey all that he knew , had seen , or heard , while in Cane Castle ; and with renewing his instructions on all matters which he deemed essential to the successful prosecution of their adventure , he presented himself to the officers , and declared his readiness to go with them . 
He had done all that it was in the power of man to do at that moment -- he had exercised the closest judgment of which his mind was capable , uninfluenced by his own feelings , and the consciousness of danger , of which he could not entirely divest himself ; and with a cheerful manner , and a resolute spirit , he left the rest to the courage and conduct of his friends , under the crowning favour of Providence . 
These did not desert him . 
In their plans and schemes , alone , was it likely that they might fail ; and in these respects , the forethought of Vernon had taken every precaution and made every arrangement that might be done by him under existing circumstances . 
His directions , which contemplated even the particulars of the scuffle with his robber guardians , the time , the manner , and the probable place , were ample , if not copious . 
One little difficulty , however , started into sight before they left the presence of the magistrate , and made Vernon tremble , for an instant , in doubt of all his schemes . 
The sturdy rogues , his captors , having no more to say in respect to himself , were disposed to annoy his friend Jamison , because of his interposition at Lucchesa in cutting the cords which bound their victim , -- an act which they had then called a rescue , and which they were still disposed to consider so . 
They had probably consulted with Nawls on the subject , while Vernon and his comrades were planning his rescue in fact ; and with the sober confidence of veteran knaves , they were resolved to extort a reasonable amount of hush-money from the sturdy Alabamian , while in presence of the justice . 
But Jamison 's blood , which had been with difficulty restrained by the counsels of Vernon , and the obvious necessity of preserving a large degree of temperance in consideration of his friend 's predicament , fired up at the first motion of the rogues . 
Knowing them , as he now did , to be the most impudent pretenders to official sanction , it was with no small difficulty , that he restrained himself from declaring aloud all that he knew , and pouring forth all that he felt . 
With all his attempts at moderation , his speech was certainly of a character to show but a very limited degree of success in attaining that which he sought . 
`` Look ye , judge , '' said he , `` these niggers ought to be licked for tying a free white man as they did . 
One pair of these pistols and this here knife , belongs to Mr. Vernon there -- and I 'll take care of them for him till he gets out of jail . 
As for these -- look at 'em , squire , how they dodge -- look at 'em , Harry Vernon ! 
I 've done for Vernon all that I reasonably could ; and by the hocus , I 'll be at court when his trial comes on , and if it 's the last picayune in the pocket of Dick Jamison , or the last blood in his heart , it shall go to help him out of his troubles . 
Vernon confirmed the simple statement of Jamison , and insisted that all the violence shown on the occasion , was no more than was required to separate the bonds of a prisoner , who made no attempt to escape , and professed his willingness to go freely with the officers . 
True , this was a rescue in legal acceptation , but , under the circumstances , not such an one as would render a prosecution necessary ; and Vernon contended for the point the more readily , as he could perceive that the justice desired nothing more than a loophole by which to escape from the necessity of taking steps against a man who had avowed such levelling principles -- we had almost written pistols . 
Vernon saw his friends depart with some anxiety . 
His own movements , under the guardianship of the tenacious constables , followed soon after . 
It was no hard matter to engage them in easy conversation ; and having paved the way for a familiar chit-chat by some good-natured common-places , Vernon proceeded to carry out his design in the way that he calculated would be most likely to effect it . 
He inquired of them , what they knew of the two men who furnished the evidence against him ; and when , as he expected , they denied all knowledge of the witnesses , he boldly assured them , that they had sworn to utter falsehoods . 
`` There can be no sort of doubt , '' he said , `` that Mr. Horsey is alive ; and that is he , who came in so unexpectedly , when the case was going on . 
`` It was no less strange to me than to you , '' replied Vernon ; `` but the truth is not lessened by the strangeness of the circumstance . 
exclaimed Vernon , with sudden earnestness , correcting himself as he spoke -- `` now that you put the question , I am reminded of a circumstance which may account for it . '' 
Here he proceeded to relate the event recorded in our first volume , in which , while rescuing the traveller , Wilson , he shot the outlaw Weston , who was astride his body . 
Vernon re-asseverated his innocence , with the solemn earnestness of one who was really anxious that they should be convinced -- so earnestly , indeed , and with such warm simplicity in his manner , that the rogues burst into a good-humoured laugh , and one of the most forward among them , clapped him civilly upon the back while he expressed the hope , that , even if he did kill the man , he should `` pass under the tree without sticking fast to the limb ; '' or , as it is sometimes expressed , that he should `` graze the timbers , without becoming dead wood . '' 
The opportunity was too gratefully tempting to Vernon , and his heart bounded with the anxiety which he felt during the brief interval between the first and second signal of his allies . 
With a conviction that the robbers who attacked Wilson 's carriage , and those who escorted him belonged to the same gang , Vernon had suggested the employment of this imitation sound , with the hope of misleading his guardians . 
The whistle which preceded it , was simply meant to indicate to himself the certainty of the subsequent signal being given by his friends . 
The third signal from the Alabamian , which immediately followed , was delivered from a bush almost beside the party ; and at the same instant , the two constables drew up their horses , setting each a hand on the rein of Vernon 's , to arrest his forward movement . 
They naturally looked to a meeting with their comrades ; but were surprised in the next moment , as Vernon , yielding his rein entirely , threw an arm round the waist of each of his attendants , and by a sudden exertion of all his strength , drew them together before him upon his steed , until their heads clashed with a stunning concussion . 
Before they could recover from the shock , draw knife or pistol , or make the smallest effort , a stout hand from below had relieved Vernon from his burdens ; and the selfappointed officers of justice found themselves let down with no gentle ministry upon the earth , which , fortunately , being on the skirts of the swamp , and sufficiently pliable , manifested no stubborn resistance to the reception of their persons . 
The surprise was as successful as it had been sudden ; and while a stout man bestrid each of the prisoners with a heavy and bright bowie blade pointing down and sometimes painfully tickling their throats , Vernon , having secured the three horses , proceeded to divest the rogues of all their weapons . 
To lynching , altogether , Vernon absolutely objected ; but he did not content himself with uttering moral objections only . 
Vernon saw that he was dissatisfied with the forbearance of his friends towards the criminals , which he thought as little due to their deserts , as to the cause of justice . 
They all rode from the place together to the high road , but the Alabamian was very taciturn as they rode ; his mind seemed to be brooding over some yet undigested purposes . 
Theimpatient Saxon , impatient for his revenge , vainly looked out that night for the coming of his followers , to whom Vernon had been given in charge . 
His arrangements had been so made as to put his plans , seemingly , beyond the reach of disappointment ; and , resolved effectually to arrest the farther efforts of an individual , whose courage and conduct gave him some reason for apprehension , he had prepared himself and his accessories in the swamp , for the summary and terrible punishment of one , whom they considered a spy and had destined to those cruel severities which , under their laws , had been decreed for such an offender . 
From the moment when he became convinced that Vernon was an enemy , he had solemnly sworn to destroy him . 
His plot for this purpose was a good one -- his officers were true -- the justice was his willing creature ; and , Mr. Augustus Mortimer and Major Marcus Montmorenci , were , he well knew , the most trustworthy witnesses that were ever yet suborned to carry a crooked character straight through the sessions . 
Meanwhile , Richard Stillyards , the dwarf , was already on his way to the upper ferry , as fast as he could go ; and Vernon had reached Lucchesa in safety . 
His purpose in returning to Lucchesa was to declare himself in private to William Maitland ; to reveal his whole connexion with Carter ; to unfold the favourable terms which he was commissioned to grant , and , finally , to crown the work of peace and good will , by offering himself in marriage to Virginia , whose own consent , it has been already seen , he was happy to secure at an early period . 
But the misery of the father , and the deep feeling of interest which he too had in the matter , which seemed almost to deprive the former of his reason , struck the lover dumb : `` One stupid moment motionless he stood ; '' `` Cheer up and rouse yourself , sir , '' exclaimed Vernon , as he looked upon the melancholy spectacle , with a sentiment of pity that became painful -- `` rouse up , sir , I will give her back to you though I perish . '' 
will you , Mr. Vernon ? 
The screams of the trembling child mingled with his moans , making a discord which , while it filled the ears of Vernon , did not now so much annoy him . 
There were some evident fears , not so evidently expressed in the last speech of the father , which made the blood recede from the heart of Vernon , leaving a painful coldness and vacancy behind it . 
Vernon felt , as these dreadful doubts and apprehensions rushed through his mind , that he too could throw himself in utter abandonment upon the ground and mingle his groans also with those of the miserable father . 
But other feelings , strengthened by the blood-giving energies of youth , came to his aid . 
A fiercer power rose up in his heart , and with accents of recovered might , he repeated his assurance to the old man , that he would rescue and restore his daughter at the peril of his life . 
While he made this assurance , the pitiable prostration of the father struck him as not less discreditable to manhood , than it was grateful to his paternal love . 
Besides , men were wanting now to prosecute the enterprise against the robbers in the Chitta Loosa , with whom Vernon could not fail to connect the outlaw by whom Virginia had been torn away from her dwelling . 
A sudden resolution filled the mind of Vernon . 
He saw that no better mode remained of arousing the father to his duty , than by awakening other fears in his bosom . 
To ordinary minds it might have seemed cruel , while the father so keenly suffered , to vex his spirit with the terrors of discovery and punishment ; but the more correct philosophy of Vernon convinced him that the prostration and infirmity of Maitland could receive provocation and stimulant from no other source . 
Vernon did not delay his communication with any idle formulæ -- humanity forbade all such . 
It will be understood , however , that he omitted nothing which might soften the natural severity of truth , and maintain for himself the proper deportment of a gentleman , and one , too , so closely allied by the tenderest promises to the daughter of the person he addressed . 
`` Spare me , spare me , Mr. Vernon ! 
Vernon took his hand kindly . 
exclaimed the wretched man , with as much eagerness of hope in his face as it had lately expressed of fear . 
But when the lips of Vernon uttered the name of `` Carter , '' his countenance fell -- he sunk back in his chair with a deep groan , and again covered his face with his hands . 
Vernon did not stop here , though the frequent groans and ejaculations of Maitland , now of remorse and self-reproach , and now of gratitude and exultation , subjected him to frequent interruptions . 
He at once unveiled to the old man the relation in which he stood to his lovely but lost daughter . 
The latter part of Vernon 's communication , which declared the nature of the tie which now united his feelings and interests with those of Virginia Maitland , suggested to the miserable old man a new resource for his crime ; and he eagerly insinuated proposals to Vernon that , instead of restoring the vast amount of moneys which he had purloined , and which he admitted himself still to have in great part in his own possession , to the rightful owners , they should retain it among themselves , and , by a timely and far retreat , secure themselves and it from the grasp of all pursuers . 
Vernon shrank back with an apparent shudder from the grasp which the eager fingers of Maitland had taken upon his arm ; while his eye regarded the stolid criminal with an expression quite as full of sorrow as of scorn . 
But Vernon was one of those men who do their work thoroughly . 
`` Mr. Maitland , '' said he , `` this matter must be settled to-night , and the money delivered . 
Briefly , Vernon had his own way in all respects . 
His firmness , mingled with that becoming deference of manner which youth always owes to age , even when it is criminal and debased , cowed the spirit and commanded the respect of Maitland . 
The poor Julia , trembling and wondering , confused at all things , and almost totally inapprehensive of any , was wrapped away in the barouche , with her father beside her , sad , ashamed , and silent ; while Vernon , mounted on horseback , and once more armed , after a long interval , with the weapons of which the sturdy Alabamian had taken such excellent charge during his arrest and sickness -- with spirits unconsciously heightened by the sense of liberty and strength -- rode alongside , and strove to cheer the miserable father and the innocent and unconscious child . 
He will farther learn that , shortly after the meeting of these with Vernon , they were joined by Walter Rawlins and Master Edward Mabry . 
Some mutual efforts were made by Rawlins and Vernon to bring the parties to friendly offices ; but they were partly ineffectual . 
He was a generous fellow at heart ; and would have scorned to have fostered any feeling of malice at an enemy . 
Besides , he had been successful , and as those always laugh who win , his good humour was in no wise diminished , because the hand which he offered with frankness to his foe was taken with reluctance . 
He disarmed the active rancour of Mabry , by making some concessions -- without which it might have been that the operations of the party would have been exposed to conflicting feelings and divided counsels -- which he was neither bound by courtesy nor expected by his opponent to make . 
As for Rawlins , his delight at seeing Vernon was excruciating . 
Another matter of far more gratifying import to Vernon at this moment , was the information which he received of a new ally in the person of Stillyards , the dwarf . 
That elegant young person , elated with the boon with which Florence Marbois had consented to reward his industry in promoting her purposes of vengeance , had made his appearance at the door of Rawlins , a little after daylight that very morning ; and his communications had quickened the preparations of the latter for the pursuit of that enterprise to which the counsels of Vernon had before impelled him . 
He had not been idle , it may be said here , during the interval which had passed . 
He had secured the co-operation of nearly twenty men -- all stout fellows -- good men and true -- whom the blast of a horn would bring together in half an hour , from a circuit of five miles . 
The revelations of Stillyards had much more effect upon Vernon than they could possibly have had upon Rawlins . 
The abduction of Virginia Maitland was now known with certainty ; and it was with no less certainty that he knew where she was hidden by Saxon . 
It was no small addition to his desire for immediate enterprise , when he found that her ravisher , and the consummate chief of the Beagles of the Border , were one and the same person . 
Having sent the unhappy and criminal father upon his way , Vernon proceeded to the examination of Stillyards , whom Rawlins had kept under close watch in the neighbouring wood . 
Thoughnaturally impatient to commence the war against his enemies and rescue the fair Virginia from her abductors , Vernon was too thoughtful and deliberate of character to defeat his own objects by any premature or precipitate attempts . 
He retired as soon as possible into the cover of the forests and from sight of any but his own comrades , after sending Maitland on his way to Zion 's Hill . 
Here he closely examined the dwarf Stillyards ; and this done , he despatched Jamison with two others for the purpose of bringing in , and more effectually securing the persons of the two rogues , whom we left fastened in the swamp the night before . 
There were two other rogues to be secured of whose neighbourhood he was now first informed by the dwarf . 
Being in possession of all the first signs of the band , there could be little or no difficulty in deceiving them by means of his agency ; and not altogether prepared to rely wholly upon a rogue , even in the hour of his first conversion , Vernon sent Rawlins , secretly , with two others -- all excellent woodmen -- to follow the dwarf , and correct his treachery , should he happen to prove faithless to his trust . 
The wish to prove his capacity for vengeance , to him who was to be the object of it , had kept the deformed absolutely sleepless ; and it was with the keenest and most suspicious impatience that he heard the resolution of Vernon to make no movement , until night , against the outlaws of Cane Castle . 
They conveyed a request from Vernon to the venerable elder of that establishment , that they might be suffered to remain under guard at his retreat , until the return of the party the next day . 
These minor matters attended to , Vernon set his party in motion as soon as the darkness was sufficient to conceal their movements . 
But instead of taking his way down , he advanced up the river , and in a course directly opposite to that where Cane Castle lay . 
Two miles above the place where he had been concealed through the day , was the ferry which he had that morning crossed , and while crossing , had scanned curiously , yet in silence , the place where the boat was fastened , and as much of the scene and circumstances around him as he deemed effectual to his purposes . 
Having reached the neighbourhood , he ordered his party to halt in the woods , while , alighting from their horses , Rawlins , Jamison , and himself , went forward to reconnoitre . 
But they experienced fewer difficulties than Vernon had anticipated , and arrived at the spot already known to the reader by the fishing adventure of Horsey , in perfect secrecy and silence . 
The restraint he found excessively irksome , at a moment and in a place , which reminded him of some of his strangest experience , and of events which had been sufficiently exciting to himself to make him sure of the dramatic effect which they must produce in the minds and estimation of all others . 
It did not alter the case very materially that he had discoursed over his experience to several of his present comrades more than once already . 
All day he had exercised his tongue in the reminiscences , always pleasant when past , of peril and annoyance : still , some had not heard -- and then , the minutiæ ! 
`` It is in the little touches , my dear fellow , '' he said to Vernon , in a whisper -- `` the nice and seemingly unimportant features of a subject , that the whole character speaks out . 
Every thing in season , '' was the stern response of Vernon , in a like whisper . 
Vernon , reserving to himself the dwarf Stillyards , only , took his way with a cautious step , but a bounding heart , towards the squatter 's hovel , where he had been told by his companion that the maiden was imprisoned . 
His command to the rest of his party was , that the followers of Saxon should be surprised and captured ; -- a more sudden , if not more severe doom he purposed for the outlaw himself . 
The attempt of Vernon and Rawlins to effect so important a business without his agency , was a source of equal surprise and indignation . 
That Rawlins should be so presumptuous , was monstrous in the extreme ; and what made it seem more so , was the fact , that in all his schemes and counsels , submitted from time to time to the latter , after the departure of Vernon , it seemed to the dictatorial elder , that the woodman was uncommonly obtuse and wretchedly deficient in honourable enterprise . 
That Badger would have rejected every plan but his own , for the capture of the robbers , and spoiled any that might be undertaken , the shrewd sense of Vernon perceived in the first hour of their acquaintance ; and the doubts which were entertained of the fidelity of the son , naturally combined to strengthen his objections to any participation of the father in the business . 
From the guard that brought in the prisoners , he had been led to believe that the party of Vernon would not commence the march before dawn ; and as he had no thought of the use which might be made of the ferry-boat in such an expedition , he took it for granted , that hard riding would bring him to the post of danger in season for all its honours . 
But when his plans had to be carried out , the venerable elder discovered that one of his chief agents was reported missing . 
This was his own son , the worthy Gideon , who was no less confounded than his father at the developments of the night . 
Vernon and Rawlins were obviously men to be feared , and the reader has already seen that Gideon Badger was one of those men who are soonest to `` despair their charm . '' 
Surely you do not despise the attempts which Walter Rawlins and Mr. Vernon are now making ? 
Vernon knew that every thing depended on the capture or death of the chief -- the masterspirit who had conceived a plan of operations so extensive , so bold , so well detailed , and so sternly carried out . 
To this labour , as we have seen , he devoted himself . 
A livelier interest served to stimulate his zeal , and to make him no less anxious and eager than resolute for the conflict . 
He knew that if he found Saxon awake , the struggle that would probably ensue must be mortal . 
On the present occasion the doors and windows were closed , and the observation of Vernon was made through crevices between the logs of the building , of which the number was sufficient for all the purposes of espionage . 
Conducted by the dwarf , Stillyards , to one of these crevices , which the urchin seemed to find very readily , the objects that met the eyes of Vernon increased his emotions . 
Such was the picture that first met the eye of Vernon . 
Vernon was not familiar with the shedding of blood , and no man who is not -- unless he be equally cowardly and malignant -- can possibly take life , except in the whirl and excitement of actual conflict . 
He felt that there was something base , from his concealment , to shoot down the unconscious man , however deserving he might be of his doom . 
Such a prize as Virginia Maitland , seemed to justify every hazard , and Vernon resolved upon the very last . 
He rose from his recumbent position , and was about to proceed towards the doorway , when he felt a hand laid lightly upon his shoulder . 
He turned at the interruption -- fancying another enemy at his elbow -- and met the eyes of a woman -- one so youthful and so beautiful as to strike him with wonder at seeing her in so wild a place . 
She met his gaze seemingly without emotion . 
There was a calm solemnity in her aspect , seen by the serious starlight , which riveted his attention , commanded his respect , and would have subdued , even in a far less reverent mind than his , any ribald thoughts or suspicions . 
-- But a single instant , '' she whispered , and her uplifted finger gave him like warning . 
Before he could answer her , or imagine the object of her intrusion , she was gone from sight -- literally vanished behind an angle of the building . 
Vernon was too much aroused for unnecessary delay , particularly too , as he saw not the reason of the woman 's injunctions ; and , just then , the pleading tones of Virginia 's voice reached his ears in supplication and alarm . 
Breathless , he darted upon the steps of massive pine that led to the door of the building , and with a single blow of his heel , sent it from its hinges . 
Another moment found him within the apartment , and face to face with the outlaw . 
Vernon had not seen them before ; and had he but waited , as he had been counselled by Florence Marbois , this danger would have been spared him . 
With the first appearance of Vernon , Virginia had started to her feet , and at the sight of his danger , she rushed between the parties , alternately turning an imploring face and an uplifted hand to each . 
All apprehension for herself departed when she feared for her lover ; and that living grace of form and movement , which speaks out when the mother-mood prevails , riveted , at the same moment , with a sense of equal admiration , the souls of Vernon and the outlaw . 
Vainly did he strive to shake her off ; and the moment lost in this effort enabled Vernon to grapple with him at advantage . 
She was caught , while falling , by Vernon . 
Pass we to the living , no less lovely , and purer woman -- to the fair Virginia , who , in the arms of Vernon , was soon restored , not less to the consciousness of life , than of those dear emotions that sanctify and sometimes make it heaven ! 
She hung upon the bosom of Vernon , happy in the weakness , which , while it made his valour dear to her , furnished her with the best apology to cling to his embrace . 
But Vernon thought otherwise . 
He knew the difficulty of travelling by night through unaccustomed swamps along with a daring set of men , who , though bound , might yet prove troublesome ; and who , indeed , might readily find succour from passing bands of their companions . 
There was yet another reason which led Vernon to defer the movement of his party until morning . 
`` Doubtless , '' he said , `` there are individuals of this gang going from and coming into the swamp at all hours of the night . 
Jamison was about to follow , as also Horsey , but Vernon arrested them . 
Vernon 's judgment was correct . 
Rawlins carried him into the presence of Vernon and the rest with as little trouble as if he had been an infant . 
With the first glimmering of dawn , Vernon made his preparations for crossing the river to the place where the horses of the party had been carried . 
Already his foot touched the low gunwale , when the firm grasp of the watchful Vernon upon his shoulder , showed him that his object was discovered . 
He was led back into the centre of the boat , and surrounded by those who noted all his movements , with eyes too jealous to leave him any present hope of baffling their observation . 
Bitter , indeed , was the glance which he cast upon Vernon , as the latter withdrew his hand from the shoulder of the felon . 
`` There was a time , Mr. Vernon , when you were less willing to approach me with so little scruple ; -- that , however , was when I was better able to approach you . 
Times change ; and he who would have trembled to hear the lion 's growl in the desert , takes him boldly by the mane when in the menagerie . 
`` It is my good fortune to improve then , sir , '' replied Vernon , mildly and with a smile . 
Vernon turned away . 
At another time , the appearance of this regiment would have moved Vernon and all his followers to unrestrained merriment ; but there was a strong feeling in their hearts at this moment which effectually restrained all lighter moods . 
Vernon rode forward as he approached , and giving instructions with Rawlins to keep his prisoners out of sight as long as possible , undertook the painful task of revealing the truth to the venerable elder . 
Assuming himself to have been ill-treated , overlooked , slighted , and in fact , thrust aside from the performance of his proper duties , by beardless boys , still in the gristle , inspired more by presumption than patriotism , he scarcely gave Vernon a civil recognition . 
But the latter , at such a time , and to one so much his elder , would have been ashamed to entertain any boyish resentments ; and he bore patiently with the captiousness of the father , and by gradual degrees , brought him step by step to a consciousness of the gulf that was so suddenly to open before him . 
When the truth was fully shown -- when the tale was fully told -- there was no more visible emotion in the face of the hearer , beyond a slight quiver of the lips , than if he had listened to the most ordinary intelligence . 
His keen eyes , from under their gray shaggy brows , narrowly scanned the countenance of the speaker , and there , reading nothing but sincerity and distinctness , dropped quietly upon the ground . 
`` These wretched people must be committed for trial , Mr. Vernon , and though you have heretofore found yourself sufficient to do without my help , as a man , it is probable that you will require my assistance as a magistrate . 
said Vernon . 
He had come , in obedience to Vernon 's letters , along with Ben Carter ; and was confounded to meet a living son , where he thought it might be difficult to find even a dead one . 
The relation in which Vernon stood to Virginia contributed greatly to this end . 
