You were yet a child when they betrothed you to Don Carlos , a prince old enough to be your father ; and , then , as if that were not sufficient to warm Castilian blood , they chose the King of Portugal for you , and he might well have passed for a generation still more remote ! 
`` Son Don Luis , thou has got much levity of speech , in thy late journeyings ; and I doubt if thou art as mindful of thy paters and confessions , as when under the care of thy excellent mother , of sainted memory ! '' 
`` Dost see that man , Luis ? '' 
`` Thou art right , Don Luis , for such is his calling . 
He cometh of Genoa , and his name is Christoval Colon -- or , as they term it in Italy -- Christoforo Colombo . '' 
Come hither , Luis , to this bit of rock where we can be seated , and I will relate to thee the opinions that render this being so extraordinary . 
interrupted Don Luis , laughing . 
`` Therein he differeth from most men -- and to own the truth , son Luis , not without some show of reason . 
He is a navigator , as thou wilt understand , and he replies that , on the ocean , when a ship is seen from afar , her upper sails are first perceived , and that as she draweth nearer , her lower sails , and finally her hull cometh into view . 
I am not Socrates , my good father , but thy old pupil and kinsman , Luis de Bobadilla , the truant nephew of the queen 's favourite , the Marchioness of Moya , and as well-born a cavalier as there is in Spain -- though somewhat given to roving , if my enemies are to be believed . '' 
`` Neither thy pedigree , thy character , nor thy vagaries , need be given to me , Don Luis de Bobadilla ; since I have known thee and thy career from childhood . 
The worthy friar 's good-natured smile , as he made this sally , took off some of its edge ; and the young man laughed , as if too conscious of his own youthful follies to resent what he heard . 
`` I do not go as far as some , on this point , Luis , for I see difficulties with Holy Writ , by the admission . 
`` If the earth be round , '' continued Don Luis , with a musing air , `` what preventeth all the water from flowing to the lower parts of it ? 
`` Whither , Luis ? '' 
`` Son Luis , '' interrupted the monk , gravely , `` thy lightness of speech is carried too far . 
`` Thou hast bethought thee little , of any thing serious , I fear , Luis ; but to me , this opinion and this project of Colon are not without merit . 
demanded Don Luis , gravely , with his eye riveted on the dignified form of Columbus , who stood calmly regarding the gorgeous spectacle of the triumph , at no great distance from the rock where the two had taken their seats . 
`` By telling him that I am Don Luis de Bobadilla , the nephew of the Doña Beatriz of Moya , and a noble of one of the best houses of Castile . '' 
`` And this thou thinkest will suffice for thy purpose , Luis ! '' 
Leave the mode in my hands , son Luis , and we will see what can be accomplished . '' 
This did not occur for several minutes , the looks of Colon being riveted on the towers of the Alhambra , where , at each instant , the signal of possession was expected to appear ; and Luis de Bobadilla , who , truant , and errant , and volatile , and difficult to curb , as he had proved himself to be , never forgot his illustrious birth and the conventional distinctions attached to personal rank , began to manifest his impatience at being kept so long dancing attendance on a mere map-seller and a pilot . 
He in vain urged his companion to advance , however ; but one of his own hurried movements at length drew aside the look of Columbus , when the eyes of the latter and of the friar met , and being old acquaintances , they saluted in the courteous manner of the age . 
`` I am always happy to yield to the praiseworthy wishes of the young and adventurous , and shall cheerfully communicate to your young friend all he may desire to know , '' answered Columbus , with a simplicity and dignity that at once put to flight all the notions of superiority and affability with which Don Luis had intended to carry on the conversation , and which had the immediate effect to satisfy the young man that he was to be the obliged and honoured party , in the intercourse that was to follow . 
`` It is Don Luis de Bobadilla , a youth whose best claims to your notice , perhaps , are , a most adventurous and roving spirit , and the fact that he may call your honoured friend the Marchioness of Moya , his aunt . '' 
All this sounded extraordinary to Don Luis ; for though the dress and appearance of this unknown stranger , who even spoke the Castilian with a foreign accent , were respectable , he had been told he was merely a pilot , or navigator , who earned his bread by toil ; and it was not usual for the noblest of Castile to be thus regarded , as it might be , with a condescending favour , by any inferior to those who could claim the blood and lineage of princes . 
`` Don Luis hath visited foreign lands , you say , father , '' said Columbus , who did not fail to lead the discourse , like one entitled to it by rank , or personal claims , `` and hath a craving for the wonders and dangers of the ocean ? '' 
`` Such hath been either his merit , or his fault , Señor ; had he listened to the wishes of Doña Beatriz , or to my advice , he would not have thrown aside his knightly career for one so little in unison with his training and birth . '' 
Fray Pedro crossed himself , and Don Luis smiled and shrugged his shoulders , as one is apt to do when he listens to any thing extravagant ; but the navigator proceeded in the earnest grave manner that appeared to belong to his character . 
Although the eye of the navigator grew brighter as he uttered this , and his cheek flushed with a species of holy enthusiasm , it was impossible to confound one so grave , so dignified , so measured even in his exaggerations -- if such they were -- with the idle and light-minded who mistake momentary impulses for indelible impressions , and passing vanities for the convictions that temper character . 
On the other side of the noble matron walked Luis de Bobadilla , keeping a little in advance of his aunt , in a way to permit his own dark flashing looks to meet , whenever feeling and modesty would allow it , the fine , expressive , blue eyes of Mercedes . 
`` This is a marvel , Luis , '' observed Doña Beatriz , in continuation of a subject that evidently much interested them all , `` that thou , a truant and a rover thyself , should now have heard for the first time of this Colon ! 
`` Ay , Señora my aunt , '' cried Luis , laughing , `` and of walking in their delightful company with all our heels in the air , and our heads downwards ! 
Mercedes had unconsciously but fervently pressed the arm of her guardian , as Doña Beatriz admitted her interest in the success of the great project ; but at this sally of Don Luis , she looked serious , and threw a glance at him , that he himself felt to be reproachful . 
To win the love of his aunt 's ward was the young man 's most ardent wish ; and a look of dissatisfaction could at any moment repress that exuberance of spirits which often led him into an appearance of levity that did injustice to the really sterling qualities of both his heart and mind . 
Under the influence of that look , then , he was not slow to repair the wrong he had done himself , by adding almost as soon as he had ceased to speak -- `` The Doña Mercedes is of the discovering party , too , I see ; this Colon appeareth to have had more success with the dames of Castile than with her nobles '' -- `` Is it extraordinary , Don Luis , '' interrupted the pensive-looking girl , `` that women should have more confidence in merit , more generous impulses , more zeal for God , than men ? '' 
The manners of the day and country rendered it unseemly that Doña Mercedes should continue her promenade accompanied only by Don Luis , and the marchioness led the way to her own apartments , where a saloon suitable to her rank and to her favour with the queen , had been selected for her from among the numberless gorgeous rooms of the Moorish kings . 
Don Luis laughed ; Doña Beatriz smiled , as she kissed her ward , and left the room ; while Doña Mercedes blushed , and riveted her gaze on the floor . 
Luis de Bobadilla was the declared suitor and sworn knight of Mercedes de Valverde ; but , though so much favoured by birth , fortune , affinity , and figure , there existed some serious impediments to his success . 
Don Luis had little of the Castilian gravity of character -- and , by many , his animal spirits were mistaken for lightness of disposition and levity of thought . 
His mother was a woman of a very illustrious French family ; and national pride had induced most observers to fancy that the son inherited a constitutional disposition to frivolity , that was to be traced to the besetting weakness of a whole people . 
Notwithstanding these traits , which , in a country like Castile , might be properly enough termed peculiarities , Don Luis de Bobadilla was a knight worthy of his lineage and name . 
His prowess in the field and in the tourney , indeed , was so very marked as to give him a high military character , in despite of what were deemed his failings ; and he passed rather as an inconsiderate and unsafe young man , than as one who was either debased or wicked . 
Martial qualities , in that age in particular , redeemed a thousand faults ; and Don Luis had even been known to unhorse , in the tourney , Alonzo de Ojeda , then the most expert lance in Spain . 
She feared , too , that her own partiality might deceive her , and that Luis might in truth be the light and frivolous being the sometimes appeared to be in Castilian eyes , and that the happiness of her ward would prove the sacrifice of the indiscretion . 
She was beautiful , of an honourable family , and an heiress ; and , as human infirmities were as besetting beneath the stately mien of the fifteenth century , as they are to-day , she had often heard the supposed faults of Don Luis 's character sneered at , by those who felt distrustful of his good looks and his opportunities . 
The forms and observances that usually surround young women of rank , came in aid of this native prudence ; and even Don Luis , himself , though he had watched the countenance and emotions of her to whom he had so long urged his suit , with a lover 's jealousy and a lover 's instincts , was greatly in doubt whether he had succeeded in the least , in touching her heart . 
As his aunt quitted the room , leaving him alone with Mercedes for the first time since his return from his last ramble , Don Luis eagerly threw himself on a stool that stood near the feet of his adored , who placed herself on a sumptuous couch , that , twenty-four hours before , had held the person of a princess of Abdallah 's family . 
`` It is not they who are most fluent of speech , or the most vehement , who always feel the deepest , Don Luis de Bobadilla . '' 
`` You have dwelt so much among the light conceits of the French court , Don Luis , you appear to have forgotten that the heart of a Castilian girl is too true , and too sincere , to meet such rhapsodies with favour . '' 
Had Don Luis been older , or more experienced in the sex , he would have been flattered by this rebuke -- for he would have detected in the speaker 's manner , both feeling of a gentler nature than her words expressed , and a tender regret . 
`` Thou wert then , at least , sincere , Luis , and I placed full faith in thy friendship , and in thy desire to please . '' 
for the first time in two years , hast thou spoken to me as thou wert wont to do , and called me Luis , without that courtly , accursed , Don . '' 
`` A noble Castilian should never regard his honours lightly , and he oweth it to his rank to see that others respect them , too ; '' answered our heroine , looking down , as if she already half repented of the familiarity . 
`` You are quick to remind me of my forgetfulness , Don Luis de Bobadilla . '' 
When Her Highness gave her royal approbation of my success , in the last tourney , did I not seek thine eye , in order to ask if thou noted ` st it ? 
`` Nay , now , Luis , thou emboldenest me to remind thee that I expressed a wish that thou would ` st not go on thy last voyage to the north , and yet thou didst depart ! 
But not even a look of kindness could I obtain , in reward for all the pain I had felt on thy account '' -- `` Pain , Luis ! '' 
`` Is it not pain to love to the degree that one might kiss the earth that received the foot-print of its object -- and yet to meet with no encouragement from fair words , no friendly glance of the eye , nor any sign or symbol to betoken that the being one hath enshrined in his heart 's core , ever thinketh of her suitor except as a reckless rover and a harebrained adventurer ? '' 
`` Luis de Bobadilla , no one that really knoweth thy character , can ever truly think thus of thee . '' 
Thou might ` st mould me to all thy wishes '' -- `` My wishes , Don Luis ! '' 
Could ` st thou , Luis , see with indifference the proceedings of one thou hast known from childhood , and esteemed as a friend ? '' 
`` It is not little , Luis , to esteem -- but much . 
`` Thou hast travelled much and far , Luis , '' she said , `` and hast lost some favour on account of thy roving propensities ; why not regain the confidence of thy aunt by the very means through which it has been lost ? '' 
The fine , full eye of Mercedes was fastened intently on the countenance of Don Luis ; and its brilliancy increased , as some of that latent enthusiasm which dwelt within , kindled and began to glow at this outlet of the feelings of the soul . 
These are glorious , heavenly , anticipations , Luis ; and would it not be an imperishable renown , to share in the honour of having aided in bringing about so great a discovery ? '' 
I will see the Genoese as soon as the morrow 's sun shall appear , and offer to make one in his enterprise . 
He shall not need for gold , if that be his only want . '' 
said Mercedes , with an enthusiasm that set at naught the usual guards of her discretion and her habits , `` and as becometh Luis de Bobadilla . 
The king is the enemy of all who are not as wary , cold , and as much given to artifice as himself '' -- `` Luis ! 
thou art in his palace -- beneath his roof , enjoying his hospitality and protection , at this very moment ! '' 
`` This may be true , in part , Luis , but it is altogether imprudent . 
`` I desire not to make comparisons between them , Luis . 
We are bound to honour and obey both ; and if Doña Isabella hath more of the confiding truth and pure-heartedness of her sex , than His Highness , is it not ever so as between man and woman ? '' 
`` No one will liken thee , Luis , to the false-tongued or the double-faced ; for it is thy failing to speak truth when it might be better to say nothing , as witness the present discourse , and to look at those who displease thee , as if ever ready to point thy lance , and spur thy charger in their very teeth . '' 
`` I speak not , in any manner , touching myself , for to me , Luis , thou hast ever been gentle and kind , '' interrupted the young Castilian girl , with a haste and earnestness that hurried the blood to her cheeks a moment afterwards ; `` but , solely , that thou may ` st bo more guarded in thy remarks on the king . '' 
`` Thou began ` st by saying that I was a rover '' -- `` Nay , I have used no such term of reproach , Don Luis ; thy auntmay have said this ; but it could have been with no intent to wound . 
`` Such was my meaning , Luis , for I have thought it an emprise fitting thy daring mind and willing sword ; and the glory of success would atone for a thousand trifling errors committed under the heat and inconsideration of youth . '' 
Don Luis regarded the flushed cheek and brightened eyes of the beautiful enthusiast nearly a minute , in silent but intense observation ; for the tooth of doubt and jealousy had fastened on him , and , with the self-distrust of true affection , he questioned how far he was worthy to interest so fair a being , and had misgivings concerning the motive that induced her to wish him to depart . 
`` I wish I could read thy heart , Doña Mercedes , '' he at length resumed ; `` for , while the witching modesty and coy reserve of thy sex , serve but to bind us so much the closer in thy chains , they puzzle the understanding of men more accustomed to rude encounters in the field than to the mazes of their ingenuity . 
`` Don Luis , you have no justification for this cruel suspicion , '' said Mercedes , endeavouring to punish her lover 's distrust by an affection of resentment , though the tears struggled through her pride , and fell from her reproachful eyes . 
Luis de Bobadilla ! 
No , Luis , I am not averse , and would not appear cold , to thee.If thy wayward feelings get so much the mastery , and pain thee thus , I will strive to be more plain . 
`` Luis , if thou wiltknow all , I am won already -- nay -- restrain this impetuosity , and hear all I have to say . 
Without the cheerful consent of my guardian , and the gracious approbation of Her Highness , I will wed no man -- no , not even thee , Luis de Bobadilla , dear as I acknowledge thee to be to my heart '' -- the ungovernable emotions of female tenderness caused the words to be nearly smothered in tears -- `` would I wed , without the smiles and congratulations of all who have a right to smile , or weep , for any of the house of Valverde . 
Luis , thou hast reproached me with coldness and indifference to thee '' -- sobs nearly stifled the generous girl -- `` but others have not been so blind -- nay , speak not , but suffer me , now that my heart is overflowing , to unburthen myself to thee , entirely , for I fear that shame and regret will come soon enough to cause repentance for what I now confess -- but all have not been blind as thou . 
`` Luis , thy intemperance causeth thee to be unjust . 
`` Don Luis , if you would retain my esteem , '' answered the single-minded girl , with a gravity that had none of her sex 's weakness in it , though much of her sex 's truth -- `` speak not lightly of my royal mistress . 
`` Thou knowest how kind and gracious the queen hath ever been to me , Luis , and how much I have reason to be grateful for her many condescensions and favours . 
`` In that tourney thou wert conqueror , Luis ! 
`` Thou knowest better , unkind Luis ! 
She spoke to me , Luis , of our duties as Christians , of our duties as females , and , most of all , of the solemn obligations that we contract in wedlock , and of the many pains that , at best , attend that honoured condition . 
`` Thy name was not even mentioned , Luis , nor would it have been in any way concerned in the discourse , had not my unbidden thoughts turned anxiously towards thee . 
`` I wish to deny nothing that is true , Don Luis ; and you are early teaching me to repent of the indiscreet avowal I have made . 
That it was in dreadof you that Her Highness spoke , I do deny ; for I can not think she has any such feelings towards you.She was full of maternal affection for me , and I think , for I will conceal naught that I truly believe , that apprehension of thy powers to please , Luis , may have induced her to apprehend that an orphan girl , like myself , might possibly consult her fancy more than her prudence , and wed one who seemed to love the uttermost limits of the earth so much better than his own noble castles and his proper home . '' 
`` Luis ! 
Now , Luis , thou must listen to my suit , although I see thou art ready to exclaim , and protest , and invoke ; but I have heard thee patiently some years , and it is now my turn to speak and thine to listen . 
But , Luis , if Her Highness hath not done thy noble , generous heart , justice ; if she hath been deceived by appearances , like most of those around her ; if she hath not known thee , in short , is it not thine own fault ? 
No , Luis ; feeling hath made thee unjust to our royal mistress , whom it is now manifestly thy interest to propitiate , if thou art sincere in thy avowed desire to obtain my hand . '' 
Don Luis de Bobadilla smiled , having far less religious faith and more knowledge of physical obstacles than his mistress . 
He did full justice to her motives , notwithstanding his hastily expressed doubts ; and the adventure was of a nature to arouse his constitutional love of roving , and his desire for encountering dangers . 
Both he and Mercedes well knew that he had fairly earned no small part of that distrust of his character , which alone thwarted their wishes ; and , quick of intellect , he well understood the means and manner by which he was to gain Doña Isabella 's consent . 
The few doubts that he really entertained were revealed by the question that succeeded . 
`` If Her Highness is disposed to favour this Colon , '' he asked , `` why hath the measure been so long delayed ? '' 
Thou wilt not return unsuccessful , Luis ; but with such credit as will cause thy wife to glory in her choice , and to be proud of thy name . '' 
Don Luis succeeded in restraining his impatience ; and the generous confidence with which Mercedes gradually got to betray her interest in him , and the sweet , holy earnestness with which she urged the probability of success , brought him at length to view the enterprise as one of lofty objects , rather than as a scheme which flattered his love of adventure . 
Luis de Bobadilla was the son of an only and much-beloved brother , and she had transferred to her nephew most of the affection she had felt for the father . 
On the occasion just named , among others who were present was Fernando de Talavera , a prelate of high station , who had just been named to the new dignity of Archbishop of Granada , and the Fray Pedro de Carrascal , the former teacher of Luis de Bobadilla , an unbeneficed divine , who owed his favour to great simplicity of character , aided by his high birth . 
`` Don Luis de Bobadilla , Señora , the nephew of my guardian , Doña Beatriz , '' she at length answered ; for the love of truth was stronger in this pure-hearted young creature , even , than the dread of shame . 
`` Thou art particular , Señorita , '' Isabella observed calmly , severity seldom entering into her communications with the just-minded and good ; `` Don Luis cometh of too illustrious a house to need a herald to proclaim his alliances . 
All I had to say was , that Don Luis de Bobadilla desireth exceedingly that the Señor Colon might get the caravels he seeketh , and that he himself might obtain the royal permission to make one among the adventurers . '' 
`` Luis is a truant , Señora , beyond a question , but it is not with ignoble motives . 
I have heard him ardently express his desire to be one of Colon 's followers , should that person be sent by Your Highness in search of the land of Cathay . '' 
`` Señora , I do , '' she answered , with a steadiness that both surprised and pleased the queen , who entered into and appreciated all her feelings ; `` I think Don Luis de Bobadilla will embark with him ; since his aunt hath conversed freely with him on the nature and magnitude of the enterprise , his mind dwelleth on little else . 
He would be willing to furnish gold for the occasion , could his guardians be made to consent . '' 
If Don Luis de Bobadilla persevere in this intention , and act up to his professions , I shall think more favourably of his character than circumstances have hitherto led me to do . '' 
The manner in which the throng quickly gave way , denoted the presence of some one of high rank , and presently Don Luis de Bobadilla stood in the centre of the room . 
As if purposely to justify this character , Luis looked about him anxiously a moment , and then made his way directly to the side of Colon . 
`` I greet you , Señor , '' said Luis , bowing respectfully to Columbus . 
That Columbus was pleased by this homage , appeared in his eye , his smile , and the manner in which he raised his body , as if full of the grandeur of his own designs ; but he was compelled to defer the pleasure that it always gave him to dilate on his enterprise . 
`` I am commanded hither , noble Señor , '' he answered , cordially , `` by the holy Archbishop of Granada , who , it seemeth , hath it in charge from their Highnesses , to bring my affair to a speedy issue , and who hath named this very morning for that purpose . 
Luis withdrew disappointed , for he had hoped to enjoy another long discourse with Columbus , on a subject which , as it was connected with his dearest hopes , now occupied most of his thoughts . 
We shall leave him , however , and all in the antechambers , to follow the great navigator farther into the depths of the palace . 
Fernando de Talavera had not been unmindful of his orders . 
Most of these persons were grave Spaniards of a certain age , though young Luis de Bobadilla was also there , and the tall , dignified form of Columbus was conspicuous in the group . 
The whole party , with the exception of Luis de Bobadilla , then took their leave . 
Didst thou not remark , friend Luis , as we passed through the streets , that divers Spaniards pointed at me , as the object of scorn ? '' 
`` I did , Señor , '' answered Luis , his cheek glowing with indignation , `` and had it not been that I dreaded your displeasure , I would have trodden the vagabonds beneath my horse 's feet , failing of a lance to spit them on ! '' 
`` Let him look to it , who presumeth to speak lightly of you , Señor , to Luis de Bobadilla ! 
Luis promised fairly , and then , as if his truant thoughts would revert to the subject unbidden , he hastily resumed -- `` You speak of the noble as of a class different from your own -- surely , Señor Colon , thou art noble ? '' 
The cheek of Don Luis flushed , and , for an instant , he repented of his remark ; but falling back on his own frank and generous nature , he answered immediately , without reservation or duplicity -- `` By San Pedro , my new patron ! 
Am I to lose the honour of Don Luis de Bobadilla 's company in the great voyage , should I be more fortunate in France than I have been in Castile , because his commander happeneth to have lost the evidences of his nobility ? '' 
friend Luis , '' interrupted Columbus , with a melancholy shake of the head , `` this is the opinion of but too many ! 
`` Señor , '' answered Luis , gravely , `` I jest not concerning my guardian angel . 
It struck me '' -- Luis was too manly to betray his mistress by confessing that the thought was hers -- `` it struck me , that if my rambling tastes took the direction of some noble enterprise , like this you urge , that what hath been a demerit might be deemed a merit in the royal eyes , which would be certain soon to draw all other eyes after them . 
It seemeth , then , '' he added , smiling , `` I owe my disciple to the two potent agents of love and reason ; the former , as most potent , overcoming the first obstacles , and the latter getting uppermost at the close of the affair , as is wont to happen -- love , generally , triumphing in the onset , and reason , last . '' 
I here solemnly vow '' -- Don Luis lifted his cap and looked to heaven , as he spoke -- `` to join you in this voyage , on due notice , sail from whence you may , in whatever bark you shall choose , and whenever you please . 
`` I accept the pledge , young sir , '' rejoined Columbus , struck by his earnestness , and pleased with his sincerity -- `` though it might have been a more faithful representation of your thoughts , had the order of the motives been reversed . '' 
`` In a few months I shall be master of my own means , '' continued the youth , too intent on his own purposes to heed what the navigator had said -- `` and then , nothing but the solemn command of Doña Isabella , herself , shall prevent our having one caravel , at least ; and the coffers of Bobadilla must have been foully dealt by , during their master 's childhood , if they do not afford two . 
And , here , Don Luis , we must part . 
Luis de Bobadilla protested his indifference to what others might think ; but the more experienced Columbus , who rose so high above popular clamour in matters that affected himself , felt a generous reluctance to permit this confiding youth to sacrifice his hopes , to any friendly impressions in his own favour . 
The leave-taking was warm , and the navigator felt a glow at his heart , as he witnessed the sincere and honest emotions that the young man could not repress at parting . 
They separated , however , about half a league from the town , and each bent his way in his own direction ; Don Luis de Bobadilla 's heart swelling with indignation at the unworthy treatment that there was , in sooth , so much reason for thinking his new friend had received . 
Seven weary years had he been soliciting the monarchs and nobles of Spain to aid him in his enterprise . 
In that long period , how much of poverty , contempt , ridicule , and even odium , had he not patiently encountered , rather than abandon the slight hold that he had obtained on a few of the more liberal and enlightened minds of the nation ! 
He had toiled for bread while soliciting the great to aid themselves in becoming still more powerful ; and each ray of hope , however feeble , had been eagerly caught at with joy , each disappointment borne with a constancy that none but the most exalted spirit could sustain . 
But he was now required to endure the most grievous of all his pains . 
The recal of Isabella had awakened within him a confidence to which he had long been a stranger ; and he awaited the termination of the siege , with the calm dignity that became his purpose , no less than his lofty philosophy . 
The hour of leisure had come , and it produced a fatal destruction to all his buoyant hopes . 
He had thought his motives understood , his character appreciated , and his high objects felt ; but he now found himself still regarded as a visionary projector , his intentions distrusted , and his promised services despised . 
In a word , the bright expectations that had cheered his toil for years , had vanished in a day , and the disappointment was all the greater for the brief but delusive hopes produced by his recent favour . 
`` Your Highness hath here a willing courier , and one already equipped for the road , in the person of Don Luis de Bobadilla , '' cried Alonzo de Quintanilla , whose eye had been drawn to a window by the trampling of a horse 's foot ; `` and the man who will more joyfully bear these tidings to the Genoese , can not be found in Santa Fé . '' 
Luis entered the presence , flushed , excited , and with feelings not a little angered , at the compelled departure of his new friend . 
He did not fail to impute the blame of this occurrence to those who had the power to prevent it ; and when his dark expressive eye met the countenance of his sovereign , had it been in her power to read its meaning , she would have understood that he viewed her as a person who had thwarted his hopes on more than one occasion . 
`` I thank you for this promptitude , Don Luis , having some need of your services . 
`` It is plain , Don Luis , that all thy leisure time hath not been passed in courts , '' returned the queen , smiling ; `` but we have now service for thy roving propensities . 
`` As a sign of the fidelity of thy senses , Don Luis , here is the pledge of my hand . '' 
`` Rise , Don Luis , and lose not a moment to relieve the loaded heart of the Goroese -- I might almost say , to relieve ours , also ; for , Daughter-Marchioness , since this holy enterprise hath broken on my mind with a sudden and almost miraculous light , it seemeth that a mountain must lie on my breast until the Señor Christoval shall learn the truth ! '' 
Luis de Bobadilla did not wait a second bidding , but hurried from the presence , as fast as etiquette would allow , and the next minute he was in the saddle . 
At his appearance , Mercedes had shrunk into the recess of a window , where she now , luckily , commanded a view of the court . 
Mercedes awoke first from the short trance that succeeded , for , taking the alarm at Luis 's indiscreet delay , she motioned him hurriedly to proceed . 
Again the rowels were buried in the flanks of the noble animal ; fire flashed beneath his armed heels , and , at the next minute , Don Luis de Bobadilla had disappeared . 
Turning his head , he recognized Luis de Bobadilla in hot pursuit , with the flanks of his horse dyed in blood , and his breast white with foam . 
`` This is unexpected , Don Luis , '' exclaimed the navigator . 
Luis now attempted to explain his errand , but eagerness and the want of breath rendered his ideas confused and his utterance broken and imperfect . 
Canthis be true , Don Luis ? '' 
They were loud in their eulogiums on Isabella , and added to the assurances of Don Luis , such proofs of the seriousness of the queen 's intentions , as to remove all doubts from the mind of the navigator . 
He was then , without further delay , conducted to the presence . 
`` Who hath aided him more than thyself , friend Luis ? '' 
returned Alonzo de Quintanilla ; `` for , without thy bold assault on Doña Isabella 's patience , the matter had been decided against this voyage , and the Genoese would still be on his way to the court of King Louis . '' 
During the time it was known to those near the person of Isabella , that the conditions between the sovereigns and the navigator were being reduced to writing and were receiving the necessary forms , Luis neither sought an interview with his mistress , nor was accidentally favoured in that way ; but , no sooner was it understood Columbus had effected all that he deemed necessary in this particular , and had quitted the court for the coast , than the young man threw himself , at once , on the generosity of his aunt , beseeching her to favour his views now that he was about to leave Spain on an adventure that most regarded as desperate . 
But thou knowest , Luis , that Mercedes de Valverde is no peasant 's child to be lightly cared for , but that she cometh of the noblest blood of Spain , having had a Guzman for a mother , and Mendozas out of number among her kinsmen . 
if she be , moreover , all thousayest too , Don Luis ! 
Methinks a shorter catalogue might content one who is himself so great a rover , lest some of these qualities be lost , in his many journeys ! '' 
Luis laughed , in spite of himself , at the affected seriousness of his aunt ; and then successfully endeavouring to repress a little resentment that her language awakened , he answered in a way to do no discredit to a well-established reputation for good-nature . 
`` I can not call thee ` Daughter-Marchioness , ' in imitation of Her Highness , '' he answered , with a coaxing smile , so like that her deceased brother was wont to use when disposed to wheedle her out of some concession , that it fairly caused Doña Beatriz to start -- `` but I can say with more truth , ` Aunt-Marchioness , ' -- and a very dear aunt , too -- wilt thou visit a little youthful indiscretion so severely ? 
`` Luis , '' returned the aunt , regarding her nephew with the severe resolution that was so often exhibited in her acts , as well as in her words , `` dost think that a mere display of courage will prove sufficient to win Mercedes from me ? 
Thou knowest little of the strength of a mother 's love , Luis , and canst not understand all the doubts that beset the heart , when the parent is compelled to leave a tender plant , like Mercedes , to the cold nursing of a selfish and unfeeling world . '' 
I know not but , in thy intemperate speech , thou hast dared to charge Her Highness with carrying her care for her subjects ' well-being beyond a sovereign 's rights '' -- `` Nay , Doña Beatriz , '' hastily interrupted Luis , `` herein thou dost me great injustice . 
As Don Luis uttered this with an earnest look , and features flushed with sincerity , it was impossible not to see that he meant as much as he said . 
Few cared less , or thought less , about the consequences of what they uttered , than Luis de Bobadilla ; and yet this hasty but sincere reply did him good service with more than one of those who exercised a material influence over his fortunes . 
The first consequence of Luis 's speech was a milder expression in the countenance of his aunt , and a disposition to consider his entreaties to be admitted to a private interview with Mercedes , with more indulgence . 
`` I may have done thee injustice in this , Luis , '' resumed Doña Beatriz , betraying in her manner the sudden change of feeling mentioned ; `` for I do think thee conscious of thy duty to Her Highness , and of the almost heavenly sense of justice that reigneth in her heart , and through that heart , in Castile . 
Luis de Bobadilla , it is not difficult to teach the heart to lean towards the richest and the noblest , when she happeneth also to be the fairest , maiden of Spain ! '' 
No , Luis , none that know thee will accuse thee of hypocrisy . 
Luis then had recourse to his most persuasive powers , and , improving the little advantage he had gained , by dint of coaxing and teasing he so far prevailed on Doña Beatriz as to obtain a promise that she would apply to the queen for permission to grant him one private interview with Mercedes . 
If thy ward hath , in truth , any tenderness for him , the recollection of this interview will soothe many a weary hour while Don Luis is away . '' 
`` Perhaps not , Beatriz ; and yet I do not see that we can well deny this interview , now that Don Luis is so near departure . 
Tell him I accord him that which he so desireth , and let him bear in mind that a grandee should never quit Castile without presenting himself before his sovereign . '' 
`` I fear , Your Highness , '' returned the marchioness , laughing , `` that Don Luis will feel this last command , however gracious and kind in fact , as a strong rebuke , since he hath more than once done this already , without even presenting himself before his own aunt ! '' 
`` On those occasions he went idly , and without consideration ; but he is now engaged in an honourable and noble enterprise , and we will make it apparent to him that all feel the difference . '' 
Still , the wishes of Isabella were laws to the Marchioness of Moya , and she sought an early opportunity to acquaint her ward with her intention to allow Don Luis , for once , to plead his own cause with his mistress , before he departed on his perilous and mysterious enterprise . 
She had never thought it possible Luis would sail on an expedition like that in which he was engaged , without endeavouring to see her alone ; but , now she was assured that both the queen and her guardian acquiesced in his being admitted , she almost regretted their compliance . 
Nor were her feelings on the subject of Luis 's ready enlistment in the expedition , more consistent . 
As soon as Luis was admitted to her own presence , on the appointed morning , she told him that he was expected by Mercedes , who was waiting his appearance in the usual reception-room . 
Scarce giving himself time to kiss the hand of his aunt , and to make those other demonstrations of respect that the customs of the age required from the young to their seniors -- more especially when there existed between them a tie of blood as close as that which united the Marchioness of Moya with the Conde de Llera -- the young man bounded away , and was soon in the presence of his mistress . 
`` Luis ! '' 
`` And can it be necessary , Luis , when thou art the danger apprehended ? '' 
`` They may think theecapable of this act of madness , dear Luis , but they will hardly suspect me . '' 
`` Luis ! '' 
`` Thou forgettest , Luis , that noble Castilian maidens are not wont to see even noble Castilian cavaliers alone , and , but for the gracious condescension of Her Highness , and the indulgence of my guardian , who happeneth to be thy aunt , this interview could not take place . '' 
As Luis de Bobadilla uttered this , he glanced his eye at the figure of the dueña of his mistress , whose person was visible through an open door , in an adjoining room , where the good woman sate , intently occupied in reading certain homilies . 
This was said in much better language than was commonly used by women of the dueña 's class , and with a good-nature that seemed indomitable , it being completely undisturbed by Luis 's petulant remarks . 
Surely , child , thou dost not fancy me a gay , gallant young noble , come to pour out his soul at thy feet , and mistakest my simple words of affection for such as will be likely to flow from the honeyed tongue of a Bobadilla , bent on gaining his suit with the fairest maiden of Castile ? '' 
A smile of triumph gleamed on the handsome features of Luis , and , after he had forced his mistress , by a gentle compulsion , to resume the seat from which she had risen to meet him , he threw himself on a stool at her feet , and stretching out his well-turned limbs in an easy attitude , so as to allow himself to gaze into the beautiful face that he had set up , like an idol , before him , he renewed the discourse . 
`` This is a paragon of dueñas , '' he cried , `` and I might have known that none of the ill-tempered , unreasonable school of such beings , would be tolerated near thy person . 
`` Thou forgettest , Luis , '' answered Mercedes , trembling even while she laughed at her own conceit , `` that if the husband esteemeth the dueña the lover could not endure , that the lover may esteem the dueña that the husband may be unwilling to abide . '' 
`` Peste!these are crooked matters , and ill-suited to the straight-forward philosophy of Luis de Bobadilla . 
The language of admiration is ever soothing to female ears , and Mercedes , giving to the words of the youth an impression of sincerity that his manner fully warranted , forgot the dueña and her little interruption , in the delight of listening to declarations that were so grateful to her affections . 
`` Say nought against Pepita , Luis , who hath much befriended thee to-day , else would thy tongue , and thine eyes too , be under the restraint of her presence . 
But , Luis , this is pure idleness , and we waste in it most precious moments ; moments that may never return . 
`` I would rather that thou should ` st undertake this voyage in thine own name , Luis , than under a feigned appellation . 
`` ' T is the wish of my aunt ; as for myself , I would put thy favour in my casque , thy emblem on my shield , and let it be known , far and near , that Luis of Llera sought the court of Cathay with the intent to defy its chivalry to produce as fair or as virtuous a maiden as thyself . '' 
`` We are not in the age of errants , sir knight , but in one of reason and truth , '' returned Mercedes , laughing , though every syllable that proved the earnest and entire devotion of the young man went directly to her heart , strengthening his hold on it , and increasing the flame that burnt within , by adding the fuel that was most adapted to that purpose -- `` we are not in the age of knights-errant , Don Luis de Bobadilla , as thou thyself hast just affirmed ; but one in which even the lover is reflecting , and as apt to discover the faults of his lady-love , as to dwell upon her perfections . 
Luis , thou art now engaged in a most truly noble enterprise , one that will join thy name to those of the applauded of men , and which will form thy pride and exultation in after-life , when the eyes of us both shall be dimmed by age , and we shall look back with longings to discover aught of which to be proud . '' 
`` Say not so , dear Luis , for thou knowest not the nobility of thine own soul , nor the generosity of thine own intentions . 
`` Then , Luis de Bobadilla , thou knowest me not , '' answered Mercedes , hastily , and speaking with a tender earnestness that brought the blood into her cheeks , gradually brightening the brilliancy of her eyes , until they shone with a lustre that seemed almost supernatural -- `` then , Luis de Bobadilla , thou knowest me not . 
`` Nay , Luis , thy remedy , I fear me , would prove worse than the disease that thou would ` st cure , '' returned the beautiful girl , smiling and blushing as she spoke , and turning her eloquent eyes on the youth in a way to avow volumes of tenderness . 
As usual , Luis was inconsistent , jealous , repentant , full of passion and protestations , fancying a thousand evils at one instant , and figuring in his imagination a terrestrial paradise at the next ; while Mercedes was enthusiastic , generous , devoted , and yet high-principled , self-denying , and womanly ; meeting her ardent suitor 's vows with a tenderness that seemed to lose all other considerations in her love , and repelling with maiden coyness , and with the dignity of her sex , his rhapsodies , whenever they touched upon the exaggerated and indiscreet . 
As the time for separating approached , Mercedes opened a small casket that contained her jewels , and drew forth one which she offered to her lover as a gage of her truth . 
`` I will not give thee a glove to wear in thy casque at tourneys , Luis , '' she said , `` but I offer this holy symbol , which may remind thee , at the same moment , of the great pursuit thou hast before thee , and of her who will wait its issue with doubts and fears little less active than those of Colon himself . 
This was said half in melancholy , and half in lightness of heart , for Mercedes felt at parting , both a weight of sorrow that was hard to be borne , and a buoyancy of the very feeling to which she had just alluded , that much disposed her to smile ; and it was said with those winning accents with which the youthful and tender avow their emotions , when the heart is subdued by the thoughts of absence and dangers . 
The gift was a small cross , formed of the stones she had named , and of great intrinsic value , as well as precious from the motives and character of her who offered it . 
`` Thou hast had a care of my soul , in this , Mercedes , '' said Luis , smiling , when he had kissed the jewelled cross again and again -- `` and art resolved if the sovereign of Cathay should refuse to be converted to our faith , that we shall not be converted to his . 
`` One lock of thy hair , Luis , is all I desire . 
`` I take it , Luis , for it is thy offering and may not be refused ; and yet I take it tremblingly , for I see signs of our different natures in these gifts . 
She wept on the bosom of Don Luis , and at the final moment of parting , as ever happens with woman , feeling got the better of form , and her whole soul confessed its weakness . 
At length Luis tore himself away from her presence , and that night he was on his way to the coast , under an assumed name , and in simple guise ; whither Columbus had already preceded him . 
Luis de Bobadilla had , therefore , stolen from court unnoticed , and they who came in time to miss his presence , either supposed him to be on a visit to one of his castles , or to have gone forth on another of those wandering tours which were supposed to be blemishes on his chivalry and unworthy of his birth . 
As for the Genoese himself , his absence was scarcely heeded , though it was understood among the courtiers generally , that Isabella had entered into some arrangement with him , which gave the adventurer higher rank and greater advantages than his future services would probably ever justify . 
`` Hath he the aspect of a messenger from the court ? '' 
`` He gave me two , Señor , styling himself Pedro de Munos , or Pero Gutierrez , without the Don . '' 
As Columbus ceased speaking , the door opened and Luis de Bobadilla entered . 
The young grandee had laid aside all the outward evidences of his high rank , and now appeared in the modest guise of a traveller belonging to a class more likely to furnish a recruit for the voyage , than one of the rank he really was . 
Saluting Columbus with cordial and sincere respect , and the Franciscan with humble deference , the first at once perceived that this gallant and reckless spirit had truly engaged in the enterprise with a determination to use all the means that would enable him to go through with it . 
`` Thou art welcome , Pedro , '' Columbus observed , as soon as Luis had made his salutations ; `` thou hast reached the coast at a moment when thy presence and support may be exceedingly useful . 
Don Luis had expressed himself of the great man of the vicinity , more like a Bobadilla than became his assumed name of Muños , and a glance from the eye of Columbus told him to forget his rank and to remember the disguise he had assumed . 
they tell another tale at Palos , and at Moguer , Señor Amirale , '' returned Luis , laughing ; `` at which places , I hear , that no man whose skin hath been a little warmed by the sun of the ocean , dare show himself in the highways , lest he be sent to Cathay by a road that no one ever yet travelled , except in fancy ! 
exclaimed the Franciscan ; while Luis stood in smiling unconcern , equally indifferent whether he had to traverse one thousand or ten thousand leagues of ocean , so that the journey led to Mercedes and was productive of adventure . 
`` Let us hope this , '' returned Columbus , reverently making the usual sign of the sacred emblem to which his friend alluded ; `` as a proof that we have some worldly foundation for the expectation , here cometh the Señor Pinzon himself , apparently hot with haste to see us . '' 
`` Then thou thinkest seriously , son , of making one in this great enterprise of the admiral 's , '' said the Franciscan , as soon as the door was closed on those who had just left them , eyeing Luis , for the first time , with a more strict scrutiny than hitherto he had leisure to exercise . 
inquired Luis , forgetting his assumed character , in the freedom of his address . 
Don Luis hemmed , played with the handle of his rapier , and then gave utterance to the uppermost thought , as usual . 
he inquired , `` and whose spirit , I 'll answer for it , is as pure as that of Doña Isabella 's itself . '' 
`` Thou art hot and restive , and talkest idly , son ; what would one like thee find to say to a Guzman , or a Mendoza , or a Bobadilla , even , did he affirm what thou wishest . 
He had , in truth , listened to the contrition of Mercedes , of which her passion for Luis was the principal cause ; and it was he , who , with a species of pious fraud of which he was himself unconscious , had first pointed out the means by which the truant noble might be made to turn his propensity to rove to the profit of his love ; and his mind was full of her beautiful exhibition of purity and natural feeling , nearly even to overflowing . 
But habit and duty interfered in time , and he did not utter the name that had been trembling on his lips . 
Still , his thoughts continued in this current , and his tongue gave utterance to that portion of them which he believed to be harmless . 
`` Thou hast been much about the world , it would seem , by Master Alonzo 's greeting , '' he continued , after a short pause ; `` didst ever meet , son , with a certain cavalier of Castile , named Don Luis de Bobadilla -- a grandee , who also bears the title of Conde de Llera ? '' 
`` I know little of his hopes , and care less for his titles , '' returned Luis , calmly , who thought he would manifest a magnanimous indifference to the Franciscan 's opinions , -- `` but I have seen the cavalier , and a roving , mad-brained , graceless youth it is , of whom no good can be expected . '' 
`` Ay , he may be that , '' answered Luis , hemming a little louder than was decorous , for his throat began to grow husky -- `` Ay , he may be that ; but of what avail is a good lance without a good character . 
`` I trust he is not the man he generally passeth for , '' -- answered the simple-hearted monk , without in the least suspecting his companion 's disguise ; `` and I do know that there are some who think well of him -- nay , whose existence , I might say whose very souls , are wrapped up in him ! '' 
demanded Luis , with an impetuosity that caused the prior to start . 
`` Young cavalier , '' he exclaimed , `` thou art Don Luis de Bobadilla ! '' 
Such was the state of things , towards the close of the month of July , when Martin Alonzo Pinzon again repaired to the convent of Santa Maria de Rabida , where Columbus continued to pass most of the time that was not given to a direct personal superintendence of the preparations , and where Luis de Bobadilla , who was altogether useless in the actual condition of affairs , also passed many a weary hour , chafing for active duty , and musing on the loveliness , truth and virtues of Mercedes de Valverde . 
The turn of Luis came next , and more than once the prior smiled involuntarily , as he listened to this hot-blooded and impetuous youth , whose language irresistibly carried back his thoughts to the more meek , natural , and the more gentle admissions of the pure-minded Mercedes . 
The penance prescribed to Luis was not entirely free from severity , though , on the whole , the young man , who was not much addicted to the duties of the confessional , fancied himself well quit of the affair , considering the length of the account he was obliged to render , and the weight of the balance against him . 
`` Our people seem none of the most cheerful , Señor Almirante , '' said Luis , as they left the convent-chapel in company , `` and , if truth must be spoken , one could wish to set forth on an expedition of this magnitude , better sustained by merry hearts and smiling countenances . '' 
I trust Luis '' -- intercourse had given Columbus a sort of paternal interest in the welfare of the young grandee , that lessened the distance made by rank between them -- `` I trust , Luis , thou art not , altogether , without these pious longings in thine own person . '' 
`` Thou art a mad-brained youth , Luis , and must be humoured , if it were only for the sake of the sweet and pious young maiden who seemeth to engross all thy thoughts . '' 
Fray Juan Perez whispered to Luis , that he could best liken the joy of the admiral to the chastened rapture of a Christian who was about to quit a world of woe , to enter on the untasted , but certain , fruition of blessed immortality . 
At length he quitted the convent , and , accompanied by Luis and the prior , he , too , took his way to the beach . 
Columbus was carefully recalling the details of his preparations , while Luis was thinking of the maid of Castile , as he was wont to term Mercedes , and of the many weary days that must elapse before he could hope to see her again . 
put in Luis , `` not to speak of my decided and true-hearted aunt ! '' 
`` I ask but a few brief months , Señores , '' returned Columbus , his face turned to heaven with uncovered head , his grey hair floating in the wind , and his eye kindling with the light of enthusiasm , -- `` a few short months , that will pass away untold with the happy -- that even the miserable may find supportable , but which to us will seem ages , must now dispose of this question . 
The first loved the last , because he had proved himself a friend , when friends were few and timid ; and the worthy monk had some such attachment for the great navigator as men are apt to feel for those they have cherished . 
Like most of that age , Luis , in the midst of his impetuous feelings , and youthful propensities , had enshrined in his heart an image of the Son of God , and entertained an habitual respect for holy things . 
As the navigator moved slowly towards it , a youthful female rushed wildly past him and Luis , and regardless of their presence , she threw her arms around a young mariner who had quitted the boat to meet her , and sobbed for a minute on his bosom , in uncontrollable agony , or as women weep in the first outbreak of their emotions . 
`` Idle and childish , as this may seem , '' observed Columbus , turning quietly to Luis , `` it is as reasonable as much that I have been doomed to hear from the learned , during the last sixteen years . 
`` I mean not that , '' interrupted Columbus , a little sternly , though he crossed himself , even while he betrayed dissatisfaction at the allusion to a miracle that was much too vulgar for his manly understanding -- `` I mean no such questionable wonder , which it is permitted us to believe , or not , as it may be supported by the church 's authority . 
turning quickly to Luis de Bobadilla ; `` is it to serve God that you also go on this unusual voyage ? '' 
As some trifling preparations were to be made before the boat could quit the shore , the admiral and Luis paced the sands the while , engaged in deep discourse . 
`` This hath been a specimen of what I have had to overcome and endure , in order to obtain even yonder humble means for effecting the good designs of Providence , '' observed Columbus , mournfully , though he spoke without acrimony . 
`` Thou art right , Luis , but philosophy and fact are different matters . 
`` Not when he of Genoa is Christoval Colon , Señor , and he of Castile is only Luis de Bobadilla , '' answered the young man , laughing . 
`` A plain question , that is loyally put , may not be answered with a truism , Luis . '' 
`` Of disappointments in this matter , Don Luis , I look for none , -- now that I have the royal faith of Isabella , and these good caravels to back me ; the drudge who saileth from Madeira to Lisbon is not more certain of gaining his port , than I am certain of gaining Cathay . '' 
`` The sun that is just sinking beyond yon hill , Luis , is not plainer before my eyes than this route to the Indies . 
`` Thou little knowest the calmness of conviction and confidence , Luis , '' returned Columbus , `` if thou fanciest any doubts beset me as the hour of trial approacheth . 
`` This hath not been the least of my sorrows , Luis . 
Still , it may aid the reader in forming his opinions of the character of this great enterprise , if we give a short sketch of the vessels , more especially that in which Columbus and Luis de Bobadilla were now received . 
As Columbus sought his apartment , soon after he reached the deck of the Holy Maria , Luis had no farther opportunity to converse with him that night . 
He occupied a part of the same room , it is true , under the assumed appellation of the admiral 's secretary ; but the great navigator was so much engaged with duties necessary to be discharged previously to sailing , that he could not be interrupted , and the young man paced the narrow limits of the deck until near midnight , thinking , as usual , of Mercedes , and of his return , when , seeking his mattress , he found Columbus already buried in a deep sleep . 
Luis was among the first who appeared again on deck , and casting his eyes upward , he perceived that the admiral was already afoot , and in possession of the summit of the high poop , or castle , whose narrow limits , indeed , were deemed sacred to the uses of the privileged , answering , in this particular , to the more extended promenade of the modern quarter-deck . 
Here it was that he , who directed the movements of a squadron , overlooked its evolutions , threw out his signals , made his astronomical observations , and sought his recreation in the open air . 
As soon as the admiral -- or Don Christoval , as he was now termed by the Spaniards , since his appointment to his present high rank , which gave him the rights and condition of a noble -- as soon as Don Christoval caught a glance of Luis 's eye , he made a sign for the young man to ascend , and take a position at his side . 
`` Thou wilt keep much near my person , Señor Gutierrez , '' said the admiral , using the feigned name , which Luis affected to conceal under that of Pedro de Muños , as he knew a ship was never safe from eaves-droppers , and was willing that the young noble should pass as the gentleman of the king 's bedchamber ; `` this is our station , and here we must remain , much of our time , until God , in his holy and wise providence , shall have opened the way for us to Cathay , and brought us near the throne of the Great Khan . 
Luis , for the first time since he had been engaged in the expedition , cast his eyes over this chart , with some curiosity , and he felt a noble desire to solve the great problem rising within him , as he thus saw , at a glance , all the vast results , as well as the interesting natural phenomena , that were dependent on the issue . 
he exclaimed -- The only affectation the young noble had , was a habit of invoking the saints of the different countries he had visited , and of using the little oaths and exclamations of distant lands , a summary mode of both letting the world know how far he had journeyed , as well as a portion of the improvement he had derived from his travels -- `` By San Gennaro , Señor Don Christoval , but this voyage will be one of exceeding merit , if we ever find our way across this great belt of water ; and greater still , should we ever manage to return ! '' 
`` Dost thou not perceive , Don Luis , the grave and dejected countenances of the mariners , and hearest thou the wailings that are rising from the shore ? '' 
The Niña , a light felucca in fact , was already under way , and brushing past them under a latine foresail , her sides thronged with boats filled with people , no small portion of whom were females and children , and most of whom were wringing their hands and raising piteous cries of despair . 
The Pinta was in the act of being cast ; and , although the authority of Martin Alonzo Pinzon had the effect to render their grief less clamorous , her sides were surrounded by a similar crowd , while numberless boats plied around the Santa Marin herself ; the authority and dignity of the admiral alone keeping them at a distance . 
Columbus made a sign of recognition to the gratified young mariner , who instantly permitted the canvass to fall ; and then he walked to the taffrail , accompanied by Luis , in order to ascertain if any boat was near the ship . 
He spoke mildly , and his looks , usually so grave , and sometimes even stern , were softened to an expression of gentleness that Luis had never before witnessed . 
`` I see that thy husband hath been true to his promise , good woman , '' he said , `` and I doubt not that thou hast told him it is wiser and better manfully to serve the queen , than to live under the disgrace of a runaway . '' 
Luis de Bobadilla , who had navigated extensively in the more northern seas , and who had passed and repassed the Mediterranean , in various directions , knew nothing of these islands except by report ; and as they stood on the poop , Columbus pointed out to him their position , and explained their different characters ; relating his intentions in connection with them , dwelling on the supplies they afforded , and on their facilities as a point of departure . 
`` Dost thou expect to reach the territories of the Great Khan , Don Christoval , '' demanded Luis , `` within a distance as small as that to which the Portuguese hath gone southwardly ? '' 
The navigator looked warily around , to ascertain who might hear his words , and finding that no one was within reach of the sound of his voice while he used a proper caution , he lowered its tones , and answered in a manner which greatly flattered his young companion , as it proved that the admiral was disposed to treat him with the frankness and confidence of a friend . 
`` Thou know ` st , Don Luis '' -- the navigator resumed -- `` the nature of the spirits with whom we have to deal . 
I shall not even be certain of their services , so long as we continue near the coast of Europe ; for nought is easier than for one of yonder craft to abandon me in the night , and to seek a haven on some known coast , seeking his justification in some fancied necessity . '' 
interrupted Luis . 
`` He is not , my young friend , for a motive as base as fear , '' returned Columbus , with a sort of thoughtful smile , which showed how truly and early he had dived into the real characters of those with whom he was associated . 
The question thou hast asked , Luis , may not , therefore , be publicly answered , since the distance that we are about to sail over would frighten our easily alarmed mariners . 
`` Luis , thou hast well judged my feelings . 
On these subjects , then , I hold myself neuter ; while , at the same time , thou may ` st steer direct for the moon , and Luis de Bobadilla will be found at thy side . '' 
And is not this , Don Luis , a most heavenly sight ? 
On Luis , as indeed on most others who lived in sufficient familiarity with the man to enable them to appreciate his motives , and to judge correctly of the uprightness of his views , the effect , however , was always favourable , and probably would have been so , had Mercedes never existed . 
At this precise moment , Columbus and Luis were again on the poop , watching , with melancholy interest , the last shadows cast by Spanish land , while two seamen were at work near them , splicing a rope that had been chafed asunder . 
`` There setteth the sun beneath the waves of the wide Atlantic , Señor Gutierrez , '' observed the admiral , who was ever cautious to use one or the other of Luis 's feigned appellations , whenever any person was near . 
By this movement Luis perceived that one was Pepe , to whom he gave a nod of recognition , while the other was a stranger . 
`` That I have , noble admiral , '' returned the fellow , looking up with a freedom that denoted one used to have his say ; `` though it hath neither a Don , nor a Señor , to take it in tow . 
In a few minutes he and Luis descended to their cabin . 
The wind still continued favourable , and on the morning of Monday the 6th of August , Columbus was cheerfully conversing with Luis , and one or two other companions , who were standing near him on the poop , when the Pinta was seen suddenly to take in her forward sails , and to come up briskly , not to say awkwardly , to the wind . 
`` I trust , Señor , this is no serious injury , or one in any way likely to retard our advance , '' said Luis , after manifesting that respect which all near him felt for the admiral , by a pause . 
`` Thou say ` st true , Luis , and we will hope for the best . 
While passing from Grand Canary to Gomera , with all his vessels , Columbus was again at his post , with Luis and his usual companions near him , when the admiral 's attention was drawn to a conversation that took place between a group of the men , who had collected near the main-mast . 
`` Thou art bold of speech , Pero , when away a hundred leagues from thine own better nine-tenths , '' put in a voice that Columbus and Luis both knew , on the instant , to belong to Sancho Mundo , `` and art bold enough to jeer Pepe touching Monica , when we all well know who commandeth in a certain cabin , where thou art as meek as a hooked dolphin , whatever thou may ` st be here . 
Luis and the rest next descended among the crew , where they used their reasoning powers in quieting an alarm that , at first , had threatened to be serious . 
demanded the Doña Inez , glancing at Luis , whose manly graces , and martial aspect , had found favour in the eyes of most of the ladies of the island . 
`` The Moorish wars are ended , Señora , '' replied Luis , smiling ; `` and Doña Isabella , and all the ladies of her court , most favour the youths who show a manly disposition to serve the interests , and to advance the honour of Castile . 
Luis was human , and he was in the full enjoyment of the admiration his enterprise had evidently awakened among so many sensitive young creatures , when Doña Inez most inopportunely interposed to interrupt his happiness , and to wound his selfesteem . 
eagerly inquired Luis , too much elated by the admiration he had just excited to anticipate the answer . 
I mean a cavalier of no less lineage and name than Don Luis de Bobadilla , the count of Llera . '' 
It is said that listeners seldom hear good of themselves , and Luis was now fated to verify the truth of the axiom . 
He felt the blood rushing to his face , and it required a strong effort at self-command to prevent him from breaking out in exclamations , that would probably have contained invocations of half the patron saints he had ever heard of , had he not happily succeeded in controlling the sudden impulse . 
Luckily , at that moment , Columbus had drawn all of the males present around himself , in warm discussion of the probable existence of the island of St. Brandan ; and Luis nowhere met a smile , with which he could conveniently quarrel , that had a setting of beard to render it hostile . 
`` True , Señora , '' rejoined the pretty young advocate , the first tones of whose voice had an effect to calm the tempest that was rising in the bosom of the young man ; `` true , Señora , it is said that Don Luis is a wanderer , and one of unsettled tastes and habits , but it is also said he hath a most excellent heart , is generous as the dews of heaven themselves , and carrieth the very best lance of Castile , as he is also like to carry off the fairest maiden . '' 
answered Luis , who had now found his voice . 
exclaimed Luis , `` and one of the most virtuous , as well as fair , and wise as virtuous ! '' 
`` Of a verity , Señor Don Christoval , '' said Luis , as he walked alone with the great navigator towards the shore , `` one little knoweth when he is acquiring fame , and when not . 
`` It is a tribute the great pay for their elevation , Luis , '' returned the admiral , `` that all their acts are commented on , and that they can do little that may be concealed from observation , or escape remarks . '' 
`` Well , then , Señor Don Almirante , you must know that about eleven years since , I made a voyage from Palos to Sicily , in a caravel belonging to the Pinzons , here ; not to Martin Alonzo , who commandeth the Pinta , under your Excellency 's orders , but to a kinsman of his late father 's , who caused better craft to be constructed than we are apt to get in these days of hurry , and rotten cordage , and careless caulking , to say nothing of the manner in which the canvass is -- '' `` Nay , good Sancho , '' interrupted the impatient Luis , who was yet smarting under the remarks of Doña Inez 's correspondent -- `` thou forgettest night is near , and that the boat is waiting for the admiral . '' 
exclaimed Luis , laughing , while he slipped a piece of eight into the hand of the sailor ; `` perhaps that may aid thee in shortening the story of the singular conjunction . '' 
As the man referred to a passenger or two , who had landed within the hour , to corroborate his statement , Columbus and Luis immediately sought the lodgings of these persons , in order to hear their report of the matter . 
`` Of all our difficulties and embarrassments , Luis , '' resumed the admiral , as the two finally proceeded to the shore , `` this is much the most serious ! 
`` Don John of Portugal must have sent far better knights than the Moors of Granada to do the feat , '' answered Luis , who had a Spaniard 's distaste for his peninsular neighbours ; `` he is a bold and learned prince , they say , but the commission and ensigns of the sovereign of Castile are not to be disregarded , and that , too , in the midst of her own islands , here . '' 
Luis , my lot hath been hard , though I humbly trust that the end will repay me for all ! 
Years did I sue the Portuguese to enter fairly into this voyage , and to endeavour to do that , in all honour , which our gracious mistress , Doña Isabella , hath now so creditably commenced ; he listened to my reasons and entreaties with cold ears -- nay , repelled them , with ridicule and disdain ; and , yet , here am I scarce fairly embarked in the execution of schemes that they have so often derided , than they endeavour to defeat me by violence and treachery . '' 
`` Do you believe that the Castilian name standeth so low , Don Christopher , '' demanded Luis , `` that these dogs of Portuguese dare do this wrong to the flag of the queen ! '' 
Notwithstanding a burning impatience now beset the admiral , and most with him , the elements seemed opposed to his passage from among the Canaries , into the open ocean . 
Luis had never been able to comprehend the mysteries of navigation , his noble head appearing to repudiate learning , as a species of accomplishment but little in accordance with its wants or its tastes . 
Still , he was intelligent ; and within the range of knowledge that it was usual for laymen of his rank to attain , few of his age did themselves more credit in the circles of the court . 
Fortunately , he had the most perfect reliance on the means of the admiral ; and being almost totally without personal apprehensions , Columbus had not a more submissive or blind follower , than the young grandee , under his command . 
Señor Don Christopher , '' said Luis , as he reached the poop , where Columbus had kept an untiring watch for hours , he himself having just risen from a siesta , `` the fiends seem to be leagued against us ! 
When Columbus retired to his cabin for the night , Luis observed that his countenance was unusually grave , as he ended his calculations of the day 's work . 
`` Thou hast that within thee , Don Luis , '' returned the admiral , `` which rendereth what thou wishest to see distinct , and maketh all colours gay . 
In compliance with the usage of the times , Columbus knelt , and prayed fervently , ere he slept ; nor did Luis de Bobadilla hesitate about imitating an example that few , in that day , thought beneath their intelligence or their manhood . 
The first appearance of light brought the admiral and Luis to the deck . 
The approach of dawn , and the rising of the sun at sea , have been so often described , that the repetition here might be superfluous ; but we shall state that Luis watched the play of colours that adorned the eastern sky , with a lover 's refinement of feeling , fancying that he traced a resemblance to the passage of emotions across the tell-tale countenance of Mercedes , in the soft and transient hues that are known to precede a fine morning in September , more especially in a low latitude . 
Several minutes passed in profound attention , when the navigator beckoned Luis to his side . 
he said , -- `` it gaineth form and distinctness at each instant , though distant some eight or ten leagues ; that is Ferro , and the Portuguese are there , without question , anxiously expecting our appearance . 
Seest thou any sail , Luis , in that quarter of the ocean ? '' 
Sail was made without the loss of a moment ; and the admiral stood to the northward and westward , trusting that his pursuers were looking out for him on the south side of the island , which was the ground where those who did not thoroughly understand his aim , would be most likely to expect him . 
While things were in this state , Columbus approached Luis , and aroused him from a sort of trance , by laying a finger lightly on his shoulder . 
When Columbus was again alone with Luis , he sate in his little cabin , with a hand supporting his head , musing like one lost in reflection . 
`` Thou hast long known this Martin Alonzo , Don Luis de Bobadilla ? '' 
Look at this paper , Luis . 
`` This is reducing courage to a scale I little dreamt of , Señor , '' returned Luis , laughing . 
With this slight reproof of the levity of his young friend , the admiral prepared himself for his hammock by Kneeling and repeating the prayers of the hour . 
While his sleep lasted it was profound , like that of a man who has so much control over his will as to have reduced the animal functions to its domination , for he awoke regularly at short intervals , in order that his watchful eye might take a survey of the state of the weather , and of the condition of his vessels . 
The wind had freshened , and the caravel was ploughing her way ahead , with an untiring industry , leaving Ferro and its dangers , at each instant , more and more remote . 
When Luis left his hammock , Columbus was already at work , ascertaining the distance that had been run in the course of the night . 
It is painful , Don Luis , to find such deceptions resorted to , or such deceptions necessary , when one is engaged in an enterprise that surpasseth all others ever yet attempted by man , and that , too , with a view to the glory of God , the advantage of the human race , and the especial interests of Spain . '' 
`` The holy churchmen , themselves , Don Christopher , are obliged to submit to this evil , '' answered the careless Luis ; `` and it does not become us laymen to repine at what they endure . 
`` That there are false-minded and treacherous churchmen , as well as false-minded and treacherous laymen , Luis , I little doubt , '' answered the admiral ; `` but this cometh of the fall of man , and of his evil nature . 
`` So it seemeth to thee , Luis ; but thou canst not know that a higher power doth not use the Doña Mercedes , as an instrument in this matter . 
As Luis was now ready , he and the admiral left the cabin together . 
The sun had risen , and the broad expanse of the ocean was glittering with his rays . 
The admiral and Luis were at their customary post , on the evening of the 13th , the day last mentioned , as Sancho left the helm , his tour of duty having just ended . 
Now , there was -- '' `` Let me toss this vagabond into the sea , at once , Don Christopher , '' interrupted the impatient Luis , making a forward movement as if to execute the threat , an act which the hand of Columbus arrested ; `` we shall never hear a tale the right end first , as long as he remaineth in the ship . '' 
Columbus had already bethought him of making this comparison ; and by the time Sancho ceased speaking , he and Luis were examining the instrument with eager curiosity . 
Columbus dismissed the man , and then he turned towards Luis , who had been a silent but attentive listener to what had passed . 
The admiral and Luis , by this time , had fallen into such habits of close communication , that they usually rose and slept at the same time . 
Though far too ignorant of the hazards he ran to feel uneasiness , and constitutionally , as well as morally , superior to idle alarms , the young man had got to feel a sort of sportsman 's excitement in the result ; and , by this time , had not Mercedes existed , he would have been as reluctant to return without seeing Cathay , as Columbus himself . 
They conversed together of their progress and their hopes , without ceasing , and Luis took so much interest in his situation as to begin to learn how to discriminate in matters that might be supposed to affect its duration and ends . 
On the night of the Saturday just mentioned , Columbus and his reputed secretary were alone on the poop , conversing , as usual , on the signs of the times , and of the events of the day . 
`` This might do , Luis , '' answered the admiral , smiling , `` had not fear so sharpened their wits , that their first question would be an inquiry why Providence should deprive us of the meansof knowing whither we are travelling , when it so much wisheth us to go in any particular direction . '' 
exclaimed Luis , as soon as the light had vanished , `` Señor Don Christopher , this voyage of ours doth not seem fated to pass away unheeded by the elements and other notable powers ! 
demanded Luis ; `` are we really to expect the Indies as a consequence of these marine plants , or is the expectation idle ? '' 
This is the fish , thou must know , Luis , that the ancients fancied could see better with the right eye than with the left , because it hath been noted that , in passing the Bosphorus , they ever take the right shore in proceeding towards the Euxine , and the left in returning -- '' `` By St. Francis ! 
there can be no wonder if creatures so one-sided in their vision , should have strayed thus far from home , '' interrupted the light-hearted Luis , laughing . 
Cathay is my aim , Don Luis , and I am a searcher for continents , not islands . '' 
It is now known that while Columbus was right in his expectations of not finding a continent so early , he was mistaken in supposing land to lie anywhere in that vicinity . 
Columbus and Luis were in a profound sleep , in their cots , taking their siestas , when the former was awakened by such a shake of the shoulder as seamen are wont to give , and are content to receive . 
It never required more than a minute to arouse the great navigator from his deepest slumbers to the fullest possession of his faculties , and he was awake in an instant . 
The admiral awoke Luis , and in five minutes both were at their customary station on the poop . 
Columbus had gained so high a reputation for skill in navigation , his judgment invariably proving right , even when opposed to those of all the pilots in the fleet , that the latter were not sorry to perceive he had no intention to take an instrument in hand , but seemed disposed to leave the issue to their own skill and practice . 
`` Don Luis de Bobadilla y Pedro de Muños , here , would then be my reliance , '' said the imperturbable Sancho ; `` for proof a man hath a right to , when wrongfully accused , and proof I will have . 
`` To tell thee the truth , good Martin Alonzo , '' answered Luis , with more of the indifference of manner that might have been expected from the grandee to the pilot , than the respect that would become the secretary to the second person of the expedition -- `` to tell thee truth , good Martin Alonzo , my heart is so set on the conversion of the Great Khan , that I wish not to turn either to the right or left , until that glorious achievement be sufficiently secure . 
`` These ups and downs among the knaves , '' said Luis , impatiently , `` were best quelled , Señor , by an application of the flat of the sword , or , at need , of its edge . '' 
`` The dangers our people dread may be less turbulent than those of a Moorish fray , Don Luis , but they are not the less terrible . 
`` Dost thou detect aught fluttering in the rigging , Luis ? '' 
`` Yonder is a streak of light , glimmering in the east , '' cried Luis , in a cheerful voice ; `` and now , Señor Almirante , we may unite in terming you the honoured of the earth ! '' 
`` The man is sore beset with dread , '' coolly observed Luis , as the pilots descended from the poop with a lingering step and a heavy heart . 
`` This is travelling faster than I had thought , Señor , '' answered Luis , carelessly ; `` but journey on ; one of your followers will not complain , though we circle earth itself . '' 
Sancho reasoned , as usual , among his fellows , resisting ignorance and folly , with impudence and dogmatism ; while Luis unconsciously produced an effect on the spirits of his associates by his cheerfulness and confidence . 
Columbus , himself , remained calm , dignified , and reserved , relying on the justice of his theories , and continuing resolute to attain his object . 
This distance , so formidable to men who began to count each hour and each league with uneasiness , was reckoned to all on board , but Luis , as only one hundred and thirty-eight miles . 
Friday , October 5th , commenced even more favourably , Columbus finding his ship gliding through the water -- there being no sea to cause her to reel and stagger -- at the rate of about eight miles the hour , which was almost as fast as she had ever been known to go , and which would have caused this day 's work to exceed the last , had not the wind failed in the night . 
`` Martin Alonzo beginneth to waver , '' Columbus observed to Luis . 
Luis was his companion , and both were up and on the deck with the first appearance of dawn . 
An annuity of ten thousand maravedis had been promised by the sovereigns to him who should first descry land , and every eye was on the gaze , whenever opportunity permitted , to gain the prize . 
`` There is a good feeling uppermost to-day , Señor Don Christopher , '' said Luis , as he stood at the admiral 's side , watching the advance of the light ; `` and if eyes can do it , we may hope for the discovery of land . 
`` We are now quite a thousand leagues from Ferro , by my private reckoning , friend Luis , '' said Columbus to his young companion , in one of their private conferences , which took place after nightfall , `` and it is really time to expect the continent of Asia . 
At this critical moment , too , the admiral and Luis were seen descending from the poop , with an intent to retire to their cabin , when a rush was made aft , by all on deck , and twenty voices were heard simultaneously crying -- `` Señor -- Don Christopher -- Your Excellency -- Señor Almirante ! '' 
Columbus stopped , and faced the people with a calmness and dignity that caused the heart of Niño to leap towards his mouth , and which materially checked the ardour of most of his followers . 
exclaimed Luis , unconsciously laying a hand where it had been his practice to carry a rapier . 
`` Get ye gone , or '' -- `` Be tranquil , friend Pedro , and leave this matter with me , '' interrupted the admiral , whose composure had scarce been deranged by the violent conduct of his subordinates . 
There was so much natural dignity in the manner of Columbus , and when he spoke in anger , his voice carried so much of rebuke with it , that it exceeded the daring of ordinary men to presume to answer when he commanded silence . 
`` This looketh serious , Señor , '' said Luis , as soon as he and the admiral were alone again in their little cabin , `` and , by St. Luke ! 
`` I am well assured of this , young noble , '' returned Columbus , affectionately squeezing the hand of Luis , `` else would ` st thou not be here . 
`` So certain do I feel of this , Luis , that I should have little apprehension of complying with the terms of these audacious men , but for the humiliation . 
Columbus and Luis now sought their rest . 
Never before had this hymn sounded so sweetly in the ears of Columbus , and Luis found his eyes suffusing with tears as he recalled the soft thrilling notes of Mercedes 's voice , in her holy breathings of praise at this hour . 
When the office ended , the admiral called the crew to the quarter-deck , and addressed them earnestly from his station on the poop . 
`` I rejoice , my friends , '' he said , `` that you have had the grace to chant the vesper hymn in so devout a spirit , at a moment when there is so much reason to be grateful to God for his goodness to us throughout this voyage . 
These encouraging words produced their full effect , the men scattering themselves in the ship , each taking the best position he could , to earn the coveted prizes . 
Columbus remained on the poop , while Luis , less interested , threw himself on a sail , and passed the time in musing on Mercedes , and in picturing to himself the joyful moment when he might meet her again , a triumphant and successful adventurer . 
At the distance of a mile was the little Niña , gliding on her course with a full sail ; while half a league still farther in advance was to be seen the shadowy outline of the Pinta , which preceded her consorts , as the swiftest sailer with a fresh breeze . 
Sancho had been round to every sheet and brace , in person , and never before had the admiral 's ship held as good way with her consorts as on that night , all three of the vessels appearing to have caught the eager spirit of those they contained , and to be anxious to outdo themselves . 
All this Luis witnessed , where he lay : at the next instant he heard himself called . 
`` Pero Gutierrez -- Pedro de Muños -- Luis -- whatever thou art termed , '' said Columbus , his fine masculine voice trembling with eagerness , -- `` come hither , son ; tell me if thine eyes accord with mine . 
Luis did as required , and presently the comptroller was also at the admiral 's side . 
`` Come hither , Luis , '' said Columbus , `` and feast thine eyes with a sight that doth not often meet the gaze of the best of Christians . '' 
`` These honest people are as inconstant in their apprehensions , as they are extreme in their rejoicings , '' said Columbus to Luis , when liberated a little from the throng ; `` yesterday they would have cast me into the sea , and to-day they are much disposed to forget God , himself , in his unworthy creature . 
Columbus smiled , and , accompanied by Luis , he drew nearer to the two men mentioned , who were a little apart from the rest of the group . 
demanded Luis , laughing . 
Columbus now turned away , the natives seeming disposed to approach the strangers , while Luis remained near the young sailor , who still continued to collect the plants of the tropics . 
Even Luis dwelt less intently in his thoughts on Mercedes , suffering her image , beautiful as it was , to be momentarily supplanted by the unusual spectacles that arose before his physical sight in such constant and unwearied succession . 
About the time when this mission was expected to return , Luis sallied forth with a party of armed men to meet it , Sancho making one of his escort . 
Fatigued with idleness , anxious to see more of the interior , and impelled by a constitutional love of adventure , Luis , who had struck up a hasty friendship with a young man called Mattinao , who attended the ambassador , asked permission to accompany him , taking his passage in the canoe . 
The importunity of Luis finally prevailed , however , and he departed with many injunctions to be discreet , being frequently admonished of the censure that would await the admiral in the event of anything serious occurring . 
In order , moreover , to divert the attention of his followers from a concession that the admiral felt to be a departure from his own rigid laws , Luis and his companions landed and entered the canoe at a point concealed from the vessels , in order that their absence might not be known . 
Notwithstandinghis native resolution , and an indifference to danger that amounted to recklessness , Luis did not find himself alone with the Haytians without , at least , a lively consciousness of the novelty of his situation . 
Still , nothing occurred to excite uneasiness , and he continued his imperfect communications with his new friends , occasionally throwing in a remark to Sancho in Spanish , who merely wanted encouragement to discourse by the hour . 
Instead of following the boat of the Santa Maria , on board which the ambassador had embarked , the canoe pushed on several leagues farther east , it being understood that Luis was not to present himself in the town of Guacanagari , until after the arrival of the ships , when he was to rejoin his comrades stealthily , or in a way not to attract attention . 
`` If I am , Don Luis , it is altogether on account of the family of Bobadilla , which would lose its head , did any mishap befall your excellency . 
Its banks were fringed with bushes ; and as they glided up it , Luis saw fifty sites where he thought he could be content to pass his life , provided , always , that it might possess the advantage of Mercedes 's presence . 
It is scarcely necessary to add , too , that in all these scenes he fancied his mistress attired in the velvets and laces that were then so much used by high-born dames , and that he saw her natural grace , embellished by the courtly ease and polished accessaries of one who lived daily , if not hourly , in the presence of her royal mistress . 
This Luis knew was a token that he was a cacique , one of those who were tributary to Guacanagari , and he arose to salute him at this evidence of his rank , an act that was imitated by all of the Haytians also . 
From this assumption of state , Luis rightly imagined that Mattinao had now entered within the limits of a territory that acknowledged his will . 
He often pronounced the word , Ozema , and Luis inferred from the manner in which he used it , that it was the name of a favourite wife , it having been already ascertained by the Spaniards , or at least it was thought to be ascertained , that the caciques indulged in polygamy , while they rigidly restricted their subjects to one wife . 
His mild subjects crowded around Luis and Sancho , with some such wonder as a civilized man would gaze at one of the prophets , were he to return to earth in the flesh . 
Owing to this circumstance , the two Spaniards were soon separated , Sancho being led away by the oi polloito a sort of square in the centre of the village , leaving Don Luis in the habitation of the Cacique . 
A rapid conversation followed , a messenger was dispatched , Luis knew not whither , and then the chiefs took their departure , leaving the young Castilian alone with the Cacique . 
Laying aside his golden band , and placing a cotton robe about his person , which had hitherto been nearly naked , Mattinao made a sign for his companion to follow him , and left the building . 
Throwing the buckler over his shoulder , and adjusting the belt of his sword in a way that the weapon should not incommode him in walking , Luis obeyed with as much confidence as he would have followed a friend along the streets of Seville . 
Luis saw at a glance that this sweet retreat was devoted to the uses of the gentler sex , and he doubted not that it formed a species of seraglio , set apart for the wives of the young cacique . 
He was led into one of the principal dwellings , where the simple but grateful refreshments used by the natives , were again offered to him . 
A few of the commoner words of the Indians had been caught by the Spaniards , and perhaps Luis was one of the most ready in their use ; still , it is highly probable , he was oftener wrong than right , even when he felt the most confident of his success . 
Mattinao had dispatched a messenger to an adjacent dwelling when he entered that in which Luis was now entertained , and when sufficient time had been given for the last to refresh himself , the cacique arose , and by a courteous gesture , such as might have become a master of ceremonies in the court of Isabella , he again invited the young grandee to follow . 
It had but a single occupant , whose character Luis fancied to be announced in the use of the single word `` Ozema , '' that the cacique uttered in a low affectionate tone , as they entered . 
Luis bowed to this Indian beauty , as profoundly as he could have made his reverence to a high-born damsel of Spain ; then , recovering himself , he fastened one long steady look of admiration on the face of the curious but half-frightened young creature who stood before him , and exclaimed , in such tones as only indicate rapture , admiration and astonishment mingled -- `` Mercedes ! '' 
The young cacique repeated this name in the best manner he could , evidently mistaking it for a Spanish term to express admiration , or satisfaction ; while the trembling young thing , who was the subject of all this wonder , shrunk back a step , blushed , laughed , and muttered in her soft low musical voice , `` Mercedes , '' as the innocent take up and renew any source of their harmless pleasures . 
But it may be necessary to explain why , at a moment so peculiar , the thoughts and tongue of Luis had so suddenly resorted to his mistress . 
Although this extraordinary creature was much the loveliest specimen of young womanhood that Luis had seen among the wild beauties of the islands , it was not so much her graceful and well-rounded form , or even the charms of face and expression , that surprised him , as a decided and accidental resemblance to the being he had left in Spain , and who had so long been the idol of his heart . 
This resemblance alone had caused him to utter the name of his mistress , in the manner related . 
Luis had not come on his little expedition unprovided with presents . 
Anticipating an interview with the wife of the cacique , he had brought up from the village below , several articles that he supposed might suit her untutored fancy . 
But the moment he beheld the vision that actually stood before him , they all seemed unworthy of such a being . 
In one of his onsets against the Moors , he had brought off a turban of rich but light cloth , and he had kept it as a trophy , occasionally wearing it , in his visits to the shore , out of pure caprice , and as a sort of ornament that might well impose on the simple-minded natives . 
This turban was on his head at the moment he entered the apartment of Ozema , and , overcome with the delight of finding so unexpected a resemblance , and , possibly , excited by so unlooked-for an exhibition of feminine loveliness , he gallantly unrolled it , threw out the folds of rich cloth , and cast it over the shoulders of the beautiful Ozema as a mantle . 
Luis fancied it as graceful as it was naïveand charming . 
He endeavoured to imagine the manner in which the Lady of Valverde might receive an offering of precious stones from the gracious hands of Doña Isabella , and he even thought it very possible that the artless grace of Ozema was not far behind what he knew would be the meek self-respect , mingled with grateful pleasure , that Mercedes could not fail to exhibit . 
Luis accepted the gift with suitable eagerness , nor did he refrain from using the Castilian gallantry of kissing the pretty hand from which he took the bauble . 
Here Don Luis was introduced to other young females , and to two or three children , the former of whom , he soon discovered , were the wives of Mattinao , and the latter his offspring . 
By dint of gestures , a few words , and such other means of explanation as were resorted to between the Spaniards and the natives , he now succeeded in ascertaining the real affinity which existed between the cacique and Ozema . 
The remainder of that , and the whole of the three following days , were passed by Luis with his friend , the cacique , in this , the favourite and sacred residence of the latter . 
Hours at a time , did Luis lie stretched on fragrant mats near this artless and lovely creature , studying the wayward expression of her features , in the fond hope of seeing stronger and stronger resemblances to Mercedes , and sometimes losing himself in that which was peculiarly her own . 
In the course of the time passed in these dwellings , efforts were made by the count to obtain some useful information of the island ; and whether it was owing to her superior rank , or to a native superiority of mind , or to a charm of manner , he soon fancied that the cacique 's beautiful sister succeeded better in making him understand her meaning , than either of the wives of Mattinao , or the cacique himself . 
To Ozema , then , Luis put most of his questions ; and ere the day had passed , this quick-witted and attentive girl had made greater progress in opening an intelligible understanding between the adventurers and her countrymen , than had been accomplished by the communications of the two previous months . 
Luis de Bobadilla was just as good a Catholic as a rigid education , a wandering life , and the habits of the camp , would be apt to make one of his rank , years , and temperament . 
His close association with Columbus , too , had contributed to strengthen our hero 's tendency to believe in the constant supervision of Providence ; and he now felt a strong inclination to fancy that this extraordinary facility of Ozema 's in acquiring languages , was one of its semi-miraculous provisions , made with a view to further the introduction of the religion of the cross among her people . 
Her answers were less intelligible , but Luis thought they never could be sufficiently full ; flattering himself , the whole time , that he was only labouring to comply with the wishes of Columbus . 
The day after his arrival , our hero was treated to an exhibition of some of the Indian games . 
Luis , too , was required to show his powers , and being exceedingly athletic and active , he easily bore away the palm from his friend Mattinao . 
The young cacique manifested neither jealousy nor disappointment at this result , while his sister laughed and clapped her hands with delight , when he was outdone , even at his own sports , by the greater strength or greater efforts of his guest . 
More than once , the wives of Mattinao seemed to utter gentle reproaches at this exuberance of feeling , but Ozema answered with smiling taunts , and Luis thought her , at such moments , more beautiful than even imagination could draw , and perhaps with justice ; for her cheeks were flushed , her eyes became as brilliant as ornaments of jet , and the teeth that were visible between lips like cherries , resembled rows of ivory . 
We have said that the eyes of Ozema were black , differing in this particular , from the deep-blue melancholy orbs of the enthusiastic Mercedes ; but still they were alike , so often uttering the same feelings , more especially touching matters in which Luis was concerned . 
Mercedes was too deeply enshrined in his heart -- and Luis , with all his faults , was as warm-hearted and true-hearted a cavalier as breathed -- to be so easily dispossessed . 
But he was young , distant from her he had so long adored , and was , withal , not altogether insensible to admiration so artlessly and winningly betrayed by the Indian girl . 
In situations of so much novelty , time flies swiftly , and Luis himself was astonished when , on looking back , he remembered that he had now been several days with Mattinao , most of which period had actually been passed in what might not inaptly be termed the seraglio of the cacique . 
Sancho had his notions of commerce as well as the modern philosophers , and , as he and Luis occasionally met during their sojourn with Mattinao , he revealed a few of his opinions on this interesting subject , in one of their interviews . 
`` I perceive thou hast not forgotten thy passion for doblas , friend Sancho , '' said Luis , laughing , as the old seaman exhibited the store of dust and golden plates he had collected ; `` there is sufficient of the metal in thy sack to coin a score of them , each having the royal countenances of our lord the King , and our lady the Queen ! '' 
`` If it be honest to profit by the ignorance of another , '' answered Luis , who had a nobleman 's contempt for commerce , `` then it is just to deceive the child and the idiot . '' 
Luis had left both sword and buckler , half an hour earlier , at the feet of Ozema , who had been enacting a mimic hero , with his weapons , for their mutual diversion ; while Sancho had found the arquebuse much too heavy to be carried about for a plaything . 
Luis had no sooner given these orders , than he and Sancho separated , the latter running towards the town , which by this time was a scene of wild tumult , while our hero , slowly and sullenly , retired towards the private dwellings of the cacique , occasionally looking back , as if he longed to plunge into the thickest of the fray . 
As Luis entered the apartment , the wives of Mattinao were pressing around the princess ; and he soon gathered from their words and entreaties , that they urged her to fly , lest she should fall into the hands of the Carib chief . 
This conjecture in no manner lessened Luis 's ardour in the defence . 
By this singular and unexpected desertion , Luis found himself , for the first time since they had met , alone with Ozema . 
Luis accordingly made a sign for the girl to follow him , first rolling the turban into a bundle and placing it on her arm , that it might serve her , at need , as a species of shield against the hostile arrows . 
While he was thus employed , Ozema 's head fell upon his breast , and the excited girl burst into tears . 
This display of weakness , however , lasted but a moment , when she aroused herself , smiled through her tears , pressed the arm of Luis convulsively and became the Indian heroine again . 
Luis soon perceived that his retreat from the house had not been made a moment too soon . 
The young Indian princess had caught the Spanish monosyllable of dissent , and Luis understood this exclamation to express her strong disinclination to become a wife of the Carib chief . 
His resolution to protect her , or to die , was in no manner lessened by this involuntary betrayal of her feelings , which he could not but think might have some connexion with himself ; for , while our hero was both honourable and generous , he was human , and , consequently , well disposed to take a favourable view of his own powers of pleasing . 
It was only in connexion with Mercedes , that Luis de Bobadilla was humble . 
Ozema was stationed behind one of the fragments of the fallen rocks , her person only half concealed , however , concern for Luis , and curiosity as related to her enemies , equally inducing her to expose her head and beautiful bust . 
Luis was scarcely in possession of this post , ere a dozen Indians were drawn up in a line at the distance of fifty yards in his front . 
Being without other defensive armour than his buckler , the young man would have thought his situation sufficiently critical , did he not know that the archery of the natives was anything but formidable . 
Their arrows would kill , certainly , when shot at short distances , and against the naked skin , but it might be questioned if they would penetrate the stout velvet in which Luis was encased , and fifty yards was not near enough to excite undue alarm . 
Another followed , and Luis turned it aside with his sword , disdaining to raise his shield against such a trifle . 
This cool manner of receiving their assaults caused the Indians to raise a shout , whether in admiration or rage , Luis could not tell . 
A second attempt of the same nature was about to be made , when the alarmed girl rushed from her place of concealment , and , like the Pocahontas of our own history , threw herself before Luis , with her arms meekly placed on her bosom . 
In vain Luis endeavoured to persuade the devoted girl to withdraw . 
She thought his life in danger , and no language , had he been able to exert his eloquence on the occasion , could have induced her to leave him exposed to such a danger . 
As the Indians were endeavouring to obtain chances at the person of Luis without killing the princess , he saw there remained no alternative but a retreat behind the fragments of rock . 
Just as he obtained this temporary security , a fierce-looking warrior joined the assailants , who immediately commenced a vociferous explanation of the actual state of the attack . 
demanded Luis , of Ozema , pointing towards the new-comer . 
Luis understood the first part of this answer to mean that the stranger was not the Carib chief ; and the last to signify Ozema 's strong and settled aversion to becoming his wife . 
Even the ferocious Carib fell back in dismay , and Luis felt hopes of victory . 
This was the first occasion on which the Spaniards had come to blows with the mild inhabitants of the islands they had discovered , though it is usual with the historians to refer to an incident of still later occurrence , as the commencement of strife , the severe privacy which has ever been thrown over the connexion of Don Luis with the expedition , having completely baffled their slight and superficial researches . 
After a few minutes , he directed his followers to fall back to a greater distance , and , laying aside his club , he advanced fearlessly towards Luis , making signs of amity . 
-- Luis -- Luis ! '' 
This time , a tempest of arrows preceded the rush , and Luis was fain to seek his former cover behind the rocks . 
Indeed , this was the only manner in which he could save the life of Ozema ; the devoted girl resolutely persevering in standing before his body , in the hope it would shield him from his enemies . 
Luis met him , firm as the rock behind him . 
Not a being of Mattinao 's tribe was to be seen in any direction ; and Luis made no doubt they had all fled . 
In passing through the town , it was seen that not a house had been plundered ; and the circumstance was commented on by the Spaniards , Luis pointing it out to his companion . 
As the wind blew constantly from the eastward , Sancho soon rigged an apology for a sail , and , an hour before the sun set , the party landed on a point that concealed them from the bay ; Luis being mindful of the admiral 's injunction , to conceal his excursion , lest others might claim a similar favour . 
The manner in which the ship was lost has been often told , and Luis learned that , the Niña being too small to carry all away , a colony was to be left in the fortress , while the remainder of the adventurers hastened back to Spain . 
The week that succeeded the return of Luis , was one of active exertion . 
During this interval , Luis had seen Ozema but once , and then he had found her sorrowing , mute , and resembling a withered flower , that retained its beauty even while it drooped . 
On the evening of the third , however , while lingering near the new-finished fortress , he was summoned by Sancho to another interview . 
Ozema was no longer sorrowful , and borne down with grief : the smile and the laugh came easily from her young and buoyant spirits , and Luis thought he had never seen her so winning and lovely . 
The secret of this sudden change was not long hid from Luis . 
Once or twice Luis 's eyes dropped under the searching glance of his superior ; but , on the whole , he acquitted himself of the task he had undertaken , with credit . 
`` The sister of a cacique , thou say ` st , Don Luis , '' returned the admiral , thoughtfully . 
`` The rarer the specimens that we take , the better , Luis . 
Luis paid great attention to the accommodations , in which both comfort and privacy were duly respected . 
`` Thou hast heard to-day , Luis , '' said the admiral smiling , in one of his renewed conferences with our hero , `` the contentions of Vicente Yañez , with his brother , Martin Alonzo , and the other pilots , touching our distance from Spain . 
`` Thou sayest true , Don Luis . 
Luis understood the admiral , and the size of the vessels rendering the communication of secrets hazardous , the conversation changed . 
All this was extremely grateful to Columbus , who , now he had effected the great purpose for which he might have been said to live , felt some such concern lest the important secret should be lost to the rest of mankind , as one who carries a precious object through scenes of danger experiences for the safety of his charge . 
A change , however , was at hand , and at the very moment when the great navigator began to hope the best , he was fated to experience the severest of all his trials . 
Luis was at his side , and both watched the aspect of the heavens and the ocean in grave silence . 
`` This is a brooding night-fall , Don Luis , '' Columbus remarked , just as the last rays that the sun cast upwards on the stormy-looking clouds disappeared from their ragged outlines -- `` I have rarely seen another as menacing . '' 
`` True , as to material substance ; but it beareth a cargo of knowledge , Luis , that it would be grievous to see wasted on these vacant waters . 
Columbus , himself , declared he had never known a barque to buffet a more furious tempest , nor did he affect to conceal from Luis the extent of his apprehensions . 
Even Luis , albeit little apt to take alarm , felt that their situation was critical , and his constitutional buoyancy of spirits had settled down in a thoughtful gravity , that was unusual with him . 
Luis did not blanch at these portentous words , but he looked earnest and grave . 
Opening the draw , he took out the parchment and laid it upon the table . 
As Columbus wrote a sentence , he repeated it to Luis , who copied it word for word , on his own piece of parchment . 
The substance of this record was the fact of the discoveries made , the latitude and longitude of Española , with the relative positions of the other islands , and a brief account of what he had seen . 
As soon as each had completed his account , the admiral carefully enveloped his missive in a covering of waxed cloth , Luis imitating him in all things . 
That of Luis was placed upon the poop , in the expectation that it would float , should the caravel sink . 
put in Luis , who had become a sworn friend of the seaman , since the rescue of the rocks . 
`` It is remarkable , Don Christopher , '' said Luis , when the two were again alone on the poop , `` it is remarkable that these lots should fall so often on you . 
`` Say , rather , Luis , that it cometh of my exceeding sins . 
`` Greater hazard besets us now , Don Luis , than hath befallen us since we left Palos . 
`` This is the most terrible night of all , son Luis , '' said Columbus , about an hour after the darkness had drawn around them . 
But I feelcalm , Luis , as well as seemcalm . 
`` Luis ! '' 
said a soft voice , at our hero 's elbow , as the latter stood clinging to the side of the door of the cabin appropriated to the females -- `` Luis -- Hayti better -- Mattinao better -- much bad , Luis ! '' 
During the mild weather of the first part of the passage , the intercourse between Luis and the natives on board , had been constant and cheerful . 
Nor were the means of communication confined altogether to the advance of Ozema , since Luis , in his endeavours to instruct her , had acquired nearly as many words of her native tongue , as he had taught her of his own . 
`` Caonabo there , Luis . '' 
`` Luis protect Ozema . 
`` What Luis do against Caonabo ? 
-- kill him -- cut Indians -- make him run away ! '' 
Love Luis 's God already . '' 
Show Ozema cross , now -- Luis 's cross -- cross Luis love . '' 
`` That Luis 's God ? '' 
Cross , Mercedes '' -- for , by one of those mistakes that are not unfrequent in the commencement of all communications between those who speak different tongues , the young Indian had caught the notion , from many of Luis 's involuntary exclamations , that `` Mercedes '' meant all that was excellent . 
The change in the temperature , as well as a sense of propriety , had induced the admiral to cause ample robes of cotton to be furnished all the females , and Ozema 's beautiful form was now closely enveloped in one , and beneath its folds she had hidden the jewel , which she fondly hugged to her heart , as a gift of Luis . 
He had merely meant to lend , in a moment of extreme peril , that which the superstitious feeling of the age seriously induced him to fancy might prove a substantial safeguard . 
`` Cross , Mercedes -- Luis , Mercedes . 
Luis and Ozema keep cross for ever . '' 
`` Dost thou find our female friends terrified by this appalling scene , son Luis ? '' 
exclaimed Luis , as they got within musket-shot of the desired point , -- `` another ten minutes , of as favourable a slant , and we do it ! '' 
She moves , Luis ! 
`` That had we Señora , and a Señor Gutierrez , and a certain Don Somebody Else , and they all three did not occupy more room than one common man . 
`` Señora , my departure took Don Luis by surprise , and he had no time to write . 
She , in particular , is Don Luis 's friend and favourite . '' 
Don Luis and your humble servant paid that court a visit -- '' `` Thy tale is most improbable , fellow -- art thou one whom Don Luis would be likely to select as a companion on such an occasion ? '' 
When Don Luis went to pay a visit to Don Mattinao , the cacique , which word meaneth ` your Highness , ' in the eastern tongue , Sancho must go with him , and Sancho went . 
This illustrious Señora , to whom I can forgive any thing , as the aunt of the best friend I have on earth -- any thing spokenI mean -- will remember that the Haytians known nothing of arquebuses , by means of which we defeated Caonabo , and also , that many is the column of Moors that Don Luis hath broken singly , and by means of his own good lance . '' 
The old mariner had grumbled a little to himself , concerning the spirit of Don Luis 's aunt , counted anew his gold , and was about to take possession of his pallet , when the same page re-appeared to summon him to another interview . 
It is only his handsome sister , who hath followed Don Christopher and Don Luis to Palos . '' 
But Don Luis is a most encouraging master , and no doubt made great head-way , during the time he was living in her palace , as it might be alone with her , before that incarnate devil Don Caonabo came down with his followers to seize the lady . '' 
interrupted Mercedes , almost gasping for breath , yet so far subduing her feelings as to prevent the old seaman from detecting them ; `` hath Don Luis succeeded in inducing her to accept of a cross ? '' 
`` That hath he , Señorita -- one of precious stones , that he once wore at his own neck . '' 
Don Christopher and Don Luis are honourable enough to attend on any princess ; and for the rest , the Doña Ozema must wait until our gracious queen can command her a retinue befitting her birth . 
`` And Don Luis de Bobadilla was ever with the admiral ? '' 
she said , `` ever ready to support him , and foremost in all hazards ? '' 
Had you but seen him dealing out his blows upon Caonabo 's followers , and the manner in which he kept them all at bay , with the Doña Ozema near him , behind the rocks , it would have drawn tears of admiration from your own lovely eyes . '' 
`` The Doña Ozema near him -- behind rocks -- and assailants held at bay ! '' 
-- the life of Luis -- of Don Luis de Bobadilla -- an Indian princess ! '' 
Time and again , since that day , hath the young count told me , that the arrows came in such clouds , that his honour might have been tarnished by a retreat , or his life been lost , but for the timely resolution of the Doña Ozema . 
A few days previously to the arrival of the admiral at court , Don Luis de Bobadilla suddenly appeared in Barcelona . 
On ordinary occasions , the movements of one of the rank and peculiarities of the young grandee would have afforded a topic for the courtiers , that would not soon have been exhausted , but the all-engrossing theme of the great voyage afforded him a screen . 
His presence , however , could not escape notice ; and it was whispered , with the usual smiles and shrugs , that he had entered the port in a caravel , coming from the Levant ; and it was one of the received pleasantries of the hour to say , in an under tone , that the young Conde de Llera had also made the easternvoyage . 
The day that Columbus was received in state , he was present in the hall , attired in the richest vestments , and no noble of Spain did more credit to his lineage , or his condition , than Don Luis , by his mien and carriage . 
No one , that day , gazed at Luis with more delight than Sancho , who lingered at Barcelona , to share in the honours of his chief , and who , in virtue of his services , was permitted to take his place among the courtiers themselves . 
This was too grave a question to be lightly answered , and while Sancho was cogitating the matter , the door opened and Luis de Bobadilla entered the room , in a blaze of manly grace and rich attire . 
A dozen voices uttered his name , and Peter Martyr rose to receive him , with a manner in which kindness of feeling was blended with reproof . 
Master Sancho Mundo , this is Don Luis de Bobadilla , Conde de Llera , a grandee of high lineage , and one that is not unknown to the seas , having often traversed them in his own person . '' 
`` It is quite unnecessary to tell me that , Señor Pedro , '' answered Sancho , returning Luis ' gay and graceful salutation , with profound but awkward respect , `` since I see it at a glance . 
I am honoured in your acquaintance , Don Luis , and shall just say that the noble admiral will bring navigation more in fashion than it hath been of late years . 
`` That I most cheerfully promise , worthy master , '' said Luis laughing , and taking a seat , `` even though it lead me to the Ship-Yard Gate . 
`` Since you manifest so much curiosity , Señores , on the subject of Colon , now admiral of the Ocean Sea , by their Highnesses ' honourable appointment , I will , in a measure , relieve your minds on the subject , by recounting what I know , '' said Luis , speaking calmly , but with dignity . 
The whole company giving an eager assent , Luis now commenced a general narrative of the voyage , detailing all the leading circumstances of interest , and giving the reasons that were most in favour at the time , concerning the different phenomena that had perplexed the adventurers . 
He spoke more than an hour ; proceeding consecutively from island to island , and dilating on their productions , imaginary and real . 
Much that he related , proceeded from the misconceptions of the admiral , and misinterpretations of the signs and language of the Indians , as a matter of course ; but it was all told clearly , in elegant if not in eloquent language , and with a singular air of truth . 
Sancho 's influence was much impaired by the effects of Luis 's narrative , which Peter Martyr pronounced to be one that would have done credit to a scholar who had accompanied the expedition . 
As Luis , moreover , was seen to be much in the company of Don Christopher , the world was very willing to give the young man credit for qualities that , by some unexplained circumstance , had hitherto escaped its notice . 
In this manner did Luis de Bobadilla reap some advantages , of a public character , from his resolution and enterprise , although vastly less than would have attended an open admission of all that occurred . 
How far , and in what manner , these qualities availed him in his suit with Mercedes , will appear in our subsequent pages . 
`` Señora , Luis is here , but whether prudent or modest , I leave for others , who may be less partial , to say . '' 
`` To me such seemeth to be his deportment , and a young mind might be pardoned some exultation at such a result . 
But I have come to speak of Don Luis and thy ward . 
Well , then , as thy sovereign and parent , I will substitute command for consent , and tell thee it is my wish and desire that thou becomest , as speedily as shall comport with propriety and thy high station , the wedded wife of Don Luis de Bobadilla , Conde de Llera . '' 
`` Luis , thoughtless and unprincipled boy as he is , hath induced a youthful Indian princess to abandon home and friends , under the pretence of swelling the triumph of the admiral , but really , in obedience to a wandering fancy , and in submission to those evil caprices , that make men what , in sooth , they are , and which so often render unhappy women their dupes and their victims . '' 
`` Because , your Highness , Luis hath brought her to the palace , and she is , at this moment , in these very apartments . 
Señora -- my guardian , '' murmured Mercedes , `` Luis is not so veryculpable . 
Ozema 's beauty , and my own want of the means to keep him true , are alone to blame . '' 
`` The admiral hath deemed her the chosen subject of Luis 's care , and hath left her to be presented to your Highness by my recreant nephew . 
She understood perfectly that she was to meet that beloved sovereign , of whom Luis and Mercedes had so often spoken with reverence ; and , accustomed herself , to look up to caciques greater than her brother , there was no difficulty in making her understand that the person she was now about to receive was the first of her sex in Spain . 
The only misconception which existed , arose from the circumstance that Ozema believed Isabella to be the queen of all the Christian world , instead of being the queen of a particular country ; for , in her imagination , both Luis and Mercedes were persons of royal station . 
Still the gift of Luis was thrown over one shoulder , as the highest-prized part of her wardrobe , and the cross of Mercedes rested on her bosom , the most precious of all her ornaments . 
exclaimed Ozema , her looks brightening with intelligence , for she had long known how to pronounce the well-earned title of Columbus ; `` Almirante , Mercedes ; -- Isabella , Mercedes -- Luis , Mercedes , Señora Reyña . '' 
Your Highness must observe that she even united Luis and Mercedes , a union that we once fondly hoped might happen , but which now would seem to be impossible ; and which she herself must be the last really to wish . '' 
That her heart is all Luis 's , we discovered in the first few hours of our intercourse ; and it is too pure , unsought , to be won . 
`` Couldone see so much of Don Luis , Señora , '' added Mercedes , `` under circumstances to try his martial virtues , and so long daily be in communion with his excellent heart , and not come to view him as far above all others ? '' 
-- slowly repeated the queen , `` and yet so regardless of the wrong he doeth ! 
He is neither knight nor cavalier worthy of the sex , if what thou thinkest be true , child . '' 
`` Nay , Señora , '' earnestly resumed the girl , whose diffidence was yielding to the wish to vindicate our hero , `` the princess hath told us of the manner in which he rescued her from her greatest enemy and persecutor , Caonabo , a headstrong and tyrannical sovereign of her island , and of his generous self-devotion in her behalf . '' 
That Ozema 's whole heart was Luis 's , Isabella could not doubt . 
Unaccustomed to conceal her preferences , the Indian girl was too unpractised to succeed in such a design , had she even felt the desire to attempt it ; but , in addition to her native ingenuousness , Ozema believed that duty required her to have no concealments from the sovereign of Luis , and she laid bare her whole soul in the simplest and least disguised manner . 
The Conde de Llera was on a visit to thy brother at the time -- '' `` Luis -- Luis '' -- the girl impatiently interrupted in her sweet soft voice -- `` Luis -- no Conde -- Luis . '' 
`` True , princess , but the Conde de Llera and Luis de Bobadilla are one and the same person . 
Luis , then , if thou wilt , was present in thy palace , and he beat back the presumptuous cacique , who , not satisfied with fulfilling the law of God by the possession of one wife , impiously sought , in thy person , a second , or a third , and brought thee off in triumph . 
Thy brother , next , requested thee to take shelter , for a time , in Spain , and Don Luis , becoming thy guardian and protector , hath brought thee hither to the care of his aunt ? '' 
Hast thou any such love for Don Luis as would induce thee to forget thine own country , and to adopt his in its stead ? '' 
`` Ozema do n't know what ` adopt his , ' means , '' observed the puzzled girl . 
`` I wish to inquire if thou would ` st consent to become the wife of Don Luis de Bobadilla ? '' 
`` Sì , Señora -- Ozema , Luis ' wife . '' 
`` Thou meanest , princess , that Ozema expecteth shortly to wed the Count -- shortly to become his wife ? '' 
Luis marry Ozema , already . '' 
Among the guests , was Luis de Bobadilla . 
The friendship of Columbus was more than sufficient to erase the slightly unfavourable impressions that had been produced by Luis 's early levities , and men quietly submitted to the influence of the great man 's example , without stopping to question the motive , or the end . 
The consciousness of having done that which few of his station and hopes would ever dream of attempting , gave to the proud mien and handsome countenance of Luis , a seriousness and elevation that had not always been seated there , and helped to sustain him in the good opinion that he had otherwise so cheaply purchased . 
The manner in which he had related to Peter Martyr and his companions the events of the expedition was also remembered , and , without understanding exactly why , the world was beginning to associate him , in some mysterious manner , with the great western voyage . 
At this precise instant a royal page spoke to the admiral , and then passed on to the seat of Don Luis de Bobadilla . 
The usual reply was made ; and , bowed to the door by his host and all present , Columbus quitted the room . 
`` Whither goest thou , in this hurry , Don Luis ? '' 
`` My mind and my time have been so much occupied , of late , with public cares , Luis , that I have not had an occasion to question you of this . 
`` Then is it like , Luis , that we are indeed summoned on this very affair ; else , why should thou and I be brought together in a manner so unusual and so sudden . '' 
The first glances of their eyes told Columbus and Luis that all was not right . 
As for Doña Beatriz , sorrow and indignation struggled in her expressive face , and Luis saw , with concern , that her look was averted from him in a way she always adopted when he had seriously incurred her displeasure . 
Ozema alone seemed perfectly natural : still , her glances were quick and anxious , though a gleam of joy danced in her eyes , and even a slight exclamation of delight escaped her , as she beheld Luis , whom she had seen but once since her arrival in Barcelona , already near a month . 
`` Señora , I do ; in part through my own observation , and in part from the statements of Don Luis de Bobadilla . 
`` These can better come from Don Luis than from me , Señora ; he being most familiar with the events . '' 
Don Luis visited the cacique Mattinao , and was present at an inroad of Caonabo , a celebrated Carib chief , who would fain have made a wife of her who now stands in this illustrious presence . 
`` It was the wish of Don Luis it should be otherwise , and I consented that he and his charge should sail privately from Palos , with the expectation of meeting me in Barcelona . 
exclaimed Luis , unable to restrain his feelings longer . 
cried Luis . 
`` Señora , I am no angel , myself , however willing to admit Doña Mercedes to be one ; neither am I a saint of perfect purity , perhaps -- in a word , I am Luis de Bobadilla -- but as far from deserving these reproaches , as from deserving the crown of martyrdom . 
`` No , Luis , '' answered the generous girl , with a warmth and feeling that broke down the barriers of all conventional restraint -- `` I do not think thee base as this -- I do not think thee base at all ; merely unable to restrain thy wandering inclinations . 
cried the count , who had scarcely breathed while his mistress was speaking . 
Mercedes alone had noted the workings of her countenance , as Isabella reproved , or Luis made his protestations , and they were such as completely denoted the interest she felt in our hero . 
`` Speak -- art thou wedded to Luis de Bobadilla , or not ? '' 
`` Luis Ozema 's husband . '' 
How and when did Luis wed thee , Ozema ? '' 
`` Luis wed Ozema with religion -- with Spaniard 's religion . 
Ozema wed Luis with love and duty -- with Hayti manner . '' 
`` Señora , it would ill become a knight to put himself in array against a lady , and she , too , of the character and habits of this stranger , '' answered Luis , proudly ; colouring as he spoke , with the consciousness that Ozema was utterly unable to conceal her predilection in his favour . 
Princess , thou hast said that Don Luis hath wedded thee , and that thou considerest thyself his wife . 
When and where didst thou meet him before a priest ? '' 
`` Luis wed Ozema with Christian 's cross , '' she said , pressing to her heart the holy emblem that the young man had given to her in a moment of great peril , and in a manner the reader already knows . 
`` Luis think he about to die -- Ozema think she about to die -- both wish to die man and wife , and Luis wed with the cross , like good Spanish Christian . 
Ozema wed Luis in her heart , like Hayti lady , in her own country . '' 
`` Don Luis hath not been guilty of this deception . 
`` Don Luis , dost thou confirm this statement , and also assert that thy gift was made solely with this object ? '' 
Luis is no hypocrite , and I rejoice -- oh ! 
-- at finding him able to give this fair vindication of his conduct . 
From the first moment they met , with the instinctive quickness of a woman , she perceived that she was admired , and , as she gave way to the excess of her own feelings , it was almost a necessary consequence of the communications she held with Luis , that she should think they were reciprocated . 
The very want of language in words , by compelling a substitution of one in looks and acts , contributed to the mistake ; and , it will be remembered , that , if Luis 's constancy did not actually waver , it had been sorely tried . 
Even the rigid decorum that Luis invariably observed , and the severe personal respect which he maintained towards his charge , had their effect on her feelings ; for , wild and unsophisticated as had been her training , the deep and unerring instinct of the feeble , told her the nature of the power she was wielding over the strong . 
It is true , Luis received a kind and encouraging note from his aunt , the succeeding day , and a page of Mercedes 's silently placed in his hand the cross that he had so long worn ; but , beyond this , he was left to his own conjectures . 
Luis did not , as he expected , meet his aunt on reaching the saloon , which he found empty . 
Questioning the page who had been his usher , he was desired to wait for the appearance of some one to receive him . 
`` I have asked for this interview , Don Luis , '' Mercedes commenced , as soon as she had given herself time to command her feelings , `` in order that there may no longer be any reasons for mistaking our feelings and wishes . 
I felt certain that , whenever Luis de Bobadilla had made up his mind to the commission of such a step , he would also have the manliness and courage to avow it . 
`` Hear me , Don Luis , '' she resumed , `` for my history will not be long . 
`` He related nought but the truth , Luis , and blame him not . 
I was prepared for some calamity by his report , and I bless God that it came on me by such slow degrees , and with the means of preparation to bear it . 
`` Nay , Luis , I have told thee , that I blame thee not . 
Do not interrupt me , Luis , '' she added , smiling sweetly , but with an effort that denoted how difficult it was to seem easy . 
Ozema hath been ill -- is still ill -- dangerously so as her Highness and my guardian believe -- even as the physicians say , -- but it is in thy power , Luis , to raise her , as it might be , from the grave . 
`` Calmly I may seemto say it , Luis , '' answered our heroine in a smothered tone , `` and deliberately I dosay it . 
Luis gazed earnestly at the enthusiastic girl , who in his eyes never appeared more lovely ; then rising he paced the room for three or four minutes like one who wished to keep down mental agony by physical action . 
When he had obtained a proper command of himself , he returned to his seat , and taking the unresisting hand of Mercedes , he replied to her extraordinary proposal . 
Luis , those ` passing and truant inclinations . ' 
`` Luis , I ought not to listen to these alluring words , which come from a goodness of heart that would spare me present pain , only to make my misery in the end the deeper . 
Luis ; when I gave thee that cross , I did wish to be understood as plighting my faith to thee for ever ! '' 
`` I sent it to thee , Luis , in a moment of reviving hope , and by the order of the queen . 
`` Luis -- Luis -- no one that knew it , ever doubted of thy heart ! '' 
`` I should have the wish , Luis , '' Mercedes continued , her eyes suffused with tears , `` but I might not have the power ! '' 
Ozema , moreover , was exposed in her own quarrel , whilst thou would ` st have exposed thyself in mine . '' 
`` Come with me , then , Luis , and behold Ozema , '' she at length continued . 
`` When thou see ` st her , in her present state , thou wilt better understand thine own intentions . 
And , Luis , '' -- her heightened colour , the effect of feeling , not of shame , rendered the girl surpassingly beautiful -- `` and , Luis , if thou should ` st find reason to change thy language after visiting the princess , however hard I may find it to be borne , thou wilt be certain of my forgiveness for all that hath passed , and of my prayers -- '' Sobs interrupted Mercedes , and she stopped an instant to wipe away her tears , rejecting Luis 's attempt to fold her in his arms , in order to console her , with a sensitive jealousy of the result ; a feeling , however , in which delicacy had more weight than resentment . 
Luis started on entering the room ; a little on perceiving that the queen and the admiral were present , and more at observing the inroads that disappointment had made on the appearance of Ozema . 
Luis behaved with manly propriety , for , though his conscience did not altogether escape a few twinges , at the recollection of the hours he had wasted in Ozema 's society , and at the manner in which he had momentarily submitted to the influence of her beauty and seductive simplicity , on the whole he stood self-acquitted of any thing that might fairly be urged as a fault , and most of all , of any thought of being unfaithful to his first love , or of any design to deceive . 
He took the hand of the young Indian respectfully , and he kissed it with an openness and warmth that denoted brotherly tenderness and regard , rather than passion , or the emotion of a lover . 
`` Your Highness hath ever the good of all your people at heart , '' said Luis , bowing low to conceal the tears that the condition of Ozema had drawn from his eyes . 
The lady Ozema hath just whispered me , that Luis and Mercedes must first be married in her presence , ere she will consent to be admitted within the pale of the church herself . '' 
In the meantime , the admiral conversed with the Marchioness , and Luis again approached our heroine . 
From this moment Mercedes dismissed every doubt , and she regarded Luis as had so long been her wont . 
As is usual in the presence of royalty , the conversation was carried on in a low tone ; and a quarter of an hour elapsed before a page announced that the oratory , or little chapel , was ready , opening a door that communicated directly with it , as he entered . 
Don Luis loveth thee , and hath never loved the princess , though it would not be out of character , did an impetuous young man , who hath been much exposed to the temptation , betray some transient and passing feeling towards one of so much nature and beauty . '' 
`` Luis hath admitted all , Señora : inconstant he hath never been , though he may have had his weaknesses . '' 
`` Señora , could I believe -- as lately I did , but now do not -- that Luis had such a preference for the princess , as might lead him , in the end , to the happiness of that mutual affection without which wedlock must be a curse instead of a blessing , I would be the last to object ; nay , I think I could even beg the boon of your Highness on my knees , for she who truly loveth can only seek the felicity of its object . 
Notwithstanding the devotedness of feeling with which our heroine loved Luis , it required a strong struggle with her habits and her sense of propriety to take this great step so suddenly , and with so little preparation . 
Motioning the archbishop to pause , he directed Luis to kneel . 
Mercedes felt , in the warm pressure with which Luis held her to his heart , that she now understood him ; and , for a blissful instant , Ozema was forgotten , in the fulness of her own happiness . 
`` Give cross -- Luis no marry with cross -- give Ozema cross . '' 
Luis marry Mercedes , first wife , because he love best -- then he marry Ozema , second wife -- lower wife -- because he love next best -- Ozema Christian , now , and no harm . 
`` No would be to Caonabo -- to Luis , yes . 
Fifty , hundred wife to dear Luis ! 
Startled by the manner of the prelate -- bewildered with the confusion of ideas that had grown up between the dogmas that had been crowded on her mind , of late , and those in which she had been early taught ; and physically paralyzed by the certainty that her last hope of a union with Luis was gone , the spirit of the Indian girl had deserted its beautiful tenement , leaving on the countenance of the corpse a lovely impression of the emotions that had prevailed during the last moments of its earthly residence . 
Luis , who had acquired much of the mariner 's skill , in his many voyages , directed the movements in person , though Sancho Mundo strutted around her decks with an air of authority , being the titular , if not the real patron of the craft . 
called out Luis . 
`` By the mass , Señor , '' returned the man , after taking time to make his count -- `` I see no less than sixteen -- nay , now I see another , a smaller just opening from behind a carrack of size -- seventeen , I make them in all . '' 
exclaimed Luis , turning towards Mercedes with delight -- `` once more shall I grasp the hand of the admiral , ere he quitteth us again for Cathay . 
`` That which gladdeneth thee , Luis , is sure to gladden me , '' returned the bride ; `` where there is but one interest , there ought to be but one wish . '' 
`` As yet , Luis , '' returned the young wife , smiling , `` the change promiseth to be the other way , since thou art much likelier to make me a rover , than I to make thee a fixture of the castle of Llera . '' 
demanded Luis , with the earnest quickness of one who was fearful he might unconsciously have done an act of indiscretion . 
`` No , dearest Luis ; so far from it , that I have come with satisfaction , apart from the pleasure I have had in obliging thee . 
The scenes through which they had passed together , had created in Columbus a species of paternal regard for Luis , in which Mercedes shared , through the influence of her noble conduct during the events that occurred at Barcelona . 
He met the happy pair , therefore , with dignified affection , and his reception partook of the feelings that the Count and Countess so fully reciprocated . 
Nothing could be more striking to one who had an opportunity of witnessing both , than the contrast between the means with which the Genoese sailed on this , and on his former voyage . 
Then he had set forth neglected , almost forgotten , in three vessels , ill-found , and worsemanned , whilst now , the ocean was whitened with his canvass , and he was surrounded by no inconsiderable portion of the chivalry of Spain . 
It is well for Don Luis that I did not make this venture before he won your favour ; as no damsel in Spain is expected , henceforth , to withstand the suit of one of the admiral 's followers . '' 
`` Lady , '' cried the gallant and reckless Alonzo de Ojeda , in his turn , `` Don Luis caused me to roll upon the earth , in the tourney , by a fair and manly effort , that hath left no rancour behind it ; but I shall outdo him now , since he is content to keep the shores of Spain in view , leaving to us the glory of seeking the Indies , and of reducing the Infidels to the sway of the two sovereigns ! '' 
`` Thou seest , Don Alonzo , that the illustrious admiral doth not altogether despise him as it is . 
Señor , '' cried Alonzo , laughing , `` if Don Luis ever met the admiral , as he met me in the lists , I should think one interview would answer for the rest of their days ! '' 
`` Don Luis , '' said the admiral , when they were seated near each other , and alone , `` thou knowest the regard I bear thee , and I feel certain that thou returnest it with an equal degree of esteem . 
`` This did I believe , Luis , even before it was so warmly and sincerely said , '' returned the admiral , squeezing the young man 's hand with fervour . 
`` He hath credit , nevertheless , with the king , which is of more importance , just now ! '' 
And now , Luis , one word touching thyself . 
The admiral now gave Luis his blessing , and taking leave of Mercedes in the same solemn manner , he hastened to his carrack . 
Mercedes reclined on a luxurious couch , gazing on the ocean , and Luis touched a guitar , seated on a stool at her feet . 
He had just played a favourite national air , which he had accompanied with his voice , and had laid aside the instrument , when he perceived that his young wife did not listen , with her usual fondness and admiration , to his music . 
`` Thou art thoughtful , Mercedes , '' he said , leaning forward to read the melancholy expression of those eyes that were so often glowing with enthusiasm . 
`` The sun is setting in the direction of the land of poor Ozema , Luis , '' Mercedes answered , a slight tremour pervading her voice ; `` the circumstance , in connexion with the sight of this boundless ocean , that so much resembleth eternity , hath led me to think of her end . 
Were I not Luis de Bobadilla , thy husband , dearest , I could think her the subject of envy , rather than of pity . '' 
Luis , thy flattery is too pleasing to bring reproof , but it is scarce seemly . 
`` Luis -- Luis -- speak not thus ! 
Perhaps Mercedes 's strongest arm , however , was her own implicit confidence in her husband 's excellence , Luis feeling a desire to be that which she so evidently thought him ; an opinion that his own conscience did not , in the fullest extent , corroborate . 
Mercedes assented , and in ten minutes she and her husband were walking on the beach , within ten yards of the very spot where Columbus and Luis had embarked the previous year . 
Luis and his beautiful wife had landed merely for exercise and relaxation , well knowing that the felucca possessed better accommodations than any hosteria of Palos ; and they fell into the current of the walkers . 
Luis now stepped forward and saluted the party , making curiosity to know the particulars of the first departure , his excuse . 
As he expected , Monica did not recognize him in his present rich attire , and she willingly related all she knew , and not a little more . 
`` I have heard much of one Pinzon , '' added Luis , `` who went forth as pilot of a caravel in the voyage ; what hath become of him ? '' 
Luis had been too much engrossed with his own feelings to have heard this news before , and he continued his walk , musing and sad . 
he exclaimed , when they had walked a considerable distance . 
`` Luis , I would enter , and return a thanksgiving at its altars for thy safety and return , and offer a prayer for the future success of Don Christopher . '' 
Early in the morning , the Ozema sailed for Malaga , again , Luis being fearful he might be recognized if he continued at Palos . 
