My Dear Wright , Thus does Hereward , the hero of your youth , reappear at last in a guise fitted for a modern drawing-room . 
To you is due whatever new renown he may win for himself in that new field . 
You first disinterred him , long ago , when scarcely a hand or foot of him was left standing out from beneath the dust of ages . 
You taught me , since then , how to furbish his rusty harness , botch his bursten saddle , and send him forth once more , upon the ghost of his gallant mare . 
Truly he should feel obliged to you ; and though we can not believe that the last infirmity of noble minds endures beyond the grave , or that any touch of his old vanity still stains the spirit of the mighty Wake ; yet we will please ourselves -- why should we not ? 
-- with the fancy that he is as grateful to you as I am this day . 
This fact explains the number of purely Anglo-Saxon names to be met with among Hereward 's companions . 
And the Highlander who may look from the promontory of Peterborough , the `` golden borough '' of old time ; or from that Witham on the Hill , which once was a farm of Hereward the Wake 's ; or from the tower of Crowland , while he and Torfrida sleep in the ruined nave beneath ; or from the heights of that Isle of Ely which was so long the camp of refuge for English freedom ; over the labyrinth of dykes and lodes , the squares of rich corn and verdure , -- will confess that the Lowlands , as well as the Highlands , can at times breed gallant men . 
Most gallant of them all , and their leader in the fatal struggle against William , was Hereward the Wake , Lord of Bourne , and ancestor of that family of Wake , the arms of whom appear on the cover of this book . 
These , of course , are much later than the time of Hereward . 
Not so , probably , the badge of the `` Wake Knot , '' in which -LRB- according to tradition -RRB- two monks ' girdles are worked into the form of the letter W. It , and the motto `` Vigila et ora , '' may well have been used by Hereward himself . 
Hereward 's pedigree is a matter of no importance , save to a few antiquaries , and possibly to his descendants , the ancient and honourable house of the Wakes . 
But as I have , in this story , followed facts as strictly as I could , altering none which I found , and inventing little more than was needed to give the story coherence , or to illustrate the manners of the time , I owe it to myself to give my reason for believing Hereward to have been the son of Earl Leofric and Godwin , a belief in which I am supported , as far as I know , only by Sir Henry Ellis -LRB- Introduction to Domesday -RRB- and by Mr. Thomas Wright . 
The reasons against my belief -LRB- well known to antiquaries -RRB- are these -- Richard of Ely calls him simply the son of Leofric , Lord of Brunne , and of Ædiva ; and his MS. is by far the most important document relating to Hereward . 
But he says that the older MSS . 
which he consulted were so ruined by damp , and torn , that `` vix es eis principium a genitoribus ejus inceptum , et pauca interim expressimus , et nomen ; '' in fact that he had much difficulty in making out Hereward 's pedigree . 
He says , moreover , as to Leofric the Mass Priest 's Anglo-Saxon MSS. , `` In quibus -LRB- Anglicæ literæ -RRB- vero non licet non satis periti aut potius exarare deleta incognitarum literarum , '' -- which passage -LRB- whatever may have been the word now wanting to complete it -RRB- certainly confesses that he was but a poor adept at deciphering Anglo-Saxon MSS . 
This account of Hereward 's family is taken from a document of no greater antiquity than the fifteenth century , a genealogical roll of the Lords of Bourne and Deeping , who traced their descent and title to the lands from Hereward 's daughter : but it was no doubt taken either from previously existing records , or from the old tradition of the family ; and , with no authority for contradicting it , and considering its general agreement with the other evidence , it is plain that Leofric of Bourne was generally understood to be the great Earl of Mercia of that name . 
But such an hypothesis accords ill with the amity between Morcar and Hereward ; and it is all but impossible that , if Hereward 's family was then dispossessed , the fact should not appear in any of his biographies . 
The Monks of Crowland were , perhaps , trying to work on Hugh Evermue , Hereward 's son-in-law , or Richard of Rulos , his grand-son-in-law , as they were trying to work on the Norman kings , when they invented these charters of the eighth and ninth centuries , with names of Saxon kings , and nobles of Leofric and Godiva 's house ; or , again , the land being notoriously given to Crowland by men of certain names , who were then of no authority as rebels and dispossessed , it was necessary to invent men of like names , who were safely entrenched behind Saxon antiquity with the ancestors of Edward the Confessor . 
And , in fine , the great folk of Bourne , as well as Spalding , were without doubt the family of Leofric , Earl of Mercia and Chester , and of the Lady Godiva ; the parents , as I conceive , of Hereward . 
Lastly , it is difficult to me to suppose that Hereward would have been allowed to take the undisputed command of a rebellion so aristocratic as that of the Fens , over the heads of three earls , Morcar among them , had he not possessed some such natural right of birth as an earl 's son , and , probably , like most great English earls ' families , of ancient royal , and therefore God-descended , blood . 
In Kesteven of Lincolnshire , between the forest and the fen , lies the good market-town of Bourne , the birthplace , according to all tradition , of two great Englishmen ; of Cecil Lord Burleigh , justly remembered throughout all time , and of Hereward the Wake , not unjustly , perhaps , long forgotten . 
Those Priory lands passed into the hands of Trollopes and Pochins , as did the lands of the castle into those of the Cecils ; and of that fee of the Wakes , all , as far as I know , is lost , fors l'honneur , which shone out of late in that hero of `` Arrah , '' who proved , by his valour , pertinacity , and shiftfulness , not unworthy of his great ancestor Hereward . 
Mighty fowling and fishing was there in the fen below , and mighty hunting on the weald above , where still haunt , in Grimsthorpe Park , the primeval red-deer , descendants of those who fell by Hereward 's bow , ere yet the first Lovell had built his castle on the steep , or the Cistercian monks of Fountains had found out the deep-embowered Vale of God , and settled themselves in the glen beneath the castle walls . 
Their second son was Hereward , whose history this tale sets forth ; their third and youngest , a boy whose name is unknown . 
They had , probably , another daughter beside ; married it may be , to some son of Leofric 's staunch friend old Siward Digre ; and the mother , may be , of the two young Siwards , the `` white '' and the `` red , '' who figure in chronicle and legend as the nephews of Hereward . 
But always -LRB- for there is a skeleton , they say , in every house -RRB- she carried that about her which might well keep her humble ; namely , shame at the misconduct of Hereward , her son . 
She was listening with a face of shame and horror to the complaint of Herluin , Steward of Peterborough , who had fallen in that afternoon with Hereward and his crew of housecarles . 
And Hereward , in imitation of his father and his elder brother , must needs have his following from the time he was but fifteen years old . 
All the unruly youths of the neighbourhood , sons of free `` Holders , '' who owed some sort of military service to Earl Leofric ; Geri , Hereward 's cousin ; Winter , whom he called his brother-in-arms ; the Wulfrics , the Wulfards , the Azers , and many another wild blade , had banded themselves round a young nobleman more unruly than themselves . 
They atoned , be it remembered , for their early sins , by making those names in after years a terror to the invaders of their native land : but as yet their prowess was limited to drunken brawls and faction-fights ; to upsetting old women at their work , levying black mail from quiet chapmen on the high road , or bringing back in triumph , sword in hand and club on shoulder , their leader Hereward from some duel which his insolence had provoked . 
But this time , if the story of the steward was to be believed , Hereward and his housecarles had taken an ugly stride forward toward the pit . 
They had met him riding along , intent upon his psalter , home towards his abbey from its cell at Bourne -- `` Whereon your son , most gracious lady , bade me stand , saying that his men were thirsty ; and he had no money to buy ale withal , and none so likely to help him thereto as a fat priest -- for so he scandalously termed me , who , as your ladyship knows , am leaner than the minster bell-ropes , with fasting Wednesdays and Fridays throughout the year , beside the vigils of the saints , and the former and latter Lents . 
Hereward is , likewise , recognized by `` signis satis exquisitis in corpore designantia vulnera tenuissmorum cicatricum . '' 
Hereward is , likewise , recognized by `` signis satis exquisitis in corpore designantia vulnera tenuissmorum cicatricum . '' 
Lady Godiva -- as the constant associate of clerks and monks -- spoke after an artificial and Latinized fashion , at which Hereward was not wont to laugh and jest : but as he believed , no less than his pious mother , in innumerable devils and ghosts , and other uncanny creatures , who would surely do him a mischief if they could , he began to feel somewhat frightened ; but he answered none the less stoutly : -- `` As for devils , and such like , I never saw one yet , by flood or field , night or day . 
quoth Hereward , fiercely enough ; `` That this monk forgets that I have been a monk myself , or should have been one by now , if you , my pious mother , had had your will of me , as you may if you like of that baby there at your knee . 
See that when there is another Prior in Borough you do not find Hereward the Berserker smoking you out some dark night , as he would smoke a wasps ' nest . 
And I will , by -- '' `` Hereward , Hereward ! '' 
cried his mother , `` godless , god-forgotten boy , what words are these ? 
Silence , before you burden your soul with an oath which the devils in hell will accept , and force you to keep , '' and she sprung up , and seizing his arm , laid her hand upon his mouth . 
Hereward looked at her majestic face , once lovely , now stern and careworn ; and trembled for a moment . 
Had there been any tenderness in it , his history might have been a very different one : but alas ! 
-- that Hereward the leaper , Hereward the wrestler , Hereward the thrower of the hammer -- sports after all only fit for the sons of slaves , should be also Hereward the drunkard , Hereward the common fighter , Hereward the breaker of houses , Hereward the leader of mobs of boon companions who bring back to us , in shame and sorrow , the days when our heathen forefathers ravaged this land with fire and sword ? 
said Hereward coolly . 
`` He is too fond of my poor -- of the Lord Hereward . '' 
`` He is a strange one , my lady , and no one knows whence he came , and I sometimes fancy whither he may go either : but ever since my lord threatened to hang him for talking with my young master , he has never spoken to him , nor scarcely , indeed , to living soul . 
`` He -- the Lord Hereward -- has promised not to let thee be harmed . 
Hereward , in spite of all his sins , was the darling of his mother 's bower ; and there was not one of the damsels but would have done anything short of murder to have prevented Martin carrying the letter . 
He ran rapidly through the large outer hall , past the long oak table , at which Hereward and his boon companions were drinking and roystering . 
As he passed the young lord he cast on him a look so full of meaning , that though Hereward knew not what the meaning was , it startled him , and for a moment softened him . 
Hereward had reason to know better than most , that there was something strange and uncanny about the man . 
For an instant Hereward 's heart misgave him . 
He would stop the letter at all risks . 
he cried to his comrades . 
But Hereward forbade them ; and stood leaning against the gate-post , watching him trot on like a lean wolf over the lawn , till he sprang upon the Car-dyke bank , and fled strait south into the misty fen . 
`` Now lads , '' said Hereward , `` home with you all , and make your peace with your fathers . 
They looked at him , surprised . 
And he went in , and shut the great gates after him , leaving them astonished . 
To take his advice , and go home , was the simplest thing to be done . 
The next morning at dawn Hereward mounted his best horse , armed himself from head to foot , and rode over to Peterborough . 
When he came to the abbey-gate , he smote thereon with his lance-butt , till the porter 's teeth rattled in his head for fear . 
he shouted . 
`` Oh , my most gracious lord , '' cried the porter , thrusting his head out of the wicket , `` what is this that you have been doing to our Steward ? '' 
The son of Earl Leofric was as a young lion among the sheep in those parts ; and few dare say him nay , certainly not the monks of Peterborough ; moreover , the good porter could not help being strangely fond of Hereward -- as was every one whom he did not insult , rob , or kill . 
He looked sadly at Hereward . 
`` Hending bought his wisdom by experience , I suppose , '' said Hereward , `` and so must I . 
Hereward threw himself off his horse , and threw his arms round his uncle 's neck . 
He robs St. Peter on the highway , breaks into his abbey , insults him to his face , and then asks him for hospitality ; and -- '' `` And gets it , '' quoth Hereward . 
`` As for that , '' quoth Hereward -LRB- who had remounted his horse from prudential motives , and set him athwart the gateway , so that there was no chance of the doors being slammed behind him -RRB- , `` if either of you will lend me sixteen pennies , I will pay them back to you and St. Peter before I die , with interest enough to satisfy any Jew , on the word of a gentleman and an earl 's son . '' 
On the fifth day came Martin Lightfoot , and found Hereward in Prior Brand 's private cell . 
asked Hereward , coolly . 
stammered Brand , and could not finish his sentence . 
Hereward laughed -- a loud , swaggering , uneasy laugh . 
`` He is that , '' said Hereward in a low voice . 
''' `` Puss Velvet-paw knew well enough , '' said Hereward in a low voice , `` that the way to harden my father 's heart was to set Godwin and Harold on softening it . 
`` Lord Hereward , I came hither as your father 's messenger and servant . 
If Canute had had a son like Hereward -- as would to God he had had -- he would have dealt with him as old Swend Forkbeard -LRB- God grant I meet him in Valhalla , in spite of all priests ! -RRB- 
But Hereward checked himself . 
Brand smiled and shrugged his shoulders : being very much of the same mind . 
`` You are a good old uncle , '' said Hereward . 
Hereward made an impatient movement . 
He disliked any word which seemed likely to soften his own hardness of heart . 
But he kissed his uncle lovingly on both cheeks . 
And Hereward went out to his lodging : while the good Prior went to his prayers . 
When Hereward entered his room , Martin started out of the darkness , and followed him in . 
`` And he shall have it , '' quoth Hereward ; and flung out of the room , and into his uncle 's . 
And he told our eight-and-thirty pieces . 
cried Brand , weeping abundantly for joy ; for he had acquired , by long devotion , the donum lachrymarum -- that lachrymose and somewhat hysterical temperament common among pious monks , and held to be a mark of grace . 
Brand believed , in common with all monks then , that Hereward had robbed , not merely the Abbey of Peterborough , but , what was more , St. Peter himself ; thereby converting into an implacable and internecine foe the chief of the Apostles , the rock on which was founded the whole Church . 
`` Now , uncle , '' said Hereward , `` do me one good deed in return . 
And he hurried off with the news to the Abbot . 
When Hereward returned to his room , Martin was gone . 
`` Farewell , good men of Peterborough , '' said Hereward , as he leapt into the saddle next morning . 
`` Little Hereward never forgets foe or friend . 
`` Hereward , Hereward ! 
It was four o'clock on a May morning when Hereward set out to see the world , with good armour on his back , good weapon by his side , good horse between his knees , and -- rare luxury in those penniless , though otherwise plentiful days -- good money in his purse . 
He was going to the new ; and he pricked his horse gaily on through Bainton woods , struck the Ermine Street on Southorpe Health , and so on toward the Welland , little dreaming that on those open wolds a palace would one day arise , beside which King Edward 's new Hall at Westminster would show but as a tythingbarn ; and that the great patriot who would build that palace would own , as his birthplace , the very home from which Hereward fled that day . 
And Hereward rode on , rejoicing in it all . 
Not to him , as to us , a world circular , round , circumscribed , mapped , botanized , zoologized ; a tiny planet about which everybody knows , or thinks they know , everything ; but a world infinite , magical , supernatural -- because unknown ; a vast flat plain reaching no one knew whence or where , save that the mountains stood on the four corners thereof to keep it steady , and the four winds of heaven blew out of them ; and in the centre , which was to him the Bruneswald , such things as he saw : but beyond , things unspeakable , -- dragons , giants , rocs , orcs , witch-whales , griffins , chimeras , styrs , enchanters , Paynims , Saracen Emirs and Sultans , Kaisers of Constantinople , Kaisers of Ind and of Cathay , and beyond them again of lands as yet unknown . 
At the very least he could go to Brittany , to the forest of Brocheliaunde , where -LRB- so all men said -RRB- fairies might be seen bathing in the fountains , and possibly be won and wedded by a bold and dexterous knight , after the fashion of Sir Gruelan.Wace , author of the Roman de Rou , went to Brittany a generation later , to see those same fairies : but had no sport ; and sang -- `` Fol i alai , fol m ` en revins ; Folie quis , por fol me tins . '' 
asked Hereward , suspiciously , and half cross at seeing any visitor from the old world which he had just cast off . 
said Hereward ; `` what can I do for thee ? '' 
A right slippery one , I expect , '' said Hereward , looking down on him with some suspicion . 
`` Before I can trust thee with my secrets , I shall expect to know some of thine , '' said Hereward . 
`` And with me thou shalt live and die , '' said Hereward , pulling up his horse , and frankly holding out his hand to his new friend . 
And he dropped quietly back behind Hereward 's horse , as if the business of his life was settled , and his mind utterly at rest . 
`` There is one more likeness between us , '' said Hereward , after a few minutes ' thought . 
Martin drew from inside his shirt and under his waistband a small battle-axe , and handed it up to Hereward . 
It was a tool the like of which in shape Hereward had seldom seen , and never its equal in beauty . 
Hereward laughed , and gave him back his battle-axe . 
But he had hardly less doubt of the magic virtues of such a blade than had Martin himself . 
Of Hereward 's doings for the next few months nought is known . 
He may very likely have joined Siward in the Scotch war . 
He may have looked , wondering , for the first time in his life , upon the bones of the old world , where they rise at Dunkeld out of the lowlands of the Tay ; and have trembled lest the black crags of Birnam should topple on his head with all their pines . 
He may have marched down from that famous leaguer with the Gospatrics and Dolfins , and the rest of the kindred of Crinan , and of Siward , of the murdered Duncan , and the outraged Sibilla . 
They only say that Hereward was in those days beyond Northumberland with Gilbert of Ghent . 
Wherever Gilbert lived , however , he heard that Hereward was outlawed , and sent for him , says the story , Richard of Ely gives as the reason -- `` pro illo misit : filiolus enim erat divitis illius . '' 
Possibly Gilbert of Ghent was godson of Hereward 's father . 
Hereward the singer , harp-player , dancer , Hereward the rider and hunter , was in all mouths : but he himself was discontented at having as yet fallen in with no adventure worthy of a man ; and he looked curiously and longingly at the menagerie of wild beasts enclosed in strong wooden cages , which Gilbert kept in one corner of the great court-yard , not for any scientific purposes , but to try with them , at Christmas , Easter , and Whitsuntide , the mettle of the young gentlemen who were candidates for the honour of knighthood . 
But after looking over the bulls and stags , wolves and bears , Hereward settled it in his mind that there was none worthy of his steel , save one huge white bear , whom no man had yet dared to face , and whom Hereward , indeed , had never seen , hidden as he was all day within the old oven-shaped Pict 's house of stone , which had been turned into his den . 
There was a mystery about the uncanny brute which charmed Hereward . 
He was said to be half-human , perhaps wholly human ; to be a son of the Fairy Bear , near kinsman , if not brother , uncle , or cousin , of Siward Digre himself . 
Again and again Hereward asked his host to let him try his strength against the monster of the North . 
But Hereward settled it in his heart , nevertheless , that somehow or other , when Christmas time came round , he would extract from Gilbert , drunk or sober , leave to fight that bear ; and then either make himself a name , or die like a man . 
Meanwhile Hereward made a friend . 
For as Hereward was coming in one afternoon from hunting , hawk on fist , with Martin Lightfoot trotting behind , crane and heron , duck and hare , slung over his shoulder , on reaching the court-yard gates he was aware of screams and shouts within , tumult and terror among man and beast . 
The beast stopped and turned , snorting with fear ; and no wonder ; for in the midst of the court-yard stood the Fairy Bear ; his white mane bristled up till he seemed twice as big as any of the sober brown bears which Hereward yet had seen : his long snake neck and cruel visage wreathing about in search of prey . 
The court-yard was utterly empty : but from the ladies ' bower came shrieks and shouts , not only of women but of men ; and knocking at the bower door , adding her screams to those inside , was a little white figure , which Hereward recognised as Alftruda 's . 
Hereward leaped from his horse , and , drawing his sword , rushed forward with a shout which made the bear turn round . 
He looked once back at the child ; then round again at Hereward : and , making up his mind to take the largest morsel first , made straight at him with a growl which there was no mistaking . 
He was within two paces ; then he rose on his hind legs , a head and shoulders taller than Hereward , and lifted the iron talons high in air . 
Hereward knew that there was but one spot at which to strike ; and he struck true and strong , before the iron paw could fall , right on the muzzle of the monster . 
Hereward stood awhile staring at the beast like a man astonied at what he himself had done . 
said Hereward . 
`` Nay , '' said Hereward , laughing ; `` when the master kills the game he must first carry it home . 
And stooping down , he attempted to lift the huge carcase : but in vain . 
Whatever they were going to say the ladies forestalled , for , rushing out across the prostrate bear , they overwhelmed Hereward with praises , thanks , and , after the straightforward custom of those days , with substantial kisses . 
`` I should be sorry to think , '' said Hereward , with the blundering mock-humility of a self-conceited boy , `` that I had done anything worthy of such an honour . 
This last touched Hereward to the quick , for it was just what he thought of doing ; and his blood , heated enough already , beat quicker , as some one cried , with the evident intent of picking a quarrel : `` That was meant for us . 
Hereward looked down , and setting his foot on the bear 's head , wrenched out of it the sword , which he had left till now , with pardonable pride , fast set in the skull . 
Then she commanded Hereward to sheathe his sword . 
He did so ; and , turning to the knights , said with all courtesy , `` You mistake me , sirs . 
And taking up Alftruda in his arms , he carried her in and disappeared . 
Who now but Hereward was in all men 's mouths ? 
The minstrels made ballads on him ; the lasses sang his praises -LRB- says the chronicler -RRB- as they danced upon the green . 
No one was so well content with himself as Hereward ; and therefore he fancied that the world must be equally content with him ; and he was much disconcerted when Martin drew him aside one day , and whispered : `` If I were my lord , I should wear a mail shirt under my coat to-morrow out hunting . '' 
And more , what right have you to come here , and so win the hearts of the ladies , that the lady of all the ladies should say , ` If aught happen to my poor boy -- and he can not live long -- I would adopt Hereward for my own son , and show his mother what a fool some folks think her . ' 
Hereward took his advice , and rode out with three or four knights the next morning into the fir-forest ; not afraid , but angry and sad . 
He was not yet old enough to estimate the virulence of envy ; to take ingratitude and treachery for granted . 
He was to learn the lesson then , as a wholesome chastener to the pride of success . 
He was to learn it again in later years , as an additional bitterness in the humiliation of defeat ; and find out that if a man once fall , or seem to fall , a hundred curs spring up to bark at him , who dared not open their mouths while he was on his legs . 
Hereward and Martin came at last to a narrow gully , a murderous place enough . 
Any other day Hereward would have cantered down it with merely a tightened rein . 
Hereward felt that his sword was loose in the sheath , and then griped his lance , with a heart beating , but not with fear . 
The next moment he heard the rattle of a horse 's hoofs behind him ; looked back ; and saw a knight charging desperately down the gully , his bow in hand , and arrow drawn to the head . 
There was a clatter , a crash , and looking back , Hereward saw horse and man rolling in the rut , and rolling with them Martin Lightfoot . 
`` Hold thy hand , '' shouted Hereward . 
cried Hereward . 
Hereward and his man rode home in peace , and the wounded man , after trying vainly to walk a mile or two , fell and lay , and was fain to fulfil Martin 's prophecy , and be brought home in a cart , to carry for years after , like Sir Lancelot , the nickname of the Chevalier de la Charette . 
And so was Hereward avenged of his enemies ; and began to win for himself the famous soubriquet of `` Wake ; '' the Watcher , whom no man ever took unawares . 
That gentlemen should meet in the forest , try to commit murder on each other 's bodies , was rather too common a mishap to stir up more than an extra gossiping among the women , and an extra cursing among the men ; and as the former were all on Hereward 's side , his plain story was taken as it stood . 
`` And now , fair lady , '' said Hereward to his hostess , `` I must thank you for your hospitality , and bid you farewell for ever and a day . '' 
She wept , and entreated him only to stay till her lord came back : but Hereward was firm . 
And he armed himselfcap-à-pié , and rode away . 
Great was the weeping in the bower , and great the chuckling in the hall : but never saw they Hereward again upon the Scottish shore . 
The next place in which Hereward appeared was far away on the South-West , upon the Cornish shore . 
a valiant `` regulus , '' or kinglet , living at Gweek , up the Helford river , who was indeed a distant connexion of Hereward himself , having married , as did so many of the Celtic princes , the daughter of a Danish sea rover of Siward 's blood . 
They told him also that the kinglet increased his wealth , not only by the sale of tin and of red cattle , but by a certain amount of `` Summer-leding '' -LRB- i.e. piracy between seed-time and harvest -RRB- in company with his Danish brothers-in-law from Dublin and Waterford ; and Hereward , who believed with most Englishmen of the East Country , that Cornwall still produced a fair crop of giants , some of them with two and even three heads , had hopes that Alef might show him some adventure worthy of his sword . 
He sailed in , therefore , over a rolling bar , between jagged points of black rock , and up a tide river which wandered and branched away inland like a landlocked lake , between high green walls of oak and ash , till they saw at the head of the tide Alef 's town , nestling in a glen which sloped towards the southern sun . 
The merchants , it seemed , were well known to the Cornishmen on shore , and Hereward went up with them unopposed ; past the ugly dykes and muddy leats , where Alef 's slaves were streaming the gravel for tin ore ; through rich alluvial pastures spotted with red cattle ; and up to Alef 's town . 
By his side sate a lovely dark-haired girl , with great gold torks upon her throat and wrists , and a great gold brooch fastening a shawl which had plainly come from the looms of Spain or of the East ; and next to her again , feeding her with tit-bits cut off with his own dagger , and laid on barley cake instead of a plate , sat a more gigantic personage even than Alef , the biggest man that Hereward had ever seen with high cheek bones and small ferret eyes , looking out from a greasy mass of bright red hair and beard . 
`` And you , fair sir , '' said Alef , looking keenly at Hereward , `` by what name shall I call you , and what service can I do for you ? 
`` Health to King Alef , '' said Hereward , raising the cup . 
It was the red-bearded giant , who spoke in a broken tongue , part Scotch , part Cornish , part Danish , which Hereward could hardly understand : but that the ogre intended to insult him he understood well enough . 
Hereward had hoped to find giants in Cornwall ; and behold he had found one at once ; though rather , to judge from his looks , a Pictish than a Cornish giant ; and true to his reckless determination to defy and fight every man and beast who was willing to defy and fight him , he turned on his elbow and stared at Ironhook in scorn , meditating some speech , which might provoke the hoped - for quarrel . 
Hereward , as is well seen , wanted not for quick wit or for chivalrous feeling . 
Did she need Hereward 's help ? 
If so , she was so lovely that he could not refuse it . 
And on the chance , he swallowed down his high stomach , and answered blandly enough : `` One could see without eyes , noble sir , that you were worth any ten common men : but as every one has not like you the luck of so lovely a lady by your side , I thought that perchance you might hand over some of your lesser quarrels to one like me , who has not yet seen so much good fighting as yourself , and enjoy yourself in pleasant company at home , as I should surely do in your place . '' 
The Princess shuddered and turned pale ; then looked at Hereward and smiled her thanks . 
Hereward 's jest being translated into Cornish for the benefit of the company , was highly approved by all ; and good-humour being restored , every man got drunk save Hereward , who found the mead too sweet and sickening . 
The next morning , as Hereward went out to wash his face and hands in the brook below -LRB- he being the only man in the house who did so -RRB- , Martin Lightfoot followed him . 
`` I thought as much , '' said Hereward ; `` but how didst thou find out this ? '' 
`` One did not need to be told that , '' said Hereward , `` as long as one has eyes in one 's head . 
`` He is a kinsman of mine then , '' said Hereward . 
retorted Hereward fiercely . 
Hereward agreed , and resolved to watch his opportunity of speaking to the princess . 
He was in high good humour with Hereward ; and all the more so when Hereward told him his name , and how he was the son of Leofric . 
`` I will warrant you are , '' he said , `` by the grey head you carry on green shoulders . 
`` You speak truth , sir , '' said Hereward , `` though he be no father of mine now , for of Leofric it is said in King Edward 's court , that if a man ask counsel of him , it is as though he had asked it of the oracles of God . '' 
Hereward would have said that he thought there was no fear of that : -- but he prudently held his tongue , and having an end to gain , listened instead of talking . 
They went in to their morning meal , at which Hereward resolved to keep the peace which he longed to break , and , therefore , as was to be expected , broke . 
For during the meal the fair lady , with no worse intention perhaps than that of teasing her tyrant , fell to open praises of Hereward 's fair face and golden hair , and being insulted therefore by the Ironhook , retaliated by observations about his personal appearance , which were more common in the eleventh century than they happily are now . 
He , to comfort himself , drank deep of the French wine which had just been bought and broached , and then went out into the courtyard , where in the midst of his admiring fellow ruffians he enacted a scene as ludicrous as it was pitiable . 
He strutted , he shouted , he tossed about his huge limbs , he called for a harper , and challenged all around to dance , sing , leap , fight , do anything against him ; meeting with nothing but admiring silence , he danced himself out of breath , and then began boasting once more , of his fights , his cruelties , his butcheries , his impossible escapes and victories ; till at last , as luck would have it , he espied Hereward , and poured out a stream of abuse against Englishmen and English courage . 
`` Englishmen , '' he said , `` were nought . 
`` Of your mouth , I suppose , '' quoth Hereward , who saw that the quarrel must come , and was glad to have it done and over . 
`` Of your mouth , '' said Hereward , `` Of your brain were they begotten , of the breath of your mouth they were born , and by the breath of your mouth you can slay them again as often as you choose . '' 
The more fairly you fight , the more honour you will win , '' said Hereward . 
Two hours afterwards Hereward , completely armed with helmet and mail shirt , sword and javelin , hurried across the great courtyard with Martin Lightfoot at his heels , towards the little church upon the knoll above . 
asked Hereward hurriedly . 
Poor Martin Lightfoot spoke thus bravely only to keep up his spirits and his young lord 's -- for in spite of his confidence in Hereward 's prowess , he had given him up for a lost man ; and the tears ran down his rugged cheeks , as the old priest rising up and seizing Hereward 's two hands in his , besought him , with the passionate and graceful eloquence of his race , to have mercy upon his own youth . 
Hereward understood his meaning , though not his words . 
Hereward knelt down . 
asked Hereward , as the priest murmured something to himself . 
Hereward was touched . 
`` Tell him , '' says Hereward , `` that in this purse is all I have , that in it he will find sixty silver pennies , beside two strange coins of gold . '' 
`` Sir Priest , '' said Martin Lightfoot , taking the purse from Hereward , and keeping it in his own hand , `` there are in this bag monies . '' 
`` And tell him , '' continued Hereward , `` that if I fall in this battle I give him all that money , that he may part it among the poor for the good of my soul . '' 
Hereward rose , thanked him , and then hurried out in silence . 
said Hereward , as they hurried on . 
Hereward held out his hand ; Martin fell on his knees and kissed it ; watched him with set teeth till he disappeared in the wood ; and then started forward and entered the bushes at a different spot . 
`` Hide it at once ; I know that he wants it to fight with this Hereward . '' 
`` If he wants it for that , '' said the priest , `` it is too late ; for half an hour is past since Hereward went to meet him . '' 
`` And you let him go ? 
You did not persuade him , stop him ? 
You let him go hence to his death ? '' 
He had taken , as all honest men did , a great liking to Hereward . 
Stumbling to and fro with the broken shaft of a javelin sticking in his thigh , he vainly tried to seize Hereward with his long-iron grapple . 
Hereward , bleeding , but still active and upright , broke away , and sprang round him , watching for an opportunity to strike a deadly blow . 
Alef shouted to the combatants to desist : but ere the party could reach them , Hereward 's opportunity had come . 
Hereward leapt aside , and spying an unguarded spot below the corslet , drove his sword deep into the giant 's body , and rolled him over upon the sward . 
Hereward stood over Ironhook as he lay writhing and foaming on the ground . 
groaned he . 
-- and amid foul curses and bitter tears of shame his mortal spirit fled to its doom . 
The housecarles rushed in on Hereward , who had enough to do to keep them at arm 's length by long sweeps of his sword . 
Alef entreated , threatened , promised a fair trial if the men would give fair play : when , to complete the confusion , the princess threw herself upon the corpse , shrieking and tearing her hair ; and to Hereward 's surprise and disgust , bewailed the prowess and the virtues of the dead , calling upon all present to avenge his murder . 
Hereward vowed inwardly that he would never again trust woman 's fancy , or fight in woman 's quarrel . 
He was now nigh at his wits ' end ; the housecarles had closed round him in a ring with the intention of seizing him ; and however well he might defend his front , he might be crippled at any moment from behind : but in the very nick of time Martin Lightfoot burst through the crowd , set himself heel to heel with his master , and broke out , not with threats , but with a good-humoured laugh . 
Hereward saw the effect of Martin 's words ; and burst out in Danish likewise , with a true Viking chaunt -- `` Look at me , dread me ! 
I am the Hereward , `` Guardian of the Army . '' 
shouted some of the Danes , whose blood had been stirred many a time before by such wild words , and on whom Hereward 's youth and beauty had their due effect . 
Let them deliver Hereward and his serving man into his custody . 
He would bring them forth on the morrow , and there should be full investigation and fair trial . 
And so Hereward and Martin , who both refused stoutly to give up their arms , were marched back into the town , locked in the little church , and left to their meditations . 
Hereward sat down on the pavement and cursed the princess . 
`` She can not really love that wretch , '' said Hereward , after a pause . 
The priest took Hereward 's head in his hands , wept over him , blest him for having slain Goliath like young David , and then set food and drink before the two ; but he answered Martin 's questions only with sighs and shakings of the head . 
She hurried up to Hereward , who lay sleeping quietly on the altar-steps ; knelt by him , wrung his hands , called him her champion , her deliverer . 
`` I am not well awake yet , '' said he coldly , `` and do not know whether this may not be a dream , as more that I have seen and heard seems to be . '' 
said Hereward sullenly . 
`` Trust me and come , '' said Hereward , whose young blood kindled with a sudden nobleness . 
`` Never , '' quoth Hereward . 
She lay down , and Hereward , in spite of himself , gently bound her hands and feet , kissing them as he bound them . 
The old priest , who was plainly in the plot , submitted meekly to the same fate ; and Hereward and Martin Lightfoot stole out , locking the door , but leaving the key in it outside . 
Hereward was silent . 
Hereward offered to make up their loss to them , if they would set sail at once ; and they , feeling that the place would be for some time to come too hot to hold them , and being also in high delight , like honest Ostmen , with Hereward 's prowess , agreed to sail straight for Waterford , and complete their cargo there . 
It was to this old king , or rather to his son Sigtryg , godson of Sigtryg Silkbeard , and distant cousin of his own , that Hereward now took his way , and told his story , as the king sat in his hall , drinking across the fire after the old Norse fashion . 
Then Hereward came in , and sat down on the end of the hindermost bench , and Martin stood behind him ; till one of the ladies said : `` Who is that young stranger , who sits behind there so humbly , though he looks like an earl 's son , more fit to sit here with us on the high bench ? '' 
And when Hereward came forward , all the ladies agreed that he must be an earl 's son ; for he had a great gold torc round his neck , and gold rings on his wrists ; and a new scarlet coat , bound with gold braid ; and scarlet stockings , cross-laced with gold braid up to the knee ; and shoes trimmed with martin 's fur ; and a short blue silk cloak over all , trimmed with martin 's fur likewise ; and by his side , in a broad belt with gold studs , was the Ogre 's sword Brain-biter , with its ivory hilt and velvet sheath ; and all agreed that if he had but been a head taller , they had never seen a properer man . 
Drink first , man , and tell us thy business after , '' and he reached the horn to Hereward . 
Hereward took it , and sang -- `` In this Braga-beaker , Brave Ranald I pledge ; In good liquor , which lightens Long labour on oar-bench ; Good liquor which sweetens The song of the scald . '' 
Whereon Hereward finished the horn duly ; and at Ranald 's bidding , sat him down on the high settle He did not remark , that as he sat down , two handsome youths rose and stood behind him . 
A priest , Irish by his face and dress , who sat on the high bench , rose , and renewed an oration which Hereward 's entrance had interrupted . 
At which speech Hereward was seen to laugh . 
Then rose up Hereward , and bowed to the king . 
`` Nay but , '' quoth Hereward , `` hear the end of the story . 
Hereward looked round , and saw Teague MacMurrough standing close to him , harp in hand . 
The young man grew uneasy , red , almost angry ; till at last Hereward sung : -- `` A gold ring she gave me Right royally dwarf-worked , To none will I pass it For prayer or for sword stroke , Save to him who can claim it By love and by troth plight , Let that hero speak If that hero be here . '' 
Young Sigtryg half started from his feet : but when Hereward smiled at him , and laid his finger on his lips , he sat down again . 
Hereward felt his shoulder touched from behind . 
One of the youths who had risen when he sat down bent over him , and whispered in his ear , -- `` Ah , Hereward , we know you . 
Hereward sprang up , struck the harp again , and sang -- `` Outlaw and free-thief , My kinsfolk have left me , And no kinsfolk need I Till kinsfolk shall need me . 
A flood of sorrow passed through Hereward 's heart . 
He kept it down , and rising once more , harp in hand -- `` Hereward , king , hight I. Holy Leofric my father , In Westminster wiser None walked with king Edward . 
After all , Hereward was not original in his wish . 
He had but copied the death-song which Siward Digre had sung for himself some three years before . 
All praised his poetry , and especially the quickness of his alliterations -LRB- then a note of the highest art -RRB- ; and the old king filling not this time the horn , but a golden goblet , bid him drain it and keep the goblet for his song . 
Young Sygtryg leapt up , and took the cup to Hereward . 
Hereward drank it dry ; and then fixing his eyes meaningly on the Prince , dropt the Princess 's ring into the cup , and putting it back into Sygtryg 's hand , sang -- `` The beaker I reach back More rich than I took it . 
But neither Sigtryg nor Hereward drank ; and the two Siwards stood behind their young uncle 's seat , watching him with that intense admiration which lads can feel for a young hero . 
That night , when the warriors were asleep , Sigtryg and Hereward talked out their plans . 
They would equip two ships ; they would fight all the kinglets of Cornwall at once , if need was ; they would carry off the Princess , and burn Alef 's town over his head if he said nay . 
Then Hereward turned to his two nephews , who lingered near him , plainly big with news . 
He had hardened his heart , and made up his mind to show no kindness to his own kin . 
The day might come when they might need him ; then it would be his turn . 
Hereward knew to whom he was speaking ; and he had not spoken in vain . 
`` Noble , noble Hereward ! 
`` Yes , '' said Hereward . 
quoth Hereward , laughing . 
`` Hereward ? '' 
The county was soon roused and up in arms ; and it was only by wandering a three days ' circuit , through bogs and moors , till the ponies were utterly tired out , and left behind -LRB- the bulkier part of the dowry being left with them -RRB- , that they made their appearance on the shore of Mount 's Bay , Hereward leading the Princess in triumph upon Hannibal 's horse . 
Hereward had drunk his share at Sigtryg 's wedding . 
Hereward knew that he had won honour and glory for himself ; that The Wake 's name was in the mouths of all warriors and sea-rovers round the coasts as the most likely young champion of the time , able to rival , if he had the opportunity , the prowess of Harold Hardraade himself . 
So Hereward asked Ranald for ships , and got at once two good vessels , as payment for his doughty deeds . 
They were excellent new `` snekrs , '' nearly eighty feet long each ; with double banks for twelve oars a-side in the waist , which was open , save a fighting gangway along the sides ; with high poop and forecastle decks ; and with one large sail apiece , embroidered by Sigtryg 's princess and the other ladies with a huge white bear , which Hereward had chosen as his ensign . 
As for men , there were fifty fellows as desperate as Hereward himself , to take service with him for that or any other quest . 
Hereward found his vessels under-manned , and had to sail northward for fresh hands . 
However , the Otter was now not only manned , but over-manned ; and Hereward had to leave a dozen stout fellows with Earl Bruce in Kirkwall , and sailed southward again , singing cheerily to his men -- `` Lightly the long-snake Leaps after tempests , Gaily the sun-gleam Glows after rain . 
Some said that they saw a grey woman on his back ; and they knew , possibly from the look of the sky , but certainly from the whale 's behaviour , that there was more heavy weather yet coming from the northward . 
But Hereward scouted that as unmanly and cowardly , and sang -- `` With blood of my bold ones , With bale of my comrades , Thinks Ægir , brine-thirsty , His throat he can slake ? 
Then sang Hereward -- `` Cheerly , my sea-cocks , Crow for the day-dawn . 
`` Drowned we need not be , if we be men , '' said the old sailing-master to Hereward . 
So said Hereward , and took the rudder into his own hand . 
`` Now then , '' as she rushed into the breakers , `` pull together , rowers all , and with a will . '' 
But at Hereward 's command no arrows were shot in answer . 
Hereward looked at him smiling , as he sat there , keeping the head of his frightened horse toward the ship with hand and heel , his long locks streaming in the wind , his face full of courage and command , and of honesty and sweetness withal ; and thought that he had never seen so fair a lad . 
asked Hereward , in French . 
`` I , '' said he , haughtily enough , as resenting Hereward 's familiar `` thou , '' `` am Arnoul , The French language was at this epoch taking the place of the Teutonic in Southern Flanders ; and the boy would call himself Arnoul , while old men would persist in calling him Arnulf , after the fashion of that Count of Guines , who , when upon his death-bed , heard his nephew speak to him in French , and told him that he had no more time for trifles and jests -- Nugis et jocis se non posse vacare . 
Hereward looked , not only with interest , but respect , upon the grandson of one of the most famous and prosperous of northern potentates , the descendant of the mighty Charlemagne himself . 
Hereward saluted the lad courteously . 
cried the boy , pressing his horse into the foam so eagerly , that the men , mistaking his intent , had to be represt again by Hereward . 
Hereward hesitated ; delighted with the boy , but by no means sure of his power to protect them . 
Then the clerk rode down , and talked with Hereward . 
`` Then make peace , '' said Hereward . 
`` He is gone to his grandfather himself , I verily believe , '' quoth Hereward . 
There was a Manasses , Count of Guisnes , about that time ; but , as will be seen , it could not have been he who received Hereward . 
`` There is no need for it , '' said Hereward . 
Come , '' he cried to Hereward , `` come on shore , and he that touches you or your ship , touches me ! '' 
`` Sir Chatelain and my Lord Abbot , '' said Hereward , `` you see that , Viking though I be , I am no barbarous heathen , but a French-speaking gentleman like yourselves . 
So promises were given all round ; and Hereward explained the matter to the men , without whose advice -LRB- for they were all as free as himself -RRB- he could not act . 
`` Needs must , '' grunted they , as they packed up each his little valuables . 
Then Hereward sheathed his sword , and leaping from the bow , came up to the boy . 
He wondered at their long shaggy beards , and still more at the blue patterns with which the English among them , Hereward especially , were tattoed on throat , and arm , and knee . 
Hereward knew well the exploits of Robert le Frison in Spain and Greece . 
`` The ship , fair lord , '' said Hereward , `` is yours , not mine . 
And so they marched inland , after the boy had dismounted one of his men , and put Hereward on the horse . 
`` You gentlemen of the sea can ride as well as sail , '' said the Chatelain , as he remarked with some surprise Hereward 's perfect seat and hand . 
`` We should soon learn to fly likewise , '' laughed Hereward , `` if there were any booty to be picked up in the clouds there overhead ; '' and he rode on by Arnoul 's side , as the lad questioned him about the sea , and nothing else . 
`` Ah , my fair boy , '' said Hereward at last , `` look there , and let those be Vikings who must . '' 
And he pointed to the rich pastures , broken by strips of cornland and snug farms , which stretched between the sea and the great forest of Flanders . 
But Hereward was silent . 
It was so like his own native fens . 
For a moment there came over him the longing for a home . 
To settle down in such a fair fat land ; and call good acres his own ; and marry ; and beget stalwart sons , to till the old estate when he could till no more . 
And now -- just as he had had a hope of peace -- a hope of seeing his own land , his own folk , perhaps of making peace with his mother and his king ; the very waves would not let him rest , but sped him forth , a storm-tossed waif , to begin life anew , fighting he cared not whom or why , in a strange land . 
So he was silent and sad withal . 
said Hereward , waking as from a dream . 
`` I thank you for those words , Sieur Heraud , '' said the good Abbot , while the boy went on abashed , and Hereward himself was startled at his own saying , and rode silent till they crossed the drawbridge of St. Bertin , and entered that ancient fortress , so strong that it was the hiding-place in war time for all the treasures of the country , and so sacred withal that no woman , dead or alive , was allowed to defile it by her presence ; so that the wife of Baldwin the Bold , ancestor of Arnoul , wishing to be buried by the side of her husband , had to remove his corpse from St. Bertin to the Abbey of Blandigny , where the Counts of Flanders lay in glory for many a generation . 
However , there was no refusing the grandson and heir of Count Baldwin ; and the hearts of the monks were comforted by hearing that Hereward was a good Christian , and that most of his crew had been at least baptized . 
For the good Abbot , gaining courage still further , had pointed out to Hereward and his men that it had been surely by the merits and suffrages of the blessed St. Bertin that they had escaped a watery grave . 
Hereward and his men , for their part , were not inclined to deny the theory . 
He , of course , was lord and master in his own country , and very probably a few miles out to sea likewise . 
So Hereward assured the Abbot that he had no mind to eat St. Bertin 's bread , or accept his favours without paying honestly for them ; and after mass he took from his shoulders a handsome silk cloak -LRB- the only one he had -RRB- , with a great Scotch Cairngorm brooch , and bade them buckle it on the shoulders of the great image of St. Bertin . 
At which St. Bertin was so pleased -LRB- being , like many saints , male and female , somewhat proud after their death of the finery which they despised during life -RRB- , that he appeared that night to a certain monk , and told him that if Hereward would continue duly to honour him , the blessed St. Bertin , and his monks of that place , he would , in his turn , ensure him victory in all his battles by land and sea . 
After which Hereward stayed quietly in the abbey certain days ; and young Arnoul , in spite of all remonstrances from the Abbot , would never leave his side till he had heard from him and from his men as much of their adventures as they thought it prudent to relate . 
At the moment of Hereward 's arrival , he was troubled with a lesser thorn , the count of Guisnes -LRB- seemingly , that Manasses whom Richard of Ely confounds with the Chatelain , or other lawful Commander , of St. Omer -RRB- , who would not pay him up certain dues , and otherwise acknowledge his sovereignty . 
So the Chatelain of St. Omer , with all his knights and men-at-arms , and Hereward with his sea-cocks , marched north-west up to Guisnes , with little Arnoul cantering alongside in high glee ; for it was the first war he had ever seen . 
At which Hereward 's men , who were accustomed to a more serious fashion of fighting , stood by , mightily amused , and vowing it was as pretty a play as ever they saw in their lives . 
`` Let me go in against those knights , Sir Chatelain , '' asked Hereward , who felt the lust of battle tingling in him from head to heel ; `` and try if I can not do somewhat toward deciding all this . 
as if he had been a pet game-cock or bulldog . 
`` I break more than lances , '' quoth Hereward , as he cantered off . 
`` You , '' said he to his men , `` draw round hither to the left ; and when I drive the Frenchmen to the right , make a run for it , and get between them and the castle gate ; and we will try the Danish axe against their horses ' legs . '' 
Then Hereward spurred his horse , shouting `` A Wake ! 
and turned the lances ' points with their targets , and hewed off the horses ' heads , and would have hewed off the riders ' likewise , had not Hereward bidden them give quarter , according to the civilised fashion of France and Flanders . 
Whereon all the knights who were not taken rode right and left , and let them pass through in peace , with several prisoners , and him whom Hereward had rescued . 
At which little Arnoul was as proud as if he had done it himself ; and the Chatelain sent word to Baldwin that the new-comer was a prudhomme of no common merit ; while the heart of the Count of Guisnes became as water ; and his knights , both those who were captives and those who were not , complained indignantly of the unchivalrous trick of the Danes . 
To which Hereward answered , that he knew the rules of chivalry as well as any of them : but he was hired , not to joust at a tournament , but to make the Count of Guisnes pay his lord Baldwin , and make him pay he would . 
The knight being , says the chronicler , `` magnificent in valour of soul and counsel of war , and held to be as a lion in fortitude throughout the army , '' and seeing that Hereward was by no means a large or a heavy man , replied as courteously , that he should have great pleasure in trying to kill Hereward . 
So they watched and cheered , till Hereward struck his man such a blow under the ear , that he dropped , and lay like a log . 
`` I think I can carry you , '' quoth Hereward , and picking him up , he threw him over his shoulder , and walked towards his men . 
shouted they in delight , laughing at the likeness between Hereward 's attitude , and that of a bear wadding off on his hind legs with his prey in his arms . 
But Hereward , though the smaller , was the stronger man ; and crushing him in his arms , walked on steadily . 
shouted Hereward . 
The Chatelain 's knights rode up likewise ; and so it befell , that Hereward carried his prisoner safe into camp . 
asked he of his prisoner . 
And the hapless Hoibricht found himself chained and fettered , and sent off to Hereward 's tent , under the custody of Martin Lightfoot . 
The arrival of Hereward and his men had , of course , stirred the great current of her life , and , indeed , that of St. Omer , usually as stagnant as the dykes round its wall . 
And when Hereward returned , after a week 's victorious fighting , all St. Omer was in the street to stare at him . 
Then Torfrida heard enough , and , had it been possible , more than enough , of Hereward and his prowess . 
And when they came riding in , the great Marquis at the head of them all , with Robert le Frison on one side of him , and on the other Hereward , as fresh as flowers in May , Torfrida looked down on him out of her little lattice in the gable , and loved him , once and for all , with all her heart and soul . 
And Hereward looked up at her and her dark blue eyes and dark raven locks ; and thought her the fairest thing that he had ever seen , and asked who she might be , and heard ; and as he heard , he forgot all about the Sultan 's daughter , and the Princess of Constantinople , and the Fairy of Brocheliaunde , and all the other pretty birds which were still in the bush about the wide world : and thought for many a day of nought but the pretty bird which he held -LRB- so conceited was he of his own powers of winning her -RRB- there safe in hand in St. Omer . 
It has been shown how the Count of Guisnes had been a thorn in the side of Baldwin of Lille , and how that thorn was drawn out by Hereward . 
But far sharper thorns in his side , which had troubled many a Count before , and were destined to trouble others afterward , were those unruly Zeelanders , or Frisians , who dwelt in Scaldmariland , `` the land of the meres of the Scheldt . '' 
A noble errand it had been for such a man as Hereward to help those men toward freedom , instead of helping Frank Counts to enslave them ; -- men of his own blood , with laws and customs like those of his own Anglo-Danes , living in a land so exactly like his own that every mere and fen and wood reminded him of the scenes of his boyhood . 
But all this was hidden from Hereward . 
And when the great Marquis came down to St. Omer to receive the homage of Count Eustace of Guisnes , Robert came thither too , and saw Hereward . 
Hereward bowed . 
Hereward took it . 
`` The Abbot , '' said Hereward , `` knows by hearing of his ears , that I bid him bide at home , and try to govern lands in peace , like his father and you , Lord Marquis . '' 
The Abbot told honestly what had passed between Hereward and the lad , as they rode to St. Bertin . 
And Baldwin , Hereward , and Robert went into an inner room . 
Hereward obeyed , of course . 
Hereward looked out of the corners of his eyes , smiling and perplexed . 
So Hereward went off to exterminate the wicked Hollanders , and avenge the wrongs of the Countess Gertrude . 
Torfrida had special opportunities of hearing about Hereward ; for young Arnoul was to her a pet and almost a foster-brother , and gladly escaped from the convent to tell her the news . 
He had seen Hereward fight by day , and heard him tell stories over the camp fire by night . 
Hereward 's beauty , Hereward 's prowess , Hereward 's songs , Hereward 's strange adventures and wanderings , were for ever in the young boy 's mouth ; and he spent hours in helping Torfrida to guess who the great unknown might be ; and then went back to Hereward , and artlessly told him of his beautiful friend , and how they had talked of him , and of nothing else ; and in a week or two Hereward knew all about Torfrida ; and Torfrida knew -- what filled her heart with joy -- that Hereward was bound to no lady-love , and owned -LRB- so he had told Arnoul -RRB- no mistress save the sword on his thigh . 
And she told Torfrida who Hereward was , and the secret mark . 
The discovery of Hereward 's rank did not , doubtless , lessen Torfrida 's fancy for him . 
When Hereward went home that night , he found the Abbey of St. Bertin in horrible confusion . 
In vain Hereward stormed ; assured them that the supposed abyss was nothing but the gutter ; proved the fact by kicking Martin over it : -- the men determined to believe their own eyes , and after awhile fell asleep in heaps in the roadside , and lay there till morning , when they woke , declaring , as did the monks , that they had been all bewitched . 
But before Count Robert and Hereward could collect sufficient troops for the invasion of Holland , another chance of being slain in fight arose , too tempting to be overlooked ; namely , the annual tournaments at Pons and Poitiers , `` Apud Pontes et Pictaviam '' -- Pons in Xaintonge . 
Thither , too , over three hundred and fifty miles of bad road , the best knights of Flanders must needs go ; and with them Hereward . 
And when they had passed down the street , tramping and gingling and caracoling , young Arnoul ran into the house with eyes full of tears , because he was not allowed to go likewise ; and with a message for Torfrida from no other than Hereward . 
He said his name was Siward the White , and he came from Hereward . 
From Hereward ! 
`` You are Siward , Hereward 's nephew ? '' 
Hereward is -- alive ? '' 
The knight 's French friends attacked us in force ; and we Flemings , with Hereward at our head , beat them off ; and overthrew so many , that we are almost all horsed at the Frenchmen 's expense . 
Three more knights , with their horses , fell before Hereward 's lance . '' 
`` He sends it to its owner . 
Torfrida was on the point of saying , `` He has won it , let him wear it for my sake . '' 
She longed to see Hereward face to face to speak to him , if but one word . 
`` And he is killed ? '' 
Hereward ? '' 
`` Only bruised : but he shall be killed , if you will . '' 
`` Then , '' said the knight , mistaking her meaning , `` all I have to tell Hereward is , it seems , that he has wasted his blow . 
Why should Hereward 's nephew feel so deeply about that favour ? 
But his long moustache was that of a grown man ; his vast breadth of shoulder , his hard hand , his sturdy limbs , -- these surely belonged not to the slim youth whom she had seen from her lattice riding at Hereward 's side . 
`` You -- you are Hereward himself ! ' 
Ten minutes ago I should have been glad enough to have been Hereward . 
Now I am thankful enough that I am only Siward ; and not Hereward , who wins for himself contempt by overthrowing a knight more fortunate than he . '' 
`` Hereward ! 
Hereward ! '' 
And she tried , in her turn , to escape from Hereward 's mailed arms . 
I am Hereward , '' he almost shouted ; `` the Berserker , the brain-hewer , the land-thief , the sea-thief , the feeder of wolf and raven -- Aoi ! 
Hereward collected himself instantly , and then , holding her at arm 's length , gazed upon her . 
`` I knew Hereward was noble ! 
Hereward followed , glancing with awe at the books , parchments , and strange instruments which lay on the table and the floor . 
Hereward saw within rich dresses hung on perches round the wall , and chests barred and padlocked . 
Hereward did so ; and saw within golden cups and bracelets , horns of ivory and silver , bags of coin , and among them a mail shirt and helmet , on which he fixed at once silent and greedy eyes . 
`` Yes , these are more to Hereward 's taste than gold and jewels . 
said Hereward , in astonishment at the extreme delicacy and slightness of the mail-rings , and the richness of the gold and silver with which both hauberk and helm were inlaid . 
cried Hereward , as her voice shaped itself into a song , and her eyes flashed , at the remembrance of her southern home . 
Torfrida was not altogether angry at finding that he was thinking of her , and not of her words . 
And so ended a story , which Torfrida believed utterly , and Hereward likewise . 
`` And now , Hereward mine , dare you wear that magic armour , and face old Torfrid 's curse ? '' 
It was a struggle between civilised and disciplined men , armed to the teeth , and well furnished with ships and military engines , against poor simple folk in `` coats stiffened with tar and rosin , or in very short jackets of hide -LRB- says the chronicler -RRB- , who fought by threes , two with a hooked lance and three darts each , and between them a man with a sword or an axe , who held his shield before those two ; -- a very great multitude , but in composition utterly undisciplined , '' who came down to the sea coast , with carts and waggons , to carry off the spoils of the Flemings , and bade them all surrender at discretion , and go home again after giving up Count Robert and Hereward , with the `` tribunes of the brigades , '' to be put to death -- as valiant South Sea islanders might have done : and then found themselves as sheep to the slaughter before the cunning Hereward , whom they esteemed a magician on account of his craft and his invulnerable armour . 
Her pride in the first place was somewhat wounded ; she had dreamed of a knight who would worship her as his queen , hang on her smile , die at her frown ; and she had meant to bring Hereward to her feet as such a slave , in boundless gratitude ; but had he not rather held his own , and brought her to his feet , by assuming her devotion as his right ? 
But when , after a few months , Hereward returned from his first campaign in Holland , covered with glory and renown , all smiles , and beauty , and health , and good-humour , and gratitude for the magic armour which had preserved him unhurt , then Torfrida forgot all her fears , and thought herself the happiest maid alive for four-and-twenty hours at least . 
Those among whom she had been brought up , whether soldiers or clerks , were probably no nobler or purer at heart -- she would gladly have believed them far less so -- than Hereward ; but the merest varnish of Roman culture had given a charm to their manners , a wideness of range to their thoughts , which Hereward had not . 
Especially when he had taken too much to drink -- which he did , after the Danish fashion , far oftener than the rest of Robert 's men -- he grew rude , boastful , quarrelsome . 
And more bitter still was it to hear Hereward angrily dispute the story , unaware -LRB- at least at first -RRB- that he was being laughed at . 
The wine at Robert the Frison 's table was often too good ; and then Hereward 's tongue was loosed , and Torfrida justly indignant . 
So they went to Bruges , and Hereward and his men went with them ; and they feasted , and harped , and sang ; and the saying was fulfilled -- `` 'T is merry in the hall When beards wag all . '' 
But the only beard which wagged in that hall was Hereward 's ; for the Flemings , like the Normans , prided themselves on their civilised and smooth-shaven chins , and laughed -LRB- behind his back -RRB- at Hereward , who prided himself on keeping his beautiful English beard , with locks of gold which , like his long golden hair , were combed and curled daily , after the fashion of the Anglo-Danes . 
After a while , Hereward 's beard began to wag somewhat too fast , as he sat by Torfrida 's side . 
For some knight near began to tell of a wonderful mare called Swallow , which was to be found in one of the islands of the Scheldt , and was famous through all the country round ; and insinuated , moreover , that Hereward might as well have brought that mare home with him as a trophy . 
To which Hereward answered , in his boasting vein , that he would bring home that mare , or aught else that he had a liking to . 
`` Hereward will have need of his magic head-piece , if he tries that adventure , '' quoth another . 
quoth Hereward . 
Hereward was flushed with ire and scorn . 
`` If any knight quarrels with my Hereward , he quarrels with Robert himself ! '' 
Torfrida avoided Hereward : but he , with the foolish pertinacity of a man who knows he has had too much wine , and yet pretends to himself that he has not , would follow her , and speak to her . 
`` That will I , '' laughed Hereward , boisterously . 
And Hereward ? 
And Torfrida went out with the nobles to meet Count Robert , and looked for Hereward , till her eyes were ready to fall out of her head . 
But Hereward was not with them . 
Nevertheless she was too proud to let the knights know what was in her heart ; so she chatted and laughed as gaily as the rest , watching always for any word of Hereward . 
But none mentioned his name . 
He angered me -- He -- '' and Torfrida found herself in the act of accusing Hereward . 
It was Hereward himself . 
Filthy , ragged : but Hereward . 
His shirt was brown with gore , and torn with wounds ; and through its rents showed more than one hardly healed scar . 
His hair and beard was all in elflocks ; and one heavy cut across the head had shorn not only hair , but brain-pan , very close . 
But Hereward it was ; and regardless of all beholders , she lay upon his neck , and never stirred nor spoke . 
The second will be that of my pretty Torfrida and Hereward . '' 
`` Hereward , '' said Torfrida , a week after , `` and did you really never change your shirt all that time ? '' 
The winter passed in sweet madness ; and for the first time in her life , Torfrida regretted the lengthening of the days , and the flowering of the primroses , and the return of the now needless wryneck ; for they warned her that Hereward must forth to the wars in Scaldmariland , which had broken out again , as was to be expected , as soon as Count Robert and his bride had turned their backs . 
And Hereward , likewise , for the first time in his life , was loth to go to war . 
Hereward seems to have dwelt in her house at St. Omer as long as he remained in Flanders . 
At last the short November days came round ; and a joyful woman was fair Torfrida , when Martin Lightfoot ran into the hall , and throwing himself down on the rushes like a dog , announced that Hereward and his men would be home before noon , and then fell fast asleep . 
There was bustling to and fro of her and her maids ; decking of the hall in the best hangings ; strewing of fresh rushes , to the dislodgment of Martin ; setting out of boards and trestles , and stoops and mugs thereon ; cooking of victuals , broaching of casks ; and , above all , for Hereward 's self , heating of much water , and setting out , in the inner chamber , of the great bath-tub and bath-sheet , which was the special delight of a hero fresh from war . 
And by mid-day the streets of St. Omer rang with clank , and tramp , and trumpet-blare , and in marched Hereward and all his men , and swung round through the gateway into the court , where Torfrida stood to welcome them , as fair as day , a silver stirrup-cup in her hand . 
And while the men were taking off their harness and dressing their horses , she and Hereward went in together , and either took such joy of the other , that a year 's parting was forgot in a minute 's meeting . 
asked Hereward , who saw in his mind 's eye a thing which would grow and broaden at his knee year by year , and learn from him to ride , to shoot , to fight . 
`` Happy for him if he does not learn worse from me , '' thought Hereward , with a sudden movement of humility and contrition , which was surely marked in heaven ; for Torfrida marked it on earth . 
As if it was a calamity over which he was bound to comfort the mother . 
`` Hereward ! 
Hereward ! '' 
and she threw her arms round his neck for the tenth time . 
Hereward laughed a great laugh . 
`` Harold is a better man than you take him for , my Hereward . 
`` Harold Godwinsson is my very good lord , '' sneered Hereward . 
''' `` And what says to that , Torfrida , Hereward 's queen ? '' 
Then she looked Hereward full in the face with her keen clear eyes . 
`` Now shall I see whether I have given myself to Hereward in vain , body and soul , or whether I have trained him to be my true and perfect knight . '' 
`` You answered , then , '' said Hereward , `` thus -- '' `` Say on , '' said she , turning her face away again . 
and Torfrida burst into tears , while Hereward kissed her , almost fawned upon her , calling her his queen , his saga-wife , his guardian angel . 
`` Stay awhile , '' said she , kissing his head as she combed and curled his long golden locks , and her own raven ones , hardly more beautiful , fell over them and mingled with them . 
`` This -- ` If Hereward will come with me to William of Normandy , and help us against Harold the perjured , then will William do for him all that Harold would have done , and more beside . 
said Hereward . 
`` I do see , '' said she , playing with his locks . 
`` William 's French are as good as those Norsemen , man for man ; and horsed withal , Hereward . '' 
`` That may be , '' said he , half testily , with a curse on the tanner 's grandson and his French popinjays , `` and our Englishmen are as good as any two Norsemen , as the Norse themselves say . '' 
He could not divine , and Torfrida hardly liked to explain to him , the glamour which the Duke of Normandy had cast over her , as the representative of chivalry , learning , civilization , a new and nobler life for men than the world had yet seen ; one which seemed to connect the young races of Europe with the wisdom of the ancients and the magic glories of old Imperial Rome . 
`` Hereward , Hereward , have I not told you how , though body be strong , mind is stronger ? 
To have brought Hereward under the influence of William was an old dream of hers . 
`` Hereward , Hereward , my own ! 
`` Let us tell this mighty hero then , '' said Hereward , trying to laugh away her fears -- and perhaps his own , `` that while he has the Holy Father on his side , he can need no help from a poor sinful worm like me . '' 
`` Hereward , Hereward ! '' 
`` Then let us say boldly , ` On the day that William is King of all England , Hereward will come and put his hands between his , and be his man . '' 
Tosti and Hereward passed that winter in St. Omer , living in the same street , passing each other day by day , and never spoke a word one to the other . 
Robert the Frison heard of it , and tried to persuade Hereward . 
In those days Hereward went into Bruges , to Marquis Baldwin , about his business . 
And as he walked in Bruges street , he met an old friend , Gilbert of Ghent . 
He shook Hereward by both hands , clapt him on the back , swore with many oaths , that he had heard of his fame in all lands , that he always said that he would turn out a champion , and a gallant knight , and had said it long before he killed the bear . 
As for killing it , it was no more than he expected , and nothing to what Hereward had done since , and would do yet . 
Wherefrom Hereward opined that Gilbert had need of him . 
They chatted on : Hereward asking after old friends , and sometimes after old foes , whom he had long since forgiven ; for though he always avenged an injury , he never bore malice for one : a distinction less common now than then , when a man 's honour , as well as his safety , depended on his striking again , when he was struck . 
I forget , '' said Hereward , who cared nothing about the matter . 
`` Not I , '' quoth Hereward . 
`` Impossible , '' quoth Hereward . 
quoth Hereward . 
`` Then fight , '' quoth Hereward . 
`` Look you , Hereward . 
quoth Hereward . 
`` Butchers count by weight , and knights by courage , '' quoth Hereward . 
I knew you were the old Hereward still . 
Hereward started at the snare which had been laid for him ; and then fell into a very great laughter . 
Thou art the same merry dog of a Hereward . 
To which proposal Hereward gave no encouragement . 
said Gilbert , in an uneasy , half-defiant tone ; for Hereward 's tone had been more than half-defiant . 
And I advise you , as a friend , not to make entry on those lands , lest Hereward in turn make entry on you And who is he that will deliver you out of my hand ? '' 
But he was growing warm , and began to tutoyer Hereward . 
Harold has large manors in Lincolnshire , and so has Edith his sister , and what of them , Sieur Hereward ? '' 
It will be seen hereafter , how Gilbert took his own advice about young Waltheof : but did not take Hereward 's advice about the Lincoln manors . 
In Baldwin 's hall that day , Hereward met Dolfin ; and when the magnificent young Scot sprang to him , embraced him , bewailed his murdered boy , talked over old passages , complimented him on his fame , lamented that he himself had won no such honours in the field , Hereward felt much more inclined to fight for him than against him . 
She came in ; and Hereward saw at the first glance , that Gilbert had for once in his life spoken truth . 
`` Fickle , ungrateful things , these women , '' thought Hereward . 
Which magnificent effusion being interpreted by Hereward for the instruction of the ladies , procured for the red-headed bard more than one handsome gift . 
A suspicion crossed Hereward 's mind . 
Did those strange words of hers mean that she had not yet forgotten Hereward himself ? 
Of all this Hereward was well informed ; for Tosti came back again to St. Omer , and talked big . 
But Hereward and he had no dealings with each other . 
But at last , when Tosti tried to entice some of Hereward 's men to sail with him , Hereward sent him word that if he met him , he would kill him in the streets . 
Then Tosti , who -LRB- though he wanted not for courage -RRB- knew that he was no match for Hereward , went off to Bruges leaving his wife and family behind ; gathered sixty ships at Ostend ; went off to the Isle of Wight ; and forced the landsfolk to give him money and food . 
And so Hereward looked on , helpless , and saw these two great storm-clouds growing -- one from north , and one from south -- to burst upon his native land . 
So sung Hereward , after his heathen fashion : and his housecarles applauded the song . 
`` They have brought it on themselves , '' said Hereward , bitterly . 
But Hereward 's own soul was black within him . 
To see these mighty events passing , as it were , within reach of his hand -- and he unable to take his share in them -- For what share could he take ? 
That of Tosti Godwinsson against his own nephews ? 
Hereward could hardly eat , drink , sleep , or speak . 
Hereward galloped down the beach . 
Hereward sat silent , appalled . 
But Harold Sigurdsson , Harold Hardraade , Harold the Viking , Harold the Varanger , Harold the Lionslayer , Harold of Constantinople , the bravest among champions , the wisest among kings , the cunningest among minstrels , the darling of the Vikings of the north ; the one man whom Hereward had taken for his pattern and his ideal , the one man under whose banner he would have been proud to fight -- the earth seemed empty , if Harold Hardraade were gone . 
As they rode side by side , Hereward got more details of the fight . 
Hereward rode straight to the Countess Judith 's house . 
-- Tell her , madam , that Hereward waits her commands , and entreats her , in the name of St. Mary and all Saints , to vouchsafe him one word in private . '' 
Hereward fell on his knee . 
Hereward told them all that they needed to know of that fratricidal strife ; and then to Thord Gunlaugsson -- `` Have you any token that this is true . 
`` This have I , Jarl and ladies , '' and he drew from his bosom a reliquary . 
And Hereward went into Torfrida 's room . 
But Hereward -- I have news -- news more terrible by far . 
If Torfrida had feared the effect of her news , her heart was lightened at once as Hereward answered haughtily -- `` England lost ? 
`` Hereward , Hereward , do not be unjust to the dead . 
and Hereward started up , and walked to and fro . 
and Hereward laughed bitterly . 
And Torfrida told him all she knew of the great fight on Heathfield Down , which men call Senlac , and the Battle of Hastings . 
And as she told it , in her wild eloquent fashion , Hereward 's face reddened , and his eyes kindled . 
standard ; of Harold 's mighty figure in the front of all , hewing with his great double-headed axe , and then rolling in gore and agony , an arrow in his eyeball ; of the last rally of the men of Kent ; of Gurth , the last defender of the standard , falling by William 's sword ; of the standard hurled to the ground , and the Popish Gonfanon planted in its place -- Then Hereward 's eyes , for the first and last time for many a year , were flushed with noble tears ; and springing up , he cried , `` Honour to the Godwinssons ! 
`` Those tears , '' said she , as she kissed them away , `` are more precious to Torfrida than the spoils of a hundred fights , for they tell me that Hereward still loves his country ; still honours virtue , even in a foe . '' 
asked Hereward that night ere he went to bed . 
Hereward looked at the man . 
cried Hereward , seizing him . 
Hereward stood shocked and puzzled . 
And where he lay , Hereward never knew . 
It would be vain to attempt even a sketch of the reports which came to Flanders from England during the next two years ; or of the conversations which ensued thereon between Baldwin and his courtiers , and between Hereward and Torfrida . 
It is best , therefore , to interrupt the thread of the story , by some small sketch of the state of England after the battle of Hastings ; that so we may at least guess at the tenor of Hereward and Torfrida 's counsels . 
Hereward 's words had come true . 
Edwin and Morcar 's lands were parted likewise ; and -- to specify cases which bear especially on the history of Hereward -- Oger the Briton got many of Morcar 's manors round Bourne , and Gilbert of Ghent many belonging to Marlesweyn about Lincoln city . 
What followed , Hereward must have heard not from flying rumours ; but from one who had seen , and known , and judged of all.For Gyda 's coming to St. Omer that year , see Ordericus Vitalis . 
For one day , about this time , Hereward was riding out of the gate of St. Omer , when the porter appealed to him . 
Hereward looked at the party , and saw , to his surprise , that they were Englishwomen ; and that two of them were women of rank , to judge from the rich materials of their travel-stained and tattered garments . 
And Hereward threw himself off his horse , and took the lady 's bridle . '' 
This was said so proudly , that Hereward answered proudly enough in return -- `` I am Hereward Leofricsson , whom his foes call Hereward the outlaw ; and his friends , Hereward the master of knights . '' 
She started , and threw her veil back , looking intently at him . 
He , for his part , gave but one glance : and then cried , `` Mother of Heaven ! 
said the great Countess , looking upon him . 
And Hereward led the garron on by the bridle , keeping his cap in hand , while all wondered who the dame could be , before whom Hereward the champion would so abase himself . 
Hereward was silent and thoughtful . 
asked Gyda , as Hereward lifted her from her horse . 
Hereward and his wife refused to sit , and waited on her standing . 
But after she had eaten , she made Torfrida sit before her on the bed , and Hereward likewise ; and began to talk ; eagerly , as one who had not unburdened her mind for many weeks ; and eloquently too , as became Sprakaleg 's daughter , and Godwin 's wife . 
`` And now , '' she said , turning sharply on Hereward , `` what do you do here ? 
Hereward made no answer , but played with his dagger . 
Hereward still played with his dagger . 
Hereward bowed his head , as if consenting to the praise of Harold . 
But this foolish girl here , refuses to wed -- '' `` And is past forty , '' thought Hereward to himself . 
Hereward hoped inwardly that Gyda would be as good as her word ; for her greedy grasp had gathered to itself , before the Battle of Hastings , no less than six-and-thirty thousand acres of good English soil . 
`` Doubtless the blessed St. Bertin , beneath whose shadow we repose here in peace , '' said Hereward somewhat drily . 
And she began praising Hereward 's valour , his fame , his eloquence , his skill as a general and engineer ; and when he suggested , smiling , that he was an exile and an outlaw , she insisted that he was all the fitter from that very fact . 
He had no enemies among the nobles . 
He had been mixed up in none of the civil wars and blood feuds of the last fifteen years . 
He was known only as that which he was , the ablest English captain of his day -- the only man who could cope with William , the only man whom all parties in England would alike obey . 
And so , with flattery as well as with truth , she persuaded , if not Hereward , at least Torfrida , that he was the man destined to free England once more ; and that an earldom -- or anything which he chose to ask -- would be the sure reward of his assistance . 
`` Torfrida , '' said Hereward that night , `` kiss me well ; for you will not kiss me again for awhile . '' 
`` Hereward , Hereward , the French will kill you ! '' 
Are you actually afraid for Hereward at last ? '' 
It may have been well a week after , that Hereward came from the direction of Boston , with Martin running at his heels . 
As Hereward rode along the summer wold the summer sun sank low , till just before it went down he came to an island of small enclosed fields , high banks , elm trees , and a farm inside ; one of those most ancient holdings of the Southern and Eastern Counties , still to be distinguished , by their huge banks and dykes full of hedgerow timber , from the more modern corn-lands outside , which were in Hereward 's time mostly common pasture-land , or rough fen . 
`` And a very strong fortress are they holding , '' said Hereward , `` against either French horsemen or French arrows . 
And so he did ; and turned to use again and again , in after years , the strategic capabilities of an old-fashioned English farm . 
Hereward spurred his horse up to the nearest gate , and was instantly confronted by a little fair-haired man , as broad as he was tall , who heaved up a long twybill , or double axe , and bade him , across the gate , go to a certain place . 
`` Little Winter , little Winter , my chuck , my darling , my mad fellow , my brother-in-arms , my brother in robbery and murder , are you grown so honest in your old age that you will not know little Hereward the wolf 's - head ? '' 
`` Hereward ! '' 
`` I took you for an accursed Norman in those outlandish clothes ; '' and lifting up no little voice , he shouted -- `` Hereward is back , and Martin Lightfoot at his heels ! '' 
The gate was thrown open , and Hereward all but pulled off his horse . 
He was clapped on the back , turned round and round , admired from head to foot , shouted at by old companions of his boyhood , naughty young housecarles of his old troop , now settled down into honest thriving yeomen , hard working and hard fighting , who had heard again and again , with pride , his doughty doings over sea . 
There was Winter , and Gwenoch , and Gery , Hereward 's cousin -- ancestor , it may be , of the ancient and honourable house of that name , and of those parts ; and Duti and Outi , the two valiant twins ; and Ulfard the White , and others , some of whose names , and those of their sons , still stand in Domesday-book . 
`` And what , '' asked Hereward , after the first congratulations were over , `` of my mother ? 
`` Then I , '' said Hereward in a voice of thunder , `` will find the way to send two hundred down on him ; '' and turning his horse from the gate , he rode away furiously towards Bourne . 
Then Hereward swore a great oath , by oak and ash and thorn , that he would neither eat bread nor drink water , while there was a Norman left in Bourne . 
Hereward laughed , and rode away . 
But when they galloped after Hereward , he sent them back . 
He did not know yet , he said , what he would do . 
Better that they should gather their forces , and see what men they could afford him , in case of open battle . 
And he rode swiftly on . 
When he came within the lands of Bourne it was dark . 
`` So much the better , '' thought Hereward . 
We shall rouse the town , '' said Hereward . 
Hereward rode close to the wicket , and said in a low voice , `` I am a nobleman of Flanders , good sir , and a sworn foe to all French . 
Hereward went in . 
More than one countenance Hereward recognised at once . 
He started up at the noise , and Hereward saw at once that it was old Surturbrand , and that he was blind . 
Is Hereward come ? '' 
asked he , with the dull dreamy voice of age . 
`` Not Hereward , father , '' said some one , `` but a knight from Flanders . '' 
The old man dropped his head upon his breast again with a querulous whine , while Hereward 's heart beat high at hearing his own name . 
At all events he was among friends ; and approaching the table he unbuckled his sword and laid it down among the other weapons . 
`` At least , '' said he , `` I shall have no need of thee as long as I am here among honest men . '' 
`` You seem to be all besieged here , '' said Hereward . 
Hereward declined ; he had a vow , he said , not to eat or drink but once a day , till he had fulfilled a quest whereon he was bound . 
His hosts eyed him , not without some lingering suspicion , but still with admiration and respect . 
His splendid armour and weapons , as well as the golden locks which fell far below his shoulders , and conveniently hid a face which he did not wish yet to have recognised , showed him to be a man of the highest rank ; while the palm of his small hand , as hard and bony as any woodman 's , proclaimed him to be no novice of a fighting man . 
`` Why was not Hereward here ? '' 
asked Hereward , trying to command himself . 
`` The turn will go all round ; no man 's life or land , wife or daughters , will be safe soon for these accursed Frenchmen , unless , as the old man says , Hereward comes back . '' 
Once again the old man wailed out of the chimney-corner : `` Why did they ever send Hereward away ? 
Hereward heard all this dry-eyed , hardening his heart into a great resolve . 
Here Hereward was on the point of saying , `` And what if I led you ? '' 
They sat sullen and silent it may be for an hour or more : only moving when , at some fresh outbreak of revelry , the old man started from his doze and asked if that was Hereward coming . 
`` And who is this Hereward of whom you speak ? '' 
said Hereward at last . 
`` Certainly I know such a man ; if he be Hereward the wolf 's head , Hereward the outlaw , Hereward the Wake , as they call him . 
I served under this Hereward a few months ago in the Zeeland War , and know no man whom I would sooner follow . '' 
To avoid offending them , Hereward was forced to confess to a great many deeds which he had never done : but he was right glad to find that his fame had reached his native place , and that he could count on the men if he needed them . 
`` But who is this Hereward , '' said he , `` that he should have to do with your town here ? '' 
`` I always heard , '' said he dryly , `` that that gentleman was of some very noble kin ; and I will surely tell him all that has befallen here as soon as I return to Flanders . '' 
The men went out and brought in bundles of sweet sedge , spread them against the wall , and prepared to lie down , each with his weapon by his side . 
But when they were lain down , Hereward beckoned to him Pery and Martin Lightfoot , and went out into the back yard , under the pretence of seeing to his horse . 
As Hereward had spoken with some slight emotion , he had dropped unawares his assumed Flemish accent , and had spoken in broad burly Lincolnshire ; and therefore it was that Pery , who had been staring at him by the moonlight all the while , said , when he was done , tremblingly -- `` Either you are Hereward , or you are his double-ganger . 
You speak like Hereward , you look like Hereward . 
Just what Hereward would be now , you are . 
`` Get me only , '' said Hereward , `` some long woman 's gear and black mantle , if thou canst , to cover this bright armour of mine . '' 
The night was dark : but not so dark but that Hereward could see between him and the sky his brother 's long locks floating in the breeze . 
`` That I must have down , at least , '' said he , in a low voice . 
Hereward raised the ladder , took down the head , and wrapped it in the cloak ; and ere he did so , he kissed the cold forehead . 
And Hereward felt that he would have given all that he had , save his wife or his sword-hand , to have that boy alive again , to pet him , and train him , and teach him to fight at his side . 
Hereward could scarce believe his eyes . 
Hereward turned from the window in disgust : but looked again as he heard words which roused his wrath still more . 
The scoundrel , say the old chroniclers , made a request concerning Hereward 's family which can not be printed here . 
Hereward ground his teeth . 
`` Hereward ? '' 
Hereward had heard enough . 
In another moment the door was burst in , and Hereward stood upon the threshold . 
As he passed the gleeman , he gave him one stroke across the loins ; the wretch fell shrieking . 
Fifteen Normans , says the chronicler , -LRB- who gives minute details of the whole scene , -RRB- were in the hall when Hereward burst in . 
Then Hereward took up his brother 's head , and went in to his mother . 
The women in the bower opened to him . 
So utterly crushed was she , that she did not even lift up her head as Hereward entered . 
He placed his ghastly burden reverently beneath the pall , and then went and knelt before his mother . 
Then the Lady Godiva suddenly drew back her hood , and dropping on her knees , threw her arms round Hereward 's neck , and wept till she could weep no more . 
Is it that , Hereward ? 
said Hereward , wondering to find himself , of all men on earth , preaching consolation . 
Hereward , not that ! 
said Hereward , bitterly , `` St. Guthlac is a right Englishman , and will have some sort of fellow-feeling for us ; while St. Peter , of course , is somewhat too fond of Rome and those Italian monks . 
`` Do not talk so , Hereward . '' 
This night has made Hereward a new man . 
Now , prepare '' -- and she knew what he meant -- `` and gather all your treasures ; and we will start for Crowland to-morrow afternoon . '' 
At last Hereward strode down from the hall , his drawn sword in his hand . 
`` Hereward is come home ! '' 
`` Hereward is come , '' cried he , as he folded his master 's son in his arms . 
the ravens will grow fat now , for Hereward is come home ! '' 
Hereward saw his opportunity , and seized it . 
He well knew that there were those in the crowd , as there must needs be in all crowds , who wished themselves well out of the business ; who shrank from the thought of facing the Norman barons , much more the Norman king ; who were ready enough , had the tide of feeling begun to ebb , to blame Hereward for rashness , even though they might not have gone so far as to give him up to the Normans ; who would have advised some sort of compromise , pacifying half-measure , or other weak plan for escaping present danger by future destruction . 
Hereward heard , and cried : `` The Viking is right ! 
All through Kesteven went that night the arrow-splinters , and with them the whisper , `` The Wake is come again ; '' till , before mid-day , there were fifty well-armed men in the old camping-field outside the town , and Hereward haranguing them in words of fire . 
Then they went down to the water and took barge , and laid the corpse therein ; and Godiva and Hereward sat at the dead lad 's head ; and Winter steered the boat , and Gwenoch took the stroke-oar . 
And there in the nave they buried the lad Godwin , with chant and dirge ; and when the funeral was done , Hereward went up toward the high altar , and bade Winter and Gwenoch come with him . 
And there he knelt , and vowed a vow to God and St. Guthlac and the Lady Torfrida , his true love , never to leave from slaying while there was a Frenchman left alive on English ground . 
But when he saw Hereward come in , he cast the mufflers off him , and sprang up from his chair , and was young and strong in a moment , and for a moment . 
And he threw his arms round Hereward , and wept upon his neck , as his mother had done . 
And Hereward wept upon his neck , though he had not wept upon his mother 's . 
Then Brand held him at arms ' length , or thought he held him ; for he was leaning on Hereward , and tottering all the while ; and extolled him as the champion , the warrior , the stay of his house , the avenger of his kin , the hero of whom he had always prophesied that his kin would need him , and that then he would not fail . 
But Hereward answered him modestly and mildly : `` Speak not so to me and of me , Uncle Brand . 
`` The Lord Hereward , '' said Herluin , `` has doubtless learned much from the manners of our nation which he would not have learned in England . 
`` The Lord Hereward , Prior Herluin , has learnt one thing in his travels -- to know somewhat of men and the hearts of men , and to deal with them as they deserve of him . 
`` Then I command , -- I , Hereward , Lord of Bourne -- that this abbey be held against him and all Frenchmen , in the name of Swend Ulfsson , king of England , and of me . 
And Hereward knelt . 
He longed to keep Hereward out of St. Peter 's grace . 
He longed to see Hereward dead at his feet : not because of any personal hatred , but because he foresaw in him a terrible foe to the Norman cause . 
But he wished , too , to involve Abbot Brand as much as possible in Hereward 's rebellions and misdeeds , and above all , in the master-offence of knighting him ; for for that end , he saw , Hereward was come . 
`` Now , '' cried Hereward ; `` A boon ! 
`` I know , '' said Hereward , `` that the French look on us English monk-made knights as spurious and adulterine , unworthy of the name of knight . 
Almost word for word from the `` Life of Hereward . '' 
`` And a very dangerous and stubborn Englishman , '' added he to himself . 
One rode to Ivo Taillebois at Spalding , to tell him that Hereward was at Peterborough ; and that he must try to cut him off upon the Egelric 's road , the causeway which one of the many Abbots Egelric had made , some thirty years before through Deeping Fen to Spalding , at an enormous expense of labour and of timber . 
The other knight rode south , along the Roman road to London , to tell King William of the rising of Kesteven , and all the evil deeds of Hereward and of Brand . 
Hereward and his comrades watched that night in St. Peter 's church . 
Suddenly Hereward started , and sprang up , with a cry of fire . 
`` I have not , '' said Hereward . 
Herluin heard , and knew what he meant . 
After which Hereward was silent , filled with many thoughts . 
At least this is certain , that Hereward would say to his dying day , how he had often proved that none would fight so well as those who had received their sword from God 's knights the monks . 
Thou speakest like a man of God , '' said Hereward , half sadly . 
A week after a boatman brought news to Crowland , how Sir Frederick was sitting in his inn at Lynn , when there came in one with a sword , and said , `` I am Hereward the Wake . 
And so , already surrounded with myth and mystery , Hereward flashed into the fens and out again , like the lightning brand , destroying as he passed . 
He and his troop of Angevine ruttiers had fought like tigers by William 's side at Hastings ; and he had been rewarded with many a manor , which had been Earl Algar 's , and should now have been Earl Edwin 's , or Morcar 's , or , it may be , Hereward 's own . 
There are forty or more of them in West Deeping now , and coming eastward , they say , to visit you , and what is more than all , Hereward is come again . '' 
`` Hereward ? '' 
So Hereward fought the Viscount of Pinkney , who had the usual luck which befel those who crossed swords with him ; and plotted meanwhile with Gyda and the Countess Judith . 
Great was the delight of Hereward and the ladies when they heard of the taking of Durham and York : but bitter their surprise and rage when they heard that Gospatric and the Confederates had proclaimed Edgar Atheling king . 
`` Calm yourself , great Countess , '' said Hereward , with a smile . 
`` Those between Tyne and Forth will join him , '' said Hereward . 
Mark my words , Sir Hereward , that cunning Frenchman will treat with them one by one , and betray them one by one , till there is none left . '' 
But a darkness , as of Egypt , lay upon them : `` neither rose any from his place . '' 
We have invaded his holy soil . 
how palsy , blindness , madness , fall on those who dare to violate his sanctuary ? '' 
And still Sweyn and his Danes had not sailed ; and Hereward walked to and fro in his house , impatiently , and bided his time . 
Hereward was perplexed . 
cried Hereward . 
Hereward went into Torfrida 's bower . 
And their housecarles went with them , forty men , tried and trained , who had vowed to follow Hereward round the world . 
A proud man was Hereward that day , as he sailed into the midst of the Danish fleet , and up to the royal ships , and shouted : `` I am Hereward The Wake ; and I come to take service under my rightful lord , Sweyn king of England . '' 
And Hereward laid his ship 's bow upon the quarter of the royal ship -LRB- to lay alongside was impossible , for fear of breaking oars -RRB- , and came on board . 
`` And thou art Hereward ? '' 
This was spoken in a somewhat haughty tone , in answer to the look of surprise and disappointment which Hereward had , unawares , allowed to pass over his face . 
`` Thou art better than none , '' said Hereward . 
`` Be it so , '' said Hereward . 
`` What if I ask you to go in thither yourself , and try the mettle and the luck which , they say , never failed Hereward yet ? '' 
`` Hereward is right , '' said more than one Jarl . 
`` I have heard , ere now , '' said Asbiorn , haughtily , `` that Hereward , though he be a valiant Viking , is more fond of giving advice than of taking it . '' 
Hereward was about to answer very fiercely . 
If he had , no one would have thought any harm , in those plain-spoken times . 
But he was wise ; and restrained himself , remembering that Torfrida was there , all but alone , in the midst of a fleet of savage men ; and that beside , he had a great deed to do , and must do it as he could . 
So he answered -- `` Asbiorn the Jarl has not , it seems , heard this of Hereward : that because he is accustomed to comand , he is also accustomed to obey . 
What thou wilt do , do , and bid me do . 
He that quarrels with his captain , cuts his own throat and his fellows ' too . '' 
said the Jarls ; and Hereward went back to his ship . 
`` Torfrida , '' said he bitterly , `` the game is lost before it is begun . '' 
and Hereward stamped with rage . 
Then the Jarls bade him take Hereward 's advice . 
But he would not . 
So he went round the Foreland , and tried Sandwich -- as if , landing there , he would have been safe in marching on London , in the teeth of the élite of Normandy . 
But he was beaten off there , with more loss . 
Then , too late , he took Hereward 's advice -- or , rather , half of it -- and sailed north ; but only to commit more follies . 
He dared not enter the Thames . 
He would not go on to the Wash ; but he went into the Orwell , and attacked Ipswich , plundering right and left , instead of proclaiming King Sweyn , and calling the Danish folk around him . 
They naturally enough rose ; and , like valiant men , beat him off ; while Hereward lay outside the river mouth , his soul within him black with disappointment , rage , and shame . 
He would not go in . 
He would not fight against his own countrymen . 
And he told Jarl Asbiorn so , so fiercely , that his life would have been in danger , had not the force of his arm been as much feared as the force of his name was needed . 
Hereward was nigh desperate : but he hit upon a plan . 
Let Asbiorn do so , if he would . 
He himself would sail round to the Wash , raise the Fen-men , and march eastward at their head through Norfolk to meet him . 
All the Jarls and Bishops approved loudly ; and away Hereward went to the Wash , his heart well-nigh broke , foreseeing nothing but evil . 
But she would be strong : and when they were all landed , men , arms , baggage , and had pitched the tents which the wise Hereward had brought with them , she rose up like a queen , and took her little one by the hand , and went among the men , and spoke : `` Housecarles and mariners ! 
Promise me , that if you have but one more stroke left to strike on earth , you will strike it to defend the daughter of Hereward and Torfrida from cruelty and shame . '' 
Then -LRB- says the chronicler -RRB- Hereward sent on spies , to see whether the Frenchmen were in the land , and how folks fared at Holbeach , Spalding , and Bourne . 
And at Holbeach , and at Spalding , Hereward split up the war-arrow , and sent it through Kesteven , and south into the Cambridge fens , calling on all men to arm , and come to him at Bourne , in the name of Waltheof and Morcar the Earls . 
Only Gery dwelt in a corner of the house , and with him Leofric , once a roystering house-carle of Hereward 's youth ; now a monk of Crowland , and a deacon , whom Lady Godiva had sent thither that he might take care of her poor . 
Which Leofric was afterwards ordained priest , probably in Ely , by Bishop Egelwin of Durham ; and was Hereward 's chaplain for many a year . 
Then Hereward , as he had promised , set fire to the three farms close to the Bruneswold ; and all his outlawed friends , lurking in the forest , knew by that signal that Hereward was come again . 
And Gilbert of Ghent , keeping Lincoln Castle for the Conqueror , was perplexed in mind , and looked well to gates , and bars , and sentinels ; for Hereward sent him at once a message , that forasmuch as he had forgotten his warning in Bruges street , and put a rascal cook into his mother 's manors , he should ride Odin 's horse on the highest ash in the Bruneswold . 
On which Gilbert of Ghent , inquiring what Odin 's horse might be , and finding it to signify the ash tree whereon , as sacred to Odin , thieves were hanged by Danes and Norse , made answer : That he Gilbert had not put his cook into Bourne , nor otherwise harmed Hereward or his . 
That if Hereward meant to keep the king 's peace , he might live in Bourne till Doomsday , for aught he Gilbert cared ; But that if he and his men meant to break the king 's peace , and attack Lincoln city , he Gilbert would nail their skins to the door of Lincoln Cathedral , as they used to do by the heathen Danes in old time . 
At which Hereward laughed , and said , that they had done that for many a year . 
And now poured into Bourne from every side brave men and true , some great holders dispossessed of their land ; some the sons of holders who were not yet dispossessed ; some Morcar 's men , some Edwin 's , who had been turned out by the king ; and almost all of them , probably , blood relations of Hereward 's , or of King Harold 's , or of each other . 
To him came `` Guenoch and Alutus Gurgan , foremost in all valour and fortitude , tall and large , and ready for work , '' and with them their three nephews , Godwin Gille , `` so called because he was not inferior to that Godwin Guthlacsson who is preached much in the fables of the ancients , '' and `` Douti and Outi , the twins , alike in face and manners ; '' and Godric , the knight of Corby , nephew of the `` count of Warwick , and thus , probably , Hereward 's first cousin or nephew ; '' and Tosti of Davenesse , his kinsman ; and Azer Vass , whose father had possessed Lincoln Tower ; and Leofwin Moue -- that is , the scythe , so called , `` because when he was mowing all alone , and twenty country folk set on him with pitchforks and javelins , he slew and wounded almost every one , sweeping his scythe among them as one that moweth ; '' and Wluncus the Blackface , so called because he once blackened his face with coal , and came unknown among the enemy , and slew ten of them with one lance ; and `` Turbertin , a great grandson -LRB- ? -RRB- 
of Earl Edwin ; '' and Leofwin Prat -LRB- perhaps the ancestor of the ancient and honourable house of Pratt of Ryston -RRB- , so called from his `` Præt '' or craft , `` because he had often escaped cunningly when taken by the enemy , having more than once killed his keepers ; '' and the steward of Drayton ; and Thurkill , and Utlamhe , i.e. the outlaw , Hereward 's cook ; and Oger , Hereward 's kinsman ; and `` Winter and Liveret , two very famous ones ; '' and Ranald the Seneschal of Ramsey -- `` he was the standard bearer ; '' and Wulfric the Black and Wulfric the White ; and Hugh the Norman , a priest ; and Wulfard , his brother ; and Tosti and Godwin of Rothwell ; and Alsin , and Hurkill ; and Hugh the Breton , who was Hereward 's chaplain ; and Whishaw , his brother , `` a magnificent knight , which two came with him from Flanders ; '' -- and so forth : -- names merely , of whom naught is known , save , in a few cases , from Domesday-book , the manors which they held . 
But having got his men , Hereward 's first care was , doubtless , to teach them that art of war , of which they , like true Englishmen , knew nothing . 
But Hereward had learned that art of war , which enabled the French to crush piecemeal with inferior numbers , the vast but straggling levies of the English . 
And to the discipline which he instilled into them ; to his ability in marching and manoeuvring troops ; to his care for their food and for their transport ; possibly also to his training them in that art of fighting on horseback in which the men of Wessex , if not the Anglo-Danes of the East , are said to have been quite unskilled , -- in short , to all that he had learned as a mercenary under Robert the Frison , and among the highly civilized warriors of Flanders and Normandy , must be attributed the fact , that he and his little army defied for years the utmost efforts of the Frenchmen ; appearing and disappearing with such strange swiftness , and conquering against such strange odds , as enshrouded the guerilla captain in an atmosphere of myth and wonder , only to be accounted for , in the mind of French as well as English , by the supernatural counsels of his sorceress wife . 
But Hereward grew anxious and more anxious , as days and weeks went on , and yet there was no news of Asbiorn and his Danes at Norwich . 
And Hereward sent spies along the Ermine Street -- the only road , then , toward the north-west of England -- and spies northward along the Roman road to Lincoln . 
After a while , he had heard how Hereward was come again , and had sent round the war-arrow ; and it seemed to him that a landless man could be in no better company ; wherefore he had taken boat , and come across the deep fen . 
said Hereward , who had heard of the deed at Wrokesham Bridge . 
And he went in to ask counsel of Torfrida , ready to weep with rage . 
He had disappointed -- deceived his men . 
He had drawn them into a snare . 
How should he look them in the face ? 
`` Wise , wise wife , '' said Hereward , and went out and called his band together , and told them every word , and all that had passed since he left Calais Straits . 
`` If all go , there are two men here who stay , and fight by Hereward 's side as long as there is a Frenchman left on English soil ; for they have sworn an oath to Heaven and to St. Peter , and that oath will they keep . 
Gwenoch stepped to Hereward 's side . 
`` With Hereward we will live and die . 
`` And now , gallant gentlemen , '' said Hereward , `` we must take new counsel , as our old has failed . 
But Hereward held them back with loud reproaches . 
`` Here comes some one very valiant or very much afeard , '' said Hereward , as the horseman rode right upon him , shouting : `` I am the king ! '' 
roared Hereward , and dropping his lance , spurred his horse forward , kicking his feet clear of the stirrups . 
He caught the knight round the neck , dragged him over his horse 's tail , and fell with him to the ground . 
The armour clashed ; the sparks flew from the old grey Roman flints ; and Hereward , rolling over once , rose , and knelt upon his prisoner . 
cried Hereward from the ground . 
roared he , after his knights . 
`` You have killed him , '' quoth Leofric the deacon , whom Hereward had beckoned to stop with him . 
He is a much slighter man than I fancied , '' said Hereward , as they got his helmet off . 
shouted Hereward , saying very bad words , `` who come here , aping the name of king ? '' 
Hereward rose , and stood over the boy . 
went on Hereward , apostrophising the unconscious Atheling , `` ah , that I had broken that white neck once and for all ! 
And Hereward drew Brain-biter . 
Leofric went off in search of water ; and Hereward knelt with the Atheling 's head on his knee , and on his lip a sneer at all things in heaven and earth . 
`` That do we not , '' said Hereward sharply . 
But it fell not out upon that wise ; for Waltheof , leaping from his horse , pulled off his helmet , and seizing Hereward by both hands , cried : `` Blessed is the day which sees again in England Hereward , who has upheld throughout all lands and seas the honour of English chivalry ! '' 
`` And blessed is the day in which Hereward meets the head of the house of Siward where he should be , at the head of his own men , in his own earldom . 
Was Hereward honest in his words ? 
Hereward had taken off his helmet likewise , and the contrast between the two was as striking as the completeness of each of them in his own style of beauty . 
He was one of the tallest men of his generation , and of a strength which would have been gigantic , but for the too great length of neck and limb , which made him loose and slow in body , as he was somewhat loose and slow in mind . 
But that he could out-general William ; that he could even manage Gospatric and his intrigues , Hereward expected as little , as that his own nephews Edwin and Morcar could do it . 
laughed Hereward . 
By-the-by , Sir Hereward , '' asked Waltheof , whose thoughts ran loosely right and left , `` they told me that you carried a white bear on your banner : but I only see a knot . '' 
I have parted with my old bear , all save his skin ; for keeping which , by-the-by , your house ought to have a blood-feud against me . 
A bad prospect for us , if you are , '' said Hereward to himself . 
`` He is a monk , Sir Atheling , and not a knight , '' said Hereward . 
`` But if you mean to get to York , you must march after another fashion than this , '' said Hereward . 
thought Hereward . 
`` Sir Hereward , Sir Hereward , I fear thou art not as good a Christian as so good a knight should be . '' 
said Hereward . 
In the tragedies of the next few months Hereward took no part ; but they must be looked at near , in order to understand somewhat of the men who were afterwards mixed up with him for weal and woe . 
Edwin , the young Earl , Algitha 's brother , Hereward 's nephew -- he must be with them too , if he were a man . 
What meant this news , that Hereward of St. Omer was come again , and an army with him ? 
To prevent a junction between them and Hereward was impossible . 
So all we know is , that William fell upon Morcar 's men at Stafford , and smote them with a great destruction ; rolling the fugitives west and east , toward Edwin , perhaps , at Chester , certainly toward Hereward in the fens . 
Why did he not push on at once against the one rebellion left alight , that of Hereward and his fen-men ? 
How soon Hereward knew all this , or how he passed the winter of 1070 -- 71 , we can not tell . 
`` Ah , my sons , '' said Hereward laughing sadly , `` do you suppose that The Mamzer spends his time -- and Englishmen 's life and labour -- in heaping up those great stone mountains , that you and I may walk past them ? 
`` Torfrida , '' said Hereward , `` you are wise . 
`` You are the wise woman as usual , '' said Hereward . 
She was absorbed utterly in Hereward and his plots . 
And the foremost of them all , when he saw Hereward at the gate of Bourne , leaped down , and threw his arms round his neck , and burst into bitter weeping . 
`` Hereward , I know you , though you know me not . 
`` To Ely , '' answered Hereward . 
Leofric the deacon , who is likely to know best , says that there were men already there holding out against William ; and that they sent for Hereward . 
It is but probable , nevertheless , that Hereward , as the only man among the fugitives who ever showed any ability whatsoever , and who was , also , the only leader -LRB- save Morcar -RRB- connected with the fen , conceived the famous `` Camp of Refuge , '' and made it a formidable fact . 
But when Hereward heard that Waltheof was married to the Conqueror 's niece , he smote his hands together , and cursed him , and the mother who bore him to Siward the Stout . 
`` A hard lap will he find it , Hereward , '' said Torfrida . 
Hereward watched her kneeling , as he sat moody , all but desperate . 
Hereward went over to see him , and found him moaning to himself texts of Isaiah , and confessing the sins of his people . 
It is all foretold in Holy Writ , Hereward , my son . 
And dost thou think thou shalt escape , Hereward , thou stout-hearted ? '' 
`` They that take the sword shall perish by the sword , '' said Brand , and blessed Hereward and died . 
Then Hereward sent Abbot Thorold word , that if he or his Frenchmen put foot into Peterborough , he Hereward would burn it over their heads . 
Hereward hurried to them with all his men . 
said Hereward . 
Hereward sent off messengers to Crowland , warning all to be ready to escape into the fens ; and entreating Ulfketyl to empty his storehouses into his barges , and send food to the Danes , ere a day was past . 
said Hereward as a sudden thought struck him . 
A great crime , taken simply , in Hereward 's own eyes . 
He knew that Hereward was with them . 
Hereward could never mean to let them sack it . 
And Herluin set his teeth , like a bold man determined to abide the worst , and barred and barricaded every gate and door . 
That night a hapless churchwarden -- Ywar was his name -- might have been seen galloping through Milton and Castor Hanglands , and on by Barnack quarries over Southorpe heath , with saddlebags of huge size stuffed with `` gospels , mass-robes , cassocks , and other garments , and such other small things as he could carry away . '' 
`` So I am ; but if I were Roland , Oliver , and Turpin rolled into one , how am I to fight Hereward and the Danes with forty men-at-arms ? 
The other , the scarcely less terrible Wake-knot of Hereward . 
Hereward would see to that . 
There was no time to save them , as Hereward would gladly have done , for the sake of the corrodiers . 
And that felt Hereward , as he saw Peterborough burn . 
He could not put his thoughts into words , as men of this day can : so much the better for him , perhaps . 
But he felt all the more intensely -- as did men of his day -- the things he could not speak . 
All he said was , aside to Winter -- `` It is a dark job . 
And Winter knew what he meant . 
Then the men rushed into the Bolldyke Gate , while Hereward and Winter stood and looked with their men , whom they kept close together , waiting their commands . 
`` That is not fair , '' quoth Hereward , and clove him to the chine . 
`` We must in now and save the monks , '' said Hereward , and dashed over the embers . 
Only Herluin stood in front of them , at bay , a lofty crucifix in his hand . 
But with a face of calm and bitter wrath , he preferred words of peace and entreaty . 
To-morrow he would write to Bishop Egelsin , to excommunicate with bell , book , and candle , to the lowest pit of Tartarus , all who had done the deed . 
But to-day he spoke them fair . 
However , his fair speeches profited little , not being understood by a horde of Letts and Finns , who howled and bayed at him , and tried to tear the crucifix from his hands : but feared `` The white Christ . '' 
Hereward saw it , and shouting `` After me , Hereward 's men ! 
hast thou not heard that Hereward 's armour was forged by dwarfs in the mountain-bowels ? 
said Hereward . 
`` Now , Hereward the robber of saints ! '' 
Hereward tried for one moment to stare down Herluin . 
Hereward laughed so jolly a laugh , that the prior was taken aback . 
Here , Hereward 's men ! 
But as he spoke , he was precipitated rudely forward , and hurried almost into Hereward 's arms . 
The whole body of monks , when they heard Hereward 's words , cared to hear no more : but , desperate between fear and joy , rushed forward , bearing away their prior in the midst . 
But Herluin burst himself clear of the frantic mob of monks , and turned back on Hereward . 
Hereward gives his word . '' 
Hereward growled savagely , and made an ugly step toward Herluin . 
That was a point which he would not have questioned . 
`` Then behave as a knight , and save , save , '' -- as the monks dragged him away , -- `` save the hospice ! 
shouted he , as he was borne off . 
Hereward uttered a cry of horror . 
To me , Hereward 's men ! 
Hereward , unable to stop them , headed them , or pretended to do so , with five or six of his own men round him , and went into the hall . 
Hereward saw : but could not prevent . 
I am Hereward . '' 
`` Hereward ! 
Hereward ! 
said Hereward . 
And she clung to him so madly , that Hereward , as he held her in his arms , and gazed on her extra-ordinary beauty , forgot Torfrida for the second time . 
But there was no time to indulge in evil thoughts , even had any crossed his mind . 
He caught her in his arms , and commanding the maid to follow , hurried down the stair . 
The savages were howling round like curs about a bull ; and when Hereward appeared above with the women , there was a loud yell of rage and envy . 
whispered he to Alftruda . 
roared Hereward . 
And he rushed forward . 
Winter and the housecarles formed round him and the women , and hurried down the hall ; while the savages hurried up the ladder , to quarrel over their spoil . 
But whither should he take her ? 
But how to find him ? 
`` This is an evil day 's work , Sir Hereward . '' 
Hereward would gladly have gone with them , as Alftruda piteously entreated him . 
`` Who wants Hereward ? '' 
`` Earl Asbiorn -- Here he is . '' 
Hereward ran with him into the Cathedral . 
As Hereward came up , crucifix and man fell together , crashing upon the pavement , amid shouts of brutal laughter . 
Hereward is a man of his word , and we will share and share alike . '' 
To strike Hereward , was more than he , or any Berserker in his host , dared do : and beside , he felt that Hereward 's words were just . 
shouted Hereward down the stair . 
Here , wolves and ravens , eat gold , drink gold , roll in gold , and know that Hereward is a man of his word , and pays his soldiers ' wages royally . '' 
They rushed up the narrow stair , trampling each other to death , and thrust Hereward and the Earl , choking , into a corner . 
Hereward and Asbiorn , protected by their strong armour , forced their way to the narrow window , and breathed through it , looking out upon the sea of flame below . 
`` I am sorry for you , Jarl , '' said Hereward . 
Jarl Asbiorn swung from him , and into the now thinning press . 
`` Now the play is played out , '' said Hereward , `` we may as well go down , and to our ships . '' 
But Asbiorn , as well as Hereward , stopped that . 
It was a hideous scene : but one to which Hereward , as well as Asbiorn , was too well accustomed to see aught in it save an hour 's inevitable trouble in getting the men on board . 
Whether he was burned therein , or saved by Hereward 's men , is not told . 
Hereward would march on to Stamford ; secure the town if he could ; then to Huntingdon , to secure it likewise ; and on to Ely afterwards . 
Hereward mounted her on a good horse , and rode beside her , looking -- and he well knew it -- a very perfect knight . 
How should Hereward know anything about Alftruda ? 
You know that when Gospatric fled to Scotland his sons went with him -- young Gospatric , Waltheof , This Waltheof Gospatricsson must not be confounded with Waltheof Siwardsson , the young Earl . 
Beside -- but that is no concern of Hereward 's -- '' Hereward was on the point of saying , `` Can anything concern you , and not be interesting to me ? '' 
But she went on : `` I refused , and -- '' `` And he misused you ? '' 
`` Better if he had . 
Better if he had tied me to his stirrup , and scourged me along into Scotland , than have left me to new dangers , and to old temptations . '' 
Alftruda did not answer : but went on -- `` He told me in his lofty Scots ' fashion , that I was free to do what I list . 
That he had long since seen that I cared not for him ; and that he would find many a fairer lady in his own land . '' 
`` There he lied . 
So you did not care for him ? 
Care for him ? 
Once I cared for Hereward , like a silly child . 
Now I care not even for him . '' 
Hereward was sorry to hear that . 
Men are vainer than women ; just as peacocks are vainer than peahens ; and Hereward was -- alas for him ! 
Of course , for him to fall in love with Alftruda , would have been a shameful sin ; he would not have committed it for all the treasures of Constantinople : but it was a not unpleasant thought that Alftruda should fall in love with him . 
But he only said , tenderly and courteously -- `` Alas ! 
Alftruda laughed , a laugh full of meaning : but what that meaning was Hereward could not divine . 
`` So now , '' she said , `` what Hereward has to do , as a true and courteous knight , is to give Alftruda safe conduct , and , if he can , a guard ; and to deliver her up loyally and knightly to his old friend and fellow-warrior , Dolfin Gospatricsson , Earl of whatever he can lay hold of for the current month . '' 
Indeed she had never looked Hereward in the face during the whole ride . 
Hereward was of the same opinion , and rode silent and thoughtful through the great woods which are now the noble park of Burghley . 
He holds Lincoln town , and with it the key of Waltheof 's earldom : and things may happen , Alftruda -- I tell you : but if you tell Gilbert , may Hereward 's curse be on you ! '' 
said she in so passionate a voice that a thrill of fire ran through Hereward . 
They tell me none is so swift and terrible in the battle as Hereward . 
of course , '' said Hereward , who longed , peacock-like , to show off his prowess before a lady who was -- there was no denying it -- far more beautiful than even Torfrida . 
But he had no opportunity to show off that prowess . 
For , as he galloped in over Stamford Bridge , Abbot Thorold galloped out at the opposite end of the town through Casterton , and up the Roman road to Grantham . 
After whom Hereward sent Alftruda -LRB- for he heard that Thorold was going to Gilbert at Lincoln -RRB- with a guard of knights ; bidding them do him no harm , but saying that Hereward knew him to be a preux chevalier and lover of fair ladies ; that he had sent him a right fair one to bear him company to Lincoln ; and hoped that he would sing to her on the way the song of Roland . 
After which , according to Gaimar , Hereward tarried three days at Stamford , laying a heavy tribute on the burgesses for harbouring Thorold and his Normans ; and also surprised at a drinking bout a certain special enemy of his , and chased him from room to room sword in hand , till he took refuge shamefully in an outhouse , and begged his life . 
`` The next night , '' says Richard of Ely , or it may be Leofric himself , `` Hereward saw in his dreams a man standing by him of inestimable beauty , old of years , terrible of countenance , in all the raiment of his body more splendid than all things which he had ever seen , or conceived in his mind ; who threatened him with a great club which he carried in his hand , and with a fearful doom , that he should take back to his church all that had been carried off the night before , and have them restored utterly , each in its place , if he wished to provide for the salvation of his soul , and escape on the spot a pitiable death . 
Hereward , when blamed for the deed , said always that he did it `` because of his allegiance to the monastery . '' 
After which Hereward took Torfrida , and his child , and all he had , and took ship at Bardeney , and went for Ely . 
Which when Earl Warrenne heard , he laid wait for him , seemingly near Littleport : but got nothing thereby , according to Richard of Ely , but the pleasure of giving and taking a great deal of bad language ; and -LRB- after his men had refused , reasonably enough , to swim the Ouse and attack Hereward -RRB- an arrow , which Hereward , `` modicum se inclinans , '' stooping forward , says the chronicler -- who probably saw the deed -- shot at him across the Ouse , as the Earl stood cursing on the top of the dyke . 
After which Hereward threw himself into Ely , and assumed , by consent of all , the command of the English who were therein . 
By them sat the bishops , Egelwin the Englishman and Christiern the Dane ; Asbiorn ; the young Earls Edwin and Morcar , and Sweyn 's two sons ; and , it may be , the sons of Tosti Godwinsson , and Arkill the great Thane , and Siward Barn , and Hereward himself . 
Hereward rose , and spoke gracefully , earnestly , eloquently : but he could not deny Sweyn 's plain words . 
`` The Wake beats about the bush , '' said Jarl Asbiorn , rising when Hereward sat down . 
Then Hereward rose again , and without an openly insulting word , poured forth his scorn and rage upon Asbiorn . 
Why had he not kept to the agreement which he and Countess Gyda had made with him through Tosti 's sons ? 
`` Hereward is right . 
cried Hereward . 
Then Hereward rose again , and spoke so nobly and so well , that all ears were charmed . 
And every Englishman shouted , `` Hereward is right ! 
And Sweyn Ulfsson rose again , and said with a great oath , `` That if there had been three such men as Hereward in England , all would have gone well . '' 
Hereward laughed . 
And when it broke up , there came to Hereward in the hall a noble-looking man of his own age , and put his hand within his , and said : -- `` Do you not know me , Hereward Leofricsson ? '' 
cried Hereward , clasping him in his arms , as the scenes of his wild youth rushed across his mind . 
`` They must go , '' said Hereward , half-peevishly . 
So the Danes sailed away : but Sigtryg Ranaldsson and his five ships remained . 
Hereward went up to the minster tower ; and watched the Ouse flashing with countless oars northward toward Southrey Fen . 
And when they were all out of sight , he went back , and lay down on his bed , and wept -- once and for all . 
Then he arose , and went down into the hall to abbots and monks , and earls and knights , and was the boldest , cheeriest , wittiest of them all . 
`` They say , '' quoth he to Torfrida that night , `` that some men have grey heads on green shoulders . 
And he played with her raven locks . 
Ivo Taillebois came with him , hungry after those Spalding lands , the rents whereof Hereward had been taking for his men for now twelve months . 
And they grumbled , when William halted them and hutted them at Cambridge , and began to feel cautiously the strength of the place -- which must be strong , or Hereward and the English would not have made it their camp of refuge . 
They had thrown up a turf rampart on the island shore , and `` ante-muralia et propugnacula , '' -- doubtless overhanging `` hoardings , '' or scaffolds , through the floor of which they could shower down missiles.Was this `` Hereward 's Fort , '' which was still shown in the Fens in the days of Roger of Wendover ? 
`` They are numberless , '' said Torfrida , in a serious and astonished voice , as she stood by Hereward 's side . 
said Hereward . 
`` You must be quick , Frenchmen , '' shouted Hereward in derision , `` if you mean to come on board here . '' 
The French knew that well : and as Hereward spoke , two panels in the front of the sow creaked on their hinges , and dropped landward , forming two draw-bridges , over which reeled to the attack a close body of knights , mingled with soldiers bearing scaling ladders . 
Ere it could be hurled off again by the English , it was so crowded with men that even Hereward 's strength was insufficient to lift it off . 
He stood at the top , ready to hew down the first comer ; and he hewed him down . 
`` So we are , '' shouted a knight , the first and last who crossed that parapet ; for , thrusting Hereward back with a blow of his sword-hilt , he staggered past him over the hoarding , and fell on his knees . 
quoth Hereward . 
Sir Deda answered by a blow on Hereward 's helmet , which felled The Wake to his knees , and broke the sword into twenty splinters . 
said Hereward , as he rose . 
The knight looked round on the fierce ring of faces , in the midst of which he stood alone . 
Egelwin , bishop of Durham , is there too ; and besides them all , and above them all , Hereward The Wake . 
At the hall-table there dined each day maybe some fifty belted knights , with every one a monk next to him ; and at the high table the abbot , and the earls , and Hereward and his lady . 
He that beat down the swords was Hereward himself . '' 
And the rest were Turstan the Younger ; one Siward , another monk ; Leofric the Deacon , Hereward 's minstrel ; and Boter , the traitor monk of St. Edmunds . '' 
`` If William 's French grooms got hold of you , Torfrida , it would not be a little walnut-brown which would hide you , '' said Hereward . 
And all begged Hereward to let any man go , rather than himself . 
`` I am going , lords and knights ; and what Hereward says he does . 
And Hereward put on filthy garments ; and taking mare Swallow with him , got into a barge and went across the river to Soham . 
`` Then here is he that will , '' quoth Hereward ; and , jumping off his mare , he twisted the staff out of the potter 's hands , and knocked him down therewith . 
So Hereward took the pots , and the potter 's claygreased coat , and went on through Mildenhall , `` crying , '' saith the chronicler , `` after the manner of potters , in the English tongue , ` Pots ! 
`` Never mind , '' quoth he , `` they will think that I have sold them . 
Hereward felt thoroughly at home in his part ; as able to play the Englishman which he was by rearing , as the Frenchman which he was by education . 
Robin Hood himself may have trolled out many a time , in doggrel strain , how Hereward played the potter . 
And he came to Brandon , to the `` king 's court , '' from which William could command the streams of Wissey and Little Ouse , with all their fens ; and saw with a curse the new buildings of Weeting Castle -- like the rest , of which Sir F. Palgrave eloquently says -- `` New , and strong , and cruel in their strength -- how the Englishman must have loathed the damp smell of the fresh mortar , and the sight of the heaps of rubble , and the chippings of the stone , and the blurring of the lime upon the green sward ; and how hopeless he must have felt when the great gates opened , and the wains were drawn in , heavily laden with the salted beeves , and the sacks of corn and meal furnished by the Royal demesnes , the manors which had belonged to Edward the Confessor , now the spoil of the stranger : and when he looked into the Castle court , thronged by the soldiers in bright mail , and heard the carpenters working upon the ordnance , -- every blow and stroke , even of the hammer or mallet , speaking the language of defiance . '' 
Outside the town was a wretched cabin of mud and turf -- such a one as Irish folk live in to this day ; and Hereward said to himself , `` This is bad enough to be good enough for me . '' 
So he knocked at the door ; and knocked till it was opened , and a hideous old crone put out her head . 
thought Hereward . 
So she agreed to let Hereward sleep there , for the value of two jars . 
groaned Hereward ; `` thou drivest a hard bargain , for an Englishwoman , with a poor Englishman . '' 
`` So much the better if thou art not , '' thought Hereward ; and bargained with her for a panshin against a lodging for the horse in the turf-house , and a bottle of bad hay . 
`` Nought needs nought , '' said Hereward ; threw himself down on a bundle of rush , and in a few minutes snored loudly . 
But he was never less asleep . 
He looked round the whole place ; and he listened to every word . 
But in a corner , stuck against the wall , was something which chilled Hereward 's blood a little ; -- a dried human hand , which he knew must have been stolen off the gallows , gripping in its fleshless fingers a candle , which he knew was made of human fat . 
Hereward was very much frightened . 
And Hereward crossed himself devoutly , and invoked St. Ethelfrida of Ely , St. Guthlac of Crowland , St. Felix of Ramsey -- to which last saint , he recollected , he had been somewhat remiss : but , above all , St. Peter of Peterborough , whose treasures he had given to the Danes . 
`` If thou wilt help me out of this strait , and the rest , blessed Apostle , I will give thee -- I will go to Constantinople but what I will win it -- a golden table , twice as fine as those villains carried off ; and one of the Bourne manors -- Witham -- or Toft -- or Mainthorpe -- whichever pleases thee best , in full fee ; and a -- and a -- '' But while Hereward was casting in his mind what gewgaw further might suffice to appease the Apostle , he was recalled to business and common sense by hearing the two old hags talk to each other in French . 
Then there was a grumbling and a quarrelling , from which Hereward understood that the gold was to be shared between them . 
One of them came and listened to Hereward 's breathing , and put her hand upon his chest . 
His hair stood on end ; a cold sweat came over him . 
But he snored more loudly than ever . 
Then Hereward rose , and glided after them . 
They went down a meadow to a little well , which Hereward had marked as he rode thither hung round with bits of rag and flowers , as similar `` holy wells '' are decorated in Ireland to this day . 
He hid behind a hedge , and watched them stooping over the well , mumbling he knew not what of cantrips . 
Nine times he counted the tinkling sound . 
`` The ninth day -- the ninth day , and the king shall take Ely , '' said one in a cracked scream , rising and shaking her fist towards the isle . 
Hereward was more than half-minded to have put his dagger -- the only weapon which he had -- into the two old beldames . 
But the fear of an outcry kept him still . 
He had found out already so much , that he was determined to find out more . 
So to-morrow he would go up to the Court itself , and take what luck sent . 
He slipt back to the cabin , and lay down again ; and as soon as he had seen the two old crones safe asleep , fell asleep himself , and was so tired that he laid till the sun was high . 
screamed the old dame at last , kicking him , `` or I shall make you give me another crock for a double night 's rest . '' 
He paid his lodging , put the panniers on the mare , and went on crying pots . 
When he came to the outer gateway of the Court , he tied up the mare , and carried the crockery in on his own back , boldly . 
The scullions saw him ; and called him into the kitchen , to see his crockery , without the least intention of paying for what they took . 
A man of rank belonging to the court came in , and stared fixedly at Hereward . 
`` You are mightily like that villain Hereward , man , '' quoth he . 
asked Hereward , looking as stupid as he could . 
`` If it were not for his brown face and his short hair , he is as like the fellow as a churl can be to a knight . '' 
`` Bring him into the hall , '' quoth another ; `` and let us see if any man knows him . '' 
`` Hereward ? '' 
Hereward must be half as big again , if it be true that he can kill a man with one blow of his fist . '' 
`` You may try the truth of that for yourself some day , '' thought Hereward . 
`` Hereward ? 
Hereward ? 
To make a laughing-stock of an Englishman was too tempting a jest to be resisted ; and Hereward was drenched -LRB- says the chronicler -RRB- with wine and beer , and sorely baited and badgered . 
Hereward pretended not to understand the words , which were spoken in French ; but when they were interpreted to him , he grew somewhat red about the ears . 
Submit he would not . 
But if he defended himself , and made an uproar in the king 's Court , he might very likely find himself riding Odin 's horse before the hour was out . 
However , happily for him , the wine and beer had made him stout of heart , and when one fellow laid hold of his beard , he resisted sturdily . 
Hereward , hot of temper , and careless of life , struck him again , right under the ear . 
Up leapt cook-boys , scullions , `` lécheurs , '' -LRB- who hung about the kitchen to `` lécher , '' lick the platters , -RRB- and all the foul-mouthed rascality of a great mediæval household , and attacked Hereward `` cum furcis et tridentibus , '' with forks and flesh-hooks . 
Then was Hereward aware of a great broach , or spit , before the fire ; and recollecting how he had used such a one as a boy against the monks of Peterborough , was minded to use it against the cooks of Brandon ; which he did so heartily , that in a few moments he had killed one , and driven the others backward in a heap . 
Then Hereward looked at the face of the great man , and felt at once that it was the face of the greatest man whom he had ever met . 
Hereward fell on his knees . 
said William , quickly , to the kneeling Hereward . 
`` A few words only , most gracious king , which we potters pick up , wandering everywhere with our wares , '' said Hereward , speaking in French ; for so keen was William 's eye , that he thought it safer to play no tricks with him . 
Hereward drew up his sleeve . 
Hereward , who had carefully hung down his head to prevent his throat-patterns being seen , was forced to lift it up . 
Is not this he who was said to be so like Hereward ? 
Put him in ward till I come back from hunting . 
But do him no harm . 
For '' -- and William fixed on Hereward eyes of the most intense intelligence -- `` were he Hereward himself , I should be right glad to see Hereward safe and sound ; my man at last , and earl of all between Humber and the Fens . '' 
But Hereward did not rise at the bait . 
With a face of stupid and ludicrous terror , he made reply in broken French . 
`` All saints send your grace good sport , and thereby me a good deliverance , '' quoth Hereward , who knew that his fate might depend on the temper in which William returned . 
`` Nothing easier , '' quoth Hereward cheerfully , and held out a leg . 
For Hereward cut off his head with his own sword . 
Whereon , between the imminent danger , and the bad language , Hereward 's blood rose , and he smote that unlucky groom-boy : but whether he slew him or not , the chronicler had rather not say . 
Who then was proud but Hereward , as the mare tucked her great thighs under her , and swept on over heath and rabbit-burrow , over rush and fen , sound ground and rotten all alike to that enormous stride , to that keen bright eye which foresaw every footfall , to that raking shoulder which picked her up again at every stagger ? 
Hereward laid the bridle on her neck , and let her go . 
Fall she could not , and tire she could not ; and he half wished she might go on for ever . 
The setting sun gilded the white flints of the keep ; and Hereward looked on them with a curse . 
But it gilded , too , the tree tops of the great forest beyond ; and Hereward uttered something like a prayer to St. Etheldreda and her ladies three . 
For if he could but reach that forest , he was safe . 
But he saw that the Roman road led strait to a hamlet some mile above the town ; and at the road end , he guessed , there must be either a bridge or a ford . 
`` I shall have the whole pack of wolves out , and on me , in half an hour , '' thought Hereward ; and struck spurs into the mare . 
`` For the sake of God and courtesy , '' quoth he , his French pride being well-nigh beat out of him , `` if thou hast seen or heard anything of Hereward The Wake , good fellow , tell me , and I will repay thee well . '' 
And in token thereof , thou shalt give me thy lance and sword , and take instead this sword which I carried off from the king 's Court at Brandon ; and promise me , on the faith of a knight , to bear it back to King William ; and tell him , that Hereward and he have met at last ; and that he had best beware of the day when they shall meet again . '' 
Hereward came back in fear and trembling after all . 
So they prayed , while Hereward and his men worked at the forts below . 
And when they came back , and Torfrida was washing her feet , sore and bleeding from her pilgrimage , Hereward came in . 
Hereward threw himself at her feet , and prayed her to tell . 
At last she spoke , as one half afraid of her own words : `` Will the reeds burn , Hereward ? '' 
Hereward kissed her feet again and again , calling her his prophetess , his saviour . 
`` Among whom came Hereward in a very narrow canoe , with head and beard shaven lest he should be known , and worked diligently among the rest . 
But the sun did not set that day without mischief ; for before Hereward went off , he finished his work by setting the whole on fire , so that it was all burnt , and some of the French killed and drowned . '' 
It was not Hereward alone who had entreated Torfrida to exercise her magic art in their behalf . 
If Torfrida was exhausted , so was Hereward likewise . 
Hereward did not care to undeceive them . 
Hereward jested with him , tried to cheer him : but he was silent , would not drink , and went away before the rest . 
Hereward was terrified . 
`` Because , '' laughed Hereward , `` he wanted Waltheof , and he does not want you and Edwin . 
I have lands in Spalding , by your Royal grace ; and wish to enjoy them in peace , having worked for them hard enough -- and how can I do that , as long as Hereward sits in Ely ? '' 
So they laid their heads together to slay Hereward . 
But instead of marrying Torfrida or her daughter , I have more mind to her niece , who is younger , and has no Hereward to be killed first . '' 
`` Lucia as we call her , Edwin and Morcar 's sister , Hereward 's niece , Torfrida 's niece . '' 
What meant you by having to kill others before Hereward ? '' 
That sort of personage suits Taillebois ' taste , rather than Hereward 's . '' 
`` Sir Ascelin , '' said William , as Ascelin came in , `` you know Hereward ? '' 
`` The Lord Taillebois may know best what manner of man Sir Hereward has become since he himself came into this English air , which changes some folks mightily , '' with a hardly disguised sneer at Ivo ; `` but in Flanders he was a very perfect knight , beloved and honoured of all men , and especially of your father-in-law , the great marquis . '' 
And no shame to confess , that when Hereward knew thereof , he sought me out at a tournament , and served me as he has served many a better man before and since . '' 
But heaven save me , and all I love , from that Hereward . 
Ascelin told him all about her , not forgetting to say -- what , according to the chronicler , was a common report -- that she had compassed Hereward 's love by magic arts . 
She used to practise sorcery , he said , with her sorceress mistress , Richilda of Hainault . 
And after old Baldwin died , and Baldwin of Mons and Richilda came to Bruges , Torfrida was always with her , while Hereward was at the wars . 
`` But Hereward , you say , is a good knight and true ? '' 
`` Still , he might think of this plan ; for they say that the lady is an old friend of Hereward 's , and not over fond of her Scotch husband . '' 
`` And beside -- if aught untoward should happen to Dolfin and his kin -- '' `` She might , with her broad lands , be a fine bait for Hereward . 
And let him tell Hereward , by the faith and oath of William of Normandy , that if he will surrender himself to my grace , he shall have his lands in Bourne , and a free pardon for himself and all his comrades . '' 
`` You have played me a scurvy trick , sir , '' said Ascelin to Ivo , `` in advising the king to give the Lady Alftruda to Hereward . '' 
`` But you would give her to Hereward ! '' 
Even so Hereward will flee with her -- maybe escape to Flanders or Denmark . 
He can escape through a rat 's hole if he will . 
I had sooner kill him and have done with it : but out of the way he must be put . '' 
So they sent a monk in with the message ; and commanded him to tell the article about the Lady Torfrida , not only to Hereward , but to the abbot and all the monks . 
A curt and fierce answer came back , not from Hereward , but from Torfrida herself -- that William of Normandy was no knight himself , or he would not offer a knight his life , on condition of burning his lady . 
As for Hereward , you need not think of him . 
He never will come in alive . 
He has sworn an oath , and he will keep it . '' 
Hereward was away , with a large body of men , and many ships , foraging in the north-eastern fens . 
Abbot Thurstan -- for what cause is not said -- had lost heart a little while before , and fled to `` Angerhale , taking with him the ornaments and treasure of the church . '' 
Hereward had discovered his flight with deadly fear : but provisions he must have , and forth he must go , leaving Ely in charge of half-a-dozen independent English gentlemen , each of whom would needs have his own way , just because it was his own . 
And Hereward went , seemingly by Mepal or Sutton . 
So all they could do , was to wait in fear and trembling for Hereward 's return , and send Martin Lightfoot off to warn him , wherever he might be . 
Martin found Hereward after incredible labours , and told him all , clearly and shrewdly . 
Hereward was already on his way home ; and never did he and his good men row harder than they rowed that day back to Sutton . 
Hereward was still more uneasy . 
Hereward called a halt . 
`` Hereward ? 
onward , '' cried Hereward . 
`` Then one traitor monk shall die ere I retreat , '' cried Hereward , seizing him by the throat . 
`` I am no traitor , Hereward ; I have fought by your side as well as the best ; and if any but you had called Alwyn -- '' `` A curse on your boasting . 
`` Blaspheme not , Hereward ! 
Hereward grew Berserk . 
`` Hereward , '' cried Torfrida , `` you shall not go on ! 
Hereward , take me away ! 
`` We will go back to the boats , men , '' said Hereward . 
`` We may at least save some who escape out , '' said Hereward . 
Hereward and Torfrida lay side by side upon the heath . 
She was shivering with cold and horror . 
He laid his cloak over her ; put his arm round her . 
`` Your stars did not foretell you this , Torfrida . '' 
asked he half angrily . 
`` Come , men , '' said Hereward , wearily , `` we may as well to the boats . '' 
Only Hereward and Torfrida saw it all , looking back on the splendid past -- the splendid hopes for the future : glory , honour , an earldom , a free Danish England -- and this was all that was left ! 
cried Torfrida suddenly , as if answering her own unspoken thoughts , and his . 
And she clung closer to her husband 's side , and he again to hers . 
From this point Hereward could escape north into Lincolnshire , either by Wisbeach and the Wash , or by Crowland and Bourne . 
said Hereward . 
`` The Bruneswald , and the merry greenwood , '' said Hereward . 
said Hereward . 
On board , Torfrida . '' 
said he , as they pushed off ; and the good lass , who had done it many a time before , waded in , and was soon swimming behind . 
Hereward turned , and bent over the side in the darkness . 
There was a strange gurgle , a splash , and a swirl . 
`` She will not need it , '' said Hereward . 
`` Do you think that I would let a cursed Frenchman -- ay , even William 's self -- say that he had bestridden Hereward 's mare ? '' 
But at last , by their war-cries and their speech , recognising each other , they left off fighting , '' and went after Hereward . 
And now is Hereward to the greenwood gone , to be a bold outlaw ; and not only an outlaw himself , but the father of all outlaws , who held those forests for two hundred years , from the fens to the Scottish border . 
Their persons , as consecrated , were even to him sacred and inviolable -- at least , from wounds and death ; and one may suppose Hereward himself to have been the first author of the laws afterward attributed to Robin Hood . 
To the west , they had the range of the `` hunting counties , '' dotted still , in the more eastern part , with innumerable copses and shaughs , the remnants of the great forest , out of which , as out of Rockinghamshire , have been cut those fair parks and `` Handsome houses , Where the wealthy nobles dwell ; '' past which the Lord of Burghley led his Welsh bride to that Burghley House by Stamford town , well-nigh the noblest of them all , which was in Hereward 's time deep wood , and freestone down . 
Round Exton , and Normanton , and that other Burley on the Hill ; on through those Morkery woods , which still retain the name of Hereward 's ill-fated nephew ; north by Irnham and Corby ; on to Belton and Syston , -LRB- par nobile , -RRB- and south-west again to those still wooded heights , whence all-but-royal Belvoir looks out over the rich green vale below , did Hereward and his men range far and wide , harrying the Frenchman , and hunting the dun deer . 
There remain to this day , in Grimsthorpe Park by Bourne , the descendants of the very deer which Earl Leofric and Earl Algar , and after them Hereward the outlaw , hunted in the Bruneswald . 
Wherefore it befell , that once upon a day , there came riding to Hereward in the Bruneswald , a horseman all alone . 
And meeting with Hereward and his men , he made signs of amity , and bowed himself low , and pulled out of his purse a letter , protesting that he was an Englishman , and a `` good felawe , '' and that though he came from Lincoln town , a friend to the English had sent him . 
That was believable enough , for Hereward had his friends , and his spies , far and wide . 
And when he opened the letter , and looked first , like a wary man , at the signature , -- a sudden thrill went through him . 
And Hereward had reason to be ashamed . 
And Hereward had been faithful likewise to Torfrida , and loved her with an overwhelming adoration , -- as all true men love . 
thought Hereward . 
Hereward laughed a laugh of cynical triumph , -- pardonable enough in a broken man . 
And Hereward boasted to himself , at Gospatric 's expense , of his own superior wisdom , till his eye caught a line or two , which finished the letter . 
Opportunity once lost , never returns ; time flies fast , Hereward my friend , and we shall all grow old , -- I think at times that I shall soon grow old . 
said Hereward , `` a very clerkly letter . 
That was all he said ; and as for thinking , he had the posse comitatus of seven counties to think of . 
And Hereward found himself worked up to a great height of paternal solicitude for Alftruda , and righteous indignation against Ascelin . 
But Hereward , however vain , was no dreamer or sluggard . 
It is noteworthy , that when Hereward showed Torfrida -LRB- which he did frankly -RRB- Alftruda 's letter , he did not tell her the exact words of his answer , and stumbled and varied much , vexing her thereby , when she , naturally , wished to hear them word for word . 
Then he sent out spies to the four airts of heaven . 
And his spies , finding a friend and a meal in every hovel , brought home all the news he needed . 
He withdrew Torfrida and his men into the heart of the forest , -- no hint of the place is given by the chronicler , -- cut down trees , formed an abattis of trunks and branches , and awaited the enemy . 
Though Hereward had , as yet , no feud against `` Bysshoppes and Archbysshoppes , '' save Egelsin of Selsey , who had excommunicated him , but who was at the other end of England , he had feud , as may be supposed , against Thorold , Abbot of Peterborough ; and Thorold feud likewise against him . 
Joyfully therefore he joined his friend Ivo Taillebois , when , `` with his usual pompous verbosity , '' saith Peter of Blois , writing on this very matter , he asked him to join in destroying Hereward . 
Nevertheless , with all the French chivalry at their back , it behoved them to move with caution ; for -LRB- so says the chronicler -RRB- `` Hereward had in these days very many foreigners , as well as landsfolk , who had come to him to practise and learn war , and fled from their masters and friends when they heard of his fame ; some of them even the King 's courtiers , who had come to see whether those things which they heard were true , whom Hereward nevertheless received cautiously , on plighted troth and oath . '' 
But at the last they struck upon a great horse-track , and followed it at their best pace for several miles ; and yet no sign of Hereward . 
`` Have you seen Hereward , villain ? '' 
`` So you had seen Hereward , and would not tell ? 
It is Hereward . '' 
cried Hereward galloping up . 
Hereward dashed forward with a shout , and at that the French , taken in the flank , fled , and were smitten as they fled , hip and thigh . 
Hereward bade them spare a fugitive , and bring him to him . 
`` Then go after him , and tell him , -- Hereward has the Abbot of Burgh , and half-a-dozen knights , safe by the heels . 
He found those of Hereward and Torfrida , at least , as polished as his own . 
So said Hereward ; and the Abbot sang -- those wondrous staves , where Roland , left alone of all the Paladins , finds death come on him fast . 
Then he pressed Hereward to sing , with many compliments ; and Hereward sang , and sang again , and all his men crowded round him as the outlaws of Judæa may have crowded round David in Carmel or Hebron , to hear , like children , old ditties which they loved the better the oftener they heard them . 
Hereward answered sharply , because he was half of Thorold 's mind . 
It saddened Hereward likewise . 
said Hereward , ere they hapt themselves up for the night . 
Thorold hoped that Hereward was drunk , and might forget , or relent : but he was so sore at heart that he slept not a wink that night . 
But in the morning he found , to his sorrow , that Hereward had been as sober as himself . 
In fine , he had to pay the money ; and was a poor man all his days . 
Sir Ascelin , '' said Hereward apart , as he bade them all farewell with many courtesies . 
`` Sir Hereward knows the world , it seems . '' 
said he , as soon as Hereward was out of hearing . 
The weary months ran on , from summer into winter , and winter into summer again , for two years and more , and neither Torfrida nor Hereward was the better for them . 
And sometimes a foraging party brought home liquor , and all who could , got drunk to drive dull care away ; and Hereward , forgetful of all her warnings , got more than was good for him likewise ; and at night she coiled herself up in her furs , cold and contemptuous ; and Hereward coiled himself up , guilty and defiant , and woke her again and again with startings and wild words in his sleep . 
And she felt that her beauty was gone , and that he saw it ; and she fancied him -LRB- perhaps it was only fancy -RRB- less tender than of yore ; and then in very pride disdained to take any care of her person , and said to herself , though she dare not say it to him , that if he only loved her for her face , he did not love her at all . 
And because she fancied him cold at times , she was cold likewise , and grew less and less caressing , when for his sake , as well as her own , she should have grown more so day by day . 
One day they were wrangling about somewhat , as they too often wrangled , and Hereward in his temper let fall the words , `` As I said to Winter the other day , you grow harder and harder upon me . '' 
Torfrida started and fixed on him wide terrible scornful eyes . 
Hereward complained of Torfrida ? 
What if Torfrida should complain of Hereward ? 
She would go to the Lady Godiva at Crowland , and take counsel of her , whether there was any method -LRB- for she put it to herself -RRB- of saving Hereward ; for she saw but too clearly that he was fast forgetting all her teaching , and falling back to a point lower than that even from which she had raised him up . 
Hereward was out foraging in the Lincolnshire wolds . 
For the first time in her life since she became the bride of Hereward , she had had a confidence concerning him and unknown to him . 
The letter was addressed to Hereward : but there was nothing strange in Martin 's bringing it to his mistress . 
True , Alftruda had written before , only to warn Hereward of danger to his life , -- and hers . 
But still , she did not wish that either Hereward , or she , should owe Alftruda their lives , or anything . 
But she was too proud to mistrust Hereward , or rather , to seem to mistrust him . 
`` I was in Peterborough last night , '' said Martin , `` concerning little matters of my own , and there came to me in the street a bonny young page with smart jacket on his back , smart cap on his head , and smiles and bows , and ` You are one of Hereward 's men , ' quoth he . 
There he pulls out this and five silver pennies , and I shall have five more if I bring an answer back : but to none than Hereward must I give it . 
and he said that she had been questioning all about the monastery without Abbot Thorold 's knowledge , for one that knew Hereward and favoured him well . 
So Hereward had secrets which he would not tell to her . 
Hereward , she remarked , was more kind to her now . 
Hereward hurried in for his armour . 
And now , her other children -LRB- if she ever had any -RRB- , had died in childhood ; the little Torfrida , named after herself , was all that she had brought to Hereward ; and he was the last of his house . 
In either case Hereward would have no descendants for whom it was worth his while to labour or to fight . 
At her feet , under the perch where Hereward 's armour had hung , lay an open letter . 
This , then , was why Hereward had been so strangely hurried . 
It congratulated Hereward on having shaken himself free from the fascinations of that sorceress . 
Hereward was to come to Winchester . 
Then she thought no more of her , not even of Hereward : but all of which she was conscious was a breast and brain bursting ; an intolerable choking , from which she must escape . 
She looked to see if it was Hereward . 
It was not Hereward ; and she cried angrily , `` Off ! 
Hereward ! '' 
Hereward ! 
Hereward ! 
Hereward the devil . 
`` Oh , Hereward , Hereward ! 
`` Bring him up , '' said the good abbot , `` for he is a valiant man and true , in spite of all his vanities ; and may be , he brings news of Hereward , whom God forgive . '' 
Hereward came back on the third day , and found his wife and daughter gone . 
Therefore what Hereward thought and felt will not be told . 
What he did , was this . 
He raged and blustered . 
He must hide his shame . 
He must justify himself to his knights ; and much more to himself : or if not justify himself , must shift some of the blame over to the opposite side . 
So he raged and blustered . 
He had been robbed of his wife and daughter . 
If tobacco had been known then , Hereward would have smoked all the way , and been none the wiser , though the happier , for it ; for the herb that drives away the evil spirits of anxiety , drives away also the good , though stern , spirits of remorse . 
But in those days a man could only escape facts by drinking ; and Hereward was too much afraid of what he should meet in Crowland , to go thither drunk . 
Sometimes he hoped that Torfrida might hold her purpose , and set him free to follow his wicked will . 
All the lower nature in him , so long crushed under , leapt up chuckling and grinning and tumbling head over heels , and cried -- Now I shall have a holiday ! 
Sometimes he hoped that Torfrida might come out to the shore , and settle the matter in one moment , by a glance of her great hawk 's eyes . 
If she would but quell him by one look ; leap on board , seize the helm , and assume without a word the command of his men and him ; steer them back to Bourne , and sit down beside him with a kiss , as if nothing had happened . 
`` No , '' said the young man , so quietly , that Hereward was cowed . 
Hereward swore awfully , and laid his hand on his sword-hilt . 
But he did not draw it ; for he thought he saw overhead a cloud which was very like the figure of St. Guthlac in Crowland window , and an awe fell upon him from above . 
So they came to Crowland ; and Hereward landed and beat upon the gates , and spoke high words . 
`` Comes Hereward in peace or in war ? '' 
said Hereward . 
Then that true and trusty old man , who sealed his patriotism , if not with his blood -- for the very Normans had not the heart to take that -- still with long and bitter sorrows , lifted up his head , and said , like a valiant Dane , as his name bespoke him , `` Against the traitor and the adulterer -- '' `` I am neither , '' roared Hereward . 
Hereward recoiled . 
Hereward was silenced . 
`` They must answer that , not I. '' Hereward sent in , entreating to see one , or both . 
And Hereward did ; and went back again like a man stunned . 
After awhile there came by boat to Crowland all Torfrida 's wealth ; clothes , jewels : not a shred had Hereward kept . 
Only the armour she wrapped up in the white bear 's skin , and sent it back to Hereward , with her blessing , and entreaty not to refuse that , her last bequest . 
Hereward did not refuse , for very shame . 
But for very shame he never wore that armour more . 
For very shame he never slept again upon the white bear 's skin , on which he and his true love had lain so many a year . 
And Torfrida turned herself utterly to serve the Lady Godiva , and to teach and train her child as she had never done before , while she had to love Hereward , and to work day and night , with her own fingers , for all his men . 
For they loved her with a love mightier than ever Hereward had heaped upon her ; for she had given him all ; but she had given those two wild men nought but the beatific vision of a noble woman . 
`` On account of which , '' says the chronicler , `` many troubles came to Hereward : because Torfrida was most wise , and of great counsel in need . 
He was an Englishman , and not a Frenchman , by his dress ; and Hereward spoke courteously enough to him . 
But who he was , and what his business was in the Bruneswald , Hereward thought that he had a right to ask . 
`` I am Hereward , without whose leave no man has ridden the Bruneswald for many a day . '' 
I am Hereward . '' 
The man was a surly brute : but what he said was so true , that Hereward 's wrath arose . 
`` If I am a fool and a churl , thou art a greater fool , to provoke thine own death ; and a greater -- '' `` Spare your breath , '' said the big man , `` and let me try Hereward , as I have many another . '' 
And , by the contagion of folly common in the middle age , at each other rode Hereward 's three knights and Letwold 's five . 
Geri unhorsed his man at the first charge , and left him stunned . 
Then he turned on another , and did the same by him . 
roared Hereward , `` and give the knight fair play ! 
Hereward had , to his own surprise and that of his fellows , met his match . 
The sparks flew , the iron clanged : but so heavy were the stranger 's strokes , that Hereward reeled again and again . 
So sure was the guard of his shield , that Hereward could not wound him , hit where he would . 
`` Your master is a true Englishman , by the hardness of his brains , '' quoth Wenoch , as the stranger , reeling for a moment , lifted up his head , and stared at Hereward in the face , doubtful what to do . 
shouted Hereward , rushing upon him , as a mastiff might on a lion , and striking at his helm , though shorter than him by a head and shoulders , such swift and terrible blows with the broken hilt , as staggered the tall stranger . 
Hereward sprang back . 
He struck right down on Hereward 's head . 
Hereward raised his shield , warding the stroke , and threw in that coup de jarret , which there is no guarding , after the downright blow has been given . 
`` Yield , '' cried Hereward in his turn . 
Hereward , mad with the sight of blood , struck at him four or five times . 
Hereward burst out laughing . 
asked Hereward , having no more to say , and not wishing to kill the man . 
And Hereward turned away , sulky , and half afraid . 
and Hereward turned angrily back . 
asked Hereward fiercely . 
asked Hereward with an oath . 
Hereward got on his horse , and rode away . 
After these things Hereward summoned all his men , and set before them the hopelessness of any further resistance , and the promises of amnesty , lands , and honours which William had offered him ; and persuaded them -- and indeed he had good arguments enough and to spare -- that they should go and make their peace with the king . 
A few of the more suspicious , or more desperate , said that they could never trust the Frenchman ; that Hereward himself had warned them again and again of his treachery ; that he was now going to do himself what he had laughed at Gospatric and the rest for doing ; what had brought ruin on Edwin and Morcar ; what he had again and again prophesied would bring ruin on Waltheof himself ere all was over . 
But Hereward was deaf to their arguments . 
And Hereward -LRB- says the chronicler -RRB- took Gwenoch , Geri , and Matelgar , and rode south to the king . 
Be that as it may , Hereward rode south . 
It seemed mean for the once great Hereward to sneak into Winchester with three knights . 
Perhaps it seemed not over safe for the once great Hereward to travel with only three knights . 
So Hereward and those forty knights rode down from Peterborough , along the Roman road . 
Be that as it may , down the Roman road Hereward went ; past Alconbury Hill , of the old posting days ; past Hatfield , then deep forest ; and so to St. Alban 's , then deep forest likewise . 
Within the city rose the ancient minster church , built by Ethelwold -- ancient even then -- where slept the ancient kings ; Kennulf , Egbert , and Ethelwulf the Saxons ; and by them the Danes , Canute the Great , and Hardacanute his son , and Norman Emma his wife , and Ethelred 's before him ; and the great Earl Godwin , who seemed to Hereward to have died , not twenty , but two hundred years ago ; -- and it may be an old Saxon hall upon the little isle whither Edgar had bidden bring the heads of all the wolves in Wessex , where afterwards the bishops built Wolvesey Palace . 
Hereward halted his knights upon the down outside the northern gate . 
Then Hereward smote a second time : but the porter did not come out . 
Go and tell William the king , that Hereward is come to put his hands between the king 's , and be the king 's man henceforth . '' 
`` You are Hereward ? '' 
asked one , half awed , half disbelieving at Hereward 's short stature . 
And so cowed were these two knights with Hereward 's royal voice , and royal eye , and royal strength , that they went simply , and did what he bade them . 
And when King William saw the splinters , he was as joyful as man could be , and said : `` Send him to me , and tell him , Bright shines the sun to me that lights Hereward into Winchester . '' 
So Hereward rode round , outside the walls , to William 's new entrenched palace , outside the west gate , by the castle . 
And then Hereward went in , and knelt before the Norman , and put his hands between William 's hands , and swore to be his man . 
`` I have kept my word , '' said he , `` which I sent to thee at Rouen seven years agone . 
And William walked out of the hall leaning on Hereward 's shoulder , at which all the Normans gnashed their teeth with envy . 
After which Hereward sent them all home except two ; and waited till he should marry Alftruda , and get back his heritage . 
Hereward bowed . 
Hereward bit his lip . 
It was not his interest to quarrel with Hereward . 
I ask your pardon for that , Sir Hereward . 
said Hereward to himself , bitterly . 
And he was not the same man . 
At last , being puzzled to get that which he wanted , he touched on the matter of her marriage with Hereward . 
How , wickedly , wantonly , and instinct with a malignant spirit , she had compassed , by charms and spells , to win the love of Hereward . 
`` And now , '' said the priest , `` deliver me over Torfrida the younger , daughter of Hereward and this woman , that I may take her to the King , who has found a fit husband for her . '' 
does Hereward know of this ? '' 
`` It is the best thing which I have heard of him . 
I should tell him , were it not that I must not meddle with my lord 's plans . 
And so Hereward married Alftruda . 
But that Hereward married Alftruda , under these very circumstances , may be considered a `` historic fact , '' being vouched for both by Gaimar , and by Richard of Ely . 
Whereon she turned upon him like a tigress , and bidding him remember that she was the daughter of Hereward and Torfrida , gave him such a beating that he , not wishing to draw sword upon her , surrendered at discretion ; and they lived all their lives afterwards as happily as most other married people in those times . 
All this , however pleasant to Hereward , was not pleasant to the French courtiers ; wheron , after the simple fashion of those times , they looked about for one who would pick a quarrel with Hereward and slay him in fair fight . 
Now it befel , that among them at Winchester was Oger the Breton , he who had held Morcar 's lands round Bourne , and who was now in wrath and dread enough , at the prospect of having to give them up to Hereward . 
It was no difficult matter to set the hot-headed Celt on to provoke the equally hot-headed Wake ; and accordingly , Oger , having been duly plied with wine , was advised to say one afternoon -- `` Hereward feeds well at the king 's table . 
Wherefrom the Breton judged that Hereward had no lust to fight . 
The next day he met Hereward going out to hunt , and was confirmed in his opinion when Hereward lifted his cap to him most courteously , saying that he was not aware before that his neighbour was a gentleman of such high lineage . 
Hereward was not the man which he had been . 
`` It was Hereward 's fashion in fight and war , '' says the chronicler , `` always to ply the man most at the last . '' 
And so found the Breton ; for Hereward suddenly lost patience , and rushing on him with one of his old shouts , hewed at him again and again , as if his arm would never tire . 
quoth Hereward , wiping his sword , and walking moodily away . 
That within twenty-four hours Hereward was arrested on a charge of speaking evil of the king , breaking his peace , compassing the death of his faithful lieges , and various other wicked , traitorous , and diabolical acts . 
Hereward went like a man stunned , and spoke never a word . 
But Hereward heard him not . 
He came cautiously toward the prisoner , and when still beyond the length of his chain , set the food down , and thrust it toward him with a stick , lest Hereward should leap on him and wring his neck . 
But Hereward never even saw him or the food . 
But all Hereward answered was , that he was very well . 
Then he bethought of sending him a harp , knowing the fame of Hereward 's music and singing . 
In this state of dull despair , he remained for many weeks . 
At last he woke up . 
The clank of arms stirred Hereward 's heart as of old , and he sent to Sir Robert to ask what was toward . 
`` Waltheof , I presume , '' quoth Hereward , `` plotted drunk , and repented sober , when too late . 
`` To Bourne in the Bruneswald ; and say to Hereward 's men , wherever they are , Let them rise and arm , if they love Hereward ; and go down to Cambridge , to be the foremost at Bishop Odo 's side against Ralph Guader , or Waltheof himself . 
From that day Hereward woke up somewhat . 
`` The wolves are beginning to eat each other , '' said Hereward to himself . 
But it was a sickening thought to him , that his men had been fighting and he not at their head . 
Hereward answered them with a terrible word , and turned his face to the wall , groaning , and then bade them sternly to go . 
So the men went to and fro ; and often sat with Hereward . 
A few days after , Hereward was travelling toward Buckingham , chained upon a horse , with Sir Robert and his men , and a goodly company of knights belonging to Ivo . 
And how easy it was to put out a man 's eyes , or starve him to death , in a French keep , none knew better than Hereward . 
`` Or I , '' said Ivo Taillebois , `` till I see Hereward 's head on Bourne gable , where he stuck up those Frenchmens ' heads seven years ago , as his will be , within a week after he gets to Buckingham Castle -- where he should be by now . 
For when The Wake was freed and armed , and hewing away like a devilish dwarf as he is , he always bade spare Sir Robert , crying that he was his friend , and his saviour ; and ere they parted the two villains shook hands lovingly , saying aloud , how Sir Robert should ride post to the king , and give him a good report of Hereward . '' 
`` Which may end in thy going over thy horse 's croup , nephew ; as thou didst about another dame of Hereward 's . '' 
And so those wicked men took counsel together to slay Hereward . 
And now behold Hereward at home again , fat with the wages of sin , and not knowing that they are death . 
Beside , had not he -LRB- Ivo -RRB- married Hereward 's niece ? 
And what more grievous offence could Hereward commit , than to be her uncle , reminding Ivo of his own low birth by his nobility , and too likely to take Lucia 's part , whenever it should please Ivo to beat or kick her ? 
Only Gilbert of Ghent , `` the pious and illustrious earl , '' sent messages of congratulation and friendship to Hereward , it being his custom to sail with the wind , and worship the rising sun -- till it should decline again . 
But more : hardly one of the Frenchmen round , but , in the conceit of their skin-deep yesterday 's civilisation , looked on Hereward as a barbarian Englishman , who had his throat tattooed , and wore a short coat , and preferred -- the churl -- to talk English in his own hall , though he could talk as good French as they when he was with them , beside three or four barbarian tongues if he had need . 
But more still : if they were not likely to bestow their love on Hereward , Hereward was not likely to win love from them of his own will . 
He was peevish and wrathful , often insolent and quarrelsome : and small blame to him . 
The French were invaders and tyrants , who had no business there , and would not have been there , if he had had his way . 
And they and he could no more amalgamate than fire and water . 
Moreover , he was a very great man , or had been such once , and he thought himself one still . 
He had been accustomed to command men , whole armies ; and he would no more treat these French as his equals , than they would treat him as such . 
The truth was , that Hereward 's heart was gnawed with shame and remorse ; and therefore he fancied , and not without reason , that all men pointed at him the finger of scorn . 
And he knew it . 
Once in his life -- for his other sins were but the sins of his age -- the Father of men seems -LRB- if the chroniclers say truth -RRB- to have put before this splendid barbarian good and evil , saying , Choose ! 
And he knew that the evil was evil , and chose it nevertheless . 
And he chose as Hereward chose . 
But as with Napoleon and Josephine , so it was with Hereward and Torfrida . 
Hereward tried to persuade himself that his was not shaken ; that he was the same Hereward as ever . 
But he could not deceive himself long . 
His conscience was evil . 
He was discontented with all mankind , and with himself most of all . 
He tried to be good , -- as good as he chose to be . 
If he had done wrong in one thing , he might make up for it in others : but he could not . 
All his higher instincts fell from him one by one . 
He did not like to think of good and noble things ; he dared not think of them . 
He felt , not at first , but as the months rolled on , that he was a changed man ; that God had left him . 
And Hereward answered , like Mahomet in like case , `` That do I , by heaven . 
There were great excuses for his follies , as there are for those of every beaten man : but Hereward was spent . 
He had lived his life ; and had no more life which he could live ; for every man , it would seem , brings into the world with him a certain capacity , a certain amount of vital force , in body and in soul ; and when that is used up , the man must sink down into some sort of second childhood ; and end , like Hereward , very much where he began : unless the grace of God shall lift him up above the capacity of the mere flesh , into a life literally new , ever-renewing , ever-expanding , and eternal . 
But the grace of God had gone away from Hereward , as it goes away from all men who are unfaithful to their wives . 
So Hereward soon became as intolerable to his Norman neighbours , as they were intolerable to him ; and he had , for his own safety , to keep up at Bourne the same watch and ward , by day and night , as he had kept up in the forest . 
The Countess Judith wished to visit the tomb of her late husband , Earl Waltheof ; and asked hospitality on her road of Hereward and Alftruda . 
Hereward looked on the visit in a different light . 
And Hereward trembled and went . 
And so had it happened to Hereward . 
`` Does Hereward know that ? '' 
But Hereward did not know . 
There were many things abroad , of which she told him nothing . 
Hereward had gone home as soon as they had departed , and sat down to eat and drink . 
So they drank again ; and Hereward fell asleep once more . 
Ailward shuffled into his harness , and went to the door . 
In a few minutes he was asleep likewise . 
Hereward slept , who can tell how long ? 
But at last there was a bustle , a heavy fall ; and waking with a start , he sprang up . 
He saw Ailward lying dead across the door , and above him a crowd of fierce faces , some of which he knew too well . 
He saw Ivo Taillebois ; he saw Oger ; he saw his fellow-Breton , Sir Raoul de Dol ; he saw Sir Ascelin ; he saw Sir Aswart , Thorold 's man ; he saw Sir Hugh of Evermue , his own son-in-law ; and with them he saw , or seemed to see , the Ogre of Cornwall , and Feargus of Ivark , and Dirk Hammerhand of Walcheren , and many another old foe long underground ; and in his ear rang the text -- `` Whoso sheddeth man 's blood , by man shall his blood be shed . '' 
And Hereward knew that his end was come . 
There was no time to put on mail or helmet . 
As he girded the sword on , Winter sprang to his side . 
Shall Hereward die like a wolf in a cave ? 
And he rushed out upon his fate . 
A knight was running to and fro in the Court , shouting Hereward 's name . 
`` I am out , '' quoth Hereward , as the man almost stumbled against him ; `` and this is in . '' 
And through shield , and hauberk , and body , as says Gaimar , went Hereward 's javelin , while all drew back , confounded for the moment at that mighty stroke . 
shouted Hereward , `` your king has given me his truce ; and do you dare break my house , and kill my folk ? 
And he ran right at the press of knights ; and the fight began . 
And as he hewed on silently , with grinding teeth , and hard , glittering eyes , of whom did he think ? 
That ghost had been for many a month the background of all his thoughts and dreams . 
It was so clear before his mind 's eye now , that unawares to himself , he shouted , `` Torfrida ! '' 
as he struck , and struck the harder at the sound of his old battle-cry . 
And now he is all wounded and be-bled ; and Winter , who has fought back to back with him , has fallen on his face ; and Hereward stands alone , turning from side to side , as he sweeps his sword right and left till the forest rings with the blows , but staggering as he turns . 
Within a ring of eleven corpses he stands . 
A knight rushes in , to fall headlong down , cloven through the helm : but Hereward 's blade snaps short , and he hurls it away as his foes rush in with a shout of joy . 
He tears his shield from his left arm , and with it , says Gaimar , brains two more . 
At that cry Hereward lifted up his dying head . 
spending all day in nursing and feeding the Countess Godiva , and lying all night on Hereward 's tomb , and praying that he might find grace and mercy in that day . 
And they laid her in Hereward 's grave , and their dust is mingled to this day . 
And Hereward 's comrades were all scattered abroad , some maimed , some blinded , some with tongues cut out , to beg by the wayside , or crawl into convents , and then die ; while their sisters and daughters , ladies born and bred , were the slaves of grooms and scullions from beyond the sea . 
And they whispered oftener and oftener that the soul of Hereward haunted the Bruneswald , where he loved to hunt the dun deer and the roe . 
And so was avenged the blood of Harold and his brothers , of Edwin and Morcar , of Waltheof and Hereward . 
And those who had the spirit of Hereward in them , fled to the merry greenwood , and became bold outlaws , with Robin Hood , Scarlet , and John , Adam Bell , and Clym of the Cleugh , and William of Cloudeslee ; and watched with sullen joy the French robbers tearing in pieces each other , and the Church who had blest their crime . 
Much had changed since Hereward 's days . 
They were not the same bells which tolled for Hereward and Torfrida . 
