I do n't know the hoss ; rides like Gilbert Potter . 
Gilbert it is , blast me ! 
Gilbert Potter , however , received a hearty greeting from all , including the host , though the latter , by an increased shyness in meeting his gaze , manifested some secret constraint . 
`` I was afraid I should have been too late , '' said Gilbert ; `` the old break in the hedge is stopped at last , so I came over the hill above , without thinking on the swampy bit , this side . '' 
Gilbert smiled good-humoredly , but said nothing , and a little laugh went around the circle . 
Gilbert returned the speaker 's gaze a moment before he answered . 
`` From a drover , '' he then said . 
The first to greet Gilbert were his old friends , Joe and Jake Fairthorn . 
These boys loudly lamented that their father had denied them the loan of his old gray mare , Bonnie ; they could ride double on a gallop , they said ; and would n't Gilbert take them along , one before and one behind him ? 
But he laughed and shook his head . 
Gilbert foreboded mischief , and kept his eye upon the pair . 
Just then , Joe and Jake Fairthorn let go their hold on the bull-dog 's collar ; but Gilbert Potter caught the animal at the second bound . 
The boys darted behind the corn-crib , scared less by Gilbert 's brandished whip than by the wrath and astonishment in Mr. Barton 's face . 
Fortune , Barton , and Gilbert Potter each threw off a heavy `` rider , '' and leaped their horses over the rails . 
Gilbert and Fortune alone sprang into the opposite field , and kept a straight southwestern course for the other branch of Redley Creek . 
Then Fortune turned his head , nodded approvingly to Gilbert , and muttered to himself : `` He 's a gallant fellow , -- I 'll not rob him of the brush . '' 
But he laughed a short , shrill , wicked laugh the next moment . 
`` He must have gone down towards the snuff-mill , '' said Gilbert , and was about to change his course . 
Gilbert shouted : `` The lime-quarry ! '' 
Gilbert Potter soon took the lead , closely followed by Fortune . 
Nimbly as a cat Gilbert sprang from the saddle , still holding the pummel in his right hand , touched his horse 's flank with the whip , and bounded from one tussock to another . 
The sagacious animal seemed to understand and assist his manœuvre . 
Hardly had he gained firm ground than he was in his seat again , while Mr. Barton was still plunging in the middle of the bog . 
By the time he had reached the road , Gilbert shrewdly guessed where the chase would terminate . 
The idlers on the tavern-porch cheered him as he swept around the corner ; the level highway rang to the galloping hoofs of his steed , and in fifteen minutes he had passed the long and lofty oak woods of Avondale . 
Gilbert sprang down among the frantic dogs , and saved the brush from the rapid dismemberment which had already befallen its owner . 
The chase was up ; and Gilbert Potter , on his `` plough-horse , '' was the only huntsman in at the death . 
Gilbert 's friends crowded about him , asking questions as to the course he had taken , and examining the horse , which had maliciously resumed its sleepy look , and stood with drooping head . 
Gilbert 's face faded to a sallow paleness , and his eyes were fastened upon those of the speaker with a fierce and dangerous intensity . 
Gilbert Potter speedily recovered his self-possession , but his face was stern and his manner abstracted . 
Even the marked and careful kindness of his friends seemed secretly to annoy him , for it constantly suggested the something by which it had been prompted . 
Gilbert could do no less than courteously accept the attention , but he shortly afterwards stole away from the noisy company , mounted his horse , and rode slowly towards Kennett Square . 
As he thus rides , with his eyes abstractedly fixed before him , we will take the opportunity to observe him more closely . 
Slightly under-sized , compactly built , and with strongly-marked features , his twenty-four years have the effect of thirty . 
His short jacket and knee-breeches of gray velveteen cover a chest broad rather than deep , and reveal the fine , narrow loins and muscular thighs of a frame matured and hardened by labor . 
His hands , also , are hard and strong , but not ungraceful in form . 
His neck , not too short , is firmly planted , and the carriage of his head indicates patience and energy . 
Thick , dark hair enframes his square forehead , and straight , somewhat heavy brows . 
His eyes of soft dark-gray , are large , clear , and steady , and only change their expression under strong excitement . 
His nose is straight and short , his mouth a little too wide for beauty , and less firm now than it will be ten years hence , when the yearning tenderness shall have vanished from the corners of the lips ; and the chin , in its broad curve , harmonizes with the square lines of the brow . 
Thus appealed to , the other lady whirled around with a half-jump , and caught sight of Gilbert Potter and of her horse 's head at the same instant . 
`` Why , Gilbert , where did you come from ? 
Martha , here 's Gilbert , with a brush in his hat ! 
Here , ride in between , Gilbert , and tell us all about it ! 
In her efforts to arrange the order of march , she drove her horse 's head into Gilbert 's back , and came near losing her balance . 
With amused screams , and bursts of laughter , and light , rattling exclamations , she finally succeeded in placing herself at his left hand , while her adroit and self-possessed companion quietly rode up to his right . 
`` Now , Gilbert ! '' 
Gilbert was accustomed to the rattling tongue of his left-hand neighbor , and generally returned her as good as she gave . 
To-day , however , he was in no mood for repartee . 
He drew down his brows and made no answer to her charge . 
asked the other lady , after a rapid glance at his face . 
Doubtless Gilbert Potter did not analyze the charm which it exercised upon him ; it was enough that he felt and submitted to it . 
A few quiet remarks sufficed to draw from him the story of the chase , in all its particulars , and the lively interest in Martha Deane 's face , the boisterous glee of Sally Fairthorn , with his own lurking sense of triumph , soon swept every gloomy line from his visage . 
His mouth relaxed from its set compression , and wore a winning sweetness ; his eyes shone softly-bright , and a nimble spirit of gayety gave grace to his movements . 
`` And now , Gilbert , the brush ? '' 
`` Yes , I understand , '' said he , in an indifferent tone ; `` it may be had for the asking . '' 
cried Sally , urging her heavy horse against him and making a clutch at his cap . 
But he leaned as suddenly away , and shot a length ahead , out of her reach . 
Miss Deane 's horse , a light , spirited animal , kept pace with his . 
one of us must have it ; ask him , you ! '' 
`` No , '' answered Martha , with her clear blue eyes fixed on Gilbert 's face , `` I will not ask . '' 
He returned her gaze , and his eyes seemed to say : `` Will you take it , knowing what the acceptance implies ? '' 
She read the question correctly ; but of this he was not sure . 
Neither , if it were so , could he trust himself to interpret the answer . 
Sally had already resumed her place on his left , and he saw that the mock strife would be instantly renewed . 
With a movement so sudden as to appear almost ungracious , he snatched the brush from his cap and extended it to Martha Deane , without saying a word . 
Gilbert might either so interpret it , or suspect that she had understood the condition in his mind , and meant to signify the rejection thereof . 
she exclaimed : `` Do n't let him have it again ! 
Do you know to whom he would have given it : an A. and a W. , with the look of an X , -- so ! '' 
Gilbert looked annoyed , but before he could reply , Sally let go the rein in order to put on her mittens , and the blinded mare quickly dropping her head , the rein slipped instantly to the animal 's ears . 
Finally , a piteous appeal to Gilbert , who had pretended not to notice the dilemma , and was a hundred yards in advance , was Sally 's only resource . 
`` That 's enough , Gilbert , '' said Martha Deane , presently , `` go now and pick up the rein . '' 
He rode back , picked it up , and handed it to Sally without speaking . 
`` Gilbert , '' she said , with a sudden demure change of tone , as they rode on to where Miss Deane was waiting . 
`` You know how much I have to do , Sally , '' he answered . 
`` I do n't often see your mother , Gilbert , '' said Martha Deane ; `` she is well ? '' 
`` I mean , '' he answered , `` that she does more than she has strength to do . 
Gilbert 's eyes were upon her , and held her own ; perhaps a little more color came into her face , but she did not show the slightest embarrassment . 
Sally asked again , as they reached the corner , and the loungers on the porch of the Unicorn Tavern beyond , perceiving Gilbert , sprang from their seats to ask for news of the chase . 
he answered . 
Joe and Jake Fairthorn rushed up with a whoop , and before Gilbert could satisfy the curiosity of the tavernidlers , the former sat behind Sally , on the old mare , with his face to her tail , while Jake , prevented by Miss Deane 's riding-whip from attempting the same performance , capered behind the horses and kept up their spirits by flinging handfuls of sand . 
Gilbert found another group in `` the store '' -- farmers or their sons who had come in for a supply of groceries , or the weekly mail , and who sat in a sweltering atmosphere around the roaring stove . 
They , too , had heard of the chase , and he was obliged to give them as many details as possible while his quarter of tea was being weighed , after which he left them to supply the story from the narrative of Mr. Joel Ferris , who , a new-comer announced , had just alighted at the Unicorn , a little drunk , and in a very bad humor . 
Gilbert heard some one ask of Ferris , as he mounted . 
Gilbert rode down the hill , and allowed his horse to plod leisurely across the muddy level , regardless of the deepening twilight . 
He was powerfully moved by some suppressed emotion . 
The muscles of his lips twitched convulsively , and there was a hot surge and swell somewhere in his head , as of tears about to overrun their secret reservoir . 
But they failed to surprise him , this time . 
As the first drops fell from his dark eyelashes , he loosed the rein and gave the word to his horse . 
Over the ridge , along the crest , between dusky thorn-hedges , he swept at full gallop , and so , slowly sinking towards the fair valley which began to twinkle with the lights of scattered farms to the eastward , he soon reached the last steep descent , and saw the gray gleam of his own barn below him . 
By this time his face was sternly set . 
He clinched his hands , and muttered to himself -- `` It will almost kill me to ask , but I must know , and -- and she must tell . '' 
As he climbed again from the bottom of the hill towards the house , a figure on the summit was drawn indistinctly against the sky , unconscious that it was thus betrayed . 
But it vanished instantly , and then he groaned -- `` God help me ! 
WhileGilbert was dismounting at the gate leading into his barn-yard , he was suddenly accosted by a boyish voice : -- `` Got back , have you ? '' 
This was Sam , the `` bound-boy , '' -- the son of a tenant on the old Carson place , who , in consideration of three months ' schooling every winter , and a `` freedom suit '' at the age of seventeen , if he desired then to learn a trade , was duly made over by his father to Gilbert Potter . 
Feeling as sure that all the necessary evening 's work was done as if he had performed it with his own hands , Gilbert silently followed the boy 's familiar advice . 
The place seemed lonelier than ever in the gloomy March twilight ; or was it some other influence which caused Gilbert to pause on the flagged walk , and stand there , motionless , looking down into the meadow until a woman 's shadow crossing the panes , was thrown upon the square of lighted earth at his feet ? 
Then he turned and entered the kitchen . 
A kettle , humming on a heap of fresh coals , and a squat little teapot of blue china , were waiting anxiously for the brown paper parcel which he placed upon the cloth . 
His mother was waiting also , in a high straight-backed rocking-chair , with her hands in her lap . 
he said , as he hung his hat upon a nail over the heavy oak mantelpiece . 
`` No , not tired , Gilbert , but it 's hungry you ` llbe . 
Gilbert threw himself upon the settle under the front window , and mechanically followed her with his eyes , as she carefully measured the precious herb , even stooping to pick up a leaf or two that had fallen from the spoon to the floor . 
Mary Potter had the same square forehead and level eyebrows , but her hair was darker than Gilbert 's , and her eyes more deeply set . 
Gilbert would have cheerfully taken a servant to assist her , but this she positively refused , seeming to court constant labor , especially during his absence from the house . 
Only when he was there would she take occasion to knit or sew . 
To Gilbert 's eyes , indeed , the effect was sometimes painful . 
He would have been satisfied with less laborious order , a less eager and unwearied thrift . 
To be sure , all this was in furtherance of a mutual purpose ; but he mentally determined that when the purpose had been fulfilled , he would insist upon an easier and more cheerful arrangement . 
The stern aspect of life from which his nature craved escape met him oftenest at home . 
Gilbert and his mother ate and drank in silence , but Sam 's curiosity was too lively to be restrained . 
he asked . 
Mary Potter looked up , as if expecting the question to be answered , and Gilbert said : -- `` He took the lead , and kept it . '' 
`` Then you think it 's a good bargain , Gilbert . 
Was he well tried ? '' 
I could sell him for twenty dollars advance -- even to Joel Ferris , '' he answered . 
He then gave a sketch of the afternoon 's adventures , to which his mother listened with a keen , steady interest . 
She compelled him to describe the stranger , Fortune , as minutely as possible , as if desirous of finding some form or event in her own memory to which he could be attached ; but without result . 
Gilbert took an account-book , a leaden inkstand , and a stumpy pen from a drawer under the window , and calculated silently and somewhat laboriously . 
His mother produced a clocked stocking of blue wool , and proceeded to turn the heel . 
Gilbert filliped the ink out of his pen into the fire , laid it in his book , and turned away from the table . 
`` Roger has bottom , '' he said at last , `` and he 's as strong as a lion . 
`` That would be good , -- very good , indeed , '' said she , dropping her knitting , and hesitating a moment before she continued ; `` only -- only , Gilbert , I did n't expect you would be going so soon . '' 
`` I know that , Gilbert , -- I know that ; but I 'm always looking forward to the time when you wo n't be bound to go at all . 
He spoke earnestly , turning his face full upon her . 
`` We 've talked this over , often and often , but you never can make me see it in your way , '' he then added , in a gentler tone . 
`` Ay , Gilbert , '' she replied , somewhat bitterly , `` I 've had my thoughts . 
`` But they are not , '' -- burst from his lips , as the thought on which he so gloomily brooded sprang to the surface and took him by surprise . 
He checked his words by a powerful effort , and the blood forsook his face . 
Gilbert could not bear to look upon her face . 
He turned away , placed his elbow on the table , and leaned his head upon his hand . 
It never occurred to him that the unfinished sentence might be otherwise completed . 
He knew that his thoughtwas betrayed , and his heart was suddenly filled with a tumult of shame , pity , and fear . 
What word was on your tongue , Gilbert ? '' 
He could not answer . 
He could only shake his head , and bring forth a cowardly , evasive word , -- `` Nothing . '' 
she cried , rather to herself than to him . 
`` Listen to me , Gilbert ! 
He felt , now , that no further evasion was possible ; she had put into words the terrible question which he could not steel his own heart to ask . 
So he answered honestly now , but still kept his head turned away , as if there might be a kindness in avoiding her gaze . 
`` Not in so many words , mother , '' he said ; `` but there are ways , and ways of saying a thing ; and the cruellest way is that which everybody understands , and I dare not . 
He was silent . 
She leaned forward and grasped his arm . 
Speak , Gilbert ! '' 
When he did speak , his voice was singularly low and gentle . 
was all he could say . 
His head was still turned away from her , but she knew there were tears on his cheeks . 
`` Gilbert , it is a lie ! '' 
He turned towards her , his eyes shining and his lips parted in breathless joy and astonishment . 
he whispered . 
`` Gilbert , '' she then said , `` have I always been a faithful mother to you ? 
For , Gilbert , that I mustask of you , hard as it may seem . 
Gilbert , whatever you do , bind yourself by no vow , except in the sight of men ! '' 
Her distress was so evident , that Gilbert , perplexed and bewildered as her words left him , felt that he dared not press her further . 
He could not doubt the truth of her first assertion ; but , alas ! 
it availed only for his own private consciousness , -- it took no stain from him , in the eyes of the world . 
Yet , now that the painful theme had been opened , -- not less painful , it seemed , since the suspected dishonor did not exist , -- he craved and decided to ask , enlightenment on one point . 
`` Mother , '' he said , after a pause , `` I do not want to speak about this thing again . 
`` Thank you , Gilbert ! '' 
She rose , placed her hands on his shoulders , and kissed him . 
Gilbert raked the ashes over the smouldering embers on the hearth , lighted his mother 's - night-lamp , and after closing the chamber-door softly behind her , stole up-stairs to his own bed . 
It was long past midnight before he slept . 
In order to describe it , we must return to the company of sportsmen whom Gilbert Potter left at the Hammer-and-Trowel Tavern , late in the afternoon . 
No sooner had he departed than the sneers of the young bucks , who felt themselves humiliated by his unexpected success , became loud and frequent . 
`` I 've seen riding in my day , '' he continued , `` both down in Loudon and on the Eastern Shore -- men born with spurs on their heels , and I tell you this Potter could hold his own , even with the Lees and the Tollivers . 
If you thought there was anything unfair about him , why did n't you head him off ? '' 
`` Yes , damme , '' echoed Mr. Barton , bringing down his fist upon the bar , so that the glasses jumped , `` why did n't you head him off ? '' 
Gilbert Potter was in your mind , of course . '' 
`` I certainly was beginning to think that you liked Gilbert , '' she said . 
`` Would you say so to Gilbert himself ? '' 
`` Certainly ; but why should he ask ? 
Thistime the weather , which so often thwarts the farmer 's calculations , favored Gilbert Potter . 
Then she recalled and understood , as never before , Gilbert 's childhood and boyhood . 
For his sake she had accepted menial service in families where he was looked upon and treated as an incumbrance . 
the remembrance of his shyness and sadness told her a different tale . 
The farm upon which they now lived was sold , and Gilbert became the purchaser . 
During the year which had elapsed since the purchase , Gilbert , by unwearied labor , had laid up about four hundred dollars , and another year , he had said , if he should prosper in his plans , would see them free at last ! 
Day by day , Gilbert 's new figure became more familiar , and she was conscious that her own manner towards him must change with it . 
The subject of his birth , however , and the new difficulties with which it beset her , would not be thrust aside . 
Gilbert , also , had ample time to review his own position , during the fortnight 's absence . 
After passing the hills and emerging upon the long , fertile swells of Lancaster , his experienced leaders but rarely needed the guidance of his hand or voice . 
Often , sunk in revery , the familiar landmarks of the journey went by unheeded ; often he lay awake in the crowded bedroom of a tavern , striving to clear a path for his feet a little way into the future . 
This time had come to Gilbert Potter , forcing him to look upon the circumstances of his life from a loftier point of view . 
He had struggled , passionately but at random , for light , -- but , fortunately , every earnest struggle is towards the light , and it now began to dawn upon him . 
He first became aware of one enigma , the consideration of which was not so easy to lay aside . 
His mother had not been deceived : there was a change in the man since that evening . 
Often and often , in gloomy broodings over his supposed disgrace , he had fiercely asserted to himself that hewas free from stain , and the unrespect in which he stood was an injustice to be bravely defied . 
The brand which he wore , and which he fancied was seen by every eye he met , existed in his own fancy ; his brow was as pure , his right to esteem and honor equal , to that of any other man . 
With all the force of his nature , Gilbert Potter loved Martha Deane . 
He had known her since he was a boy at Fairthorn 's ; her face had always been the brightest in his memory ; but it was only since the purchase of the farm that his matured manhood had fully recognized its answering womanhood in her . 
He was slow to acknowledge the truth , even to his own heart , and when it could no longer be denied , he locked it up and sealed it with seven seals , determined never to betray it , to her or any one . 
Then arose a wild hope , that respect might come with the independence for which he was laboring , and perhaps he might dare to draw nearer , -- near enough to guess if there were any answer in her heart . 
It was a frail support , but he clung to it as with his life , for there was none other . 
Now , -- although his uncertainty was as great as ever , -- his approach could not humiliate her . 
His love brought no shadow of shame ; it was proudly white and clean . 
he had forgotten that she did not know , -- that his lips were sealed until his mother 's should be opened to the world . 
By the time he had twice traversed the long , weary road between Columbia and Newport , Gilbert reached a desperate solution of this difficulty . 
The end of his meditations was : `` I will see if there be love in woman as in man ! 
Gilbert knew that , were the case reversed , no possible test could shake his steadfast affection , and how else could he measure the quality of hers ? 
He said to himself : `` Perhaps it is cruel , but I can not spare her the trial . '' 
He was prouder than he knew , -- but we must remember all that he endured . 
It was a dry , windy March month , that year , and he made four good trips before the first of April . 
Returning home from Newport , by way of Wilmington , with seventy-five dollars clear profit in his pocket , his prospects seemed very cheerful . 
Could he accomplish two more months of hauling during the year , and the crops should be fair , the money from these sources , and the sale of his wagon and one span , would be something more than enough to discharge the remaining debt . 
He knew , moreover , how the farm could be more advantageously worked , having used his eyes to good purpose in passing through the rich , abundant fields of Lancaster . 
The land once his own , -- which , like his mother , he could not yet feel , -- his future , in a material sense , was assured . 
asked Gilbert . 
he exclaimed . 
These words hinted at an inward experience in some respects so surprisingly like his own , that Gilbert was startled . 
He knew the reputation of the woman , though he would have found it difficult to tell whereupon it was based . 
Involuntarily , he contrasted her position , in this respect , with his own . 
The world , he had recently learned , was wrong in his case ; might it not also be doing her injustice ? 
Her pride , in its coarse way , was his also , and his life , perhaps , had only unfolded into honorable success through a mother 's ever-watchful care and neverwearied toil . 
`` Deborah , '' he said , after a pause , `` no man or woman who makes an honest living by hard work , is bad company for me . 
She took a bottle out of her pocket , and offered it to Gilbert . 
When he refused , she simply said : `` You 're right ! '' 
There was a wild , painful gleam of truth in her words , which touched his sympathy . 
How should he dare to judge this unfortunate creature , not knowing what perverse freak of nature , and untoward circumstances of life had combined to make her what she was ? 
His manner towards her was kind and serious , and by degrees this covert respect awoke in her a desire to deserve it . 
An Indian war-whoop rang across the meadow , and Gilbert recognized Sam 's welcome therein . 
The horses turned of themselves into the lane leading to the barn , and Gilbert assisted Sam in unharnessing and feeding them before entering the house . 
By the time he was ready to greet his mother , and enjoy , without further care , his first evening at home , he knew everything that had occurred on the farm during his absence . 
Onthe Sunday succeeding his return , Gilbert Potter proposed to his mother that they should attend the Friends ' Meeting at Old Kennett . 
To this class belonged Gilbert and his mother , the Fairthorns , and even the Bartons . 
She was , nevertheless , grateful for Gilbert 's success , and her heart inclined to thanksgiving ; besides , he desired that they should go , and she was not able to offer any valid objection . 
Both were plainly , yet very respectably , dressed , in garments of the same home-made cloth , of a deep , dark brown color , but Mary Potter wore under her cloak the new crape shawl which Gilbert had brought to her from Wilmington , and his shirt of fine linen displayed a modest ruffle in front . 
Gilbert assisted his mother to alight at the stone platform built for that purpose near the women 's end of the building , and then fastened the horses in the long , open shed in the rear . 
Then , as was the custom , he entered by the men 's door , and quietly took a seat in the silent assembly . 
Gilbert , approaching with them , was first recognized by his old friend , Sally Fairthorn , whose voice of salutation was so loud and cheery , as to cause two or three sedate old `` women-friends '' to turn their heads in grave astonishment . 
Gilbert 's hand throbbed , as he held hers a moment , gazing into the sweet blue of her eyes ; yet , passionately as he felt that he loved her in that moment , perfect as was the delight of her presence , a better joy came to his heart when she turned away to speak with his mother . 
Joe and Jake , bestriding a single horse , like two of the Haymon 's - children , were growing impatient , so they took the responsibility of dashing up to Mark and Sally , who were waiting in the road , and announcing , -- `` Cousin Martha says we 're to go on ; she 'll ride with Gilbert . '' 
Gilbert and Martha naturally followed , since not more than two could conveniently ride abreast . 
A pleasanter face never touched a young man 's fancy , and every time it turned towards Gilbert it brightened away the distress of love . 
He caught , unconsciously , the serenity of her mood , and foretasted the peace which her being would bring to him if it were ever intrusted to his hands . 
`` Did you do well by your hauling , Gilbert , '' she asked , `` and are you now home for the summer ? '' 
`` Until after corn-planting , '' he answered . 
These words touched him gratefully , and led him to a candid openness of speech which he would not otherwise have ventured , -- not from any inherent lack of candor , but from a reluctance to speak of himself . 
`` That 's it , Martha , '' he said . 
`` I like to hear you say that , Gilbert . 
he exclaimed , and the words were scarcely out of his mouth before he became aware of their significance , uttered by his lips . 
He had not meant so much , -- only that she , like him , still enjoyed one parent 's care . 
The blood came into his face ; she saw and understood the sign , and broke a silence which would soon have become painful . 
`` That is the truth , '' he said firmly , lifting his head with the impulse of his recovered pride , and meeting her eyes without flinching . 
A sympathetic pride deamed in her eyes ; she slightly bent her head , in answer , without speaking , and Gilbert felt that he was understood and valued . 
He had drawn a step nearer to the trial which he had resolved to make , and would now venture no further . 
There was a glimmering spark of courage in his heart . 
He was surprised , in recalling the conversation afterwards , to find how much of his plans he had communicated to her during the ride , encouraged by the kindly interest she manifested , and the sensible comments she uttered . 
Martha Deane had always , as she confessed to Sally , likedGilbert Potter ; she liked every young man of character and energy ; but now she began to suspect that there was a rarer worth in his nature than she had guessed . 
Dr. Deane 's horse was at his door , however , and his daughter , with her eyes on Gilbert , as if saying `` for my father 's sake , '' steadfastly declined . 
It was well that Gilbert was near , on the same side , and disengaged her in an instant ; but her troubles did not end here . 
As Gilbert and his mother rode homewards , that afternoon , neither spoke much , but both felt , in some indefinite way , better prepared for the life that lay before them . 
`` Does thee mean Gilbert Potter ? '' 
I only meant thee should n't be seen in company with young Potter , when thee could help it ; thee knows what I mean . '' 
`` I do n't think , father , '' she slowly answered , `` there is anything against Gilbert Potter 's life or character , except that which is no just reproach to him . '' 
She went up to her room , meditating , with an earnestness almost equal to Gilbert 's , upon this form of the world 's injustice , which he was powerless to overcome . 
There 's no steadier nor better-doin ' young fellow in these parts than Gilbert Potter . 
Martha seconded the plan with an evident interest , yet it did not escape her that neither her father nor Mr. Barton had mentioned the name of Gilbert Potter . 
`` There 's Jabez Travilla , up on the ridge , and Gilbert Potter , down at the mill . '' 
Gilbert Potter had had ideas of a new home , to be created by himself , and a life to which none should deny honor and respect : but now he gave them up forever . 
There was a battle to be fought -- better here than elsewhere -- here , where every scene was dear and familiar , and every object that met his eye gave a mute , gentle sense of consolation . 
From dawn till dusk , Gilbert and Sam were stirring in field , meadow , and garden , keeping pace with the season and forecasting what was yet to come . 
When Gilbert had delivered the last barrels at Newport , and slowly cheered homewards his weary team , he was nearly two hundred dollars richer than when he started , and -- if we must confess a universal if somewhat humiliating truth -- so much the more a man in courage and determination . 
When Gilbert reached home , released from his labors abroad until October , he found his fields awaiting their owner 's hand . 
His wheat hung already heavy-headed , though green , and the grass stood so thick and strong that it suggested the ripping music of the scythe-blade which should lay it low . 
Sam had taken good care of the cornfield , garden , and the cattle , and Gilbert 's few words of quiet commendation were a rich reward for all his anxiety . 
His ambition was , to be counted `` a full hand , '' -- this was the toga virilis , which , once entitled to wear , would make him feel that he was any man 's equal . 
Without a day 's rest , the labor commenced again , and the passion of Gilbert 's heart , though it had only strengthened during his absence , must be thrust aside until the fortune of his harvest was secured . 
In the midst of the haying , however , came a message which he could not disregard , -- a hasty summons from Mark Deane , who , seeing Gilbert in the upper hill-field , called from the road , bidding him to the raising of Hallowell 's new barn , which was to take place on the following Saturday . 
Hallowell 's farm was just half-way between Gilbert 's and Kennett Square , and the site of the barn had been wellchosen on a ridge , across the road , which ran between it and the farm-house . 
Gilbert , of course , could not refuse the invitation of so near a neighbor , and there was a hope in his heart which made it welcome . 
When the day came he was early on hand , heartily greeted by Mark , who exclaimed , -- `` Give me a dozen more such shoulders and arms as yours , and I 'll make the timbers spin ! '' 
Gilbert had one end of a handspike , helping lift a heavy piece of timber , and his face was dark with the strain ; it was well that he dared not let go until the lively gossip which followed Barton 's absence , -- the latter having immediately gone forward to take charge of the horses , -- had subsided . 
Mark , Gilbert Potter , and Sally , being nearest , hastened to the spot . 
Gilbert made for the barn-floor , to succor the helpless victim ; but just as his step was heard on the boards , Jake 's strength gave way . 
Gilbert Potter , sitting beside Mark , -- the two were mutually drawn towards each other , without knowing or considering why , -- had gradually worked himself into a resolution to be cool , and to watch the movements of his presumed rival . 
More than once , during the afternoon , he had detected Barton 's eyes , fixed upon him with a more than accidental interest ; looking up now , he met them again , but they were quickly withdrawn , with a shy , uneasy expression , which he could not comprehend . 
`` Gilbert , '' said he , `` we want your name in a list of young men we are getting together , for the protection of our neighborhood . 
There are suspicions , you know , that Sandy Flash has some friends hereabouts , though nobody seems to know exactly who they are ; and our only safety is in clubbing together , to smoke him out and hunt him down , if he ever comes near us . 
Gilbert interrupted , immensely relieved to find how wide his suspicions had fallen from the mark . 
`` Twenty-one , with Gilbert , '' the latter replied . 
`` Well , as Sandy is said to count equal to twenty , we can meet him evenly , and have one to spare , '' laughed Mark . 
asked Gilbert . 
The embarrassed flush had not quite faded from Barton 's face , and Gilbert 's was touched by a lingering sign of his new trouble . 
Mark , light-hearted and laughing , precluded the least idea of mystery , but Gilbert 's eye met hers with what she felt to be a painfully earnest , questioning expression . 
There was much hesitation at first , ardent coaxing and bashful withdrawal , until Martha broke the ice by boldly choosing Mark as her partner , apportioning Sally to Gilbert , and taking her place for a Scotch reel . 
In this respect , Gilbert resembled her ; his steps , gravely measured , though sufficiently elastic , differed widely from Mark 's springs , pigeon-wings , and curvets . 
Perhaps Gilbert would have made the like exchange , but Mr. Alfred Barton stepped before him , and bore off Martha . 
There was no appearance of design about the matter , but Gilbert felt a hot tingle in his blood , and drew back a little to watch the pair . 
Martha moved through the dance as if but half conscious of her partner 's presence , and he seemed more intent on making the proper steps and flourishes than on improving the few brief chances for a confidential word . 
When he spoke , it was with the unnecessary laugh , which is meant to show ease of manner , and betrays the want of it . 
Gilbert was puzzled ; either the two were unconscious of the gossip which linked their names so intimately , -LRB- which seemed scarcely possible , -RRB- or they were studiedly concealing an actual tender relation . 
Gilbert knew how well the secret of his own heart was guarded , and the reflection , that others might be equally inscrutable , smote him with sudden pain . 
The figures moved before him in the splendid moonlight , and with every motion of Martha 's slender form the glow of his passion and the torment of his uncertainty increased . 
Then the dance dissolved , and while he still stood with folded arms , Sally Fairthorn 's voice whispered eagerly in his ear , -- `` Gilbert -- Gilbert ! 
he said , so sternly , that she opened wide her black eyes . 
Martha , fanning herself with her handkerchief spread over a bent willow-twig , suddenly passed before him , like an angel in the moonlight . 
The word passed Gilbert 's lips almost before he knew he had uttered it . 
Almost a whisper , but she heard , and , pausing , turned towards him . 
`` Am I your choice , or Sally 's , Gilbert ? 
he said , with only half truth . 
A deep color shot into his face , and he knew the moonlight revealed it , but he forced his eyes to meet hers . 
It so happened that Gilbert and Mr. Alfred Barton had changed their recent places . 
The reviving warmth in Gilbert 's bosom instantly died , and gave way to a crowd of torturing conjectures . 
He went through his part in the dance so abstractedly , that when they reached the bottom of the line , Martha , out of friendly consideration for him , professed fatigue and asked his permission to withdraw from the company . 
He gave her his arm , and they moved to one of the benches . 
`` You , also , seem tired , Gilbert , '' she said . 
he answered , confusedly , feeling that he was beginning to tremble . 
He stood before her as she sat , moved irresolutely , as if to leae , and then , facing her with a powerful effort , he exclaimed , -- `` Martha , do you know what people say about Alfred Barton and yourself ? '' 
The words were said , and he would have given his life to recall them . 
He dropped his head , not daring to meet her eyes . 
Martha Deane rose to her feet , and stood before him . 
Then he lifted his head ; the moon shone full upon it , while her face was in shadow , but he saw the fuller light of her eye , the firmer curve of her lip . 
`` Gilbert Potter , '' she said , `` what right have you to ask me such a question ? '' 
cried the latter , hot and indignant , `` what is the matter with Gilbert ? 
He is behaving shamefully ; I saw him just now turn away from you as if you were a -- a shock of corn . 
And the way he snapped me up -- it is really outrageous ! '' 
But she knew that Gilbert Potter loved her , and with what a love . 
Withthe abundant harvest of that year , and the sudden and universal need of extra labor for a fortnight , Gilbert Potter would have found his burden too heavy , but for welcome help from an unexpected quarter . 
On the very morning that he first thrust his sickle into the ripened wheat , Deb Smith made her appearance , in a short-armed chemise and skirt of tow-cloth . 
For Gilbert she did her best , amazing him each day with a fresh performance , and was well worth the additional daily quart of whiskey which she consumed . 
In this pressing , sweltering labor , Gilbert dulled , though he could not conquer , his unhappy mood . 
Miss Betsy , like Deb Smith , knew that she could be of service on the Potter farm , and , although her stay was perforce short , on account of an approaching house-warming near Doe-Run , her willing arms helped to tide Mary Potter over the heaviest labor of harvest . 
How does Gilbert seem to you ? '' 
`` I dunno , '' she remarked , at length ; `` I 've noticed that some men have their vapors and tantrums , jist as some women have , and Gilbert 's of an age to -- well , Mary , has the thought of his marryin ' ever come into your head ? '' 
I dunno but what it 'll be a cross to you , Mary , -- you set so much store by Gilbert , and it 's natural , like , that you should want to have him all to y' rself , -- but a man shall leave his father and mother and cleave unto his wife , -- or somethin' like it . 
You a 'n' t the mother you 've showed yourself to be , if you 're not anxious to see Gilbert happy , and as for leavin ' his mother , there 'll be no leavin ' needful , in his case , but on the contr áry , quite the reverse , namely , a comin ' to you . 
She promised `` to keep Gilbert under her eyes , '' -- which , indeed , she did , quite unconsciously to himself , during the last two days of her stay . 
Deb Smith , sitting bare-armed on the other side of the table , and eating like six dragoons , was the ostensible target of her speech , and Gilbert was thus stealthily approached in flank . 
I think I 'm on the right scent about Gilbert , but these young men are shy foxes . 
Nothin ' to bother your head about , if you were n't his mother . 
if I 'm right , you 'll see no more o ' his tantrums in two months ' time -- and so , good-bye to you ! '' 
Then Gilbert , mounted on his favorite Roger , rode up to Kennett Square one Saturday afternoon , in obedience to a message from Mr. Alfred Barton , informing him that the other gentlemen would there meet to consult measures for mutual protection against highwaymen in general and Sandy Flash in particular . 
Barton 's horse was hitched beside Gilbert 's , and as the two were mounting , the former said , -- `` If you 're going home , Gilbert , why not come down our lane , and go through by Carson 's . 
Gilbert saw no reason for declining this invitation , and the two rode side by side down the lane to the Barton farm-house . 
Barton thereupon urged him to stop and take supper , with a cordiality which we can only explain by hinting at his secret intention to become the purchaser of Gilbert 's horse . 
`` Old-man Barton '' was sitting in his arm-chair by the window , feebly brandishing his stick at the flies , and watching his daughter Ann , as she transferred the herrings from the gridiron to a pewter platter . 
`` Father , this is Gilbert Potter , '' said Mr. Alfred , introducing his guest . 
`` What Gilbert Potter ? '' 
Gilbert straightened himself proudly , as if to face a coming insult . 
During the meal , he was so occupied with the labor of feeding himself , that he seemed to forget Gilbert 's presence . 
Bending his head sideways , from time to time , he jerked out a croaking question , which his son , whatever annoyance he might feel , was forced to answer according to the old man 's humor . 
and he chuckled and munched together in a way which it made Gilbert sick to hear . 
The tail of the lean herring on his plate remained untasted ; he swallowed the thin tea which Miss Ann poured out , and the heavy `` half-Indian '' bread with a choking sensation . 
He had but one desire , -- to get away from the room , out of human sight and hearing . 
Barton , ill at ease , and avoiding Gilbert 's eye , accompanied him to the lane . 
He felt that the old man 's garrulity ought to be explained , but knew not what to say . 
Gilbert spared him the trouble . 
he asked , in a cold , hard voice . 
This exhibition of vulgar vanity , as he considered it , was so repulsive to Gilbert , in his desperate , excited condition , that for a moment he did not trust himself to speak . 
Holding the bridle of his horse , he walked mechanically down the slope , Barton following him . 
`` Some , that you and she will be married , '' Gilbert answered , speaking slowly and with difficulty , `` and some that you wo n't . 
But his manner , more than his words , convinced Gilbert that there was no betrothal as yet , and that the vanity of being regarded as the successful suitor of a lovely girl had a more prominent place than love , in his rival 's heart . 
By so much was his torture lightened , and the passion of the moment subsided , after having so nearly betrayed itself . 
`` I say , Gilbert , '' Barton presently remarked , walking on towards the bars which led into the meadow-field ; `` it 's time you were looking around in that way , hey ? '' 
`` That 's true , Gilbert . 
Gilbert fancied that he saw on Barton 's coarse , dull face , the fleeting stamp of some long-buried regret , and a little of the recent bitterness died out of his heart . 
`` Good-bye , Gilbert ! 
Sandy Flash has a fine piece of horse-flesh , but you beat him once -- Damnation ! 
You couldbeat him , I mean . 
If he comes within ten miles of us , I 'll have the summonses out in no time . '' 
Gilbert cantered lightly down the meadow . 
The soft breath of the summer evening fanned his face , and something of the peace expressed in the rich repose of the landscape fell upon his heart . 
But peace , he felt , could only come to him through love . 
The shame upon his name -- the slow result of labor -- even the painful store of memories which the years had crowded in his brain -- might all be lightly borne , or forgotten , could his arms once clasp the now uncertain treasure . 
A tender mist came over his deep , dark eyes , a passionate longing breathed in his softened lips , and he said to himself , -- `` I would lie down and die at her feet , if that could make her happy ; but how to live , and live without her ? '' 
This was a darkness which his mind refused to entertain . 
Before reaching home , he tried to review the situation calmly . 
Gilbert , therefore , saw every reason to believe that Barton was an actual , if not a very passionate wooer . 
It was this free , firm , independent , yet wholly womanly spirit which Gilbert honored in her , and which -LRB- unless her father 's influence were too powerful -RRB- would yet save her to him , if she but loved him . 
Then he felt that his nervous , inflammable fear of Barton was incompatible with true honor for her , with trust in her pure and lofty nature . 
Sally , you can ride down to Potter 's with the pears ; they wo n't keep , and I expect Gilbert has no time to come for any , this summer . '' 
`` I 'll go , '' said Sally , `` but Gilbert do n't deserve it . 
The way he snapped me up at Hallowell 's -- and he has n't been here since ! '' 
`` Do n't be hard on him , Sally ! '' 
She had quite a sisterly affection for Gilbert , and was rather hurt than angered by what he had said in the fret of a mood which she could not comprehend . 
cried Sally ; `` I am going to Potter 's , and it 's directly on your way . '' 
`` Just the thing , '' said Mark ; `` I have a little business with Gilbert . '' 
Perhaps she was not altogether calm in spirit at the prospect of meeting Gilbert Potter ; but , if so , no sign of the agitation betrayed itself in her face . 
Gilbert , sitting on the porch , half-hidden behind a mass of blossoming trumpet-flower , was aroused from his Sabbath reverie by the sound of hoofs . 
While Mark was performing this service , -LRB- and evidently with as much deliberation as possible , -RRB- Gilbert could do no less than offer his aid to Martha Deane , whose sudden apparition he had almost incredulously realized . 
A bright , absorbing joy kindled his sad , strong features into beauty , and Martha felt her cheeks grow warm , in spite of herself , as their eyes met . 
The hands that touched her waist were firm , but no hands had ever before conveyed to her heart such a sense of gentleness and tenderness , and though her own gloved hand rested but a moment on his shoulder , the action seemed to her almost like a caress . 
said Gilbert , feeling that his voice expressed too much , and his words too little . 
`` The credit of coming is not mine , Gilbert , '' she answered . 
`` Many people think the house ought to be upon the road , '' Mary Potter replied , `` but Gilbert and I like it as it is . 
`` Mother is a little impatient , '' said Gilbert , `` and perhaps I am also . 
Gilbert , will you be satisfied when your farm 's paid for ? '' 
answered Gilbert with an emphasis , the sound of which , as soon as uttered , smote him to the heart . 
He had not thought of his mother . 
She clasped her hands convulsively , and looked at him , but his face was turned away . 
`` Why , Gilbert ! '' 
`` I mean , '' he said , striving to collect his thoughts , `` that there is something more than property '' -- but how should he go on ? 
Could he speak of the family relation , then and there ? 
Of honor in the community , the respect of his neighbors , without seeming to refer to the brand upon his and his mother 's name ? 
With sudden energy , he turned upon himself , and continued : `` I shall not feel satisfied until I am cured of my own impatience -- until I can better control my temper , and get the weeds and rocks and stumps out of myself as well as out of my farm . '' 
They all laughed heartily at his odd continuation of the simile , and Martha hastened to say : `` For my part , I do n't think you are quite such an open common , Mark , or Gilbert so well fenced in . 
Gilbert and Martha , however , could not restrain their laughter at the fellow 's odd , reckless humor , whereupon Sally , suddenly comprehending the joke , sprang from her seat . 
The scene was instantly changed to Gilbert 's eyes . 
There , on the porch of the home he so soon hoped to call his own , sat his mother , Martha Deane , and himself . 
His brain grew dizzy with yearning to fix that chance companionship , and make it the boundless fortune of his life . 
Under his habit of repression , his love for her had swelled and gathered to such an intensity , that it seemed he must either speak or die . 
`` Gilbert , '' said Mark , as they moved towards the gate , `` why ca n't you catch and saddle Roger , and ride with us ? 
`` Nor I , '' said Gilbert , with a gloomy face . 
He looked at Martha , as he spoke . 
She understood him , and gave him her entire sympathy and pity , -- yet it was impossible for her to propose giving up the visit , solely for his sake . 
`` I 'll tell you what , Gilbert ! '' 
Mark thought he was very cunning in thus disposing of Martha during the ride , unconscious of the service he was offering to Gilbert . 
The latter 's eagerness shone from his eyes , but still he looked at Martha , trembling for a sign that should decide his hesitation . 
Her lids fell before his gaze , and a faint color came into her face , yet she did not turn away . 
So , Gilbert , hoist Martha into her saddle , and go for Roger . '' 
He opened the gate for them , and then climbed over the fence into the hill-field above his house . 
Having reached the crest , he stopped to watch the three riding abreast , on a smart trot , down the glen . 
Sally looked back , saw him , and waved her hand ; then Mark and Martha turned , giving no sign , yet to his eyes there seemed a certain expectancy in the movement . 
She looked at him wistfully and questioningly , as if she would fain have asked more ; but only said , -- `` Wo n't you be home to supper , Gilbert ? '' 
Atthe first winding of the creek , Gilbert drew rein , with a vague , half - conscious sense of escape . 
The eye which had followed him thus far was turned away at last . 
The air was soft and tempered , and filled the glen like the breath of some utterly peaceful and happy creature ; yet over Gilbert 's heart there brooded another atmosphere than this . 
The sultriness that precedes an emotional crisis weighed heavily upon him . 
No man , to whom Nature has granted her highest gift , -- that of expression , -- can understand the pain endured by one of strong feelings , to whom not only this gift has been denied , but who must also wrestle with an inherited reticence . 
Like all men of limited culture , Gilbert felt his helplessness keenly . 
His mind , usually clear in its operations , if somewhat slow and cautious , refused to assist him here ; it lay dead or apathetic in an air surcharged with passion . 
An anxious expectancy enclosed him with stifling pressure ; he felt that it must be loosened , but knew not how . 
His craving for words -- words swift , clear , and hot as lightning , through which his heart might discharge itself -- haunted him like a furious hunger . 
The road , rising out of the glen , passed around the brow of a grassy hill , whence he could look across a lateral valley to the Falconer farm-house . 
`` Hallo , here 's Gilbert , ahead of us ! '' 
In Mark 's and Sally 's eyes , Gilbert was as grave and impassive as usual , but Martha Deane was conscious of a strange , warm , subtle power , which seemed to envelop her as she drew near him . 
Her face glowed with a sweet , unaccustomed flush ; his was pale , and the shadow of his brows lay heavier upon his eyes . 
`` I say , Gilbert ! '' 
Gilbert looked at his companion , as she rode slowly by his side , through the cool , mottled dusk of the woods . 
She turned her face towards him and smiled , at Mark 's words . 
`` I do n't doubt it , Gilbert , '' she answered , so kindly and cordially that he was smitten to the heart . 
Gilbert was silent ; speech was mockery , unless it gave the words which he did not dare to pronounce . 
His manner was sullen and churlish in Martha 's eyes , he suspected ; but so it must be , unless a miracle were sent to aid him . 
She , riding as quietly , seemed to meditate , apparently unconscious of his presence ; how could he know that she had never before been so vitally conscious of it ? 
Martha 's horse followed , taking the log easily , but she reined him up the next moment , uttering a slight exclamation , and stretched out her hand wistfully towards Gilbert . 
Gilbert sprang to the ground and hastened to her assistance . 
`` Yes , it is broken , '' he said , `` but I can give you mine . 
She bent forward and laid her hands upon his shoulders . 
Then , as she slid gently down , his right arm crept around her waist , holding her so firmly and securely that she had left the saddle and hung in its support while her feet had not yet touched the earth . 
Her warm breath was on Gilbert 's forehead ; her bosom swept his breast , and the arm that until then had supported , now swiftly , tenderly , irresistibly embraced her . 
Trembling , thrilling from head to foot , utterly unable to control the mad impulse of the moment , he drew her to his heart and laid his lips to hers . 
All that he would have said -- all , and more than all , that words could have expressed -- was now said , without words . 
His kiss clung as if it were the last this side of death -- clung until he felt that Martha feebly strove to be released . 
The next minute they stood side by side , and Gilbert , by a revulsion equally swift and overpowering , burst into a passion of tears . 
He turned and leaned his head against Roger 's neck . 
Presently a light touch came upon his shoulder . 
`` Gilbert ! '' 
He faced her then , and saw that her own cheeks were wet . 
he cried , `` unless you love me with a love like mine for you , you can never forgive me ! '' 
She came nearer ; she laid her arms around him , and lifted her face to his . 
Then she said , in a tender , tremulous whisper , -- `` Gilbert -- Gilbert ! 
A pang of wonderful , incredulous joy shot through his heart . 
Exalted by his emotion above the constraints of his past and present life , he arose and stood free and strong in his full stature as a man . 
He held her softly and tenderly embraced , and a purer bliss than the physical delight of her warm , caressing presence shone upon his face as he asked , -- `` Forever , Martha ? '' 
`` Because I know what you are , Gilbert ! '' 
He bowed his head upon her shoulder , and she felt softer tears -- tears which came this time without sound or pang -- upon her neck . 
A swift instinct revealed to her the painful struggles of Gilbert 's life , -- the stern , reticent strength they had developed , -- the anxiety and the torture of his long-suppressed passion , and the power and purity of that devotion with which his heart had sought and claimed her . 
She now saw him in his true character , -- firm as steel , yet gentle as dew , patient and passionate , and purposely cold only to guard the sanctity of his emotions . 
Gilbert lifted his head and looked into Martha 's sweet , unshrinking eyes . 
he said , solemnly . 
You were '' -- He paused ; was there not blessing enough , or must he curiously question its growth ? 
Martha , however , understood the thought in his mind . 
`` No , Gilbert ! '' 
It has been slow to speak , Gilbert , but I know it has spoken truly at last ! '' 
He replaced the broken girth , lifted her into the saddle , mounted his own horse , and they resumed their ride along the dusky valley . 
`` Martha , '' said Gilbert , leaning towards her and touching her softly as he spoke , as if fearful that some power in in his words might drive them apart , -- `` Martha , have you considered what I am called ? 
Gilbert , I honored you before I loved you . 
They call me ` independent , ' Gilbert , because , though a woman , I dare to think for myself ; I know not whether they mean praise by the word , or no ; but I think it would frighten away the thought of love from many men . 
Gilbert took and held it , bowing his head fondly over it , and inwardly thanking God that the test which his pride had exacted was over at last . 
But I could not tell how long the time might be , -- I could not urge my mother , nor even ask her to explain '' -- `` No , no , Gilbert ! 
Gilbert shouted , and a double cry instantly replied . 
`` I should have been thrown off , but for Gilbert 's help . 
He had to give me his own girth , and so we have ridden slowly , since he has none . '' 
`` No , '' said Gilbert , `` I can ride Roger bareback , if need be , with the saddle on my shoulder . '' 
Something in his voice struck Mark and Sally singularly . 
It was grave and subdued , yet sweet in its tones as never before ; he had not yet descended from the solemn exaltation of his recent mood . 
But the dusk sheltered his face , and its new brightness was visible only to Martha 's eyes . 
Here Gilbert felt that it was best to leave them . 
`` Martha , how many words has Gilbert spoken to you this evening ? '' 
`` As many as I have spoken to him , '' Martha answered ; `` but I will say three more , -- Good-night , Gilbert ! '' 
was all he dared say , in return , but the pressure of his hand burned long upon her fingers . 
He rode homewards in the starlight , transformed by love and gratitude , proud , tender , strong to encounter any fate . 
His mother sat in the lonely kitchen , with the New Testament in her lap ; she had tried to read , but her thoughts wandered from the consoling text . 
Gilbert strove hard to assume his ordinary manner , but he could not hide the radiant happiness that shone from his eyes and sat upon his lips . 
`` It 's not right to go without your regular meals , Gilbert . 
She poured out the tea , and Gilbert ate and drank in silence . 
His mother said nothing , but he knew that her eye was upon him , and that he was the subject of her thoughts . 
Once or twice he detected a wistful , questioning expression , which , in his softened mood , touched him almost like a reproach . 
Gilbert felt that he must now speak , and only hesitated while he considered how he could best do so , without touching her secret and mysterious trouble . 
he said at last , `` I have something to tell you . '' 
`` Ay , Gilbert ? '' 
He paused , and looked at her . 
She clasped her hands , leaned forward , and fixed her dark , mournful eyes intently upon his face . 
`` I have been drawn towards her for a long time , '' Gilbert continued . 
`` There 's no woman too high for you , Gilbert ! '' 
You 're still young -- not twenty-five , and there 's debt on the farm ; -- could n't you ha ' waited a little , Gilbert ? '' 
`` I have waited , mother , '' he said , slightly turning away his head , that he might not see the tender reproach in her face , which her question seemed to imply . 
Gilbert waited , as if his mother might here speak , but she remained silent . 
he continued . 
Gilbert looked up . 
But in the pale face , the closed eyes , and the blue shade about the parted lips , he saw that she was unconscious of his words . 
Gilbert ` svoice , sharpened by his sudden and mortal fear , recalled Mary Potter to consciousness . 
After she had drunk of the cup of water which he brought , she looked slowly and wearily around the kitchen , as if some instinct taught her to fix her thoughts on the signs and appliances of her every-day life , rather than allow them to return to the pang which had overpowered her . 
`` I have frightened you , Gilbert ; but there is no occasion for it . 
But oh , try , Gilbert , tryto be patient a little while longer , -- it ca n't be for long , -- for I begin to see now that I 've worked out my fault , and that the Lord in Heaven owes me justice ! '' 
Then he heard Martha 's voice , saying : `` Gilbert , why did you tell Alfred Barton ? 
This dream , absurd and incoherent as it was , made a strange impression upon Gilbert 's mind . 
He was not superstitious , but in spite of himself the idea became rooted in his thoughts that the truth of his own parentage affected , in some way , some member of the Deane family . 
Among the healthy , strong-nerved people of Kennett such a thing as a swoon was of the rarest occurrence , and it suggested some terrible cause to Gilbert 's mind . 
It was sometimes hard for him to preserve his predetermined patient , cheerful demeanor in his mother 's presence , but he tried bravely , and succeeded . 
Although the harvest was well over , there was still much work to do on the farm , in order that the month of October might be appropriated to hauling , -- the last time , Gilbert hoped , that he should be obliged to resort to this source of profit . 
So far , his estimates had been verified . 
A good portion of the money was already on hand , and his coveted freedom from debt in the following spring became now tolerably secure . 
His course , in this respect , was in strict accordance with the cautious , plodding , conscientious habits of the community in which he lived . 
Gilbert was impatient to see Martha again , not so much for the delight of love , as from a sense of the duty which he owed to her . 
His mother had not answered his question , -- possibly not even heard it , -- and he did not dare to approach her with it again . 
But so much as he knew might be revealed to the wife of his heart ; of that he was sure . 
If she could but share his confidence in his mother 's words , and be equally patient to await the solution , it would give their relation a new sweetness , an added sanctity and trust . 
He made an errand to Fairthorn 's at the close of the week , hoping that chance might befriend him , but almost determined , in any case , to force an interview . 
The dread he had trampled down still hung around him , and it seemed that Martha 's presence might dissipate it . 
Something , at least , he might learn concerning Dr. Deane 's family , and here his thoughts at once reverted to Miss Betsy Lavender . 
In her he had the true friend , the close mouth , the brain crammed with family intelligence ! 
The Fairthorns were glad to see their `` boy , '' as the old woman still called him . 
`` Only along the level , t ` other side o ' the big hill , Gilbert ! '' 
Gilbert understood them ; he shook his head , and said : `` You rascals , I think I see you doing that again ! '' 
But he turned away his face , to conceal a smile at the recollection . 
Sally Fairthorn met Gilbert in her usual impetuous way . 
She was glad to see him , but she could not help saying : `` Well , have you got your tongue yet , Gilbert ? 
`` Nothing , Sally , '' he answered , with something of his old playfulness , `` nothing except that the pears were very good . 
`` I wish you did , Sally , '' Gilbert gravely remarked . 
Gilbert was careful not to ask many questions during his visit ; but Sally 's rattling tongue supplied him with all he would have been likely to learn , in any case . 
She had found Martha at home the day before , and had talked about him , Gilbert . 
Martha had n't noticed anything `` queer '' in his manner , whereupon she , Sally , had said that Martha was growing `` queer '' too ; then Martha remarked that -- but here Sally found that she had been talking altogether too fast , so she bit her tongue and blushed a little . 
On his way to the village , Gilbert chose the readiest and simplest way of accomplishing his purpose . 
He would call on Betsy Lavender , and ask her to arrange her time so that she could visit his mother during his approaching absence from home . 
Leaving his horse at the hitching-post in front of the store , he walked boldly across the road and knocked at Dr. Deane 's door . 
`` Gilbert Potter , I 'll be snaked ! '' 
`` Well , Gilbert ! '' 
She had not been fully , vitally aware of her love for Gilbert until the day when he declared it , and now , in memory , the two circumstances seemed to make but one fact . 
Gilbert was too innocent to suspect the artifice -- not so Martha . 
But while she would have foiled the inference of any other woman , she accepted Betsy 's without the least embarrassment , and took Gilbert 's hand again in her own before the door had fairly closed . 
he cried , `` if I could but see you oftener -- but for a minute , every day ! 
Her lovely blue eyes smiled upon him with a blissful consent , so gentle and so perfect , that he would fain have stood thus and spoken no word more . 
`` Martha , '' he said , returning to the thought of his duty , `` I have something to say . 
He spoke earnestly and hurriedly , and his communication was so unexpected that she scarcely comprehended its full import . 
But for his sake , she dared not hesitate to answer . 
`` Can you ask it , Gilbert ? 
`` Strange things sometimes happen in this world , '' said Martha , with a grave tenderness , laying her hand upon his arm , `` and this seems to be one of the strangest . 
I am glad you have told me , Gilbert , -- it will make so much difference to you ! '' 
`` So it do n't take you from me , Martha , '' he groaned , in a return of his terrible dread . 
`` Betsy , '' said Gilbert , `` I wanted to ask you about coming down our way . '' 
The lovers said farewell , and Betsy Lavender accompanied Gilbert , proposing to walk a little way with him and get the articles on her return . 
`` Gilbert Potter , '' she said , when they were out of sight and ear-shot of the village , `` I want you to know that I 've got eyes in my head . 
he exclaimed , `` you seem to know everything about everybody -- at least , you know what I am , perhaps better than I do myself ; now suppose I grant you 're right , what do you think of it ? '' 
she cried , noticing a deadly paleness on Gilbert 's face -- `` a-h-h-h , I begin to understand now . 
Look here , Gilbert ! 
he said , `` if you knew how I have been perplexed , you would n't wonder at my fancies ! '' 
`` I can fancy all that , my boy , '' she gently answered , `` and I 'll tell you another thing , Gilbert -- your mother has a heavy secret on her mind , and I rather guess it concerns your father . 
With these words and a sharp , bony wring of his hand , Miss Betsy strode rapidly back to the village . 
It did not escape Gilbert 's eye that , strongly as she had pronounced against his secret fear , the detection of it had agitated her . 
He could not banish the suspicion that she knew something which might affect his fortune ; but she had not forbidden his love for Martha -- she had promised to help him , and that was a great consolation . 
His cheerfulness , thenceforth , was not assumed , and he rejoiced to see a very faint , shadowy reflection of it , at times , in his mother 's face . 
When the latter returned from her interview with Gilbert Potter , the previous evening , she found the Doctor already arrived . 
The recollection of Gilbert 's embrace in the dusky glen came to her , already for the thousandth time , but warmer , sweeter at each recurrence . 
`` I know , Betsy , '' she said , `` that father would not hear of it now ; but we are both young and can wait , at least until I come into my property -- ours , I ought to say , for I think of it already as being as much Gilbert 's as mine . 
`` Is there none on his side , Martha ? '' 
`` His birth ? 
I am so glad , for his sake , -- but , Betsy , perhaps you do not know '' -- `` If there 's anything I need to know , I 'll find it out , soon or late . 
He 's worried , that I see , and no wonder , poor boy ! 
A bright smile broke over her face , as she thought how sweet it would be to match , as best a woman might , Gilbert 's incomparable patience and energy of purpose . 
She was already prepared to lay her firm , independent spirit at his feet , or exercise it only as her new , eternal duty to him might require . 
Betsy Lavender 's warning could not ripple the bright surface of her happiness ; she knew that no one -LRB- hardly even Gilbert , as yet -RRB- suspected that in her heart the love of a strong and faithful and noble man outweighed all other gifts or consequences of life -- that , to keep it , she would give up home , friends , father , the conventional respect of every one she knew ! 
And my advice is , hold him off as much as you please , but say nothin ' o ' Gilbert ! '' 
A sweet , warm yearning for Gilbert 's presence took its permanent seat in her heart ; not only his sterling manly qualities , but his form , his face -- the broad , square brow ; the large , sad , deep-set gray eyes ; the firm , yet impassioned lips -- haunted her fancy . 
At this time Gilbert Potter , in ignorance of the cunning plans which were laid by the old men , was working early and late to accomplish all necessary farm-labor by the first of October . 
That month he had resolved to devote to the road between Columbia and Newport , and if but average success attended his hauling , the earnings of six round trips , with the result of his bountiful harvest , would at last place in his hands the sum necessary to defray the remaining debt upon the farm . 
His next year 's wheat-crop was already sowed , the seed-clover cut , and the fortnight which still intervened was to be devoted to threshing . 
In this emergency , as at reaping-time , when it was difficult to obtain extra hands , he depended on Deb . 
Smith , and she did not fail him . 
Her principal home , when she was not employed on farm-work , was a log-hut , on the edge of a wood , belonging to the next farm north of Fairthorn 's . 
When Gilbert , after hitching his horse in a corner of the zigzag picket-fence , climbed over and approached the cabin , Deb . 
Smith issued from it to meet him , closing the heavy plank door carefully behind her . 
said he , `` you 're a friend in need . '' 
Gilbert smiled . 
As he rode over the second hill , on his way to the village , Gilbert 's heart leaped , as he beheld Betsy Lavender just turning into Fairthorn 's gate . 
Except his mother , she was the only person who knew of his love , and he had great need of her kind and cautious assistance . 
He had not allowed his heart simply to revel in the ecstasy of its wonderful fortune , or to yearn with inexpressible warmth for Martha 's dearest presence , though these emotions haunted him constantly ; he had also endeavored to survey the position in which he stood , and to choose the course which would fulfil both his duty towards her and towards his mother . 
His coming independence would have made the prospect hopefully bright , but for the secret which lay across it like a threatening shadow . 
Betsy Lavender 's assurances had only partially allayed his dread ; something hasty and uncertain in her manner still lingered uneasily in his memory , and he felt sure that she knew more than she was willing to tell . 
Moreover , he craved with all the strength of his heart for another interview with Martha , and he knew of no way to obtain it without Betsy 's help . 
Her hand was on the gate-latch when his call reached her ears . 
Looking up the road , she saw that he had stopped his horse between the high , bushy banks , and was beckoning earnestly . 
Darting a hasty glance at the ivydraped windows nearest the road , and finding that she was not observed , she hurried to meet him . 
`` Betsy , '' he whispered , `` I mustsee Martha again before I leave , and you must tell me how . '' 
`` But there must be some way , '' Gilbert insisted . 
Gilbert cried , his face flashing , `` thank you , a thousand times ! '' 
Gilbert rode homewards , after a pleasant call at Fairthorn 's , in a very joyous mood . 
Not daring to converse with his mother on the one subject which filled his heart , he showed her the calculations which positively assured his independence in a short time . 
Gilbert could not help noticing that this idea of independence , for which she had labored so strenuously , seemed to be regarded , in her mind , as the first step towards her mysterious and longdelayed justification ; she was so impatient for its accomplishment , her sad brow lightened so , her breath came so much freer as she admitted that his calculations were correct ! 
Nevertheless , as he frequently referred to the matter , on the following days , she at last said , -- `` Please , Gilbert , do n't always talk so certainly of what is n't over and settled ! 
`` You may be right , mother , '' he answered ; `` but it 's pleasant to me to see you looking a little more hopeful . '' 
Before sunrise on Monday morning , the rapid , alternate beats of three flails , on Gilbert 's threshing-floor , made the autumnal music which the farmer loves to hear . 
Two of these -- Gilbert 's and Sam 's -- kept time with each other , one falling as the other rose ; but the third , quick , loud , and filling all the pauses with thundering taps , was wielded by the arm of Deb . 
If a certain black jug , behind the barn-door , needed frequent replenishing , Gilbert knew that the strength of its contents passed into the red , bare , muscular arms which shamed his own , and that Deb. , while she was under his roof , would allow herself no coarse excess , either of manner or speech . 
Thus , his arm keeping time to the rhythm of joy in his heart , and tasting the satisfaction of labor as never before in his life , the days passed to Gilbert Potter . 
Easily feigning an errand to the village , he walked rapidly up the road in the warm afternoon , taking the cross-road to New-Garden just before reaching Hallowell 's , and then struck to the right across the fields . 
`` Gilbert , '' said Martha , presently , `` it was right that we should meet before you leave home . 
`` Our love is right , Gilbert , '' she exclaimed , `` and the world must give way ! '' 
Thereupon Gilbert clearly and rapidly explained to her his precise situation . 
He set forth his favorable prospects of speedy independence , the obstacle which his mother 's secret threw in their way , and his inability to guess any means which might unravel the mystery , and hasten his and her deliverance . 
The disgrace once removed , he thought , all other impediments to their union would be of trifling importance . 
`` I see all that clearly , '' said Martha , when he had finished ; `` now , this is myposition . '' 
She told him frankly her father 's plans concerning her , and gave him , with conscientious minuteness , all the details of Alfred Barton 's interview . 
`` You see , Gilbert , '' were Martha 's final words , `` how we are situated . 
`` I know you did n't , Gilbert , but Ido ! 
Gilbert interrupted , in a tone almost of despair . 
`` Well -- not quite , '' said Martha , smiling archly ; `` since you must know my exact age , Gilbert , I was twenty-one on the second of last February ; so that the time is really three years , four months , and eleven days . '' 
`` I 'd serve seven years , as Jacob served , if need be , '' he said . 
`` It was yoursecret , Gilbert . '' 
`` I did n't think , '' he answered , softly . 
Gilbert , aware that she was familiar with the particular difficulties on Martha 's side , now made her acquainted with his own . 
At the mention of his mother 's declaration in regard to his birth , she lifted her hands and nodded her head , listening , thenceforth to the end , with half-closed eyes and her loose lips drawn up in a curious pucker . 
he asked , as she remained silent . 
Gilbert persisted . 
She stole a quick glance at Martha , which he detected , and a chill ran through his blood . 
His face grew pale . 
She saw the renewal of Gilbert 's suspicion , and was casting about in her mind how to allay it without indicating something else which she wished to conceal . 
cried Gilbert , `` we know you and trust you . 
Martha looked surprised , but Gilbert flushed up to the roots of his hair , and set his lips firmly together . 
`` I dunno as it 'll do , '' continued Miss Betsy , with perfect indifference to these signs , `` but then it might.First and foremost , we must try to find out what he wants , for it is n't you , Martha ; so you , Gilbert , might as well be a little more of a cowcumber than you are at this present moment . 
But if it 's nothin ' ag ` inst the law , and not likely , for he 's too cute , we might even use a vessel -- well , not exackly o ' wrath , but somethin' like it . 
Gilbert was ashamed of his sensitiveness in regard to Barton , especially after Martha 's frank and merry confession ; so he declared himself entirely willing to abide by her judgment . 
We 've got six weeks till Gilbert comes back , and no need o ' hurry , except our arrand to Polly Withers 's , which 'll come to nothin ' , unless you each take leave of other mighty quick , while I 'm lookin ' for some more wintergreen . '' 
he asked . 
`` Yes , Gilbert , and all the more precious . '' 
Duringthe month of October , while Gilbert Potter was occupied with his lonely and monotonous task , he had ample leisure to evolve a clear , calm , happy purpose from the tumult of his excited feelings . 
This was , first , to accomplish his own independence , which now seemed inevitably necessary , for his mother 's sake , and its possible consequences to her ; then , strong in the knowledge of Martha Deane 's fidelity , to wait with her . 
With the exception of a few days of rainy weather , his hauling prospered , and he returned home after five weeks ' absence , to count up the gains of the year and find that very little was lacking of the entire amount to be paid . 
There were again rumors of Sandy Flash lurking around Marlborough , and she shuddered and trembled whenever his name was mentioned . 
Her uneasiness became at last so great that Gilbert finally proposed writing to the conveyancer in Chester who held the mortgage , and asking whether the money might not as well be paid at once , since he had it in hand , as wait until the following spring . 
O Gilbert , if it can be done , it 'll take a great load off my mind ! '' 
`` Whatever puts the mortgage into my hands , mother , '' said he , `` is legal enough for us . 
The first thing Gilbert did , on reaching the village , was to post the letter in season for the mail-rider , who went once a week to and fro between Chester and Peach-bottom Ferry , on the Susquehanna . 
`` Why , Gilbert , old boy ! '' 
He threw his heavy arm over Gilbert 's shoulder , and drew him along . 
`` Very well , '' answered Gilbert , `` seeing it 's the last time . 
During Gilbert 's absence , neither this gentleman 's plan nor that of his father , had made much progress . 
No suspicion of Gilbert Potter 's relation to Martha Deane had ever entered his mind . 
He had always had a liking for the young man , and would , no doubt , have done him any good service which did not require the use of money . 
He now came forward very cordially and shook hands with the two . 
Gilbert had self-possession enough to control his first impulse , and to meet his rival with his former manner . 
Secure in his own fortune , he even felt that he could afford to be magnanimous , and thus , by degrees , the dislike wore off which Martha 's confession had excited . 
he asked . 
`` If he comes any nearer , you must send word around at once , '' said Gilbert , -- `` not wait until he 's already among us . '' 
`` And I , too , '' said Gilbert . 
While the flying rumors about Sandy Flash were being produced and discussed , Barton drew Gilbert aside . 
`` Your speaking of your having done well by hauling put it into my head , Gilbert , '' Barton continued . 
Now , as you 've got it , lying idle '' -- `` It happens to be just the other way , Barton , '' said Gilbert , interrupting him . 
`` I shall very likely have to use my money soon , '' Gilbert explained , `` and must at least wait until I hear from Chester . 
`` Of course , '' Gilbert answered . 
Gilbert , having carefully cut around the wafer and unfolded the sheet of strong yellowish paper , read this missive , -- `` Sir : Yr respd favour of ye 111th came duly to hand , and ye proposition wh it contains has been submitted to Mr. Jones , ye present houlder of ye mortgage . 
Gilbert , with his limited experience of business matters , had entirely overlooked the fact , that the permission of the creditor is not necessary to the payment of a debt . 
He had a profound respect for all legal forms , and his indebtedness carried with it a sense of stern and perpetual responsibility , which , alas ! 
This Mark expected to receive on the following Wednesday , and Gilbert and his mother agreed that the journey to Chester should be made at the close of the same week . 
Gilbert was moved by the serenity of her face , and the trouble , which he knew it concealed , seemed , to his mind , to be wearing away . 
`` There 's failing nine or ten , among 'em some I fully counted on -- Withers , he maycome yet ; Ferris , hardly time to get word ; but Carson , Potter , and Travilla ought to turn up curst soon , or we 'll have the sport without 'em ! '' 
`` Give me a horse , Mr. Barton , and I 'll ride down for Gilbert ! '' 
Just then Joe and Jake Fairthorn , who had been dodging back and forth through the village , watching the roads , made their appearance with the announcement , -- `` Hurray -- there 's another -- comin ' up from below , but it a 'n' t Gilbert . 
He 's stuck full o ' pistols , but he 's a-foot , and you must git him a horse . 
I tell you , he looks like a real buster ! '' 
`` There he is , -- there he is ! '' 
He had nearly reached the corner , when Gilbert Potter dashed up behind him , with Roger all in a foam . 
Joe Fairthorn , seized with deadly terror when he heard the terrible name , had set off at full speed for home ; but descrying Gilbert approaching on a gallop , changed his course , met the latter , and gasped out the astounding intelligence . 
All this was the work of a minute , and when Gilbert reached the corner , a single glance showed him the true state of affairs . 
The confused group in front of the tavern , some faces sallow with cowardice , some red with indignation and shame ; the solitary , retreating figure , alive in every nerve with splendid courage , told him the whole story , which Joe 's broken words had only half hinted . 
Sandy Flash , with a sudden spring , placed his back against the house , pointed his pistol at Gilbert , and said : `` Drop your gun , or I fire ! '' 
For answer , Gilbert drew the trigger ; the crack of the explosion rang sharp and clear , and a little shower of mortar covered Sandy Flash 's cocked hat . 
The ball had struck the wall about four inches above his head . 
He leaped forward ; Gilbert clubbed his musket and awaited him . 
They were scarcely two yards apart ; the highwayman 's pistol - barrel was opposite Gilbert 's heart , and the two men were looking into each other 's eyes . 
I hate bloodshed , and besides that , young Potter , you 're not the man that 'll take me prisoner . 
Gilbert , amazed to find himself known to the highwayman , and puzzled with certain familiar marks in the latter 's countenance , was swiftly enlightened by this grin . 
It was Fortune 's face before him , without the black hair and whiskers , -- and Fortune 's voice that spoke ! 
He grinned again . 
`` You 'll know your friend , another time , '' he said , sprang five feet backward , whirled , gained the cover of the house , and was mounting his horse among the bushes at the bottom of the garden , before any of the others reached Gilbert , who was still standing as if thunder-struck . 
The interest now turned upon Gilbert Potter , who was very taciturn and thoughtful , and had little to relate . 
They noticed , however , that his eyes were turned often and inquiringly upon Alfred Barton , and that the latter as steadily avoided meeting them . 
When Gilbert went to bring Roger , who had quietly waited at the crossing of the roads , Deb . 
he exclaimed , as she almost repeated to him Sandy Flash 's very words . 
he cried ; `` he 's goin ' to shoot Gilbert ! '' 
Who 'd shoot Gilbert Potter ? 
Gilbert shot his hat off ! '' 
cried Miss Lavender , as she beheld Gilbert Potter approaching , leading Roger by the bridle . 
While the others instantly surrounded Gilbert , the young volunteer who alone had made any show of fight , told the story to the two ladies . 
Gilbert approached . 
His face was grave and thoughtful , but his eye brightened as it met hers . 
The other women of the village crowded around , and he was obliged , though with evident reluctance , to relate his share in the event . 
Barton , restored to his usual complexion by two glasses of whiskey , was nearly ready to head a chase which he suspected would come to nothing ; but the pert young volunteer , who had been whispering with some of the younger men , suddenly cried out , -- `` I say , fellows , we 've had about enough o ' Barton 's command ; and I , for one , am a-goin ' to enlist under Captain Potter . '' 
Gilbert , however , stepped forward and said : `` It 's bad policy to divide our forces just now , when we ought to be off on the hunt . 
`` The fellows are right , Gilbert ! '' 
Gilbert cried , without further hesitation . 
In a second he was on Roger 's back . 
`` You , Barton , '' he ordered , `` take three with you and make for the New-Garden cross-road as fast as you can . 
Gilbert had a long and perplexing chase , but very little came of it . 
About the middle of the afternoon , Gilbert detected , in one of the lanes leading across to the Street Road , the marks of a galloping steed , and those who had a little lingering knowledge of wood-craft noticed that the gallop often ceased suddenly , changed to a walk , and was then as suddenly resumed . 
Gilbert and his hunters now suspected the disguise , but the difficulty of following the trail had increased with every hour of lost time ; and after scouring along the Brandywine and then crossing into the Pocopsin valley , they finally gave up the chase , late in the day . 
It was the general opinion that Sandy had struck northward , and was probably safe in one of his lairs among the Welch Mountains . 
When they reached the Unicorn tavern at dusk , Gilbert found Joe Fairthorn impatiently waiting for him . 
`` And , Gilbert , '' said Joe , `` I was n't to forgit to tell you that we 're a-goin ' to have a huskin ' frolic o ' Wednesday night , -- day after to-morrow , you know . 
Dad 's behind-hand with huskin ' , and the moon 's goin ' to be full , and Mark he said Let 's have a frolic , and I 'm comin ' home to meet Gilbert anyhow , and so I 'll be there . 
And you 'll come , Gilbert , wo n't you ? '' 
`` Yes , yes , Joe , '' Gilbert answered , a little impatiently ; `` tell Sally I 'll come . '' 
Then he turned Roger 's head towards home . 
He was glad of the solitary ride which allowed him to collect his thoughts . 
Fearless as was his nature , the danger he had escaped might well have been cause for grave self-congratulation ; but the thought of it scarcely lingered beyond the moment of the encounter . 
It was quite natural that Mary Potter should shudder and turn pale during the recital -- quite natural that a quick expression of relief should shine from her face at the close ; but Gilbert could not be sure that her interest extended to any one except himself . 
She suggested no explanation of Sandy Flash 's words , and he asked none . 
`` You wo n't have long to wait , now , mother , '' he answered cheerily . 
`` You do n't know him , Gilbert . 
He wo n't soon forget that you shot at him . '' 
`` I seem to be safe enough , if he tells the truth , '' Gilbert could not help remarking . 
Two more lovely Indian-summer days went by , and as the wine-red sun slowly quenched his lower limb in the denser smoke along the horizon , the great bronzed moon struggled out of it , on the opposite rim of the sky . 
Mark Deane , who had reached home that afternoon , wore the seventy-five dollars in a buckskin belt around his waist , and anxiously awaited the arrival of Gilbert Potter , of whose adventure he had already heard . 
Mark 's presumed obligations to Alfred Barton prevented him from expressing his overpowering contempt for that gentleman 's conduct , but he was not obliged to hold his tongue about Gilbert 's pluck and decision , and he did not . 
The latter , detained at the house by Mother Fairthorn and Sally , -- both of whom looked upon him as one arisen from the dead , -- did not reach the field until the others had selected their rows , overturned the shocks , and were seated in a rustling line , in the moonlight . 
`` Gilbert ! '' 
He sprang up , flinging an armful of stalks behind him , and with difficulty restrained an impulse to clasp Gilbert to his broad breast . 
The strong moonlight revealed to Gilbert Potter the honest heart which looked out of Mark 's blue eyes , as the latter held his hand like a vice , and said , -- `` I 've heard all about it . '' 
`` More than there was occasion for , very likely , '' Gilbert replied . 
`` All right , Gilbert . 
`` Because you know what you promised him , Sally , '' he retorted . 
Gilbert Potter had done his share of the work steadily , and as silently as the curiosity of the girls , still excited by his recent adventure , would allow . 
It was enough for him that he caught a chance word , now and then , from Martha . 
The emulation of the race with which the husking closed favored them , and he gladly lost a very fair chance of becoming King of the Corn-field for the opportunity of asking her to assist him in contriving a brief interview , on the way to the house . 
When they found themselves together , out of ear-shot of the others , Gilbert lost no time in relating the particulars of his encounter with Sandy Flash , the discovery he had made , and the mysterious assurance of Deb . 
Gilbert asked . 
She is said to be a superstitious creature , and if you have ever befriended her , -- and you may have done so , Gilbert , without your good heart being aware of it , -- she thinks that her spells , or charms , or what not , will save you from harm . 
Gilbert drew a deep breath of relief . 
How the darkness of his new fear vanished , in the light of Martha 's calm , sensible words ! 
he cried . 
The King sat at the head of the table , and Gilbert Potter -- forced into that position by Mark -- at the foot . 
Gilbert rode home through the splendid moonlight , in the small hours of the morning , with a light heart , and Mark 's money-belt buckled around his waist . 
Beingnow fully prepared to undertake his journey to Chester , Gilbert remembered his promise to Alfred Barton . 
As the subject had not again been mentioned between them , -- probably owing to the excitement produced by Sandy Flash 's visit to Kennett Square , and its consequences , -- he felt bound to inform Barton of his speedy departure , and to renew his offer of service . 
Gilbert 's suspicions had been aroused , although he could give them no definite form , and Barton shrank from any reference to what had now become a very sore topic . 
When the rustling wain had reached a convenient distance , Gilbert began , -- `` I only wanted to say that I 'm going to Chester to-morrow . '' 
I 'm obliged to you , all the same , Gilbert ; the will 's as good as the deed , you know ; but I got the money from -- well , from a friend , who was about going down on his own business , and so that stone killed both my birds . 
`` Is your friend , '' Gilbert asked , `` a safe and trusty man ? '' 
`` Then , '' said Gilbert , `` it 's hardly likely that he 's the same friend you took such a fancy to , at the Hammer-and-Trowel , last spring ? '' 
The more evident his embarrassment became , the more Gilbert was confirmed in his suspicion that there was some secret understanding between the two men . 
The thing seemed incredible , but the same point , he remembered , had occurred to Martha Deane 's mind , when she so readily explained the other circumstances . 
`` Barton , '' he said , sternly , `` you know very well whom I mean . 
He clenched his fists , and uttered a number of other oaths , which need not be repeated . 
His rage seemed so real that Gilbert was again staggered . 
Looking at the heavy , vulgar face before him , -- the small , restless eyes , the large sensuous mouth , the forehead whose very extent , in contradiction to ordinary laws , expressed imbecility rather than intellect , it was impossible to associate great cunning and shrewdness with such a physiognomy . 
But Gilbert felt bound to go a step further . 
`` Barton , '' he said , `` did n't you know who Fortune was , on that day ? '' 
Though some color still lingered in his face , he spread his shoulders with a bold , almost defiant air , and met Gilbert 's eye with a steady gaze . 
The latter was not prepared to carry his examination further , although he was still far from being satisfied . 
`` Come , come , Gilbert ! '' 
`` One thing I 'll promise you , '' said Gilbert , with a meaning look , `` that I wo n't let him walk into the bar-room of the Unicorn , without hindrance . '' 
`` Good-bye , Gilbert ; take care o ' yourself ! '' 
responded Gilbert , as he turned Roger 's head ; but he said to himself , -- `` when all other friends fail , I may come to you , not sooner . '' 
After breakfast , when Gilbert began to make preparations for the journey , she found herself so agitated that it was with difficulty she could give him the usual assistance . 
Although Gilbert would reach Chester that evening , -- the distance being not more than twenty-four miles , -- the preparations , principally on account of his errand , were conducted with a grave and solemn sense of their importance . 
When , finally , everything was in readiness , -- the saddle-bags so packed that the precious rolls could not rub or jingle ; the dinner of sliced bread and pork placed over them , in a folded napkin ; the pistols , intended more for show than use , thrust into the antiquated holsters ; and all these deposited and secured on Roger 's back , -- Gilbert took his mother 's hand , and said , -- `` Good-bye , mother ! 
He had never looked more strong and cheerful . 
His look said `` I do not forget ! '' 
He sat already in the saddle , and was straightening the folds of his heavy cloak , so that it might protect his knees . 
As he rode slowly away , Mary Potter lifted her eyes to the dense gray of the sky , darkening from moment to moment , listened to the murmur of the wind over the wooded hills opposite , and clasped her hands with the appealing gesture which had now become habitual to her . 
Gilbert rode slowly , because he feared the contents of his saddle-bags would be disturbed by much jolting . 
Proof against wind and weather , he was not troubled by the atmospheric signs , but rather experienced a healthy glow and exhilaration of the blood as the mist grew thicker and beat upon his face like the blown spray of a waterfall . 
By the time he had reached the Carson farm , the sky contracted to a low , dark arch of solid wet , in which there was no positive outline of cloud , and a dull , universal roar , shorn of all windy sharpness , hummed over the land . 
From the hill behind the farm-house , whence he could overlook the bottom-lands of Redley Creek , and easily descry , on a clear day , the yellow front of Dr. Deane 's house in Kennett Square , he now beheld a dim twilight chaos , wherein more and more of the distance was blotted out . 
Gilbert confessed to himself , before he reached the Philadelphia road , that he would rather have chosen another day for the journey ; yet the thought of returning was farthest from his mind . 
Even when the rain , having created its little pools and sluices in every hollow of the ground , took courage , and multiplied its careering drops , and when the wet gusts tore open his cloak and tugged at his dripping hat , he cheerily shook the moisture from his cheeks and eyelashes , patted Roger 's streaming neck , and whistled a bar or two of an old carol . 
There were pleasant hopes enough to occupy his mind , without dwelling on these slight external annoyances . 
He still tried to believe that his mother 's release would be hastened by the independence which lay folded in his saddle-bags , and the thud of the wet leather against Roger 's hide was a sound to cheer away any momentary foreboding . 
One moment , Gilbert knew that he was riding along this road , Roger pressing close to the bank for shelter from the wind and rain ; the next , there was a swift and tremendous grip on his collar , Roger slid from under him , and he was hurled backwards , with great force , upon the ground . 
It seemed to Gilbert that nothing but the singular force of his eye held back the horse from rushing upon him . 
he cried , without turning his head , `` or a bullet goes into your horse 's brain . 
Gilbert , although he knew every trait of the noble animal 's nature better than those of many a human acquaintance , was both surprised and touched at the instinct with which he had recognized an enemy , and the fierce courage with which he stood on the defensive . 
Gilbert again commanded . 
He seemed completely reassured , and advanced a step or two nearer . 
Bending down his head , he snorted warmly into Gilbert 's pale face , and then swelled his sides with a deep breath of satisfaction . 
Tears of shame , grief , and rage swam in Gilbert 's eyes . 
`` Roger , '' he said , `` I 've lost everything but you ! '' 
He staggered to his feet and leaned against the bank . 
The extent of his loss -- the hopelessness of its recovery -- the impotence of his burning desire to avenge the outrage -- overwhelmed him . 
The highwayman still stood , a few paces off , watching him with a grim curiosity . 
With a desperate effort , Gilbert turned towards him . 
`` Sandy Flash , '' he cried , `` do you know what you are doing ? '' 
`` I 've heard it said , to your credit , '' Gilbert continued , `` that , though you rob the rich , you sometimes give to the poor . 
Gilbert cried . 
exclaimed Sandy Flash , his eyes shining angrily and his teeth glittering . 
He slung the saddle-bags over his shoulders , and turned to leave . 
Gilbert was so amazed that for a moment he knew not what to say . 
Gilbert cried , with a last desperate appeal , -- `` it is mine , mine and my mother 's ! '' 
he cried again , raising his voice almost to a shout , as the crashing of the robber 's steps through the brushwood sounded farther and farther down the glen , `` Sandy Flash ! 
The growing darkness of the sky told of approaching night , and the wild glen , bleak enough before , was now a scene of utter and hopeless desolation to Gilbert 's eyes . 
He was almost unmanned , not only by the cruel loss , but also by the stinging sense of outrage which it had left behind . 
A mixed feeling of wretched despondency and shame filled his heart , as he leaned , chill , weary , and still weak from the shock of his fall , upon Roger 's neck . 
The faithful animal turned his head from time to time , as if to question his master 's unusual demeanor . 
There was a look of almost human sympathy in his large eyes ; he was hungry and restless , yet would not move until the word of command had been given . 
said Gilbert , patting his cheek , `` we 've both fared ill to-day . 
He then mounted and rode onward through the storm . 
A mileor more beyond the spot where Gilbert Potter had been waylaid , there was a lonely tavern , called the `` Drovers ' Inn . '' 
Here he dismounted , more for his horse 's sake than his own , although he was sore , weary , and sick of heart . 
Laying aside his wet cloak , which was sent to the kitchen to be more speedily dried , Gilbert presently sat in a cloud of his own steaming garments , and felt the warmth of the potent liquor in his chilly blood . 
All at once , it occurred to him that the highwayman had not touched his person . 
There was not only some loose silver in his pockets , but Mark Deane 's money-belt was still around his waist . 
So much , at least , was rescued , and he began to pluck up a little courage . 
Should he continue his journey to Chester , explain the misfortune to the holder of his mortgage , and give notice to the County Sheriff of this new act of robbery ? 
remarked the curious landlord , who , seated in a corner of the fireplace , had for full ten minutes been watching Gilbert 's knitted brows , gloomy , brooding eyes , and compressed lips . 
he exclaimed , bitterly . 
`` Then , my friend , '' Gilbert continued , `` will you take a letter from me to the Sheriff ? '' 
There was a general exclamation of surprise , and Gilbert 's story , which he had suddenly decided to relate , in order that the people of the neighborhood might be put upon their guard , was listened to with an interest only less than the terror which it inspired . 
`` What I most need now , '' Gilbert said , `` is pen , ink , and paper , to write out my account . 
In a few minutes the necessary materials for a letter , all of the rudest kind , were supplied , and the landlord and drovers hovered around as Gilbert began to write , assisting him with the most extraordinary suggestions . 
Amid all this confusion , Gilbert managed to write a brief , but sufficiently circumstantial account of the robbery , calling upon the County authorities to do their part in effecting the capture of Sandy Flash . 
He offered his services and those of the Kennett troop , announcing that he should immediately start upon the hunt , and expected to be seconded by the law . 
After a bountiful meal , Gilbert completely dried his garments and prepared to set out on his return , resisting the kindly persuasion of the host and hostess that he should stay all night . 
A restless , feverish energy filled his frame . 
He felt that he could not sleep , that to wait idly would be simple misery , and that only in motion towards the set aim of his fierce , excited desires , could he bear his disappointment and shame . 
But the rain still came down with a volume which threatened soon to exhaust the cisterns of the air , and in that hope he compelled himself to wait a little . 
With his face towards home and his back to the storm , Gilbert rode into the night . 
Sometimes the light of a farm-house window sparkled faintly , like a glow-worm , but whether far or near , he could not tell ; he only knew how blest must be the owner , sitting with wife and children around his secure hearthstone , -- how wretched his own life , cast adrift in the darkness , -- wife , home , and future , things of doubt ! 
He had lost more than money ; and his wretchedness will not seem unmanly when we remember the steady strain and struggle of his previous life . 
Yet , on the other hand , it seemed that the highwayman believed that he was robbing Gilbert of Barton 's money . 
Gilbert was not in a charitable mood ; the human race was much more depraved , in his view , than twelve hours before ; and the inference which he would have rejected as monstrous , that very morning , now assumed a possible existence . 
One thing , at least , was certain ; he would exact an explanation , and if none should be furnished , he would make public the evidence in his hands . 
He could only guess , here and there , at a landmark , and was forced to rely more upon Roger 's instinct of the road than upon the guidance of his senses . 
The faithful animal pressed bravely on , but Gilbert soon noticed that he seemed at fault . 
The swift water had forced him out of the road , and he stopped , from time to time , as if anxious and uneasy . 
Roger snorted , stood still , and trembled in every limb ; and a sensation of awe and terror struck a chill through Gilbert 's heart . 
cried Gilbert , `` the dam ! 
He turned Roger 's head , gave him the rein , struck , spurred , cheered , and shouted . 
What happened during the first few seconds , Gilbert could never distinctly recall . 
He saw , at last , that they had fallen behind the furious onset of the flood , but Roger was still swimming with it , desperately throwing up his head from time to time , and snorting the water from his nostrils . 
Thrusting out his hand , Gilbert felt the rough bark of a tree . 
Leaning towards it and clasping the log in his arms , he drew himself from the saddle , while Roger , freed from his burden , struggled into the current and instantly disappeared . 
As nearly as Gilbert could ascertain , several timbers , thrown over each other , had lodged , probably upon a rocky islet in the stream , the uppermost one projecting slantingly out of the flood . 
It required all his strength to resist the current which sucked , and whirled , and tugged at his body , and to climb high enough to escape its force , without overbalancing his support . 
At last , though still half immerged , he found himself comparatively safe for a time , yet as far as ever from a final rescue . 
He must await the dawn , and an eternity of endurance lay in those few hours . 
It was the night which made his situation so terrible , by concealing the chances of escape . 
At first , he thought most of Roger . 
Gilbert now saw that the timber to which he clung was lodged nearly in the centre of the channel , as the water swept with equal force on either side of him . 
He was too weak and benumbed to trust himself to the flood , but he imagined that it was beginning to subside , and therein lay his only hope . 
Yet a new danger now assailed him , from the increasing cold . 
In another hour the sky was nearly swept bare of clouds , and he could note the lapse of the night by the sinking of the moon . 
But he was by this time hardly in a condition to note anything more . 
He had thrown himself , face downwards , on the top of the log , his arms mechanically clasping it , while his mind sank into a state of torpid , passive suffering , growing nearer to the dreamy indifference which precedes death . 
His cloak had been torn away in the first rush of the inundation , and the wet coat began to stiffen in the wind , from the ice gathering over it . 
The moon was low in the west , and there was a pale glimmer of the coming dawn in the sky , when Gilbert Potter suddenly raised his head . 
Above the noise of the water and the whistle of the wind , he heard a familiar sound , -- the shrill , sharp neigh of a horse . 
Lifting himself , with great exertion , to a sitting posture , he saw two men , on horseback , in the flooded meadow , a little below him . 
Gilbert tried to shout , but the muscles of his throat were stiff , and his lungs refused to act . 
As the last speaker moved away , Gilbert saw a led horse plunging through the water , beside the other . 
Sometimes the animals plunged , losing their foothold ; nevertheless , they gallantly breasted the current , and inch by inch worked their way to a point about six feet below Gilbert . 
Gilbert shook his head . 
he then cried . 
The man unbuckled the bridle and threw it , keeping the end of the rein in his hand . 
Gilbert tried to grasp it , but his hands were too numb . 
He managed , however , to get one arm and his head through the opening , and relaxed his hold on the log . 
A plunge , and the man had him by the collar . 
He felt himself lifted by a strong arm and laid across Roger 's saddle . 
With his failing strength and stiff limbs , it was no slight task to get into place , and the return , though less laborious to the horses , was equally dangerous , because Gilbert was scarcely able to support himself without help . 
They had both thrown their cloaks around Gilbert , and carefully steadied him in the saddle , one on each side . 
He was too much exhausted to ask how they had found him , or whither they were taking him , -- too numb for curiosity , almost for gratitude . 
Gilbert did not speak , but two large tears slowly gathered in his eyes , and rolled down his cheeks . 
The men saw his emotion , and respected it . 
The men lifted Gilbert from the saddle , and would have carried him immediately into the house , but he first leaned upon Roger 's neck , took the faithful creature 's head in his arms , and kissed it . 
When Gilbert had been partially revived by the warmth , the men conducted him into an adjoining bed-room , undressed him , and rubbed his limbs with whiskey . 
Then , a large bowl of coffee having been administered , he was placed in bed , covered with half a dozen blankets , and the curtains were drawn over the windows . 
In a few minutes he was plunged in a slumber almost as profound as that of the death from which he had been so miraculously delivered . 
It was two hours past noon when he awoke , and he no sooner fully comprehended the situation and learned how the time had sped , than he insisted on rising , although still sore , weak , and feverish . 
Finally Roger was led forth , quiet and submissive as of old , -- having forgotten his good deed as soon as it had been accomplished , -- and Gilbert , wrapped in the farmer 's cloak , retraced his way to the main road . 
As he looked across the meadow , which told of the inundation in its sweep of bent , muddy grass , and saw , between the creekbank trees , the lodged timber to which he had clung , the recollection of the night impressed him like a frightful dream . 
The hills on either side , whose outlines he could barely guess in the darkness , now stood out from the air with a hard , painful distinctness ; the sky was an arch of cold , steel-tinted crystal ; and the north wind blew with a shrill , endless whistle through the naked woods . 
As he climbed the long hill west of Chadd 's Ford , Gilbert noticed how the meadow on his right had been torn by the flood gathered from the fields above . 
Not far off , something was moving among the bushes , and he involuntarily drew rein . 
asked Gilbert . 
`` You ought to know Sandy Flash better , before you prophesy in his name , '' Gilbert repeated , in a stern voice . 
She grasped his leg with one hand , while she twisted the other in Roger 's mane , as if to hold both horse and rider until the words were explained . 
Gilbert smiled sadly and incredulously , and rode onward . 
He made haste to reach home , for a dull pain began to throb in his head , and chill shudders ran over his body . 
He longed to have the worst over which yet awaited him , and gain a little rest for body , brain , and heart . 
Although she believed Gilbert to be safely housed in Chester , the fact constantly slipped from her memory , and she shuddered at every change in the wild weather as if he were really exposed to it . 
It seemed to be Roger , but could that rider , in the faded brown cloak , be Gilbert ? 
His cloak was blue ; he always rode with his head erect , not hanging like this man 's , whose features she could not see . 
Opposite the house , he lifted his head -- it wasGilbert , but how old and haggard was his face ! 
She met him at the gate . 
His cheeks were suddenly flushed , his eyes bright , and the smile with which he looked at her seemed to be joyous ; yet it gave her a sense of pain and terror . 
`` Oh , Gilbert ! '' 
He slid slowly and wearily off the horse , whose neck he fondled a moment before answering her . 
`` Mother , '' he said at last , `` you have to thank Roger that I am here to-night . 
`` No , '' he answered , `` there was no use of going . '' 
A presentiment of the truth came to her , but before she could question him further , he spoke again . 
She noticed that his steps were weak and slow , felt that his hands were like ice , and saw his blue lips and chattering teeth . 
She removed the strange cloak , placed her chair in front of the fire , seated him in it , and then knelt upon the floor to draw off his stiff , sodden top-boots . 
He was passive as a child in her hands . 
Her care for him overcame all other dread , and not until she had placed his feet upon a stool , in the full warmth of the blaze , given him a glass of hot wine and lavender , and placed a pillow under his head , did she sit down at his side to hear the story . 
`` I thought of this , last night , '' he said , with a faint smile ; `` not that I ever expected to see it . 
Gilbert then spoke . 
The narrative was long and painful , and he told it wearily and brokenly , yet with entire truth , disguising nothing of the evil that had come upon them . 
His mother sat beside him , pale , stony , stifling the sobs that rose in her throat , until he reached the period of his marvellous rescue , when she bent her head upon his arm and wept aloud . 
he said at the close ; `` it 's hard to bear , but I 'm more troubled on your account than on my own . '' 
No , Gilbert ! 
She arose , felt his hands and feet , set his pillow aright , and then stooped and kissed him . 
His chills had ceased ; a feeling of heavy , helpless languor crept over him . 
he murmured . 
`` I 'd feed him with my own hands , Gilbert , if I could leave you . 
I 'd put fine wheat-bread into his manager , and wrap him in blankets off my own bed ! 
To Gilbert much of this feeling was inexplicable , because he was ignorant of the circumstances which had called it into existence . 
But he saw that his mother was not yet hopeless , that she did not seem to consider her deliverance as materially postponed , and a glimmer of hope was added to the relief of having told his tale . 
He was still feverish , dozing and muttering in uneasy dreams , as he lay back in the old rocking-chair , and Mary Potter , with Sam 's help , got him to bed , after administering a potion which she was accustomed to use in all complaints , from mumps to typhus fever . 
The next morning Gilbert did not arise , and as he complained of great soreness in every part of his body , Sam was dispatched for Dr. Deane . 
It was the first time this gentleman had ever been summoned to the Potter farm-house . 
Mary Potter felt considerable trepidation at his arrival , both on account of the awe which his imposing presence inspired , and the knowledge of her son 's love for his daughter , -- a fact which , she rightly conjectured , he did not suspect . 
As he brought his ivory-headed cane , his sleek drab broadcloth , and his herbaceous fragrance into the kitchen , she was almost overpowered . 
he asked . 
he asked again . 
Dr. Deane 's prescriptions usually conformed to the practice of his day , -- bleeding and big doses , -- and he would undoubtedly have applied both of these in Gilbert 's case , but for the latter 's great anxiety to be in the saddle and on the hunt of his enemy . 
He stoutly refused to be bled , and the Doctor had learned , from long observation , that patients of a certain class must be humored rather than coerced . 
Rest and warmth were what Gilbert most needed . 
I 'll say that for your father , he 's always mortal concerned for a bad case , Gilbert Potter or not ; and I can mostly tell the heft of a sickness by the way he talks about it , -- so that 's settled ; and as to dooties , it 's very well and right , I do n't deny it , but never mind , all the same , I said before , the whole thing 's a snarl , and I say it ag ` in , and unless you 've got the end o ' the ravellin 's in your hand , the harder you pull , the wuss you 'll make it ! '' 
Her resolution began to waver , in spite of the tender instinct which told her that Gilbert Potter now needed precisely the help and encouragement which she alone could give . 
`` Oh , Betsy , '' she murmured , her tears falling without restraint , `` it 's hard for me to seem so strange to him , at such a time ! '' 
Neither you nor Gilbert is inclined to do things rash , and what you bothagree on , after a proper understandin ' , I guess 'll be pretty nigh right . 
Gilbert had slept the greater part of the day , but was now awake , and so restless , from the desire to leave his bed , that his mother could with difficulty restrain him . 
`` I 'll go up and put him to rights . '' 
Gilbert , drenched in perspiration , and tossing uneasily under a huge pile of blankets , sprang up as her gaunt figure entered the door . 
She placed the lamp on a table , pressed him down on the pillow by main force , and covered him up to the chin . 
he whispered , his face full of intense , piteous eagerness . 
Gilbert urged . 
Miss Lavender had not a great deal to relate , but Gilbert compelled her to make up by repetition what she lacked in quantity . 
And at every repetition the soreness seemed to decrease in his body , and the weakness in his muscles , and hope and courage to increase in his heart . 
`` Tell her , '' he exclaimed , `` it was enough that she wanted to come . 
Gilbert related every circumstance of his adventure , including the mysterious allusion to Alfred Barton , which he had concealed from his mother . 
Which promise she faithfully kept , and in the morning Gilbert came down to breakfast , a little haggard , but apparently as sound as ever . 
Martha Deane , during Miss Lavender 's absence , had again discussed , in her heart , her duty to Gilbert . 
She knew that he had toiled , and dared , and suffered for her sake , while she had done nothing . 
It was not pride , -- at least not the haughty quality which bears an obligation uneasily , -- but rather the impulse , at once brave and tender , to stand side by side with him in the struggle , and win an equal right to the final blessing . 
In the afternoon Miss Lavender returned , and her first business was to give a faithful report of Gilbert 's condition and the true story of his misfortune , which she repeated , almost word for word , as it came from his lips . 
I must see Gilbert when he calls the men together , and after that I shall know how to act . '' 
That Gilbert Potter should take the command was an understood matter . 
The preliminary consultation was secretly held , and when Dougherty , the Irish ostler , mixed himself , as by accident , among the troop , Gilbert sharply ordered him away . 
Miss Betsy Lavender had managed to speak to Gilbert before the others arrived ; therefore , after they had left , to meet the next day , equipped for a possible absence of a week , he crossed the road and entered Dr. Deane 's house . 
Martha Deane knew how cruel and bitter Gilbert 's fate must seem to his own heart , and she resolved that all the cheer which lay in her buoyant , courageous nature should be given to him . 
`` The time has come , Gilbert , '' she said at last , `` when our love for each other must no longer be kept a secret -- at least from the few who , under other circumstances , would have a right to know it . 
Even if you do not take the same view , Gilbert , think of this , that it is my place to stand beside you in your hour of difficulty and trial ; that other losses , other dangers , may come , and you could not , you must not , hold me apart when my heart tells me we should be together ! '' 
She laid her arms caressingly over his shoulders , and looked in his face . 
A wonderful softness and tenderness touched his pale , worn countenance . 
`` Martha , '' he said , `` remember that my disgrace will cover you , yet awhile . '' 
`` Gilbert ! '' 
That one word , proud , passionate , reproachful , yet forgiving , sealed his lips . 
he cried . 
`` Gilbert Potter . '' 
If there were disgrace , in the eyes of the world , -- which I now know there is not , -- Gilbert has wiped it out by his courage , his integrity , and his sufferings . 
If he is poor , I am well to do . '' 
`` I know that unless thee gives thy consent , we must wait three years ; but I hope , father , when thee comes to know Gilbert better , thee will not be so hard . 
Thee must learn to forget this man , Potter , and the sooner thee begins the easier it will be ! '' 
Where my duty was wholly owed to thee , I have never delayed to give it ; but here it is owed to Gilbert Potter , -- owed , and will be given . '' 
cried the Doctor , trembling with anger ; `` do n't mention his name again ! '' 
Thestory of Gilbert Potter 's robbery and marvellous escape from death ran rapidly through the neighborhood , and coming , as it did , upon the heels of his former adventure , created a great excitement . 
He became almost a hero in the minds of the people . 
It was not their habit to allow any man to quiteassume so lofty a character as that , but they granted to Gilbert fully as much interest as , in their estimation , any human being ought properly to receive . 
The supposed disgrace of Gilbert 's birth seemed to be quite forgotten for the time ; and there was no young man of spirit in the four townships who was not willing to serve under his command . 
Gilbert and his men had a tantalizing impression -LRB- which later intelligence proved to have been correct -RRB- that the robber was somewhere near them , -- buried in the depths of the very wood they were approaching , dodging behind the next barn as it came into view , or hidden under dead leaves in some rain-washed gulley . 
Many of the volunteers finally grew tired of the fruitless chase , and returned home ; others could only spare a few days from their winter labors ; but Gilbert Potter , with three or four faithful and courageous young fellows , -- one of whom was Mark Deane , -- returned again and again to the search , and not until the end of December did he confess himself baffled . 
`` Perhaps so , '' Gilbert answered , with a gloomy face . 
He was more keenly disappointed at the failure than he would then confess , even to Mark . 
`` Come to think on it , Gilbert , '' Mark continued , `` is n't it rather queer that you and him should be thrown together in such ways ? 
Gilbert started . 
Again he declared to himself that he would not entertain the thought , but he could not reject the evidence that there was something more than accident in all these encounters . 
When they reached the top of the `` big hill '' north of the Fairthorn farm-house , whence they looked eastward down the sloping corn-field which had been the scene of the husking-frolic , Mark turned to Gilbert with an honest blush all over his face , and said , -- `` I do n't see why you should n't know it , Gilbert . 
Gilbert asked , yet with a quick suspicion of the coming intelligence . 
Gilbert stretched out his hand , and as he turned and looked squarely into Mark 's half-bashful yet wholly happy face , he remembered Martha 's words , at their last interview . 
Gilbert smiled . 
When they stopped at Fairthorn 's , the significant pressure of Gilbert 's hand brought a blush into Sally 's cheek ; but when Mark met Martha with his tell-tale face , she answered with a proud and tender smile . 
Gilbert 's first business , after his return , was to have a consultation with Miss Betsy Lavender , who alone knew of the suspicions attaching to Alfred Barton . 
When they met , she communicated the result to Gilbert in this wise : `` ' T a 'n' t agreeable for a body to allow they 're flummuxed , but if Ia 'n' t , this time , I 'm mighty near onto it . 
`` Well , Betsy , '' said Gilbert , with a stern , determined face , `` this is what I shall do . 
`` This way , Gilbert . 
Gilbert reflected a moment . 
`` It can do no harm , '' he then said ; `` can you go with me , now ? '' 
He seemed a little surprised at their appearance ; but as Gilbert and he had not met since their interview in the corn-field before the former 's departure for Chester , he had no special cause for embarrassment . 
`` No , '' Gilbert answered , `` I came here to speak with you privately . 
`` No objection , of course , '' said Barton , looking from Gilbert to Miss Lavender , with a mixture of curiosity and uneasiness . 
Gilbert stopped and faced Barton . 
`` Damme , Gilbert , youwere there , and saw as much as I did . 
`` But you found it out , '' Gilbert persisted , `` and the manner of your finding it out must be explained . '' 
`` Miss Betsy is here because I asked her , '' Gilbert said . 
He took advantage of the shock which these words produced upon Barton , and repeated to him the highwayman 's declarations , with the inference they might bear if not satisfactorily explained . 
Gilbert asked . 
He darted a sharp , suspicious glance at Miss Betsy Lavender , who gravely nodded her head . 
`` The difficulty is not yet explained , '' said Gilbert , `` and perhaps you 'll nownot deny my right to know something more of your first acquaintance with Sandy Flash ? '' 
Gilbert , I guess this much is true . 
Gilbert could do no less than accept this part of the story , and it rendered his later surmises untenable . 
But the solution which he sought was as far off as ever . 
`` Barton , '' he said , after a long pause , `` will you do your best to help me in finding out how Sandy Flash got the knowledge ? '' 
He looked so earnest , so eager , and -- as far as the traces of cunning in his face would permit -- so honest , that Gilbert yielded to a sudden impulse , and said , -- `` I believe you , Barton . 
`` You 're right there , Gilbert ! 
And now look here , Gilbert ; my crow is to be picked , and you 've seen the color of it , but never mind , all the same , since Martha 's told the Doctor , it ca n't make much difference to you . 
Gilbert could form a tolerably correct idea of the shape and size of Miss Lavender 's crow . 
He did not feel sure that this was the proper time to have it picked , or even that it should be picked at all ; but he imagined that Miss Lavender had either consulted Martha Deane , or that she had wise reasons of her own for speaking . 
He therefore remained silent . 
Well , you 've been tryin ' to git Martha Deane for a wife , without wantin ' her in your heart , but rather the contràry , though it seems queer enough when a body comes to think of it , but never mind ; and your father 's druv you to it ; and you were of a cold shiver for fear she 'd take you , and yet you want to let on it a 'n' t settled betwixt and between you -- oh , you need n't chaw your lips and look yaller about the jaws , it 's the Lord 's truth ; and now answer me this , what do you mean?and maybe you 'll say what right have I got to ask , but never mind , all the same , if I have n't , Gilbert Potter has , for it 's him that Martha Deane has promised to take for a husband ! '' 
`` Gilbert , '' he asked , `` is this true ? 
`` Martha Deane and I are engaged , and were already at the time when you addressed her , '' Gilbert answered . 
`` I 've promised Gilbert that I wo n't interfere , and that 's enough , '' said Barton , doggedly . 
`` Could n't you go a step furder , and lend Gilbert a helpin ' hand , whenever and whatever ? '' 
Gilbert exclaimed . 
I do n't speak in Gilbert 's name , nor yet in Martha 's ; only out o ' my own mind . 
`` I 've offered , more than once , to do him a good turn , if I could ; but I guess my help would n't be welcome , '' Barton answered . 
The sting of the suspicion rankled in his mind , and Gilbert 's evident aversion sorely wounded his vanity . 
`` You see , '' he said at the close , `` after I sneaked between Potter 's troop and the Sheriff 's , and got down into the lower corner o ' the county , I managed to jump aboard a grain-sloop bound for Newport , but they were froze in at the mouth o ' Christeen ; so I went ashore , dodged around Wilmington , -LRB- where I 'm rather too well known , -RRB- and come up Whitely Creek as a drover from Mar ` land . 
`` It 's a little too near that Potter . 
He 'd smell me out as quick as if I was a skunk to windward of him . 
`` First of all , Sandy , '' she now said , `` I want to talk to you about Gilbert Potter . 
Potter may be a decent fellow , as men go , for anything I know , but you 're not beholden to him because he treated you like a Christian as you are . 
You seem to forgit that he tried to take my life , -- that he 's hardly yet giv ' up huntin ' me like a wild beast ! 
Damn him , if the money washis , which I do n't believe , it would n't square accounts between us . 
You think more o ' his money than o ' my life , you huzzy ! '' 
I 'm your master , and I give you your orders , and the first order is , Not another word , now and never , about Potter or his money ! '' 
Potter was right , after all ; he said there 'd be a curse on the money , and there is ; but I never guessed the curse 'd come upon me through you , Deb . 
The public attention was thus suddenly drawn away from Gilbert Potter , and he was left to struggle , as he best might , against the difficulties entailed by his loss . 
He had corresponded with Mr. Trainer , the conveyancer in Chester , and had learned that the money still due must not only be forthcoming on the first of April , but that it probably could not be obtained there . 
The excitement for buying lands along the Alleghany , Ohio , and Beaver rivers , in western Pennsylvania , had seized upon the few capitalists of the place , and Gilbert 's creditor had already been subjected to inconvenience and possible loss , as one result of the robbery . 
Mark 's money-belt had been restored , greatly against the will of the good-hearted fellow -LRB- who would have cheerfully lent Gilbert the whole amount had he possessed it -RRB- , and there was enough grain yet to be threshed and sold , to yield something more than a hundred dollars ; but this was all which Gilbert could count upon from his own resources . 
He might sell the wagon and one span of horses , reducing by their value the sum which he would be obliged to borrow ; yet his hope of recovering the money in another year could only be realized by retaining them , to continue , from time to time , his occupation of hauling flour . 
Although the sympathy felt for him was general and very hearty , it never took the practical form of an offer of assistance , and he was far too proud to accept that plan of relief which a farmer , whose barn had been struck by lightning and consumed , had adopted , the previous year , -- going about the neighborhood with a subscription-list , and soliciting contributions . 
Martha Deane knew of this approaching trouble , not from Gilbert 's own lips , for she had seen him but once and very briefly since his return from the chase of Sandy Flash . 
The thought that her own coming fortune lay idle , while Gilbert might be saved by the use of a twentieth part of it , gave Martha Deane no peace . 
The whole belonged to him prospectively , yet would probably be of less service when it should be legally her own to give , than the fragment which now would lift him above anxiety and humiliation . 
Not Gilbert , for she fancied he might reject the assistance she designed , and therefore she meant to pay the debt before it became due , without his knowledge ; nor Mark , nor Farmer Fairthorn . 
Gilbert Potter 's name had not again been mentioned between them . 
Moreover , a suspicion of Gilbert Potter 's relation to his daughter was slowly beginning to permeate the neighborhood ; and more than once , within the last few days , all his peculiar diplomacy had been required to parry a direct question . 
He foresaw that the subject would soon come to the notice of his elder brethren among the Friends , who felt self-privileged to rebuke and remonstrate , even in family matters of so delicate a nature . 
Lest thee should not have understood me right , I repeat that I would , and will , lift the mortgage on Gilbert Potter 's farm . 
He has been very unfortunate , and there is a call for help which nobody heeds as he deserves . 
Gilbert does n't even know my desire to help him . 
I must ask this of thee , to speak no evil of him in my hearing . 
It would only give me unnecessary pain , not shake my faith in his honesty and goodness . 
Not yet , however , would she give up the sweet hope of bringing aid ; for Gilbert 's sake she would make another appeal . 
It is not alone that I am necessary to Gilbert Potter 's happiness , but also that he is necessary to mine . 
Why not rather tempt me by offering the money Gilbert needs , on the condition of my giving up the rest of the legacy to thee ? 
I come neither from Martha , nor yet from Gilbert Potter ; but I 've been thinkin ' that you and me , bein ' old , -- in a measure , that is , -- and not so direckly concerned , might talk the thing over betwixt and between us , and maybe come to a better understandin ' for both sides . '' 
Barton bein ' out o ' the way , why , the coast 's clear , and so Gilbert 's case is to be considered by itself ; and let 's come to the p ` int , namely , what you 've got ag ` in him ? '' 
He 's poor , he 's base-born , without position or influence in the neighborhood , -- in no way a husband for Martha Deane ! 
We wo n't talk o ' that now , but come back to Gilbert Potter , and I dunno as you 're quite right in any way about his bein 's and doin 's . 
With that farm o ' his ` n , he ca n't be called poor , and I should n't wonder , though I ca n't give no proofs , but never mind , wait awhile and you 'll see , that he 's not base-born , after all ; and as for respect in the neighborhood , there 's not a man more respected nor looked up to , -- so the last p ` int 's settled , and we 'll take the t ' other two ; and I s ` pose you mean his farm is n't enough ? '' 
What 's sass for the goose ought to be sass for the gander -LRB- meanin ' you and Gilbert -RRB- , and every prudent man will agree with me . '' 
I put it to thee , as a sensible woman , whether I would not cover both myself and Martha with shame , by allowing her marriage with Gilbert Potter ? '' 
`` I do n't see what that has to do with Gilbert Potter , '' he presently said , collecting himself with an effort . 
You 're set ag ` in Martha , and your pride 's touched , which I ca n't say as I wonder at , all folks havin ' pride , me among the rest , not that I 've much to be proud of , Goodness knows ; but never mind , do n't you talk about Gilbert Potter in that style , leastways before me ! '' 
We all have serious burdens which we must bear alone , and thee must n't forget that the same consideration for the opinion of men which keeps thee silent , keeps me from consenting to Martha 's marriage with Gilbert Potter . 
Thewinter crept on , February was drawing to a close , and still Gilbert Potter had not ascertained whence the money was to be drawn which would relieve him from embarrassment . 
The few applications he had made were failures ; some of the persons really had no money to invest , and others were too cautious to trust a man who , as everybody knew , had been unfortunate . 
Gilbert carefully concealed his humiliation , on returning home from an unsuccessful appeal for a loan , and his mother veiled her renewed sinking of the heart , as she heard of his failure , under a cheerful hope of final success , which she did not feel . 
Both had , in fact , one great consolation to fall back upon , -- she that he had been mercifully saved to her , he that he was beloved by a noble woman . 
All the grain that could be spared and sold placed but little more than a hundred dollars in Gilbert 's hands , and he began seriously to consider whether he should not be obliged to sell his wagon and team . 
He had been offered a hundred and fifty dollars , -LRB- a very large sum , in those days , -RRB- for Roger , but he would as soon have sold his own right arm . 
There was one , which Gilbert half-suspected had been instigated by Betsy Lavender . 
On a Saturday afternoon , as he visited Kennett Square to have Roger 's fore-feet shod , he encountered Alfred Barton at the blacksmith 's shop , on the same errand . 
cried the latter , as Gilbert dismounted . 
Gilbert suddenly recalled Deb . 
Smith 's words , on the day after his escape from the inundation , and a suspicion of the truth entered his mind for the first time . 
he exclaimed . 
He looked annoyed for a moment , but presently beckoned Gilbert to one side , and said , -- `` I do n't know whether you 've given up your foolish suspicions about me and Sandy ; but the trial comes off next week , and you 'll have to be there as a witness , of course , and can satisfy yourself , if you please , that my explanation was nothing but the truth . 
`` I told you I believed your words , '' Gilbert answered , `` and that settles the matter . 
`` See here , Gilbert ! '' 
The offer was evidently made in good faith , and Gilbert hesitated , reluctant to accept it , and yet unwilling to reject it in a manner that might seem unfriendly . 
`` Barton , '' he said at last , `` I 've never yet failed to meet a money obligation . 
`` You 're a mighty independent fellow , Gilbert , but I ca n't say as I blame you for it . 
When Gilbert returned home , he communicated this slight prospect of relief to his mother . 
`` Perhaps I am a little too proud , '' he said ; `` but you 've always taught me , mother , to be beholden to no man , if I could help it ; and I should feel more uneasy under an obligation to Barton than to most other men . 
Two days before the time when Gilbert was summoned to Chester , Deb . 
Gilbert , however , when he saw her worn , anxious face , the eyes , like those of a dumb animal , lifted to his with an appeal which she knew not how to speak , felt a pang of compassionate sympathy . 
he said , `` you do n't look well ; come into the house and warm yourself ! '' 
Gilbert made a sign , and Sam sprang down the ladder , to the stables under the threshing-floor . 
`` If all I hear is true , '' Gilbert exclaimed , `` you 've blackened it for my sake , Deborah . 
Gilbert cried . 
She stepped forward , put her hand on Gilbert 's arm , and said , in a hoarse , earnest , excited whisper , -- `` Then maybe you 'll take it ? 
Gilbert was powerfully and yet painfully moved . 
He forgot his detestation of the relation in which Deb . 
Smith had stood to the highwayman , in his gratitude for her devotion to himself . 
He felt an invincible repugnance towards accepting her share of the reward , even as a loan ; it was `` blood-money , '' and to touch it in any way was to be stained with its color ; yet how should he put aside her kindness without inflicting pain upon her rude nature , made sensitive at last by abuse , persecution , and remorse ? 
His face spoke in advance of his lips , and she read its language with wonderful quickness . 
Gilbert saw that she was sorely hurt . 
Tears of disappointment , which she vainly strove to hold back , rose to her eyes , as she grimly folded her arms , and facing him , said , -- `` Now , what am I to do ? '' 
`` Stay here for the present , Deborah , '' he answered . 
`` Then come to me afterwards , '' he said , gently , striving to allay her fierce , self-accusing mood . 
And I 'll take your money , '' he added , picking it up from the floor , -- `` take it in trust for you , until the time shall come when you will be willing to use it . 
The woman was softened and consoled by his words . 
Gilbert exclaimed . 
Mary Potter earnestly approved of his decision , to take charge of the money , without making use of it . 
Smith left the house , saying to Gilbert , -- `` You wo n't see me ag ` in , without it may be in Court , till after all 's over ; and then I may have to ask you to hide me for awhile . 
When Gilbert reached Chester , the trial was just about to commence . 
Smith 's face , or Gilbert Potter 's . 
His hard red complexion was already beginning to fade in confinement , and his thick hair , formerly close-cropped for the convenience of disguises , had grown out in not ungraceful locks . 
He was decidedly a handsome man , and his bearing seemed to show that he was conscious of the fact . 
To the astonishment of all , and , as it was afterwards reported , against the advice of his counsel , the prisoner plead guilty to some of the specifications of the indictment , while he denied others . 
The Collectors whom he had plundered were then called to the witness-stand , but the public seemed to manifest less interest in the loss of its own money , than in the few cases where private individuals had suffered , and waited impatiently for the latter . 
Only when she was confronted with Sandy Flash , and he met her with a wonderfully strange , serious smile , did she shudder for a moment and hastily turn away . 
Gilbert noticed the feeling of hostility with which Deb . 
He therefore took advantage of the great interest with which his own testimony was heard , to present her character in the light which her services to him shed upon it . 
Sandy Flash , it was noticed , sitting with his fettered hands upon the rail before him , leaned forward and listened intently , while an unusual flush deepened upon his cheeks . 
The statements , though not strictly in evidence , were permitted by the Court , and they produced the effect which Gilbert intended . 
Gilbert employed the time which he could spare from his attendance at the Court , in endeavoring to make a new loan , but with no positive success . 
The most he accomplished was an agreement , on the part of his creditor , that the foreclosure might be delayed two or three weeks , provided there was a good prospect of the money being obtained . 
In ordinary times he would have had no difficulty ; but , as Mr. Trainer had written , the speculation in western lands had seized upon capitalists , and the amount of money for permanent investment was already greatly diminished . 
The latter begged for an interview , and both Judge and Sheriff were anxious that Gilbert should comply with his wishes , in the hope that a full and complete confession might be obtained . 
It was evident that the highwayman had accomplices , but he steadfastly refused to name them , even with the prospect of having his sentence commuted to imprisonment for life . 
Gilbert did not hesitate a moment . 
There were doubts of his own to be solved , -- questions to be asked , which Sandy Flash could alone answer . 
He followed the constable to the gloomy , high-walled jail-building , and was promptly admitted by the Sheriff into the low , dark , heavily barred cell , wherein the prisoner sat upon a wooden stool , the links of his leg-fetters passed through a ring in the floor . 
He stretched out his hand which Gilbert took , -- hard and cold as the rattling chain at his wrist . 
Then , seating himself with a clash upon the floor , he pushed the stool towards his visitor , and said , -- `` Set down , Potter . 
`` Potter , '' the highwayman began , `` you see I 'm trapped and done for , and all , it seems , on account o ' that little affair o ' your ` n . 
`` Tell me one thing , '' Gilbert interrupted ; `` how did you know I promised to take money for him ? '' 
Gilbert cried . 
His manner , even more than his words , convinced Gilbert . 
`` I have told her , '' said Gilbert , `` that she shall always have a home and a shelter in my house . 
`` I believe you , Potter . 
Gilbert leaned his ear to the highwayman 's mouth . 
Gilbert assented . 
Gilbert exclaimed , starting from his listening posture . 
said Gilbert , in a low tone , `` and forgiveness -- mine and my mother 's -- in the place of it . 
Have you any '' -- he hesitated to say the words -- `` any last messages , to her or anybody else , or anything you would like to have done ? '' 
He laughed at the idea , until his chains rattled . 
Gilbert 's mind was haunted with the other and darker doubt , and he resolved , in this last interview , to secure himself against its recurrence . 
In such an hour he could trust the prisoner 's words . 
`` Sandy , '' he asked , `` have you any children ? '' 
`` You must know , '' Gilbert continued , `` what the people say about my birth . 
The highwayman sat silent , meditating , and Gilbert felt that his heart was beginning to beat painfully fast , as he waited for the answer . 
He looked up with an eager , questioning glance , which Gilbert totally misunderstood . 
he asked , in a barely audible voice . 
Gilbert cried desperately , `` answer this one question , -- do n't go out of the world with a false word in your mouth ! 
The highwayman looked at him a moment , in blank amazement . 
he then said . 
Gilbert 's face brightened so suddenly and vividly that Sandy muttered to himself , -- `` I never thought I was that bad . '' 
`` I hear the Sheriff at the outside gate , '' he whispered again . 
Then Gilbert went out from his old antagonist . 
It appeared , from some mysterious words which he afterwards let fall , and which Gilbert alone could have understood , that he had a superstitious belief that something he had done would bring him a new turn of fortune . 
The only result of the attempt was to hasten his execution . 
Within ten days from that time he was transformed from a living terror into a romantic name . 
Gilbert Potterfelt such an implicit trust in Sandy Flash 's promise of restitution , that , before leaving Chester , he announced the forthcoming payment of the mortgage to its holder . 
Gilbert , in the mean time , had visited her cabin on the Woodrow farm , to find it deserted , and he was burning with impatience to secure , through her , the restoration of his independence . 
He would not announce his changed prospects , even to Martha Deane , until they were put beyond further risk . 
The money once in his hands , he determined to carry it to Chester without loss of time . 
Nevertheless , Gilbert led her aside and narrated to her the particulars of his interview with Sandy Flash . 
Perhaps he softened , with pardonable equivocation , the latter 's words in regard to her ; perhaps he conveyed a sense of forgiveness which had not been expressed ; for Deb . 
When he gave the marks by which she was to recognize a certain spot , she exclaimed , -- `` It was hid the night I dreamt of him ! 
After it was dark she set out , with a spade upon her shoulder , forbidding him to follow , or even to look after her . 
`` Mother , '' said Gilbert , `` when -- I mean if -- she brings the money , all that has happened will have been for good . 
he exclaimed . 
Mary Potter looked upon his bright , wistful , anxious face , and sighed . 
`` One word more , mother , '' he persisted , `` will our independence be no help to you ? '' 
Without it , I might be tempted to -- but see , Gilbert , how can I talk ? 
And the more because I owe it to you , -- because I 'm held back from my duty to my child , -- maybe , every day putting a fresh sorrow into his heart ! 
Oh , it 's not easy , Gilbert ; it do n't grow lighter from use , only my faith is the stronger and surer , and that helps me to bear it . '' 
`` Mother , I meant never to have spoken of this again , '' he said . 
`` I understand , '' he said , and gazed for a long time into the fire , without speaking . 
Mary Potter watched his face , in the wavering light of the flame . 
Gilbert was thinking of Martha Deane . 
He had passed that first timidity of love which shrinks from the knowledge of others , and longed to tell his mother what noble fidelity and courage Martha had exhibited . 
Only the recollection of the fearful swoon into which she had fallen bound his tongue ; he felt that the first return to the subject must come from her . 
She lay back in her chair and seemed to sleep ; he rose from time to time , went out into the lane and listened , -- and so the hours passed away . 
Mary Potter and Gilbert bent over the rolls and counted them . 
The road was safe , the skies were propitious , and Gilbert Potter returned from Chester an independent man , with the redeemed mortgage in his pocket . 
His first care was to assure his mother of the joyous fact ; his next to seek Martha Deane , and consult with her about their brightening future . 
On the way to Kennett Square , he fell in with Mark , who was radiant with the promise of Richard Rudd 's new house , secured to him by the shrewd assistance of Miss Betsy Lavender . 
`` I tell you what it is , Gilbert , '' said he ; `` do n't you think I might as well speak to Daddy Fairthorn about Sally ? 
`` You do n't mean that you wont use it , Gilbert ? '' 
Who so delighted as Mark , when he heard Gilbert 's unexpected story ? 
he exclaimed ; `` the tide 's turnin ' , old fellow ! 
The result was to invest Gilbert with a fresh interest . 
His courage in confronting Sandy Flash , his robbery , his wonderful preservation from death , and his singular connection , through Deb . 
Smith , with Sandy Flash 's capture , had thrown a romantic halo around his name , which was now softly brightened by the report of his love . 
The stain of his birth and the uncertainty of his parentage did not lessen this interest , but rather increased it ; and as any man who is much talked about in a country community will speedily find two parties created , one enthusiastically admiring , the other contemptuously depreciating him , so now it happened in this case . 
The admirers , however , were in a large majority , and they possessed a great advantage over the detractors , being supported by a multitude of facts , while the latter were unable to point to any act of Gilbert Potter 's life that was not upright and honorable . 
Even his love of Martha Deane was shorn of its presumption by her reciprocal affection . 
The rumor that she had openly defied her father 's will created great sympathy , for herself and for Gilbert , among the young people of both sexes , -- a sympathy which frequently was made manifest to Dr. Deane , and annoyed him not a little . 
We may therefore conceive his sensations when Gilbert Potter himself boldly entered his presence . 
`` I called to see Martha , '' Gilbert answered . 
`` I will do so , '' Gilbert replied , `` when Martha tells me with her own mouth that such is her will . 
Dr. Deane saw that it would be harder to deal with Gilbert Potter than he had imagined . 
Gilbert could not calmly hear these insinuations . 
All his independent pride of character was aroused ; a dark flush came into his face , the blood was pulsing hotly through his veins , and indignant speech was rising to his lips , when the inner door unexpectedly opened , and Martha entered the room . 
She instantly guessed what was taking place , and summoned up all her self-possession , to stand by Gilbert , without increasing her father 's exasperation . 
His quick blood struck into warm channels of joy , as he met her glowing eyes , and felt the throb of her soft , elastic palm against his own . 
I am sure there is nothing that either thee or Gilbert would wish to conceal from me . '' 
Gilbert exclaimed ; `` I came to bring you good news . 
Gilbert did not understand her remark ; without heeding it , he continued , -- `` Sandy Flash , after his sentence , sent for me and told me where the money he took from me was to be found . 
`` Gilbert , '' she said , gently , `` father does n't yet know you as I do . 
`` Let me speak , Martha , '' said Gilbert , lifting his head , which had drooped for a moment . 
His voice was earnest and sorrowful , yet firm . 
I will not say that now , knowing her as I do , I could ever give her up , even if the disgrace was not removed , '' -- `` Thank you , Gilbert ! '' 
`` But there is none , Dr. Deane , '' he continued , `` and when the time comes , my birth will be shown to be as honorable as your own , or Mark 's . '' 
His face colored , and he darted a piercing , suspicious glance at Gilbert . 
The latter , however , stood quietly before him , too possessed by what he had said to notice the Doctor 's peculiar expression ; but it returned to his memory afterwards . 
`` No , '' Gilbert answered , `` and I must ask of you not to mention it further , at present . 
`` I do n't know , '' Gilbert sadly replied . 
If Potter is n't thy name , what is ? '' 
`` I do n't know , '' Gilbert repeated . 
`` I do , '' said Martha , rising and moving to Gilbert 's side . 
`` And as for thee , Gilbert Potter , or Gilbert Anything , I tell thee , once and for all , never speak of this thing again , -- at least , until thee can show a legal name and an honorable birth ! 
`` Dr. Deane , '' said Gilbert , with sad yet inflexible dignity , `` it is impossible , after what you have said , that I should seek to enter your door , until my words are proved true , and I am justified in your eyes . 
`` No , Gilbert , '' said Martha , who had not yet moved from her place by his side , `` it is as necessary to my happiness as to yours . 
She knew with what tenacity he would seize and hold every inch of relinquished ground ; she felt , as keenly as Gilbert himself , the implied insult which he could not resent ; and her pride , her sense of justice , and the strong fidelity of her woman 's heart , alike impelled her to stand firm . 
Gilbert said , taking her hand . 
`` We wait together , Gilbert ! '' 
Therewere signs of spring all over the land , and Gilbert resumed his farm-work with the fresh zest which the sense of complete ownership gave . 
He found a purchaser for his wagon , sold one span of horses , and thus had money in hand for all the coming expenses of the year . 
His days of hauling , of anxiety , of painful economy , were over ; he rejoiced in his fully developed and recognized manhood , and was cheered by the respect and kindly sympathy of his neighbors . 
No subject of country talk equalled in interest the loves of Gilbert Potter and Martha Deane . 
The idlers at the Unicorn had seen Gilbert enter Dr. Deane 's house , watched his return therefrom , made shrewd notes of the Doctor 's manner when he came forth that evening , and guessed the result of the interview almost as well as if they had been present . 
The restoration of Gilbert 's plundered money , and his hardly acquired independence as a landholder , greatly strengthened the hands of his friends . 
A good deed would not have helped Gilbert so much in popular estimation , as this sudden and unexpected release from his threatened difficulties . 
The blot upon his name was already growing fainter , and a careful moral arithmetician might have calculated the point of prosperity at which it would cease to be seen . 
Sally , when she first heard the news , loudly protested her unbelief ; why , the two would scarcely speak to each other , she said ; she had seen Gilbert turn his back on Martha , as if he could n't bear the sight of her ; it ought to be , and she would be glad if it was , but it was n't ! 
When , therefore , Mark confirmed the report , and was led on , by degrees , to repeat Gilbert 's own words , Sally rushed out into the kitchen with a vehemence which left half her apron hanging on the door-handle , torn off from top to bottom in her whirling flight , and announced the fact to her mother . 
I told Gilbert this very afternoon that it was about time to speak to the old man ; and he allowed it was . 
No , I do n't quite mean that ; you know I could n't wish you to have crosses ; but about Gilbert ! 
`` But , Betsy , you seem to be able to help everybody ; why ca n't you do something for Martha and Gilbert ? '' 
`` Martha and Gilbert . 
Two or three days after Sally 's visit , on a mild , sunny morning in the beginning of April , she suddenly announced her intention of visiting the Potter farm-house . 
`` I ha ' n't seen Mary since last fall , you know , Martha , '' she said ; `` and I 've a mortal longin ' to wish Gilbert joy o ' his good luck , and maybe say a word to keep him in good heart about you . 
`` Only my love , '' Martha answered ; `` and tell him how you left me . 
He knows I will keep my word ; when I need his counsel , I will go to him . '' 
As she conjectured , Gilbert Potter was behind them , guiding the plough-handle . 
He was heartily glad to see her , and halted his team at the corner of the `` land . '' 
Gilbert asked . 
And latterly I 've thought , Gilbert , that maybe your mother is in the fix of a man I 've heerd tell on , that fell into a pit , and ketched by the last bush , and hung on , and hung on , till he could hold on no longer ; so he gev himself up to death , shet his eyes and let go , and lo and behold ! 
`` No , '' said Gilbert . 
The fact was , she had been tempted to ask Gilbert 's advice in regard to the plan she was revolving in her brain . 
The tone of his voice , however , was discouraging ; she saw that he had taken a firm and gloomy resolution to be silent , -- his uneasy air hinted that he desired to avoid further talk on this point . 
So , with a mental reprimand of the indiscretion into which her sympathy with him had nearly betrayed her , she shut her teeth and slightly bit her tongue . 
She strode over the furrow and across the weedy sod , and Gilbert resumed his ploughing . 
Then she insisted on Mary Potter bringing out her sewing , and giving her something more to do ; it was one of her working-days , she said ; she had spent rather an idle winter ; and moreover , she was in such spirits at Gilbert 's good fortune , that she could n't be satisfied without doing something for him , and to sew up the seams of his new breeches was the very thing ! 
She made no reference , at first , to Gilbert 's attachment to Martha Deane , but seemed to be wholly absorbed in the subject of the farm ; then , taking wide sweeps through all varieties of random gossip , preserving a careless , thoughtless , rattling manner , she stealthily laid her pitfalls for the unsuspecting prey . 
She dwelt , finally , upon the singular circumstances of Sandy Flash 's robbery of Gilbert , and the restoration of the money . 
Smith , '' she then said , `` Mary , do you mind when I was here last harvest , and the talk we had about Gilbert ? 
There 's been nothin ' else talked about in the neighborhood for the last three weeks ; why , ha ' n't Gilbert told you o ' what passed between him and Dr. Deane , and how Martha stood by him as no woman ever stood by a man ? '' 
`` Gilbert has told me nothing , '' she said , `` since -- since that time . '' 
I 'm not hard on you , savin ' and exceptin ' that facts is hard , which they sometimes are I do n't deny ; but here we 're all alone with our two selves , and you 'll grant I 'm a friend , though I may have queer ways o ' showin ' it ; and why should n't I say that all the trouble comes o ' Gilbert bearin ' your name ? '' 
What can I do but wait till the day when I can give Gilbert his father 's name ? '' 
`` His father 's name ! 
Gilbert was born in wedlock ; I 'm not bound to deny that ; but I committed a sin , -- not the sin people charge me with , -- and the one that persuaded me to it has to answer for more than I have . 
I bound myself not to tell the name of Gilbert 's father , -- not to say where or when I was married , not to do or say anything to put others on the track , until -- but there 's the sin and the trouble and the punishment all in one . 
If you break your word now , you 'll stand justified in the sight o ' the Lord , and of all men , and even if you think a scrimption of it 's left , remember your dooty to Gilbert , and take a less justification for his sake ! '' 
Miss Lavender , moreover , hastened to place Gilbert 's position in a more cheerful light , and the same story , repeated for a different purpose , now assumed quite another aspect . 
Gilbert 's back was towards her ; he was on the descending furrow . 
She looked at him , started , suddenly lost her breath , and stood with open mouth and wide , fixed eyes . 
Then , seeing Gilbert approaching , startled by the cry , she slowly arose to her feet . 
asked Gilbert . 
Gilbert laughed heartily , but he hardly seemed satisfied with the explanation . 
`` You 're all of a tremble , '' he said . 
Gilbert repeated . 
`` You shall have whatever you want , Betsy , '' he said . 
Gilbert , however , had been haunted by new surmises in regard to Dr. Deane . 
`` You 've got sharp eyes and ears Gilbert , '' she said . 
When a clump of bushes on the bank had hid Gilbert from her sight , she stopped , took breath , and chuckled with luxurious satisfaction . 
Thenext morning Sam took Gilbert 's bay horse to Kennett Square , and hitched him in front of Dr. Deane 's door . 
Gilbert Potter remained on his farm , busy with the labor of the opening spring ; Mark Deane was absent , taking measurements and making estimates for the new house , and Sally Fairthorn spent all her spare time in spinning flax for a store of sheets and table-cloths , to be marked `` S. A. F. '' in red silk , when duly woven , hemmed , and bleached . 
He had not visited the farm-house since his discovery of Martha 's attachment to Gilbert Potter , -- had even avoided intercourse with Alfred Barton , towards whom his manner became cold and constrained . 
He had returned as far as the Philadelphia road , and was entering the thick wood on the level before descending to Redley Creek , when he perceived Betsy Lavender leading Gilbert Potter 's bay horse through a gap in the fence , after which she commenced putting up the rails behind her . 
Gilbert Potter 's bay horse , too ! 
The fact that Miss Lavender had come back from the Potter farm-house in so unusual a frame of mind , borrowed Gilbert 's horse , and set forth on some mysterious errand , had already disquieted her . 
She felt sure that they were connected , in some way , with Gilbert 's interests , and Miss Lavender 's reticence now seemed to indicate a coming misfortune which she was endeavoring to avert . 
If these fears were correct , Gilbert needed her help also . 
He could not come to her ; was she not called upon to go to him ? 
His questions , she knew , would bring on another painful conflict of will , and she would save her strength for Gilbert 's necessities . 
As she approached the Potter farm she slackened her horse 's pace , and deliberated whether she should ride directly to the house or seek for Gilbert in the fields . 
She had not seen Mary Potter since that eventful Sunday , the previous summer , and felt that Gilbert ought to be consulted before a visit which might possibly give pain . 
Her doubts were suddenly terminated by his appearance , with Sam and an ox-cart , in the road before her . 
Gilbert could with difficulty wait until the slow oxen had removed Sam out of hearing . 
`` As I promised , Gilbert , '' she said . 
`` Can you guess her business , Gilbert ? '' 
`` What are those fancies , Gilbert ? 
`` I am not sure , Gilbert , '' she replied , with a brave smile ; `` you might have tested my truth , once more , if you had spoken your fears . '' 
Martha turned her horse 's head , and Gilbert hastened forward with her , both silent and keenly excited . 
`` I came , '' said Martha , `` to see whether Gilbert could tell me why you were hiding in the woods , instead of coming home . '' 
Much Gilbert could tell you , howsever , or you him , o ' mybusiness , and have n't I a right to it , as well as other folks ; but never mind , fine as it 's spun it 'll come to the sun , as they say o ' flax and sinful doin 's ; not that such is mine , but you may think so if you like , and you 'll know in a day or two , anyhow ! '' 
`` Well , it is n't bad , so peart yourselves up , and ask me no more questions , this day , nor yet to-morrow , maybe ; because if you do , I 'll just screech with all my might ; I 'll holler , Gilbert , wuss 'n you heerd , and much good that 'll do you , givin ' me a crazy name all over the country . 
I 'm in dead earnest ; if you try to worm anything more out o ' me , I 'll screech ; and so I was goin ' to bring your horse home , Gilbert , and have a talk with your mother , but you 've made me mortal weak betwixt and between you ; and I 'll ride back with Martha , by your leave , and you may send Sam right away for the horse . 
The two ladies then rode away through the pale , hazy sunset , leaving Gilbert Potter in a fever of impatience , dread , and hope . 
She reached the Potter farm-house at dark , and both mother and son were struck with her flushed , excited , and yet weary air . 
When Mary Potter left the kitchen to bring some fresh cream from the spring-house , Miss Lavender hastily approached Gilbert , laid her hand on his shoulder , and said , -- `` Lad , be good this once ` t , and do what I tell you . 
Gilbert was strangely impressed by her solemn , earnest manner , and promised to obey . 
He guessed , and yet feared to believe , that the long release of which his mother had spoken had come at last ; how else , he asked himself , should Miss Lavender become possessed of knowledge which seemed so important ? 
As early as possible he went up to his bedroom , leaving the two women alone . 
The sound of voices , now high and hurried , now , apparently , low and broken , came to his ears . 
He resisted the temptation to listen , smothered his head in the pillow to further muffle the sounds , and after a long , restless struggle with his own mind , fell asleep . 
Deep in the night he was awakened by the noise of a shutting door , and then all was still . 
It was very evident , in the morning , that he had not miscalculated the importance of Miss Lavender 's communication . 
Was this woman , whose face shone with such a mingled light of awe and triumph , his mother ? 
Were these features , where the deep lines of patience were softened into curves of rejoicing , the dark , smouldering gleam of sorrow kindled into a flashing light of pride , those he had known from childhood ? 
As he looked at her , in wonder renewed with every one of her movements and glances , she took him by the hand and said , -- `` Gilbert , wait a little ! '' 
Gilbert noticed that his mother laid aside her sewing , and when the ordinary household labor had been performed , seated herself near the window with a small old Bible , which he had never before seen in her hands . 
Against his will he was infected by its power , and moved about in barn and field all day with a sense of the unreality of things , which was very painful to his strong , practical nature . 
Gilbert remarked with surprise that his mother placed a folded paper between the leaves of the Bible , tied the book carefully in a linen handkerchief , and carried it with her . 
`` Gilbert , '' she said , almost in a whisper , `` I have tried you sorely , and you have been wonderfully kind and patient . 
`` Mother , '' he answered , `` I can not judge in this matter , knowing nothing . 
`` I will , mother , '' he said , `` because you make me feel that I must . '' 
Gilbert silently returned the nods of greeting ; his mother neither met nor avoided the eyes of others . 
Other visitors came , and Gilbert gently drew her away , to leave the room ; but with a quick pressure upon his arm , as if to remind him of his promise , she quietly took her seat near the mourners , and by a slight motion indicated that he should seat himself at her side . 
It was an unexpected and painful position ; but her face , firm and calm , shamed his own embarrassment . 
He saw , nevertheless , that the grief of the mourners was not so profound as to suppress the surprise , if not indignation , which the act called forth . 
Gilbert would have risen , but his mother , with her hand on his arm , quietly replied , -- `` We belong to the family . '' 
Gilbert could scarcely trust his senses . 
A swift suspicion of his mother 's insanity crossed his mind ; but when he looked around the room and beheld Alfred Barton gazing upon her with a face more livid than that of the dead man , this suspicion was followed by another , no less overwhelming . 
She left Gilbert and moved to Alfred Barton 's side . 
Then , slightly turning , she said , -- `` Gilbert , give your arm to your aunt . '' 
Ann took Gilbert 's arm in a helpless , bewildered way . 
Gilbert started and almost reeled ; Ann clung to him with helpless terror ; and only Elisha , whose face grew dark and threatening , answered . 
Mary , -LRB- we must not call her Potter , and can not yet call her Barton , -RRB- rather led him than was led by him , and lifted her face to the eyes of men . 
When the pair appeared in the yard , and Gilbert followed with Miss Ann Barton on his arm , most of the funeral guests looked on in stupid wonder , unable to conceive the reason of the two thus appearing among the mourners . 
A sense of decency restrained those who were not relatives from pushing in advance of those who were ; yet it was very tantalizing to look upon the backs of Alfred Barton and Mary , Gilbert and Ann , when their faces must be such a sight to see ! 
Each , it may be guessed , was sufficiently occupied with his or her own sensations , -- except , perhaps , Ann Barton , who had been thrown so violently out of her quiet , passive round of life by her father 's death , that she was incapable of any great surprise . 
Gilbert slowly admitted the fact into his mind , but he was so unprepared for it by anything in his mother 's life or his own intercourse with Alfred Barton , that he was lost in a maze of baffled conjectures . 
To Gilbert the way was not too long , nor the progress too slow . 
It gave him time to grow familiar , not only with the fact , but with his duty . 
He forcibly postponed his wandering conjectures , and compelled his mind to dwell upon that which lay immediately before him . 
As the wondering , impatient crowd gathered around , Gilbert felt that all was known , and that all eyes were fixed upon himself and his mother , and his face reflected her own firmness and strength . 
Gilbert , in fact , seemed to have nothing of his father except the peculiar turn of his shoulders and the strong build of his chest . 
Gilbert led up his trembling aunt , who might have fallen in , had he not carefully supported her . 
As he was withdrawing , his eyes suddenly encountered those of Martha Deane , who was standing opposite , in the circle of hushed spectators . 
In spite of himself a light color shot into his face , and his lips trembled . 
Duringthe homeward journey from the grave , Gilbert and his mother were still the central figures of interest . 
The young men and women , especially , were unanimously of the opinion that Gilbert had conducted himself like a man . 
They were disappointed , it was true , that he and Martha Deane had not met , in the sight of all . 
To the very last , Gilbert 's eyes wandered from time to time towards the slender figure in the cavalcade before him , hoping for the chance of a word or look ; but Martha 's finer instinct told her that she must yet hold herself aloof . 
Sally Fairthorn was in such a flutter that she scarcely knew what she said or did ; Mark 's authority alone prevented her from dashing up to Gilbert , regardless of appearances . 
The old men , especially those in plain coats and broad-brimmed hats , took every opportunity to press near the mourners ; and but for Miss Betsy Lavender , who hovered around the latter like a watchful dragon , both Gilbert and his mother would have been seriously annoyed . 
Gilbert , come here ! '' 
`` Gilbert , shake hands with your uncle and aunt . 
There was that in Gilbert 's face which enforced respect . 
Contrasted with his father , who stood on one side , darting stealthy glances at the group from the corners of his eyes , his bearing was doubly brave and noble . 
He offered his hand in silence , and both Elisha Barton and his wife felt themselves compelled to take it . 
Then the three sons , who knew the name of Gilbert Potter , and were more astonished than shocked at the new relationship , came up and greeted their cousin in a grave but not unfriendly way . 
Alfred Barton and Gilbert both started at these words , but from very different feelings . 
Alfred Barton half sprang from his seat , and then fell back with the same startled , livid face , which Gilbert already knew . 
`` Further , I ask you to declare whether Gilbert Barton , who has until this day borne his mother 's name of Potter , is your lawfully begotten son ? '' 
She untied the handkerchief , opened the Bible , and handed Mr. Stacy the slip of paper which Gilbert had seen her place between the leaves that morning . 
Mr. Stacy turned towards Gilbert 's mother , and made a sign . 
`` You , Elisha and Ann , and you , Gilbert , my child , take notice that every word of what I shall say is the plain God 's truth . 
I never thought of -- of '' -- -LRB- here her faced flushed , and her voice began to tremble -RRB- -- `` of you , Gilbert ! 
Before Gilbert was born , I hoped I might die in giving him life ; then I felt that I must live for his sake . 
Gilbert 's eyes were fixed on her face with an absorbing expression of reverence ; he neither knew nor heeded that there were tears on his cheeks . 
Not only to you , but to Gilbert ; but I always meant to do my duty in the end . 
I comforted myself -- that was n't right , either , I know , -- but I comforted myself with the thought that you were doing well ; I never lost sight of you , and I 've been proud of Gilbert , though I did n't dare show it , and always wanted to lend him a helping hand , if he 'd let me . '' 
How did you mean to lend Gilbert a helping hand ? 
Was it by trying to take a second wife during my lifetime , and that wife the girl whom Gilbert loves ? '' 
`` Well , to begin at the beginnin ' , '' said Miss Lavender , `` it all come o ' my wishin ' to help two true-lovyers , and maybe you 'll think I 'm as foolish as I 'm old , but never mind , I 'll allow that ; and I saw that nothin ' could be done till Gilbert got his lawful name , and how to get it was the trouble , bein ' as Mary was swore to keep secret . 
The long and the short of it is , I tried to worm it out o ' her , but no use ; she set her teeth as tight as sin , and all I did learn was , that when she was in Phildelphy -- I knowed Gilbert was born there , but did n't let on -- she lived at Treadwell 's , in Fourth Street . 
Then turnin ' over everything in my mind , I suspicioned that she must be waitin ' for somebody to die , and that 's what held her bound ; it seemed to me I mustguess right away , but I could n't and could n't , and so goin ' up the hill , nigh puzzled to death , Gilbert ploughin ' away from me , bendin ' his head for ` ard a little -- there ! 
turn round , Gilbert ! 
Barton 's shoulders , and I remembered the old man was struck with palsy the year afore Gilbert was born , and I dunno how many other things come to me all of a heap ; and now you know , Gilbert , what made me holler . 
I borrowed the loan o ' his bay horse and put off for Phildelphy the very next day , and a mortal job it was ; what with bar ` ls and boxes pitched hither and yon , and people laughin ' at y' r odd looks , -- do n't talk o ' Phildelphy manners to me , for I 've had enough of 'em ! 
Barton ; then to where she went next , away down to the t ` other end o ' Third Street , boardin ' , he payin ' the board till just afore Gilbert was born -- and that 's enough , thinks I , let me get out o ' this rackety place . 
He curst and swore awful , callin ' Mr. Alfred a mean pup , and I dunno what all , but he had n't so much to say ag ` in Mary Potter ; he allowed she was a smart lass , and he 'd heerd o ' Gilbert 's doin 's , and the lad had grit in him . 
Gilbert and his mother now recognized , for the first time , what they owed to the latter . 
asked Gilbert , suddenly . 
They promised soon to visit Gilbert and his mother . 
Miss Lavender , taking Gilbert aside , announced that she was going to return to Dr. Deane 's . 
As Gilbert went forth to look after the horses , Alfred Barton followed him . 
`` Gilbert , '' said the father , putting his hand on the son 's shoulder , `` you know , now , why it always cut me , to have you think ill of me . 
Gilbert quietly withdrew his shoulder from the hand , hesitated a moment , and then said , -- `` Do n't ask me anything now , if you please . 
Yet , as they sat together before the hearth-fire that evening , and the stern , proud calm of Gilbert 's face slowly melted into a gentler and tenderer expression , his mother was moved to speak . 
Is it , Gilbert , because you do not rejoice as I had hoped you would ? '' 
`` Mother , '' he answered , `` whatever may happen in my life , I can never feel so proud of myself , as I felt to-day , to be your son . 
`` Perhaps I ought to ha ' told you this morning , Gilbert . 
he exclaimed . 
`` No , Gilbert ! 
`` Then , '' he asked in an anxious , hesitating tone , `` would you consider that I was not quite so much a son -- that any part of my duty to you was lost -- if I wished to bring you a daughter , also ? '' 
`` I know what you mean , Gilbert . 
he cried , a joyous light shining from his face , `` you love her ? 
`` Ay , Gilbert ; willing , and thankful , and proud . '' 
It was not Martha Deane , but the name of the one you thought wanted to win her away from you , -- your father 's name , Gilbert , -- that seemed to put a stop to my life . 
That lady had been waylaid by a dozen impatient questioners before she could reach the shelter of Dr. Deane 's roof ; and could only purchase release by a hurried statement of the main facts , in which Alfred Barton 's cruelty , and his wife 's wonderful fidelity to her oath , and the justice done to her and Gilbert by the old man 's will , were set forth with an energy that multiplied itself as the gossip spread . 
`` Gilbert sends word to you that he needs your true-love more 'n ever , and he 's comin ' up to see you to-morrow ; and says I to him , The door 's open , even accordin ' to the Doctor 's words ; and so it is , for he 's got his true name , and free to come . 
It seemed very long since she had even seen Gilbert ; it was a long time -LRB- in the calendar of lovers -RRB- since the two had spoken to each other . 
She tried to compare the man he had been with the man he now was , -- Gilbert poor , disgraced and in trouble , with Gilbert rich and honorably born ; and it almost seemed as if the latter had impoverished her heart by taking from it the need of that faithful , passionate sympathy which she had bestowed upon the former . 
Roger was once more tethered at the gate , and Gilbert was in the room . 
Withdrawing herself from Gilbert 's arms , she said , -- `` It was not right that the tests should be all on my side . 
Now it is my turn to try you , Gilbert ! '' 
Even her arch , happy smile did not enlighten him . 
he asked . 
he cried , `` you shame me out of the words I had meant to say . 
`` To me you are only Gilbert , '' she answered , `` as I am Martha to you . 
What does it matter whether we write Potter or Barton ? 
Gilbert , I have put myself in your place , since I learned the whole truth . 
`` Martha , '' he said , `` that ismy trouble , -- or , rather , my disappointment , -- that with my true name I must bring to you and fasten upon you the whole mean and shameful story ! 
`` I foresaw your feeling , Gilbert . 
For your mother 's sake , Gilbert ; you must not let the value of her justification be lessened in her eyes . 
She deserves all the happiness you and I can give her , and if she is willing to receive me , some day , as a daughter '' -- Gilbert interrupted her words by clasping her in his arms . 
he exclaimed , `` your heart points out the true way because it is true to the core ! 
You might claim reparation , Gilbert , for his cruel words ; I could not forbid you ; but after so much strife let there be peace , if possible . '' 
`` It is at least beyond his power , '' Gilbert replied , `` to accuse me of sordid motives . 
`` As Isaid before , Gilbert , the legacy is honestly mine , and I will come to you with it in my hands . '' 
Sally kissed Martha , then Gilbert , then threw an arm around the neck of each , crying and laughing hysterically : `` O Martha ! 
O Gilbert ! 
`` We wo n't relieve you yet , Betsy , '' said Gilbert ; `` will we , Martha ? 
`` No , '' Gilbert answered , `` but you shall be like an angel , dressed all in white , with roses in your hair . 
Sally and Mark , you know , want to be the first bridesmaids '' -- Sally interrupted him with a slap , but it was not very violent , and he did not even attempt to dodge it . 
`` It must be as Gilbert says . '' 
Gilbert soon afterwards left for home , but returned towards evening , determined , before all things , to ascertain his present standing with Dr. Deane . 
He did not anticipate that the task had been made easy for him ; but this was really the case . 
He met Gilbert with a bland condescension , and when the latter , after the first greeting , asked , -- `` Have I now the right to enter your house ? '' 
`` I trust , then , '' Gilbert said , `` that you have no further cause to forbid my engagement with Martha . 
Gilbert fortunately remembered Martha 's words , and restrained his impatience . 
`` I will readily give you time , Dr. Deane , '' he replied , `` provided you will give me opportunities . 
`` Thee 's a reasonable young man , Gilbert , '' the Doctor remarked , after a pause which was quite unnecessary . 
Gilbert had scarcely reached home that evening , before Deb . 
`` If Gilbert or I should refuse to protect you , your blood would be upon our heads . 
Gilbert suspected that it might be a temporary insanity , growing out of her remorse for having betrayed Sandy Flash . 
In another minute , Gilbert made his appearance , gun in hand . 
`` Shoot him , Gilbert ! '' 
1To Gilbert 's surprise , all her fear was gone ; she was again fierce and defiant , and boldly came and went , from that night forth , saying that no bullet was or would be cast , to take her life . 
The fresh , warm sympathies of the younger people , already given to Gilbert and Martha , now also embraced her ; far and wide went the wonderful story , carrying with it a wave of pity and respect for her , of contempt and denunciation for her husband . 
Everything depends on her , and if it 's true , as they say , that she 's going to sue for a divorce and take back her own name for herself and Gilbert , and cut loose from me forever , why , it 'll just '' -- He paused , and buried his face in his hands . 
An hour before , she had dispatched Joe Fairthorn with a note to Gilbert , informing him of the impending visit . 
Once on the way , she feared lest she had ventured too far ; it might be , as her father had said , too hasty ; and the coming meeting with Gilbert and his mother disquieted her not a little . 
When they reached the gate , Gilbert was on hand to receive them . 
His face always brightened at the sight of Martha , and his hands lifted her as tenderly as ever from the saddle . 
`` It is for mother to say , '' he whispered back . 
Gilbert looked upon his father 's haggard , imploring face , a moment ; a recollection of his own disgrace shot into his heart , to soften , not to exasperate ; and he accepted the hand . 
Then he led the way into the house . 
Gilbert and Martha moved a little to one side , leaving the husband and wife facing each other . 
Martha clung to Gilbert 's arm , trembling , and more deeply moved than she was willing to show . 
Gilbert felt that Martha 's agitation ceased . 
She quietly released her hold of his arm , lifted her head , and spoke , -- `` Mother , forgive me if I speak when I should hold my peace ; I would only remind you that there is yet one thing left . 
You , who put my impatient pride to shame , and make my love for Gilbert seem selfish by contrast with your long self-sacrifice ! 
Because I reverence you as a strong and pure and great-hearted woman -- because I want to see the last and best and sweetest grace of our sex added to your name -- and lastly , for Gilbert 's sake , who can feel nothing but pain in seeing his father execrated and shunned -- I ask your forgiveness for your husband ! '' 
Do n't get back your own name for yourself and Gilbert ! 
Gilbert , yours was half the shame ; yours is half the wrong ; can you join me in pardoning your father and my husband ? '' 
Gilbert was powerfully moved by the conflict of equally balanced emotions , and but for the indication which Martha had given , he might not at once have been able to decide . 
But it seemed now that his course was also clear . 
He said , -- `` Mother , since you have asked the question , I know how it should be answered . 
He stepped forward , seized Alfred Barton gently by the shoulder , and raised him to his feet . 
Your name is a part of my right , a part of Gilbert 's -- our son 's -- right ; it is true that you have debased the name , but we will keep it and make it honorable ! 
We will not do that to the name of Barton which you have done to the name of Potter ! '' 
He saw that a consideration for Gilbert 's position had been the chief element to which he owed his wife 's relenting mood , and this knowledge was perhaps his greatest encouragement . 
`` Mary , '' he said , `` you are kinder than I deserve . 
I wish I could make you and Gilbert understand all that I have felt . 
Martha , and perhaps Gilbert also , felt that it was the reflected image of Alfred Barton 's meanness , as it came back to him in the treatment he had experienced , rather than his own internal consciousness of it , which occasioned his misery . 
said Gilbert , replying to him . 
She always liked you , she says , and she 's lonely since th ' old man died and nobody comes near us -- not just at once , I mean , but after awhile , when you 've had time to think of it , and Gilbert 's married . 
it 'd give me a chance , and maybe Gilbert would n't feel quite so hard towards me , and '' -- He stopped , chilled by the increasing coldness of his wife 's face . 
`` Gilbert , '' said Alfred Barton , `` I never knew your mother before to-day . 
and if I thought you could once call me ` father ' before I die '' -- Gilbert was not proof against these words and the honest tears by which they were accompanied . 
Many shy , hesitating tokens of affection in his former intercourse with Alfred Barton , suddenly recurred to his mind , with their true interpretation . 
His load had been light , compared to his mother 's ; he had only learned the true wrong in the hour of reparation ; and moreover , in assuming his father 's name he became sensitive to the prominence of its shame . 
`` Father , '' he answered , `` if you have forfeited a son 's obedience , you have still a man 's claim to be helped . 
Martha laid her hand upon Gilbert 's shoulder , leaned up and kissed him upon the cheek . 
Gilbert , take your father out and show him your farm . 
Gilbert showed the barn , the stables , the cattle in the meadow , and the fields rejoicing in the soft May weather ; Martha busied herself in kitchen and cellar , filling up the pauses of her labor with cheerful talk ; and when the four met at the table , so much of the constraint in their relation to each other had been conquered , that a stranger would never have dreamed of the gulf which had separated them a few hours before . 
She did not expect that the breach could ever be quite filled ; but she wished , for Gilbert 's sake , to make it as narrow as possible . 
`` Gilbert , '' said Martha , `` are you satisfied with what has happened ? '' 
`` Yes , '' he answered , `` but it has shown to me that something more must be done . '' 
She looked at him with a puzzled face . 
There was a laughing light in his eyes , which brought a new lustre to hers , and a delicate blush to her fair cheeks . 
`` You havecome , '' he answered ; `` you were in your place ; and it will be empty -- the house will be lonely , the farm without its mistress -- until you return to us ! '' 
Gilbert now might have satisfied his ambition -LRB- and the people , under the peculiar circumstances of the case , would have sanctioned it -RRB- by buying the finest farm in the neighborhood ; but Martha had said , -- `` No other farm can be so much yours , and none so welcome a home to me . 
In spite of Miss Lavender 's outcries , and Martha 's grave doubts , a fortnight 's delay was all that Gilbert would allow . 
He would have dispensed with bridal costumes and merrymakings , -- so little do men understand of these matters ; but he was hooted down , overruled , ignored , and made to feel his proper insignificance . 
Martha almost disappeared from his sight during the interval . 
She was sitting up-stairs in a confusion of lutestring , whalebone , silk , and cambric ; and when she came down to him for a moment , the kiss had scarcely left her lips before she began to speak of the make of his new coat , and the fashion of the articles he was still expected to furnish . 
If he visited Fairthorn 's , it was even worse . 
The sight of him threw Sally into such a flutter that she sewed the right side of one breadth to the wrong side of another , attempted to clear-starch a woollen stocking , or even , on one occasion , put a fowl into the pot , unpicked and undressed . 
Gilbert and Martha had determined that Miss Betsy Lavender should be second bridesmaid , and Martha had sent to Wilmington for a purple silk , and a stomacher of the finest cambric , in which to array her . 
A groomsman of her age was not so easy to find ; but young Pratt , who had stood so faithfully by Gilbert during the chase of Sandy Flash , merrily avowed his willingness to play the part ; and so it was settled without Miss Lavender 's knowledge . 
Gilbert was plainly yet richly dressed in a bottle-green coat , with white waistcoat and breeches ; his ruffles , gloves , hat , and boots were irreproachable . 
Do you mind it , Gilbert ? '' 
Martha pointed to the green turf in front of the house , and said with an arch voice , -- `` Gilbert , do you remember the question you put to me , that evening ? '' 
And finally Sally burst out , in mock indignation , -- `` Gilbert , there 's where you snapped me up , because I wanted you to dance with Martha ; what do you think of yourself now ? '' 
`` Yes ; I mean Gilbert Potter . '' 
`` He 's too much for you . 
She was kissed by Gilbert , by Mark , by her young partner , by Dr. Deane , and lastly by the jolly Squire himself , -- to say nothing of the feminine kisses , which , indeed , being very imperfect gifts , hardly deserve to be recorded . 
and Gilbert added , `` and mine , too . '' 
They were all in their saddles except Gilbert and Martha . 
he cried , in answer to their calls ; `` we will follow . '' 
Gilbert returned to the house and met Martha , descending the stairs in her plain riding-dress . 
She descended into his open arms , and rested there , silent , peaceful , filled with happy rest . 
he whispered . 
