her, his hands on his knees. — Milk for the 
pussens, he said. — Mrkgnao! the cat cried. They call 
them stupid. They understand what we say better than we 
understand them. She understands all she wants to. Vindictive too. 
Wonder what I look like to her. Height of a 
tower? No, she can jump me. — Afraid of the 
chickens she is, he said mockingly. Afraid of the chookchooks. 
I never saw such a stupid pussens as the pussens. 
Cruel. Her nature. Curious mice never squeal. Seem to like 
it. — Mrkrgnao! the cat said loudly. She blinked up 
out of her avid shameclosing eyes, mewing plaintively and long, 
showing him her milkwhite teeth. He watched the dark eyeslits 
narrowing with greed till her eyes were green stones. Then 
he went to the dresser, took the jug Hanlon’s milkman 
had just filled for him, poured warmbubbled milk on a 
saucer and set it slowly on the floor. — Gurrhr! 
she cried, running to lap. He watched the bristles shining 
wirily in the weak light as she tipped three times 
and licked lightly. Wonder is it true if you clip 
them they can’t mouse after. Why? They shine in the 
dark, perhaps, the tips. Or kind of feelers in the 
dark, perhaps. He listened to her licking lap. Ham and 
eggs, no. No good eggs with this drouth. Want pure 
fresh water. Thursday : not a good day either for 
a mutton kidney at Buckley’s. Fried with butter, a shake 
of pepper. Better a pork kidney at Dlugacz’s. While the 
kettle is boiling. She lapped slower, then licking the saucer 
clean. Why are their tongues so rough? To lap better, 
all porous holes. Nothing she can eat? He glanced round 
him. No. On quietly creaky boots he went up the 
staircase to the hall, paused by the bedroom door. She 
might like something tasty. Thin bread and butter she likes 
in the morning. Still perhaps : once in a way. 
He said softly in the bare hall : — I 
am going round the corner. Be back in a minute. 
And when he had heard his voice say it he 
added : — You don’t want anything for breakfast? A 
sleepy soft grunt answered : — Mn. No. She did 
not want anything. He heard then a warm heavy sigh, 
softer, as she turned over and the loose brass quoits 
of the bedstead jingled. Must get those settled really. Pity. 
All the way from Gibraltar. Forgotten any little Spanish she 
knew. Wonder what her father gave for it. Old style. 
Ah yes, of course. Bought it at the governor’s auction. 
Got a short knock. Hard as nails at a bargain, 
old Tweedy. Yes, sir. At Plevna that was. I rose 
from the ranks, sir, and I’m proud of it. Still 
he had brains enough to make that corner in stamps. 
Now that was farseeing. His hand took his hat from 
the peg over his initialled heavy overcoat, and his lost 
