em. Glue ‘em well. Mouth to her mouth’s kiss. His 
lips lipped and mouthed fleshless lips of air : mouth 
to her womb. Oomb, allwombing tomb. His mouth moulded issuing 
breath, unspeeched : ooeeehah : roar of cataractic planets, globed, 
blazing, roaring wayawayawayawayawayaway. Paper. The banknotes, blast them. Old Deasy’s 
letter. Here. Thanking you for hospitality tear the blank end 
off. Turning his back to the sun he bent over 
far to a table of rock and scribbled words. That’s 
twice I forgot to take slips from the library counter. 
His shadow lay over the rocks as he bent, ending. 
Why not endless till the farthest star? Darkly they are 
there behind this light, darkness shining in the brightness, delta 
of Cassiopeia, worlds. Me sits there with his augur’s rod 
of ash, in borrowed sandals, by day beside a livid 
sea, unbeheld, in violet night walking beneath a reign of 
uncouth stars. I throw this ended shadow from me, manshape 
ineluctable, call it back. Endless, would it be mine, form 
of my form? Who watches me here? Who ever anywhere 
will read these written words? Signs on a white field. 
Somewhere to someone in your flutiest voice. The good bishop 
of Cloyne took the veil of the temple out of 
his shovel hat : veil of space with coloured emblems 
hatched on its field. Hold hard. Coloured on a flat 
: yes, that’s right. Flat I see, then think distance, 
near, far, flat I see, east, back. Ah, see now. 
Falls back suddenly, frozen in stereoscope. Click does the trick. 
You find my words dark. Darkness is in our souls, 
do you not think? Flutier. Our souls, shamewounded by our 
sins, cling to us yet more, a woman to her 
lover clinging, the more the more. She trusts me, her 
hand gentle, the longlashed eyes. Now where the blue hell 
am I bringing her beyond the veil? Into the ineluctable 
modality of the ineluctable visuality. She, she, she. What she? 
The virgin at Hodges Figgis’ window on Monday looking in 
for one of the alphabet books you were going to 
write. Keen glance you gave her. Wrist through the braided 
jesse of her sunshade. She lives in Leeson park, with 
a grief and kickshaws, a lady of letters. Talk that 
to some one else, Stevie : a pickmeup. Bet she 
wears those curse of God stays suspenders and yellow stockings, 
darned with lumpy wool. Talk about apple dumplings, piuttosto. Where 
are your wits? Touch me. Soft eyes. Soft soft soft 
hand. I am lonely here. O, touch me soon, now. 
What is that word known to all men? I am 
quiet here alone. Sad too. Touch, touch me. He lay 
back at full stretch over the sharp rocks, cramming the 
scribbled note and pencil into a pocket, his hat tilted 
down on his eyes. That is Kevin Egan’s movement I 
made nodding for his nap, sabbath sleep. Et vidit Deus. 
Et erant valde bona. Alo! Bonjour, welcome as the flowers 
