(Laughter.) lenehan Plagiarist! Down with Bloom! the veiled sibyl (Enthusiastically.) 
I’m a Bloomite and I glory in it. I believe 
in him in spite of all. I’d give my life 
for him, the funniest man on earth. bloom (Winks at 
the bystanders.) I bet she’s a bonny lassie. theodore purefoy 
(In fishing cap and oilskin jacket.) He employs a mechanical 
device to frustrate the sacred ends of nature. the veiled 
sibyl (Stabs herself.) My hero god! (She dies.) (Many most 
attractive and enthusiastic women also commit suicide by stabbing, drowning, 
drinking prussic acid, aconite, arsenic, opening their veins, refusing food, 
casting themselves under steamrollers, from the top of Nelson’s Pillar, 
into the great vat of Guinness’s brewery, asphyxiating themselves by 
placing their heads in gas ovens, hanging themselves in stylish 
garters, leaping from windows of different storeys.) alexander j. dowie 
(Violently.) Fellowchristians and antiBloomites, the man called Bloom is from 
the roots of hell, a disgrace to christian men. A 
fiendish libertine from his earliest years this stinking goat of 
Mendes gave precocious signs of infantile debauchery recalling the cities 
of the plain, with a dissolute granddam. This vile hypocrite, 
bronzed with infamy, is the white bull mentioned in the 
Apocalypse. A worshipper of the Scarlet Woman, intrigue is the 
very breath of hisnostrils. The stake faggots and the caldron 
of boiling oil are for him. Caliban! the mob Lynch 
him! Roast him! He’s as bad as Parnell was. Mr 
Fox! (Mother Grogan throws her boot at Bloom. Several shopkeepers 
from upper and lower Dorset street throw objects of little 
or no commercial value, hambones, condensed milk tins, unsaleable cabbage, 
stale bread, sheeps’tails, odd pieces of fat.) bloom (Excitedly.) This 
is midsummer madness, some ghastly joke again. By heaven, I 
am guiltless as the unsunned snow! It was my brother 
Henry. He is my double. He lives in number 2 
Dolphin’s Barn. Slander, the viper, has wrongfully accused me. Fellowcountrymen, 
sgenl inn ban bata coisde gan capall. I call on 
my old friend, Dr Malachi Mulligan, sex specialist to give 
medical testimony on my behalf. dr mulligan (In motor jerkin, 
green motoroggles on his brow.) Dr Bloom is bisexually abnormal. 
He has recently escaped from Dr Eustace’s private asylum for 
demented gentlemen. Born out of bedlock hereditary epilepsy is present, 
the consequence of unbridled lust. Traces of elephantiasis have been 
discovered among his ascendants. There are marked symptoms of chronic 
exhibitionism. Ambidexterity is also latent. He is prematurely bald from 
selfabuse, perversely idealistic in consequence, a reformed rake, and has 
metal teeth. In consequence of a family complex he has 
temporarily lost his memory and I believe him to be 
more sinned against than sinning. I have made a pervaginal 
examination and, after application of the acid test to 5427 
anal, axillary, pectoral and pubic hairs, I declare him to 
be virgo intacta. (Bloom holds his high grade hat over 
his genital organs.) dr madden Hypsospadia is also marked. In 
the interest of coming generations I suggest that the parts 
