admirable hymen minim by those delicate poets Master John Fletcher 
and Master Francis Beaumont that is in their Maid’s Tragedy 
that was writ for a like twining of lovers : 
To bed, to bed, was the burden of it to 
be played with accompanable concent upon the virginals. An exquisite 
dulcet epithalame of most mollificative suadency for juveniles amatory whom 
the odoriferous flambeaus of the paranymphs have escorted to the 
quadrupedal proscenium of connubial communion. Well met they were, said 
Master Dixon, joyed, but, harkee, young sir, better were they 
named Beau Mount and Lecher for, by my troth, of 
such a mingling much might come. Young Stephen said indeed 
to his best remembrance they had but the one doxy 
between them and she of the stews to make shift 
with in delights amorous for life ran very high in 
those days and the custom of the country approved with 
it. Greater love than this, he said, no man hath 
that a man lay down his wife for his friend. 
Go thou and do likewise. Thus, or words to that 
effect, saith Zarathustra, sometime regius professor of French letters to 
the university of Oxtail nor breathed there ever that man 
to whom mankind was more beholden. Bring a stranger within 
thy tower it will go hard but thou wilt have 
the secondbest bed. Orate, fratres, pro memetipso. And all the 
people shall say, Amen. Remember, Erin, thy generations and thy 
days of old, how thou settedst little by me and 
by my word and broughtest in a stranger to my 
gates to commit fornication in my sight and to wax 
fat and kick like Jeshurum. Therefore hast thou sinned against 
the light and hast made me, thy lord to be 
the slave of servants. Return, return, Clan Milly : forget 
me not, O Milesian. Why hast thou done this abomination 
before me that thou didst spurn me for a merchant 
of jalaps and didst deny me to the Roman and 
the Indian of dark speech with whom thy daughters did 
lie luxuriously? Look forth now, my people, upon the land 
of behest, even from Horeb and from Nebo and from 
Pisgah and from the Horns of Hatten unto a land 
flowing with milk and money. But thou hast suckled me 
with a bitter milk : my moon and my sun 
thou hast quenched for ever. And thou hast left me 
alone for ever in the dark ways of my bitterness 
: and with a kiss of ashes hast thou kissed 
my mouth. This tenebrosity of the interior, he proceeded to 
say, hath not been illumined by the wit of the 
septuagint nor so much as mentioned for the Orient from 
on high which brake hell’s gates visited a darkness that 
was foraneous. Assuefaction minorates atrocities (as Tully saith of his 
darling Stoics) and Hamlet his father showeth the prince no 
blister of combustion. The adiaphane in the noon of life 
is an Egypt’s plague which in the nights of prenativity 
