Luke Doyle, Kimmage, he had awaited with patience the apparition 
of the diurnal phenomenon, seated on a wall, his gaze 
turned in the direction of Mizrach, the east. He remembered 
the initial paraphenomena? More active air, a matutinal distant cock, 
ecclesiastical clocks at various points, avine music, the isolated tread 
of an early wayfarer, the visible diffusion of the light 
of an invisible luminous body, the first golden limb of 
the resurgent sun perceptible low on the horizon. Did he 
remain? With deep inspiration he returned, retraversing the garden, reentering 
the passage, reclosing the door. With brief suspiration he reassumed 
the candle, reascended the stairs, reapproached the door of the 
front room, hallfloor, and reentered. What suddenly arrested his ingress? 
The right temporal lobe of the hollow sphere of his 
cranium came into contact with a solid timber angle where, 
an infinitesimal but sensible fraction of a second later, a 
painful sensation was located in consequence of anetcedent sensations transmitted 
and registered. Describe the alterations effected in the disposition of 
the articles of furnitures? A sofa upholstered in prune plush 
had been translocated from opposite the door to the ingleside 
near the compactly furled Union Jack (an alteration which he 
had frequently intended to execute) : the blue and white 
checker inlaid majolicatopped table had been placed opposite the door 
in the place vacated by the prune plush sofa : 
the walnut sideboard (a projecting angle of which had momentarily 
arrested his ingress) had been moved from its position beside 
the door to a more advantageous but more perilous position 
in front of the door : two chairs had been 
moved from right and left of the ingleside to the 
position originally occupied by the blue and white checker inlaid 
majolicatopped table. Describe them. One : a squat stuffed easychair 
with stout arms extended and back slanted to the rere, 
which, repelled in recoil, had then upturned an irregular fringe 
of a rectangular rug and now displayed on its amply 
upholstered seat a centralised diffusing and diminishing discolouration. The other 
: a slender splayfoot chair of glossy cane curves, placed 
directly opposite the former, its frame from top to seat 
and from seat to base being varnished dark brown, its 
seat being a bright circle of white plaited rush. What 
significances attached to these two chairs? Significances of similitude, of 
posture, of symbolism, of circumstantial evidence, of testimonial supermanence. What 
occupied the position originally occupied by the sideboard? A vertical 
piano (Cadby) with exposed keyboard, its closed coffin supporting a 
pair of long yellow ladies’ gloves and an emerald ashtray 
containing four consumed matches, a partly consumed cigarette and two 
discoloured ends of cigarettes, its musicrest supporting the music in 
the key of G natural for voice and piano of 
Love’s Old Sweet Song (words by G. Clifton Bingham, composed 
by J. L. Molloy, sung by Madam Antoinette Sterling) open 
at the last page with the final indications ad libitum, 
forte, pedal, animato, sustained, pedal, ritirando, close. With what sensations 
