thinks of Homer. He stopped at the stairfoot. — I 
have conceived a play for the mummers, he said solemnly. 
The pillared Moorish hall, shadows entwined. Gone the nine men’s 
morrice with caps of indices. In sweetly varying voices Buck 
Mulligan read his tablet : Everyman His Own Wife or 
A Honeymoon in the Hand (a national immorality in three 
orgasms) by Ballocky Mulligan He turned a happy patch’s smirk 
to Stephen, saying : — The disguise, I fear, is 
thin. But listen. He read, marcato : — Characters : 
Toby Tostoff (a ruined Pole). Crab (a bushranger). Medical Dick 
} (two birds with one stone). and Medical Davy Mother 
Grogan (a watercarrier). Fresh Nelly and Rosalie (the coalquay whore) 
He laughed, lolling a to and fro head, walking on, 
followed by Stephen : and mirthfully he told the shadows, 
souls of men : — O, the night in the 
Camden hall when the daughters of Erin had to lift 
their skirts to step over you as you lay in 
your mulberrycoloured, multicoloured, multitudinous vomit! — The most innocent son 
of Erin, Stephen said, for whom they ever lifted them. 
About to pass through the doorway, feeling one behind, he 
stood aside. Part. The moment is now. Where then? If 
Socrates leave his house today, if Judas go forth tonight. 
Why? That lies in space which I in time must 
come to, ineluctably. My will : his will that fronts 
me. Seas between. A man passed out between them, bowing, 
greeting. — Good day again, Buck Mulligan said. The portico. 
Here I watched the birds for augury. Ængus of the 
birds. They go, they come. Last night I flew. Easily 
flew. Men wandered. Street of harlots after. A creamfruit melon 
he held to me. In. You will see. — The 
wandering jew, Buck Mulligan whispered with clown’s awe. Did you 
see his eye? He looked upon you to lust after 
you. I fear thee, ancient mariner. O, Kinch, thou art 
in peril. Get thee a breechpad. Manner of Oxenford. Day. 
Wheelbarrow sun over arch of bridge. A dark back went 
before them. Step of a pard, down, out by the 
gateway, under portcullis barbs. They followed. Offend me still. Speak 
on. Kind air defined the coigns of houses in Kildare 
street. No birds. Frail from the housetops two plumes of 
smoke ascended, pluming, and in a flaw of softness softly 
were blown. Cease to strive. Peace of the druid priests 
of Cymbeline, hierophantic : from wide earth an altar. Laud 
we the gods And let our crooked smokes climb to 
their nostrils From our bless’d altars. 10 The superior, the 
very reverend John Conmee S. J. reset his smooth watch 
in his interior pocket as he came down the presbytery 
steps. Five to three. Just nice time to walk to 
Artane. What was that boy’s name again? Dignam, yes. Vere 
dignum et iustum est. Brother Swan was the person to 
see. Mr Cunningham’s letter. Yes. Oblige him, if possible. Good 
