over effusive, in fact like the distinguished personage under discussion 
beside him, would have been to sound the lie of 
the land first. — That bitch, that English whore, did 
for him, the shebeen proprietor commented. She put the first 
nail in his coffin. — Fine lump of a woman, 
all the same, the soi-disant townclerk, Henry Campbell remarked, and 
plenty of her. I seen her picture in a barber’s. 
Her husband was a captain or an officer. — Ay, 
Skin-the-Goat amusingly added. He was, and a cottonball one. This 
gratuitous contribution of a humorous character occasioned a fair amount 
of laughter among his entourage. As regards Bloom, he, without 
the faintest suspicion of a smile, merely gazed in the 
direction of the door and reflected upon the historic story 
which had aroused extraordinary interest at the time when the 
facts, to make matters worse, were made public with the 
usual affectionate letters that passed between them, full of sweet 
nothings. First, it was strictly platonic till nature intervened and 
an attachment sprang up between them, till it bit by 
bit matters came to a climax and the matter became 
the talk of the town till the staggering blow came 
as a welcome intelligence to not a few evildisposed however, 
who were resolved upon encouraging his downfal though the thing 
was public property all along though not to anything like 
the sensational extent that it subsequently blossomed into. Since their 
names were coupled, though, since he was her declared favorite, 
where was the particular necessity to proclaim it to the 
rank and file from the housetops, the fact namely, that 
he had shared her bedroom, which came out in the 
witnessbox on oath when a thrill went through the packed 
court literally electrifying everybody in the shape of witnesses swearing 
to having witnessed him on such and such a particular 
date in the act of scrambling out of an upstairs 
apartment with the assistance of a ladder in night apparel, 
having gained admittance in the same fashion, a fact that 
the weeklies, addicted to the lubric a little, simply coined 
shoals of money out of. Whereas the simple fact of 
the case was it was simply a case of the 
husband not being up to the scratch with nothing in 
common between them beyond the name and then a real 
man arriving on the scene, strong to the verge of 
weakness, falling a victim to her siren charms and forgetting 
home ties. The usual sequel, to bask in the loved 
one’s smiles. The eternal question of the life connubial, needless 
to say, cropped up. Can real love, supposing there happens 
to be another chap in the case, exist between married 
folk? Though it was no concern of theirs absolutely if 
he regarded her with affection carried away by a wave 
of folly. A magnificent specimen of manhood he was truly, 
augmented obviously by gifts of a high order as compared 
with the other military supernumerary, that is (who was just 
