flush, a danger signal always with Gerty MacDowell, surging and 
flaming into her cheeks. Till then they had only exchanged 
glances of the most casual but now under the brim 
of her new hat she ventured a look at him 
and the face that met her gaze there in the 
twilight, wan and strangely drawn, seemed to her the saddest 
she had ever seen. Through the open window of the 
church the fragrant incense was wafted and with it the 
fragrant names of her who was conceived without stain of 
original sin, spiritual vessel, pray for us, honourable vessel, pray 
for us, vessel of singular devotion, pray for us, mystical 
rose. And careworn hearts were there and toilers for their 
daily bread and many who had erred and wandered, their 
eyes wet with contrition but for all that bright with 
hope for the reverend father Hughes had told them what 
the great saint Bernard said in his famous prayer of 
Mary, the most pious Virgin’s intercessory power that it was 
not recorded in any age that those who implored her 
powerful protection were ever abandoned by her. The twins were 
now playing again right merrily for the troubles of childhood 
are but as fleeting summer showers. Cissy played with baby 
Boardman till he crowed with glee, clapping baby hands in 
air. Peep she cried behind the hood of the pushcar 
and Edy asked where was Cissy gone and then Cissy 
popped up her head and cried ah! and, my word, 
didn’t the little chap enjoy that! And then she told 
him to say papa. — Say papa, baby. Say pa 
pa pa pa pa pa pa. And baby did his 
level best to say it for he was very intelligent 
for eleven months everyone said and big for his age 
and the picture of health, a perfect little bunch of 
love, and he would certainly turn out to be something 
great, they said. — Haja ja ja haja. Cissy wiped 
his little mouth with the dribbling bib and wanted him 
to sit up properly and say pa pa pa but 
when she undid the strap she cried out, holy saint 
Denis, that he was possing wet and to double the 
half blanket the other way under him. Of course his 
infant majesty was most obstreperous at such toilet formalities and 
he let everyone know it : — Habaa baaaahabaaa baaaa. 
And two great big lovely big tears coursing down his 
cheeks. It was all no use soothering him with no, 
nono, baby, no and telling him about the geegee and 
where was the puffpuff but Ciss, always, readywitted, gave him 
in his mouth the teat of the suckingbottle and the 
young heathen was quickly appeased. Gerty wished to goodness they 
would take their squalling baby home out of that and 
not get on her nerves no hour to be out 
and the little brats of twins. She gazed out towards 
the distant sea. It was like the paintings that man 
