fees. Not, he parenthesised, that for the sake of filthy 
lucre he need necessarily embrace the lyric platform as a 
walk in life for any lengthy space of time but 
a step in the required direction it was, beyond yea 
or nay, and both monetarily and mentally it contained no 
reflection on his dignity in the smallest and it often 
turned in uncommonly handy to be handed a cheque at 
a muchneeded moment when every little helped. Besides, though taste 
latterly had deteriorated to a degree, original music like that, 
different from the conventional rut, would rapidly have a great 
vogue, as it would be a decided novelty for Dublin’s 
musical world after the usual hackneyed run of catchy tenor 
solos foisted on a confiding public by Ivan St Austell 
and Hilton St Just and their genus omne. Yes, beyond 
a shadow of a doubt, he could, with all the 
cards in his hand and he had a capital opening 
to make a name for himself and win a high 
place in the city’s esteem where he could command a 
stiff figure and, booking ahead, give a grand concert for 
the patrons of the King Street house, given a backer-up, 
if one were forthcoming to kick him upstairs, so to 
speak — a big if, however — with some impetus 
of the goahead sort to obviate the inevitable procrastination which 
often tripped up a too much fêted prince of good 
fellows and it need not detract from the other by 
one iota as, being his own master, he would have 
heaps of time to practise literature in his spare moments 
when desirous of so doing without its clashing with his 
vocal career or containing anything derogatory what soever as it 
was a matter for himself alone. In fact, he had 
the ball at his feet and that was the very 
reason why the other, possessed of a remarkably sharp nose 
for smelling a rat of any sort, hung on to 
him at all. The horse was just then… and later 
on, at a propitious opportunity he purposed (Bloom did), without 
anyway prying Into his private affairs on the fools step 
in where angels principle advising him to sever his connection 
with a certain budding practitioner, who, he noticed, was prone 
to disparage, and even, to a slight extent, with some 
hilarious pretext, when not present, deprecate him, or whatever you 
like to call it, which, in Bloom’s humble opinion, threw 
a nasty sidelight on that side of a person’s character 
— no pun intended. The horse, having reached the end 
of his tether, so to speak, halted, and, rearing high 
a proud feathering tail, added his quota by letting fall 
on the floor, which the brush would soon brush up 
and polish, three smoking globes of turds. Slowly, three times, 
one after another, from a full crupper, he mired. And 
humanely his driver waited till he (or she) had ended, 
patient in his scythed car. Side by side Bloom, profiting 
