— Ay, ay, Mr Dedalus nodded. Mrs Marion Bloom has 
left off clothes of all descriptions. Jingle jaunted down the 
quays. Blazes sprawled on bounding tyres. Liver and bacon. Steak 
and kidney pie. Right, sir. Right, Pat. Mrs Marrion met 
him pike hoses. Smell of burn of Paul de Kock. 
Nice name he. — What’s this her name was? A 
buxom lassy. Marion… — Tweedy. — Yes. Is she alive? 
— And kicking. — She was a daughter of… — 
Daughter of the regiment. — Yes, begad. I remember the 
old drummajor. Mr Dedalus struck, whizzed, lit, puffed savoury puff 
after — Irish? I don’t know, faith. Is she, Simon? 
Puff after stiff, a puff, strong, savoury, crackling. — Buccinator 
muscle is… What?… Bit rusty… O, she is… My Irish 
Molly, O. He puffed a pungent plumy blast. — From 
the rock of Gibraltar… all the way. They pined in 
depth of ocean shadow, gold by the beerpull, bronze by 
maraschino, thoughtful all two, Mina Kennedy, 4 Lismore terrace, Drumcondra 
with Idolores, a queen, Dolores, silent. Pat served uncovered dishes. 
Leopold cut liverslices. As said before he ate with relish 
the inner organs, nutty gizzards, fried cods’roes while Richie Goulding, 
Collis, Ward ate steak and kidney, steak then kidney, bite 
by bite of pie he ate Bloom ate they ate. 
Bloom with Goulding, married in silence, ate. Dinners fit for 
princes. By Bachelor’s walk jogjaunty jingled Blazes Boylan, bachelor, in 
sun, in heat, mare’s glossy rump atrot, with flick of 
whip, on bounding tyres : sprawled, warmseated, Boylan impatience, ardentbold. 
Horn. Have you the? Horn. Have you the? Haw haw 
horn. Over their voices Dollard bassooned attack, booming over bombarding 
chords : — When love absorbs my ardent soul… Roll 
of Bensoulbenjamin rolled to the quivery loveshivery roofpanes. — War! 
War! cried Father Cowley. You’re the warrior. — So I 
am, Ben Warrior laughed. I was thinking of your landlord. 
Love or money. He stopped. He wagged huge beard, huge 
face over his blunder huge. — Sure, you’d burst the 
tympanum of her ear, man, Mr Dedalus said through smoke 
aroma, with an organ like yours. In bearded abundant laughter 
Dollard shook upon the keyboard. He would. — Not to 
mention another membrane, Father Cowley added. Half time, Ben. Amoroso 
ma non troppo. Let me there. Miss Kennedy served two 
gentlemen with tankards of cool stout. She passed a remark. 
It was indeed, first gentleman said, beautiful weather. They drank 
cool stout. Did she know where the lord lieutenant was 
going? And heard steelhoofs ringhoof ring. No, she couldn’t say. 
But it would be in the paper. O, she needn’t 
trouble. No trouble. She waved about her outspread Independent, searching, 
the lord lieutenant, her pinnacles of hair slowmoving, lord lieuten. 
Too much trouble, first gentleman said. O, not in the 
least. Way he looked that. Lord lieutenant. Gold by bronze 
heard iron steel. — … … … … … . 
. my ardent soul I care not foror the morrow. 
