a great brother poet. A hesitating soul taking arms against 
a sea of troubles, torn by conflicting doubts, as one 
sees in real life. He came a step a sinkapace 
forward on neatsleather creaking and a step backward a sinkapace 
on the solemn floor. A noiseless attendant, setting open the 
door but slightly, made him a noiseless beck. — Directly, 
said he, creaking to go, albeit lingering. The beautiful ineffectual 
dreamer who comes to grief against hard facts. One always 
feels that Goethe’s judgments are so true. True in the 
larger analysis. Twicreakingly analysis he corantoed off. Bald, most zealous 
by the door he gave his large ear all to 
the attendant’s words : heard them : and was gone. 
Two left. — Monsieur de la Palice, Stephen sneered, was 
alive fifteen minutes before his death. — Have you found 
those six brave medicals, John Eglinton asked with elder’s gall, 
to write Paradise Lost at your dictation? The Sorrows of 
Satan he calls it. Smile. Smile Cranly’s smile. First he 
tickled her Then he patted her Then he passed the 
female catheter. For he was a medical Jolly old medi… 
— I feel you would need one more for Hamlet. 
Seven is dear to the mystic mind. The shining seven 
W. B. calls them. Glittereyed, his rufous skull close to 
his greencapped desklamp sought the face, bearded amid darkgreener shadow, 
an ollav, holyeyed. He laughed low : a sizar’s laugh 
of Trinity : unanswered. Orchestral Satan, weeping many a rood 
Tears such as angels weep. Ed egli avea del cul 
fatto trombetta. He holds my follies hostage. Cranly’s eleven true 
Wicklowmen to free their sireland. Gaptoothed Kathleen, her four beautiful 
green fields, the stranger in her house. And one more 
to hail him : ave, rabbi. The Tinahely twelve. In 
the shadow of the glen he cooees for them. My 
soul’s youth I gave him, night by night. Godspeed. Good 
hunting. Mulligan has my telegram. Folly. Persist. — Our young 
Irish bards, John Eglinton censured, have yet to create a 
figure which the world will set beside Saxon Shakespeare’s Hamlet 
though I admire him, as old Ben did, on this 
side idolatry. — All these questions are purely academic, Russell 
oracled out of his shadow. I mean, whether Hamlet is 
Shakespeare or James I or Essex. Clergymen’s discussions of the 
historicity of Jesus. Art has to reveal to us ideas, 
formless spiritual essences. The supreme question about a work of 
art is out of how deep a life does it 
spring. The painting of Gustave Moreau is the painting of 
ideas. The deepest poetry of Shelley, the words of Hamlet 
bring our mind into contact with the eternal wisdom, Plato’s 
world of ideas. All the rest is the speculation of 
schoolboys for schoolboys. A. E. has been telling some yankee 
interviewer. Wall, tarnation strike me! — The schoolmen were schoolboys 
first, Stephen said superpolitely. Aristotle was once Plato’s schoolboy. — 
And has remained so, one should hope, John Eglinton sedately 
