nonce he was rather nonplussed but inasmuch as the duty 
plainly devolved upon him to take some measures on the 
subject he pondered suitable ways and means during which Stephen 
repeatedly yawned. So far as he could see he was 
rather pale in the face so that it occurred to 
him as highly advisable to get a conveyance of some 
description which would answer in their then condition, both of 
them being e. d. ed, particularly Stephen, always assuming that 
there was such a thing to be found. Accordingly, after 
a few such preliminaries, as, in spite of his having 
forgotten to take up his rather soapsuddy handkerchief after it 
had done yeoman service in the shaving line, brushing they 
both walked together along Beaver street, or, more properly, lane, 
as far as the farrier’s and the distinctly fetid atmosphere 
of the livery stables at the corner of Montgomery street 
where they made tracks to the left from thence debouching 
into Amiens Street round by the corner of Dan Bergin’s. 
But, as he confidently anticipated, there was not a sign 
of a Jehu plying for hire anywhere to be seen 
except a fourwheeler, probably engaged by some fellows inside on 
the spree, outside the North Star Hotel and there was 
no symptom of its budging a quarter of an inch 
when Mr Bloom, who was anything but a professional whistler, 
endeavoured to hail it by emitting a kind of a 
whistle, holding his arms arched over his head, twice. This 
was a quandary but, bringing commonsense to bear on it, 
evidently there was nothing for it but put a good 
face on the matter and foot it which they accordingly 
did. So, bevelling around by Mullet’s and the Signal House, 
which they shortly reached, they proceeded perforce in the direction 
of Amiens Street railway terminus, Mr Bloom being handicapped by 
the circumstance that one of the back buttons of his 
trousers had, to vary the timehonoured adage, gone the way 
of all buttons, though, entering thoroughly into the spirit of 
the thing, he heroically made light of the mischance. So 
as neither of them were particularly pressed for time, as 
it happened, and the temperature refreshing since it cleared up 
after the recent visitation of Jupiter Pluvius, they dandered along 
past by where the empty vehicle was waiting without a 
fare or a jarvey. As it so happened a Dublin 
United Tramways Company’s sandstrewer happening to be returning and the 
elder man recounted to his companion à propos of the 
incident his own truly miraculous escape of some little while 
back. They passed the main entrance of the Great Northern 
railway station, the starting point for Belfast, where of course 
all traffic was suspended at that late hour, and passing 
the back door of the morgue (a not very enticing 
locality, not to say gruesome to a degree, more especially 
at night), ultimately gained the Dock Tavern and in due 
course turned into Store street, famous for its C division 
