off the bloody stool atop of the bloody old dog 
and he talking all kinds of drivel about training by 
kindness and thoroughbred dog and intelligent dog : give you 
the bloody pip. Then he starts scraping a few bits 
of old biscuit out of the bottom of a Jacob’s 
tin he told Terry to bring. Gob, he golloped it 
down like old boots and his tongue hanging out of 
him a yard long for more. Near ate the tin 
and all, hungry bloody mongrel. And the citizen and Bloom 
having an argument about the point, the brothers Sheares and 
Wolfe Tone beyond on Arbour Hill and Robert Emmet and 
die for your country, the Tommy Moore touch about Sara 
Curran and she’s far from the land. And Bloom, of 
course, with his knockmedown cigar putting on swank with his 
lardy face. Phenomenon! The fat heap he married is a 
nice old phenomenon with a back on her like a 
ballalley. Time they were stopping up in the City Arms 
Pisser Burke told me there was an old one there 
with a cracked loodheramaun of a nephew and Bloom trying 
to get the soft side of her doing the mollycoddle 
playing bézique to come in for a bit of the 
wampum in her will and not eating meat of a 
Friday because the old one was always thumping her craw 
and taking the lout out for a walk. And one 
time he led him the rounds of Dublin and, by 
the holy farmer, he never cried crack till he brought 
him home as drunk as a boiled owl and he 
said he did it to teach him the evils of 
alcohol and by herrings if the three women didn’t near 
roast him it’s a queer story, the old one, Bloom’s 
wife and Mrs O’Dowd that kept the hotel. Jesus, I 
had to laugh at Pisser Burke taking them off chewing 
the fat and Bloom with his but don’t you see? 
and but on the other hand. And sure, more be 
token, the lout I’m told was in Power’s after, the 
blender’s, round in Cope street going home footless in a 
cab five times in the week after drinking his way 
through all the samples in the bloody establishment. Phenomenon! — 
The memory of the dead, says the citizen taking up 
his pintglass and glaring at Bloom. — Ay, ay, says 
Joe. — You don’t grasp my point, says Bloom. What 
I mean is… — Sinn Fein! says the citizen. Sinn 
fein amhain! The friends we love are by our side 
and the foes we hate before us. The last farewell 
was affecting in the extreme. From the belfries far and 
near the funereal deathbell tolled unceasingly while all around the 
gloomy precincts rolled the ominous warning of a hundred muffled 
drums punctuated by the hollow booming of pieces of ordnance. 
The deafening claps of thunder and the dazzling flashes of 
lightning which lit up the ghastly scene testified that the 
