job. All waited. Nothing was said. Stowing in the wreaths 
probably. I am sitting on something hard. Ah, that soap 
in my hip pocket. Better shift it out of that. 
Wait for an opportunity. All waited. Then wheels were heard 
from in front turning : then nearer : then horses’ 
hoofs. A jolt. Their carriage began to move, creaking and 
swaying. Other hoofs and creaking wheels started behind. The blinds 
of the avenue passed and number ten with its craped 
knocker, door ajar. At walking pace. They waited still, their 
knees jogging, till they had turned and were passing along 
the tramtracks. Tritonville road. Quicker. The wheels rattled rolling over 
the cobbled causeway and the crazy glasses shook rattling in 
the doorframes. — What way is he taking us? Mr 
Power asked through both windows. — Irishtown, Martin Cunningham said. 
Ringsend. Brunswick street. Mr Dedalus nodded, looking out. — That’s 
a fine old custom, he said. I am glad to 
see it has not died out. All watched awhile through 
their windows caps and hats lifted by passers. Respect. The 
carriage swerved from the tramtrack to the smoother road past 
Watery lane. Mr Bloom at gaze saw a lithe young 
man, clad in mourning, a wide hat. — There’s a 
friend of yours gone by, Dedalus, he said. — Who 
is that? — Your son and heir. — Where is 
he? Mr Dedalus said, stretching over, across. The carriage, passing 
the open drains and mounds of rippedup roadway before the 
tenement houses, lurched round the corner and, swerving back to 
the tramtrack, rolled on noisily with chattering wheels. Mr Dedalus 
fell back, aying : — Was that Mulligan cad with 
him? His fidus Achates! — No, Mr Bloom said. He 
was alone. — Down with his aunt Sally, I suppose, 
Mr Dedalus said, the Goulding faction, the drunken little costdrawer 
and Crissie, papa’s little lump of dung, the wise child 
that knows her own father. Mr Bloom smiled joylessly on 
Ringsend road. Wallace Bros the bottleworks. Dodder bridge. Richie Goulding 
and the legal bag. Goulding, Collis and Ward he calls 
the firm. His jokes are getting a bit damp. Great 
card he was. Waltzing in Stamer street with Ignatius Gallaher 
on a Sunday morning, the landlady’s two hats pinned on 
his head. Out on the rampage all night. Beginning to 
tell on him now : that backache of his, I 
fear. Wife ironing his back. Thinks he’ll cure it with 
pills. All breadcrumbs they are. About six hundred per cent 
profit. — He’s in with a lowdown crowd, Mr Dedalus 
snarled. That Mulligan is a contaminated bloody doubledyed ruffian by 
all accounts. His name stinks all over Dublin. But with 
the help of God and His blessed mother I’Il make 
it my business to write a letter one of those 
days to his mother or his aunt or whatever she 
is that will open her eye as wide as a 
gate. I’Il tickle his catastrophe, believe you me. He cried 
