wholly into the hands of such an enemy or to 
quit the field for ever. I declare, I was never 
so touched in all my life. God I thank thee 
as the Author of my days! Thrice happy will he 
be whom so amiable a creature will bless with her 
favours. A sigh of affection gave eloquence to these words 
and, having replaced the locket in his bosom, he wiped 
his eye and sighed again. Beneficent Disseminator of blessing to 
all Thy creatures, how greatand universal must be that sweetest 
of Thy tyrannies which can hold in thrall the free 
and the bond, the simple swain and the polished coxcomb, 
the lover in the heyday of reckless passion and the 
husband of maturer years. But indeed, sir, I wander from 
the point. How mingled and imperfect are all our sublunary 
joys! Maledicity! Would to God that foresight had remembered me 
to take my cloak along! I could weep to think 
of it. Then, though it had poured seven showers we 
were neither of us a penny the worse. But beshrew 
me, he cried, clapping hand to his forehead, tomorrow will 
be a new day and, thousand thunders, I know of 
a marchand de capotes, Monsieur Poyntz, from whom I can 
have for a livre as snug a cloak of the 
French fashion as ever kept a lady from wetting. Tut, 
Tut! cries Le Fécondateur, tripping in, my friend Monsieur Moore, 
that most accomplished traveller (I have just cracked a half 
bottle avec lui in a circle of the best wits 
of the town), is my authority that in Cape Horn, 
ventre biche, they have a rain that will wet through 
any, even the stoutest cloak. A drenching of that violence, 
he tells me, sans blague, has sent more than one 
luckless fellow in good earnest posthaste to another world. Pooh! 
A livre! cries Monsieur Lynch. The clumsy things are dear 
at a sou. One umbrella, were it no bigger than 
a fairy mushroom, is worth ten such stopgaps. No woman 
of any wit would wear one. My dear Kitty told 
me today that she would dance in a deluge before 
ever she would starve in such an ark of salvation 
for, as she reminded me (blushing piquantly and whispering in 
my ear though there was none to snap her words 
but giddy butterflies) dame Nature, by the divine blessing, has 
implanted it in our heart and it has become a 
household word that il y a deux choses for which 
the innocence of our original garb, in other circumstances a 
breach of the proprieties, is the fittest, nay the only 
garment. The first, said she (and here my pretty philosopher, 
as I handed her to her tilbury, to fix my 
attention, gently tipped with her tongue the outer chamber of 
my ear), the first is a bath… but at this 
point a bell tinkling in the hall cut short a 
discourse which promised so bravely for the enrichment of our 
