lieutenantcolonel Hesseltine, drove out after luncheon from the viceregal lodge. 
In the following carriage were the honourable Mrs Paget, Miss 
de Courcy and the honourable Gerald Ward, A. D. C. 
in attendance. The cavalcade passed out by the lower gate 
of Phoenix Park saluted by obsequious policemen and proceeded past 
Kingsbridge along the northern quays. The viceroy was most cordially 
greeted on his way through the metropolis. At Bloody bridge 
Mr Thomas Kernan beyond the river greeted him vainly from 
afar. Between Queen’s and Whitworth bridges Lord Dudley’s viceregal carriages 
passed and were unsaluted by Mr Dudley White, B. L., 
M. A., who stood on Arran Quay outside Mrs M. 
E. White’s, the pawnbroker’s, at the corner of Arran street 
west stroking his nose with his forefinger, undecided whether he 
should arrive at Phibsborough more quickly by a triple change 
of tram or by hailing a car or on foot 
through Smithfield, Constitution hill and Broadstone terminus. In the porch 
of Four Courts Richie Goulding with the costsbag of Goulding, 
Collis and Ward saw him with surprise. Past Richmond bridge 
at the doorstep of the office of Reuben J. Dodd, 
solicitor, agent for the Patriotic Insurance Company, an elderly female 
about to enter changed her plan and retracing her steps 
by King’s windows smiled credulously on the representative of His 
Majesty. From its sluice in Wood quay wall under Tom 
Devan’s office Poddle river hung out in fealty a tongue 
of liquid sewage. Above the crossblind of the Ormond Hotel, 
gold by bronze, Miss Kennedy’s head by Miss Douce’s head 
watched and admired. On Ormond quay Mr Simon Dedalus, steering 
his way from the greenhouse for the subsheriff’s office, stood 
still in midstreet and brought his hat low. His Excellency 
graciously returned Mr Dedalus’ greeting. From Cahill’s corner the reverend 
Hugh C. Love, M. A., made obeisance unperceived, mindful of 
lords deputies whose hands benignant had held of yore rich 
advowsons. On Grattan bridge Lenehan and M’Coy, taking leave of 
each other, watched the carriages go by. Passing by Roger 
Greene’s office and Dollard’s big red printinghouse Gerty Mac Dowell, 
carrying the Catesby’s cork lino letters for her father who 
was laid up, knew by the style it was the 
lord and lady lieutenant but she couldn’t see what Her 
Excellency had on because the tram and Spring’s big yellow 
furniture van had to stop in front of her on 
account of its being the lord lieutenant. Beyond Lundy Foot’s 
from the shaded door of Kavanagh’s winerooms John Wyse Nolan 
smiled with unseen coldness towards the lord lieutenantgeneral and general 
governor of Ireland. The Right Honourable William Humble, earl of 
Dudley, G. C. V. O., passed Micky Anderson’s all times 
ticking watches and Henry and James’s wax smartsuited freshcheeked models, 
the gentleman Henry, dernier cri James. Over against Dame gate 
Tom Rochford and Nosey Flynn watched the approach of the 
cavalcade. Tom Rochford, seeing the eyes of lady Dudley on 
him, took his thumbs quickly out of the pockets of 
