baptise blacks, is he? The glasses would take their fancy, 
flashing. Like to see them sitting round in a ring 
with blub lips, entranced, listening. Still life. Lap it up 
like milk, I suppose. The cold smell of sacred stone 
called him. He trod the worn steps, pushed the swingdoor 
and entered softly by the rere. Something going on : 
some sodality. Pity so empty. Nice discreet place to be 
next some girl. Who is my neighbour? Jammed by the 
hour to slow music. That woman at midnight mass. Seventh 
heaven. Women knelt in the benches with crimson halters round 
their necks, heads bowed. A batch knelt at the altar 
rails. The priest went along by them, murmuring, holding the 
thing in his hands. He stopped at each, took out 
a communion, shook a drop or two (are they in 
water?) off it and put it neatly into her mouth. 
Her hat and head sank. Then the next one : 
a small old woman. The priest bent down to put 
it into her mouth, murmuring all the time. Latin. The 
next one. Shut your eyes and open your mouth. What? 
Corpus. Body. Corpse. Good idea the Latin. Stupefies them first. 
Hospice for the dying. They don’t seem to chew it; 
only swallow it down. Rum idea : eating bits of 
a corpse why the cannibals cotton to it. He stood 
aside watching their blind masks pass down the aisle, one 
by one, and seek their places. He approached a bench 
and seated himself in its corner, nursing his hat and 
newspaper. These pots we have to wear. We ought to 
have hats modelled on our heads. They were about him 
here and there, with heads still bowed in their crimson 
halters, waiting for it to melt in their stomachs. Something 
like those mazzoth : it’s that sort of bread : 
unleavened shewbread. Look at them. Now I bet it makes 
them feel happy. Lollipop. It does. Yes, bread of angels 
it’s called. There’s a big idea behind it, kind of 
kingdom of God is within you feel. First communicants. Hokypoky 
penny a lump. Then feel all like one family party, 
same in the theatre, all in the same swim. They 
do. I’m sure of that. Not so lonely. In our 
confraternity. Then come out a bit spreeish. Let off steam. 
Thing is if you really believe in it. Lourdes cure, 
waters of oblivion, and the Knock apparition, statues bleeding. Old 
fellow asleep near that confession box. Hence those snores. Blind 
faith. Safe in the arms of kingdom come. Lulls all 
pain. Wake this time next year. He saw the priest 
stow the communion cup away, well in, and kneel an 
instant before it, showing a large grey bootsole from under 
the lace affair he had on. Suppose he lost the 
pin of his. He wouldn’t know what to do to. 
Bald spot behind. Letters on his back I. N. R. 
I.? No : I. H. S. Molly told me one 
