is no answer; he bends again.) Mr Dedalus! (There is 
no answer.) The name if you call. Somnambulist. (He bends 
again and, hesitating, brings his mouth near the face of 
the prostrate form.) Stephen! (There is no answer. He calls 
again.) Stephen! stephen (Groans.) Who? Black panther vampire. (He sighs 
and stretches himself, then murmurs thickly with prolonged vowels.) Who… 
drive… Fergus now. And pierce… wood’s woven shade?… (He turns 
on his left side, sighing, doubling himself together.) bloom Poetry. 
Well educated. Pity. (He bends again and undoes the buttons 
of Stephen’s waistcoat.) To breathe. (He brushes the woodshavings from 
Stephen’s clothes with light hands and fingers.) One pound seven. 
Not hurt anyhow. (He listens.) What! stephen (Murmurs.) …shadows… the 
woods. …white breast… dim… (He stretches out his arms, sighs 
again and curls his body. Bloom holding his hat and 
ashplant stands erect. A dog barks in the distance. Bloom 
tightens and loosens his grip on the ashplant. He looks 
down on Stephen’s face and form.) bloom (Communes with the 
night.) Face reminds me of his poor mother. In the 
shady wood. The deep white breast. Ferguson, I think I 
caught. A girl. Some girl. Best thing could happen him… 
(He murmurs.)… swear that I will always hail, ever conceal, 
never reveal, any part or parts, art or arts… (He 
murmurs.)… in the rough sands of the sea… a cabletow’s 
length from the shore… where the tide ebbs… and flows… 
(Silent, thoughtful, alert, he stands on guard, his fingers at 
his lips in the attitude of secret master. Against the 
dark wall a figure appears slowly, a fairy boy of 
eleven, a changeling, kidnapped, dressed in an Eton suit with 
glass shoes and a little bronze helmet, holding a book 
in his hand. He reads from right to left inaudibly, 
smiling, kissing the page.) bloom (Wonderstruck, calls inaudibly.) Rudy! rudy 
(Gazes unseeing into Bloom’s eyes and goes on reading, kissing, 
smiling. He has a delicate mauve face. On his suit 
he has diamond and ruby buttons. In his free left 
hand he holds a slim ivory cane with a violet 
bowknot. A white lambskin peeps out of his waistcoat pocket.) 
16 Preparatory to anything else Mr Bloom brushed off the 
greater bulk of the shavings and handed Stephen the hat 
and ashplant and bucked him up generally in orthodox Samaritan 
fashion, which he very badly needed. His (Stephen’s) mind was 
not exactly what you would call wandering but a bit 
unsteady and on his expressed desire for some beverage to 
drink Mr Bloom, in view of the hour it was 
and there being no pumps of Vartry water available for 
their ablutions, let alone drinking purposes, hit upon an expedient 
by suggesting, off the reel, the propriety of the cabman’s 
shelter, as it was called, hardly a stonesthrow away near 
Butt Bridge where they might hit upon some drinkables in 
the shape of a milk and soda or a mineral. 
But how to get there was the rub. For the 
