amid the cool silver tranquillity of the evening or at 
the feast at midnight when he is now filled with 
wine. Not to insult over him will the vision come 
as over one that lies under her wrath, not for 
vengeance to cut him off from the living but shrouded 
in the piteous vesture of the past, silent, remote, reproachful. 
The stranger still regarded on the face before him a 
slow recession of that false calm there, imposed, as it 
seemed, by habit or some studied trick, upon words so 
embittered as to accuse in their speaker an unhealthiness, a 
flair, for the cruder things of life. A scene disengages 
itself in the observer’s memory, evoked, it would seem, by 
a word of so natural a homeliness as if those 
days were really present there (as some thought) with their 
immediate pleasures. A shaven space of lawn one soft May 
evening, the wellremembered grove of lilacs at Roundtown, purple and 
white, fragrant slender spectators of the game but with much 
real interest in the pellets as they run slowly forward 
over the sward or collide and stop, one by its 
fellow, with a brief alert shock. And yonder about that 
grey urn where the water moves at times in thoughtful 
irrigation you saw another as fragrant sisterhood, Floey, Atty, Tiny 
and their darker friend with I know not what of 
arresting in her pose then, Our Lady of the Cherries, 
a comely brace of them pendent from an ear, bringing 
out the foreign warmth of the skin so daintily against 
the cool ardent fruit. A lad of four or five 
in linseywoolsey (blossomtime but there will be cheer in the 
kindly hearth when ere long the bowls are gathered and 
hutched) is standing on the urn secured by that circle 
of girlish fond hands. He frowns a little just as 
this young man does now with a perhaps too conscious 
enjoyment of danger but must needs glance at whiles towards 
where his mother watches from the piazzetta giving upon the 
flowerclose with a faint shadow of remoteness or of reproach 
(alles vergängliche) in her glad look. Mark this farther and 
remember. The end comes suddenly. Enter that antechamber of birth 
where the studious are assembled and note their faces. Nothing, 
as it seems, there of rash or violent. Quietude of 
custody rather, befitting their station in that house, the vigilant 
watch of shepherds and of angels about a crib in 
Bethlehem of Juda long ago. But as before the lightning 
the serried stormclouds, heavy with preponderant excess of moisture, in 
swollen masses turgidly distended, compass earth and sky in one 
vast slumber, impending above parched field and drowsy oxen and 
blighted growth of shrub and verdure till in an instant 
a flash rives their centres and with the reverberation of 
the thunder the cloudburst pours its torrent, so and not 
otherwise was the transformation, violent and instantaneous, upon the utterance 
of the Word. Burke’s! Outflings my lord Stephen, giving the 
