sir. Will we be there by candlelight? — Mr Brandes 
accepts it, Stephen said, as the first play of the 
closing period. — Does he? What does Mr Sidney Lee, 
or Mr Simon Lazarus, as some aver his name is, 
say of it? — Marina, Stephen said, a child of 
storm, Miranda, a wonder, Perdita, that which was lost. What 
was lost is given back to him : his daughter’s 
child. My dearest wife, Pericles says, was like this maid. 
Will any man love the daughter if he has not 
loved the mother? — The art of being a grandfather, 
Mr Best gan murmur. L’art d’être grand… — His own 
image to a man with that queer thing genius is 
the standard of all experience, material and moral. Such an 
appeal will touch him. The images of other males of 
his blood will repel him. He will see in them 
grotesque attempts of nature to foretell or repeat himself. The 
benign forehead of the quaker librarian enkindled rosily with hope. 
— I hope Mr Dedalus will work out his theory 
for the enlightenment of the public. And we ought to 
mention another Irish commentator, Mr George Bernard Shaw. Nor should 
we forget Mr Frank Harris. His articles on Shakespeare in 
the Saturday Review were surely brilliant. Oddly enough he too 
draws for us an unhappy relation with the dark lady 
of the sonnets. The favoured rival is William Herbert, earl 
of Pembroke. I own that if the poet must be 
rejected, such a rejection would seem more in harmony with 
— what shall I say? — our notions of what 
ought not to have been. Felicitously he ceased and held 
a meek head among them, auk’s egg, prize of their 
fray. He thous and thees her with grave husbandwords. Dost 
love, Miriam? Dost love thy man? — That may be 
too, Stephen said. There is a saying of Goethe’s which 
Mr Magee likes to quote. Beware of what you wish 
for in youth because you will get it in middle 
life. Why does he send to one who is a 
buonaroba, a bay where all men ride, a maid of 
honour with a scandalous girlhood, a lordling to woo for 
him? He was himself a lord of language and had 
made himself a coistrel gentleman and had written Romeo and 
Juliet. Why? Belief in himself has been untimely killed. He 
was overborne in a cornfield first (ryefield, I should say) 
and he will never be a victor in his own 
eyes after nor play victoriously the game of laugh and 
lie down. Assumed dongiovannism will not save him. No later 
undoing will undo the first undoing. The tusk of the 
boar has wounded him there where love lies ableeding. If 
the shrew is worsted yet there remains to her woman’s 
invisible weapon. There is, I feel in the words, some 
goad of the flesh driving him into a new passion, 
a darker shadow of the first, darkening even his own 
