their those distended udders that they have been the known… 
bloom I am going to scream. I beg your pardon. 
Ah? So. (He repeats.) Spontaneously to seek out the saurian’s 
lair in order to entrust their teats to his avid 
suction. Ant milks aphis. (Profoundly.) Instinct rules the world. In 
life. In death. virag (Head askew, arches his back and 
hunched wingshoulders, peers at the moth out of blear bulged 
eyes, points a homing claw and cries.) Who’s Ger Ger? 
Who’s dear Gerald? O, I much fear he shall be 
most badly burned. Will some pleashe pershon not now impediment 
so catastrophics mit agitation of firstclass tablenumpkin? (He mews.) Luss 
puss puss puss! (He sighs, draws back and stares sideways 
down with dropping underjaw.) Well, well. He doth rest anon. 
the moth I’m a tiny tiny thing Ever flying in 
the spring Round and round a ringaring. Long ago I 
was a king, Now I do this kind of thing 
On the wing, on the wing! Bing! (He rushes against 
the mauve shade flapping noisily.) Pretty pretty pretty pretty pretty 
pretty petticoats. (From left upper entrance with two sliding steps 
Henry Flower comes forward to left front centre. He wears 
a dark mantle and drooping plumed sombrero. He carries a 
silverstringed inlaid dulcimer and a longstemmed bamboo Jacob’s pipe, its 
clay bowl fashioned as a female head. He wears dark 
velvet hose and silverbuckled pumps. He has the romantic Saviour’s 
face with flowing locks, thin beard and moustache. His spindlelegs 
and sparrow feet are those of the tenor Mario, prince 
of Candia. He settles down his goffered ruffs and moistens 
his lips with a passage of his amorous tongue.) henry 
(In a low dulcet voice, touching the strings of his 
guitar.) There is a flower that bloometh. (Virag truculent, his 
jowl set, stares at the lamp. Grave Bloom regards Zoe’s 
neck. Henry gallant turns with pendent dewlap to the piano.) 
stephen (To himself.) Play with your eyes shut. Imitate pa. 
Filling my belly with husks of swine. Too much of 
this. I will arise and go to my. Expect this 
is the. Steve, thou art in a parlous way. Must 
visit old Deasy or telegraph. Our interview of this morning 
has left on me a deep impression. Though our ages. 
Will write fully tomorrow. I’m partially drunk, by the way. 
(He touches the keys again.) Minor chord comes now. Yes. 
Not much however. (Almidano Artifoni holds out a batonroll of 
music with vigorous moustachework.) artifoni Ci rifletta. Lei rovina tutto. 
florry Sing us something. Love’s old sweet song. stephen No 
voice. I am a most finished artist. Lynch, did I 
show you the letter about the lute? florry (Smirking.) The 
bird that can sing and won’t sing. (The Siamese twins, 
Philip Drunk and Philip Sober, two Oxford dons with lawnmowers, 
appear in the window embrasure. Both are masked with Matthew 
Arnold’s face.) philip sober Take a fool’s advice. All is 
not well. Work it out with the buttend of a 
