took his rededged breviary out. An ivory bookmark told him 
the page. Nones. He should have read that before lunch. 
But lady Maxwell had come. Father Conmee read in secret 
Pater and Ave and crossed his breast. Deus in adiutorium. 
He walked calmly and read mutely the nones, walking and 
reading till he came to Res in Beati immaculati : 
Principium verborum tuotum veritas : in eternum omnia iudicia iustituæ 
tuæ. A flushed young man came from a gap of 
a hedge and after him came a young woman with 
wild nodding daisies in her hand. The young man raised 
his hat abruptly : the young woman abruptly bent and 
with slow care detached from her light skirt a clinging 
twig. Father Conmee blessed both gravely and turned a thin 
page of his breviary. Sin : Principes persecuti sunt me 
gratis : et a verbis tuis formidavit cor meum. Corny 
Kelleher closed his long daybook and glanced with his drooping 
eye at a pine coffinlid sentried in a corner. He 
pulled himself erect, went to it and, spinning it on 
its axle, viewed its shape and brass furnishings. Chewing his 
blade of hay he laid the coffinlid by and came 
to the doorway. There he tilted his hatbrim to give 
shade to his eyes and leaned against the doorcase, looking 
idly out. Father John Conmee stepped into the Dollymount tram 
on Newcomen bridge. Corny Kelleher locked his largefooted boots and 
gazed, his hat downtilted, chewing his blade of hay. Constable 
57 C, on his beat, stood to pass the time 
of day. — That’s a fine day, Mr Kelleher. — 
Ay, Corny Kelleher said. — It’s very close, the constable 
said. Corny Kelleher sped a silent jet of hayjuice arching 
from his mouth while a generous white arm from a 
window in Eccles street flung forth a coin. — What’s 
the best news? he asked. — I seen that particular 
party last evening, the constable said with bated breath. A 
onelegged sailor crutched himself round MacConnell’s corner, skirting Rabaiotti’s icecream 
car, and jerked himself up Eccles street. Towards Larry O’Rourke, 
in shirtsleeves in his doorway, he growled unamiably. — For 
England… He swung himself violently forward past Katey and Boody 
Dedalus, halted and growled : — home and beauty. J.J. 
O’Molloy’s white careworn face was told that Mr Lambert was 
in the warehouse with a visitor. A stout lady stopped, 
took a copper coin from her purse and dropped it 
into the cap held out to her. The sailor grumbled 
thanks and glanced sourly at the unheeding windows, sank his 
head and swung himself forward four strides. He halted and 
growled angrily : — For England… Two barefoot urchins, sucking 
long liquorice laces, halted near him, gaping at his stump 
with their yellowslobbered mouths. He swung himself forward in vigorous 
jerks, halted, lifted his head towards a window and bayed 
deeply : — home and beauty. The gay sweet chirping 
whistling within went on a bar or two, ceased. The 
