a month of Sundays. — Never better. How are all 
in Cork’s own town? — I was down there for 
the, Cork park races on Easter Monday, Ned Lambert said. 
Same old six and eightpence. Stopped with Dick Tivy. — 
And how is Dick, the solid man? — Nothing between 
himself and heaven, Ned Lambert answered. — By the holy 
Paul! Mr Dedalus said in subdued wonder. Dick Tivy bald? 
— Martin is going to get up a whip for 
the youngsters, Ned Lambert said, pointing ahead. A few bob 
a skull. Just to keep them going till the insurance 
is cleared up. — Yes, yes, Mr Dedalus said dubiously. 
Is that the eldest boy in front? — Yes, Ned 
Lambert said, with the wife’s brother. John Henry Menton is 
behind. He put down his name for a quid. — 
I’ll engage he did, Mr Dedalus said. I often told 
poor Paddy he ought to mind that job. John Henry 
is not the worst in the world. — How did 
he lose it? Ned Lambert asked. Liquor, what? — Many 
a good man’s fault, Mr Dedalus said with a sigh. 
They halted about the door of the mortuary chapel. Mr 
Bloom stood behind the boy with the wreath, looking down 
at his sleek combed hair and the slender furrowed neck 
inside his brandnew collar. Poor boy! Was he there when 
the father? Both unconscious. Lighten up at the last moment 
and recognise for the last time. All he might have 
done. I owe three shillings to O’Grady. Would he understand? 
The mutes bore the coffin into the chapel. Which end 
is his head? After a moment he followed the others 
in, blinking in the screened light. The coffin lay on 
its bier before the chancel four tall yellow candles at 
its corners. Always in front of us. Corny Kelleher, laying 
a wreath at each fore corner, beckoned to the boy 
to kneel. The mourners knelt here and there in praying 
desks. Mr Bloom stood behind near the font and, when 
all had knelt dropped carefully his unfolded newspaper from his 
pocket and knelt his right knee upon it. He fitted 
his black hat gently on his left knee and, holding 
its brim, bent over piously. A server, bearing a brass 
bucket with something in it, came out through a door. 
The whitesmocked priest came after him tidying his stole with 
one hand, balancing with the other a little book against 
his toad’s belly. Who’ll read the book? I, said the 
rook. They halted by the bier and the priest began 
to read out of his book with a fluent croak. 
Father Coffey. I knew his name was like a coffin. 
Dominenamine. Bully about the muzzle he looks. Bosses the show. 
Muscular christian. Woe betide anyone that looks crooked at him 
: priest. Thou art Peter. Burst sideways like a sheep 
in clover Dedalus says he will. With a belly on 
him like a poisoned pup. Most amusing expressions that man 
