the midst of the winter) and now sir Leopold that 
had of his body no manchild for an heir looked 
upon him his friend’s son and was shut up in 
sorrow for his forepassed happiness and as sad as he 
was that him failed a son of such gentle courage 
(for all accounted him of real parts) so grieved he 
also in no less measure for young Stephen for that 
he lived riotously with those wastrels and murdered his goods 
with whores. About that present time young Stephen filled all 
cups that stood empty so as there remained but little 
mo if the prudenter had not shadowed their approach from 
him that still plied it very busily who, praying for 
the intentions of the sovereign pontiff, he gave them for 
a pledge the vicar of Christ which also as he 
said is vicar of Bray. Now drink we, quod he, 
of this mazer and quaff ye this mead which is 
not indeed parcel of my body but my soul’s bodiment. 
Leave ye fraction of bread to them that live by 
bread alone. Be not afeard neither for any want for 
this will comfort more than the other will dismay. See 
ye here. And he showed them glistering coins of the 
tribute and goldsmiths’ notes the worth of two pound nineteen 
shilling that he had, he said, for a song which 
he writ. They all admired to see the foresaid riches 
in such dearth of money as was herebefore. His words 
were then these as followeth : Know all men, he 
said, time’s ruins build eternity’s mansions. What means this? Desire’s 
wind blasts the thorntree but after it becomes from a 
bramblebush to be a rose upon the rood of time. 
Mark me now. In woman’s womb word is made flesh 
but in the spirit of the maker all flesh that 
passes becomes the word that shall not pass away. This 
is the postcreation. Omnis caro ad te veniet. No question 
but her name is puissant who aventried the dear corse 
of our Agenbuyer, Healer and Herd, our mighty mother and 
mother most venerable and Bernardus saith aptly that she hath 
an omnipotentiam deiparae supplicem, that is to wit, an almightiness 
of petition because she is the second Eve and she 
won us, saith Augustine too, whereas that other, our grandam, 
which we are linked up with by successive anastomosis of 
navelcords sold us all, seed, breed and generation, for a 
penny pippin. But here is the matter now. Or she 
knew him, that second I say, and was but creature 
of her creature, vergine madre figlia di tuo figlio or 
she knew him not and then stands she in the 
one denial or ignorancy with Peter Piscator who lives in 
the house that Jack built and with Joseph the Joiner 
patron of the happy demise of all unhappy marriages parce 
que M. Leo Taxil nous a dit que qui l’avait 
mise dans cette fichue position c’était le sacré pigeon, ventre 
