his occiput dubiously with the unparalleled embarrassment of a harassed 
pedlar gauging the symmetry of her peeled pears.) Somebody would 
be dreadfully jealous if she knew. The greeneyed monster. (Earnestly.) 
You know how difficult it is. I needn’t tell you. 
zoe (Flattered.) What the eye can’t see the heart can’t 
grieve for (She pats him.) Come. bloom Laughing witch! The 
hand that rocks the cradle. zoe Babby! bloom (In babylinen 
and pelisse, bigheaded, with a caul of dark hair, fixes 
big eyes on her fluid slip and counts its bronze 
buckles with a chubby finger, his moist tongue lolling and 
lisping.) One two tlee : tlee tlwo tlone. the buckles 
Love me. Love me not. Love me. zoe Silent means 
consent. (With little parted talons she captures his hand, her 
forefinger giving to his palm the passtouch of secret monitor, 
luring him to doom.) Hot hands cold gizzard. (He hesitates 
amid scents, music, temptations. She leads him towards the steps, 
drawing him by the odour of her armpits, the vice 
of her painted eyes, the rustle of her slip in 
whose sinuous folds lurks the lion reek of all the 
male brutes that have possessed her.) the male brutes (Exhaling 
sulphur of rut and dung and ramping in their loosebox, 
faintly roaring, their drugged heads swaying to and fro.) Good! 
(Zoe and Bloom reach the doorway where two sister whores 
are seated. They examine him curiously from under their pencilled 
brows and smile to his hasty bow. He trips awkwardly.) 
zoe (Her lucky hand instantly saving him.) Hoopsa! Don’t fall 
upstairs. bloom The just man falls seven times. (He stands 
aside at the threshold.) After you is good manners. zoe 
Ladies first, gentlemen after. (She crosses the threshold. He hesitates. 
She turns and, holding out her hands, draws him over. 
He hops. On the antlered rack of the hall hang 
a man’s hat and waterproof, Bloom uncovers himself but, seeing 
them, frowns then smiles, preoccupied. A door on the return 
landing is thrown open. A man in purple shirt and 
grey trousers brownsocked, passes with an ape’s gait, his bald 
head and goatee beard upheld, hugging a full waterjugjar, his 
twotailed black braces dangling at heels. Averting his face quickly 
Bloom bends to examine on the halltable the spaniel eyes 
of a running fox : then, his lifted head sniffing, 
follows Zoe into the musicroom. A shade of mauve tissuepaper 
dims the light of the chandelier. Round and round a 
moth flies, colliding, escaping. The floor is covered with an 
oilcloth mosaic of jade and azure and cinnabar rhomboids. Footmarks 
are stamped over it in all senses, heel to heel, 
heel to hollow, toe to toe, feet locked, a morris 
of shuffling feet without body phantoms, all in a scrimmage 
higgledypiggledy. The walls are tapestried with a paper of yewfronds 
and clear glades. In the grate is spread a screen 
of peacock feathers. Lynch squats crosslegged on the hearthrug of 
matted hair, his cap back to the front. With a 
