watched the knees, legs, boots vanish. Neck. A telegram boy 
stepped in nimbly, threw an envelope on the counter and 
stepped off posthaste with a word. — Freeman! Mr Bloom 
said slowly : — Well, he is one of our 
saviours also. A meek smile accompanied him as he lifted 
the counterflap, as he passed in through the sidedoor and 
along the warm dark stairs and passage, along the now 
reverberating boards. But will he save the circulation? Thumping, thumping. 
He pushed in the glass swingdoor and entered, stepping over 
strewn packing paper. Through a lane of clanking drums he 
made his way towards Nannetti’s reading closet. WITH UNFEIGNED REGRET 
IT IS WE ANNOUNCE THE DISSOLUTION OF A MOST RESPECTED 
DUBLIN BURGESS Hynes here too : account of the funeral 
probably. Thumping thump. This morning the remains of the late 
Mr Patrick Dignam. Machines. Smash a man to atoms if 
they got him caught. Rule the world today. His machineries 
are pegging away too. Like these, got out of hand 
: fermenting. Working away, tearing away. And that old grey 
rat tearing to get in. HOW A GREAT DAILY ORGAN 
IS TURNED OUT Mr Bloom halted behind the foreman’s spare 
body, admiring a glossy crown. Strange he never saw his 
real country. Ireland my country. Member for College green. He 
boomed that workaday worker tack for all it was worth. 
It’s the ads and side features sell a weekly not 
the stale news in the official gazette. Queen Anne is 
dead. Published by authority in the year one thousand and. 
Demesne situate in the townland of Rosenallis, barony of Tinnachinch. 
To all whom it may concern schedule pursuant to statute 
showing return of number of mules and jennets exported from 
Ballina. Nature notes. Cartoons. Phil Blake’s weekly Pat and Bull 
story. Uncle Toby’s page for tiny tots. Country bumpkin’s queries. 
Dear Mr Editor, what is a good cure for flatulence? 
I’d like that part. Learn a lot teaching others. The 
personal note M. A. P. Mainly all pictures. Shapely bathers 
on golden strand. World’s biggest balloon. Double marriage of sisters 
celebrated. Two bridegrooms laughing heartily at each other. Cuprani too, 
printer. More Irish than the Irish. The machines clanked in 
threefour time. Thump, thump, thump. Now if he got paralysed 
there and no one knew how to stop them they’d 
clank on and on the same, print it over and 
over and up and back. Monkeydoodle the whole thing. Want 
a cool head. — Well, get it into the evening 
edition, councillor, Hynes said. Soon be calling him my lord 
mayor. Long John is backing him they say. The foreman, 
without answering, scribbled press on a corner of the sheet 
and made a sign to a typesetter. He handed the 
sheet silently over the dirty glass screen. — Right : 
thanks, Hynes said moving off. Mr Bloom stood in his 
way. — If you want to draw the cashier is 
just going to lunch, he said, pointing backward with his 
