spangles, dancing coins. 03 Ineluctable modality of the visible : 
at least that if no more, thought through my eyes. 
Signatures of all things I am here to read, seaspawn 
and seawrack, the nearing tide, that rusty boot. Snotgreen, bluesilver, 
rust : coloured signs. Limits of the diaphane. But he 
adds : in bodies. Then he was aware of them 
bodies before of them coloured. How? By knocking his sconce 
against them, sure. Go easy. Bald he was and a 
millionaire, maestro di color che sanno. Limit of the diaphane 
in. Why in? Diaphane, adiaphane. If you can put your 
five fingers through it, it is a gate, if not 
a door. Shut your eyes and see. Stephen closed his 
eyes to hear his boots crush crackling wrack and shells. 
You are walking through it howsomever. I am, a stride 
at a time. A very short space of time through 
very short times of space. Five, six : the nacheinander. 
Exactly : and that is the ineluctable modality of the 
audible. Open your eyes. No. Jesus ! If I fell 
over a cliff that beetles o’er his base, fell through 
the nebeneinander ineluctably. I am getting on nicely in the 
dark. My ash sword hangs at my side. Tap with 
it : they do. My two feet in his boots 
are at the end of his legs, nebeneinander. Sounds solid 
: made by the mallet of Los Demiurgos. Am I 
walking into eternity along Sandymount strand? Crush, crack, crick, crick. 
Wild sea money. Dominie Deasy kens them a’. Won’t you 
come to Sandymount, Madeline the mare? Rhythm begins, you see. 
I hear. A catalectic tetrameter of iambs march ing. No, 
agallop : deline the mare. Open your eyes now. I 
will. One moment. Has all vanished since? If I open 
and am for ever in the black adiaphane. Basta ! 
I will see if I can see. See now. There 
all the time without you : and ever shall be, 
world without end. They came down the steps from Leahy’s 
terrace prudently, Frauenzimmer : and down the shelving shore flabbily 
their splayed feet sinking in the silted sand. Like me, 
like Algy, coming down to our mighty mother. Number one 
swung lourdily her midwife’s bag, the other’s gamp poked in 
the beach. From the liberties, out for the day. Mrs 
Florence Mac Cabe, relict of the late Patk MacCabe, deeply 
lamented, of Bride Street. One of her sisterhood lugged me 
squealing into life. Creation from nothing. What has she in 
the bag? A misbirth with a trailing navelcord, hushed in 
ruddy wool. The cords of all link back, strandentwining cable 
of all flesh. That is why mystic monks. Will you 
be as gods? Gaze in your omphalos. Hello. Kinch here. 
Put me on to Edenville. Aleph, alpha : nought, nought, 
one. Spouse and helpmate of Adam Kadmon : Heva, naked 
Eve. She had no navel. Gaze. Belly without blemish, bulging 
big, a buckler of taut vellum, no, whiteheaped corn, orient 
