skirt behind, placket unhooked. Glimpses of the moon. Still like 
you better untidy. Good job it wasn’t farther south. He 
passed, discreetly buttoning, down the aisle and out through the 
main door into rhe light. He stood a moment unseeing 
by the cold black marble bowl while before him and 
behind two worshippers dipped furtive hands in the low tide 
of holy water. Trams : a car of Prescott’s dyeworks 
: a widow in her weeds. Notice because I’m in 
mourning myself. He covered himself. How goes the time? Quarter 
past. Time enough yet. Better get that lotion made up. 
Where is this? Ah yes, the last time. Sweny’s in 
Lincoln place. Chemists rarely move. Their green and gold beaconjars 
too heavy to stir. Hamilton Long’s, founded in the year 
of the flood. Huguenot churchyard near there. Visit some day. 
He walked southward along Westland row. But the recipe is 
in the other trousers. O, and I forgot that latchkey 
too. Bore this funeral affair. O well, poor fellow, it’s 
not his fault. When was it I got it made 
up last? Wait. I changed a sovereign I remember. First 
of the month it must have been or the second. 
O he can look it up in the prescriptions book. 
The chemist turned back page after page. Sandy shrivelled smell 
he seems to have. Shrunken skull. And old. Quest for 
the philosopher’s stone. The alchemists. Drugs age you after mental 
excitement. Lethargy then. Why? Reaction. A lifetime in a night. 
Gradually changes your character. Living all the day among herbs, 
ointments, disinfectants. All his alabaster lilypots. Mortar and pestle. Aq. 
Dist. Fol. Laur. Te Virid. Smell almost cure you like 
the dentist’s doorbell. Doctor whack. He ought to physic himself 
a bit. Electuary or emulsion. The first fellow that picked 
an herb to cure himself had a bit of pluck. 
Simples. Want to be careful. Enough stuff here to chloroform 
you. Test : turns blue litmus paper red. Chloroform. Overdose 
of laudanum. Sleeping draughts. Lovephiltres. Paragoric poppysyrup bad for cough. 
Clogs the pores or the phlegm. Poisons the only cures. 
Remedy where you least expect it. Clever of nature. — 
About a fortnight ago, sir? — Yes, Mr Bloom said. 
He waited by the counter, inhaling the keen reek of 
drugs, the dusty dry smell of sponges and loofahs. Lot 
of time taken up telling your aches and pains. — 
Sweet almond oil and tincture of benzoin, Mr Bloom said, 
and then orangeflower water… It certainly did make her skin 
so delicate white like wax. — And white wax also, 
he said. Brings out the darkness of her eyes. Looking 
at me, the sheet up to her eyes, Spanish, smelling 
herself, when I was fixing the links in my cuffs. 
Those homely recipes are often the best : strawberries for 
the teeth : nettles and rainwater : oatmeal they say 
steeped in buttermilk. Skinfood. One of the old queen’s sons, 
duke of Albany was it? had only one skin. Leopold 
