(red cloth, tooled binding). The Child’s Guide (blue cloth). When 
We Were Boys by William O’Brien M. P. (green cloth, 
slightly faded, envelope bookmark at p. 217). Thoughts from Spinoza 
(maroon leather). The Story of the Heavens by Sir Robert 
Ball (blue cloth). Ellis’s Three Trips to Madagascar (brown cloth, 
title obliterated). The Stark-Munro Letters by A. Conan Doyle, property 
of the City of Dublin Public Library, 106 Capel Street, 
lent 21 May (Whitsun Eve) 1904, due 4 June 1904, 
13 days overdue (black cloth binding, bearing white letternumber ticket). 
Voyages in China by « Viator » (recovered with brown 
paper, red ink title). Philosophy of the Talmud (sewn pamphlet). 
Lockhart’s Life of Napoleon (cover wanting, marginal annotations, minimising victories, 
aggrandising defeats of the protagonist). Soll und Haben by Gustav 
Freytag (black boards, Gothic characters, cigarette coupon bookmark at p. 
24). Hozier’s History of the Russo-Turkish War (bronw cloth, 2 
volumes, with gummed label, Garrison Library Governor’s Parade, Gibraltar, on 
verso of cover). Laurence Bloomfield in Ireland by William Allingham 
(second edition, green cloth, gilt trefoil design, previous owner’s name 
on recto of flyleaf erased). A Handbook of Astronomy (cover, 
brown leather, detached, 5 plates, antique letterpress long primer, author’s 
footnotes nonpareil, marginal clues brevier, captions small pica). The Hidden 
Life of Christ (black boards). In the Track of the 
Sun (yellow cloth, titlepage missing, recurrent title intestation). Physical Strength 
and How to Obtain It by Eugene Sandow (red cloth). 
Short but yet Plain Elements of Geometry written in French 
by F. Ignat. Pardies and rendered into Engflih by John 
Harris D. D. London, printed for R. Knaplock at the 
Bifhop’s Head MDCCXI, with dedicatory epiftle to his worthy friend 
Charles Cox, efquire, Member of Parliament for the burgh of 
Southwark and having ink calligraphed statement on the flyleaf certifying 
that the book was the property of Michael Gallagher, dated 
this 10th day of May 1822 and requefting the perfon 
who should find it, if the book should be loft 
or go aftray, to reftore it to Michael Gallagher, carpenter, 
Dufery Gate, Ennifcorthy, county Wicklow, the fineft place in the 
world. What reflections occupied his mind during the process of 
reversion of the inverted volumes? The necessity of order, a 
place for everything and everything in its place : the 
deficient appreciation of literature possessed by females : the incongruity 
of an apple incuneated in a tumbler and of an 
umbrella inclined in a closestool : the insecurity of hiding 
any secret document behind, beneath or between the pages of 
a book. Which volume was the largest in bulk? Hozier’s 
History of the Russo - Turkish War. What among other 
data did the second volume of the work in question 
contain? The name of a decisive battle (forgotten), frequently remembered 
by a decisive officer, major Brian Cooper Tweedy (remembered). Why, 
firstly and secondly, did he not consult the work in 
question? Firstly, in order to exercise mnemotechnic : secondly, because 
after an interval of amnesia, when seated at the central 
