— Right now? First turn to the left. The blind 
stripling tapped the curbstone and went on his way, drawing 
his cane back, feeling again. Mr Bloom walked behind the 
eyeless feet, a flatcut suit of herringbone tweed. Poor young 
fellow! How on earth did he know that van was 
there? Must have felt it. See things in their foreheads 
perhaps. Kind of sense of volume. Weight would he feel 
it if something was removed. Feel a gap. Queer idea 
of Dublin he must have, tapping his way round by 
the stones. Could he walk in a beeline if he 
hadn’t that cane? Bloodless pious face like a fellow going 
in to be a priest. Penrose! That was that chap’s 
name. Look at all the things they can learn to 
do. Read with their fingers. Tune pianos. Or we are 
surprised they have any brains. Why we think a deformed 
person or a hunchback clever if he says something we 
might say. Of course the other senses are more. Embroider. 
Plait baskets. People ought to help. Work basket I could 
buy Molly’s birthday. Hates sewing. Might take an objection. Dark 
men they call them. Sense of smell must be stronger 
too. Smells on all sides bunched together. Each person too. 
Then the spring, the summer : smells. Tastes. They say 
you can’t taste wines with your eyes shut or a 
cold in the head. Also smoke in the dark they 
say get no pleasure. And with a woman, for instance. 
More shameless not seeing. That girl passing the Stewart institution, 
head in the air. Look at me. I have them 
all on. Must be strange not to see her. Kind 
of a form in his mind’s eye. The voice, temperature 
when he touches her with his fingers must almost see 
the lines, the curves. His hands on her hair, for 
instance. Say it was black for instance. Good. We call 
it black. Then passing over her white skin. Different feel 
perhaps. Feeling of white. Postoffice. Must answer. Fag today. Send 
her a postal order two shillings, half a crown. Accept 
my little present. Stationer’s just here too. Wait. Think over 
it. With a gentle finger he felt ever so slowly 
the hair combed back above his ears. Again. Fibres of 
fine fine straw. Then gently his finger felt the skin 
of his right cheek. Downy hair there too. Not smooth 
enough. The belly is the smoothest. No-one about. There he 
goes into Frederick street. Perhaps to Levenston’s dancing academy piano. 
Might be settling my braces. Walking by Doran’s public house 
he slid his hand between waistcoat and trousers and, pulling 
aside his shirt gently, felt a slack fold of his 
belly. But I know it’s whiteyellow. Want to try in 
the dark to see. He withdrew his hand and pulled 
his dress to. Poor fellow! Quite a boy. Terrible. Really 
terrible. What dreams would he have, not seeing? Life a 
dream for him. Where is the justice being born that 
