the isles of Greece, the land of promise) of adipose 
posterior female hemispheres, redolent of milk and honey and of 
excretory sanguine and seminal warmth, reminiscent of secular families of 
curves of amplitude, insusceptible of moods of impression or of 
contrarieties of expression, expressive of mute immutable mature animality. The 
visible signs of antesatisfaction? An approximate erection : a solicitous 
adversion : a gradual elevation : a tentative revelation; a 
silent contemplation. Then? He kissed the plump mellow yellow smellow 
melons of her rump, on each plump melonous hemisphere, in 
their mellow yellow furrow, with obscure prolonged provocative melonsmellonous osculation. 
The visible signs of postsatisfaction? A silent contemplation : a 
tentative velation : a gradual abasement : a solicitous aversion 
: a proximate erection. What followed this silent action? Somnolent 
invocation, less somnolent recognition, incipient excitation, catechetical interrogation. With what 
modifications did the narrator reply to this interrogation? Negative : 
he omitted to mention the clandestine correspondence between Martha Clifford 
and Henry Flower, the public altercation at, in and in 
the vicinity of the licensed premises of Bernard Kiernan and 
C°, Limited, 8, 9 and 10 Little Britain street, the 
erotic provocation and response thereto caused by the exhibitionism of 
Gertrude (Gerty), surname unknown. Positive : he included mention of 
a performance by Mrs Bandmann Palmer of Leah at the 
Gaiety Theatre, 46, 47, 48, 49 South King street, an 
invitation to supper at Wynn’s (Murphy’s) Hotel, 35, 36, and 
37 Lower Abbey street, a volume of peccaminous pornographical tendency 
entituled Sweets of Sin, anonymous, author a gentleman of fashion, 
a temporary concussion caused by a falsely calculated movement in 
the course of postcenal gymnastic display, the victim (since completely 
recovered) being Stephen Dedalus, professor and author, eldest surviving son 
of Simon Dedalus, of no fixed occupation, an aeronautical feat 
executed by him (narrator) in the presence of a witness, 
the professor and author aforesaid, with promptitude of decision and 
gymnastic flexibility. Was the narration otherwise unaltered by modifications? Absolutely. 
Which event or person emerged as the salient point of 
his narration? Stephen Dedalus, professor and author. What limitations of 
activity and inhibitions of conjugal rights were perceived by listener 
and narrator concerning themselves during the course of this intermittent 
and increasingly more laconic narration? By the listener a limitation 
of fertility inasmuch as marriage had been celebrated 2 calendar 
months after the 18th anniversary of her birth (8 September 
1870), viz. 8 October, and consummated on the same date 
with female issue born 15 June 1889, having been anticipatorily 
consummated on the 10 September of the same year and 
complete carnal intercourse, with ejaculation of semen within the natural 
female organ, having last taken place 5 weeks previous, viz. 
27 November 1893, to the birth on 29 December 1893 
of second (and only male) issue, deceased 9 January 1895, 
aged 11 days, there remained a period of 10 years, 
5 months and 18 days during which carnal intercourse had 
been incomplete, without ejaculation of semen within the natural female 
