to him. — You’re not my sister, naughty Tommy said. 
It’s my ball. But Cissy Caffrey told baby Boardman to 
look up, look up high at her finger and she 
snatched the ball quickly and threw it along the sand 
and Tommy after it in full career, having won the 
day. — Anything for a quiet life, laughed Ciss. And 
she tickled tiny tot’s two cheeks to make him forget 
and played here’s the lord mayor, here’s his two horses, 
here’s his gingerbread carriage and here he walks in, chinchopper, 
chinchopper, chinchopper chin. But Edy got as cross as two 
sticks about hin getting him own way like that from 
everyone always petting him. — I’d like to give him 
something, she said, so I would, where I won’t say. 
— On the beeoteetom, laughed Cissy merrily. Gerty Mac Dowell 
bent down her head and crimsoned at the idea of 
Cissy saying an unladylike thing like that out loud she’d 
be ashamed of her life to say, flushing a deep 
rosy red, and Edy Boardman said she was sure the 
gentleman opposite heard what she said. But not a pin 
cared Ciss. — Let him! she said with a pert 
toss of her head and a piquant tilt of her 
nose. Give it to him too on the same place 
as quick as I’d look at him. Madcap Ciss with 
her golliwog curls. You had to laugh at her sometimes. 
For instance when she asked you would you have some 
more Chinese tea and jaspberry ram and when she drew 
the jugs too and the men’s faces on her nails 
with red ink make you split your sides or when 
she wanted to go where you know she said she 
wanted to run and pay a visit to the Miss 
White. That was just like Cissycums. O, and will you 
ever forget the evening she dressed up in her father’s 
suit and hat and the burned cork moustache and walked 
down Tritonville road, smoking a cigarette. There was none to 
come up to her for fun. But she was sincerity 
itself, one of the bravest and truest hearts heaven ever 
made, not one of your twofaced things, too sweet to 
be wholesome. And then there came out upon the air 
the sound of voices and the pealing anthem of the 
organ. It was the men’s temperance retreat conducted by the 
missioner, the reverend John Hughes S. J. rosary, sermon and 
benediction of the Most Blessed Sacrament. They were there gathered 
together without distinction of social class (and a most edifying 
spectacle it was to see) in that simple fane beside 
the waves, after the storms of this weary world, kneeling 
before the feet of the immaculate, reciting the litany of 
Our Lady of Loreto, beseeching her to intercede for them, 
the old familiar words, holy Mary, holy virgin of virgins. 
How sad to poor Gerty’s ears! Had her father only 
avoided the clutches of the demon drink, by taking the 
