to them by his host jocosely and he accepted them 
seriously as they drank in jocoserious silence Epps’s massproduct, the 
creature cocoa. Were there marks of hospitality which he contemplated 
but suppressed, reserving them for another and for himself on 
future occasions to complete the act begun? The reparation of 
a fissure of the length of 1 1/2 inches in 
the right side of his guest’s jacket. A gift to 
his guest of one of the four lady’s handkerchiefs, if 
and when ascertained to be in a presentable condition. Who 
drank more quickly? Bloom, having the advantage of ten seconds 
at the initiation and taking, from the concave surface of 
a spoon along the handle of which a steady flow 
of heat was conducted, three sips to his opponent’s one, 
six to two, nine to three. What cerebration accompanied his 
frequentative act? Concluding by inspection but erroneously that his silent 
companion was engaged in mental composition he reflected on the 
pleasures derived from literature of instruction rather than of amusement 
as he himself had applied to the works of William 
Shakespeare more than once for the solution of difficult problems 
in imaginary or real life. Had he found their solution? 
In spite of careful and repeated reading of certain classical 
passages, aided by a glossary, he had derived imperfect conviction 
from the text, the answers not bearing on all points. 
What lines concluded his first piece of original verse written 
by him, potential poet, at the age of 11 in 
1877 on the occasion of the offering of three prizes 
at 10/-, 5/- and 2/6 respectively by the Shamrock, a 
weekly newspaper? An ambition to squint At my verses in 
print Makes me hope that for these you’ll find room 
If you so condescend Then please place at the end 
The name of yours truly, L. Bloom. Did he find 
four separating forces between his temporary guest and him? Name, 
age, race, creed. What anagrams had he made on his 
name in youth? Leopold Bloom Ellpodbomool Molldopeloob. Bollopedoom Old Ollebo, 
M. P. What acrostic upon the abbreviation of his first 
name had he (kinetic poet) sent to Miss Marion Tweedy 
on the 14 February 1888? Poets oft have sung in 
rhyme Of music sweet their praise divine. Let them hymn 
it nine times nine. Dearer far than song or wine. 
You are mine. The world is mine. What had prevented 
him from completing a topical song (music by R. G. 
Johnston) on the events of the past, or fixtures for 
the actual years, entitled If Brian Boru could but come 
back and see old Dublin now, commissioned by Michael Gunn, 
lessee of the Gaiety Theatre, 46, 47, 48, 49 South 
King street, and to be introduced into the sixth scene, 
the valley of diamonds, of the second edition (30 January 
1893) of the grand annual Christmas pantomime Sinbad the Sailor 
(written by Greenleaf Whittier, scenery by George A. Jackson and 
Cecil Hicks, costumes by Mrs and Miss Whelan produced by 
