organ. By the narrator a limitation of activity, mental and 
corporal, inasmuch as complete mental intercourse between himself and the 
listener had not taken place since the consummation of puberty, 
indicated by catamenic hemorrhage, of the female issue of narrator 
and listener, 15 September 1903, there remained a period of 
9 months and 1 day during which in consequence of 
a preestablished natural comprehension in incomprehension between the consummated females 
(listener and issue), complete corporal liberty of action had been 
circumscribed. How? By various reiterated feminine interrogation concerning the masculine 
destination whither, the place where, the time at which, the 
duration for which, the object with which in the case 
of temporary absences, projected or effected. What moved visibly above 
the listener’s and the narrator’s invisible thoughts? The upcast reflection 
of a lamp and shade, an inconstant series of concentric 
circles of varying gradations of light and shadow. In what 
directions did listener and narrator lie? Listener : S. E. 
by E. : Narrator N. W. by W. : on 
the 53rd parallel of latitude, N. and 6th meridian of 
longitude, W. : at an angle of 45° to the 
terrestrial equator. In what state of rest or motion? At 
rest relatively to themselves and to each other. In motion 
being each and both carried westward, forward and rereward respectively, 
by the proper perpetual motion of the earth through everchanging 
tracks of neverchanging space. In what posture? Listener : reclined 
semilaterally, left, left hand under head, right leg extended in 
a straight line and resting on left leg, flexed, in 
the attitude of Gea-Tellus, fulfilled, recumbent, big with seed. Narrator 
: reclined laterally, left, with right and left legs flexed, 
the indexfinger and thumb of the right hand resting on 
the bridge of the nose, in the attitude depicted on 
a snapshot photograph made by Percy Apjohn, the childman weary, 
the manchild in the womb. Womb? Weary? He rests. He 
has travelled. With? Sinbad the Sailor and Tinbad the Tailor 
and Jinbad the Jailer and Whinbad the Whaler and Ninbad 
the Nailer and Finbad the Failer and Binbad the Bailer 
and Pinbad the Pailer and Minbad the Mailer and Hinbad 
the Hailer and Rinbad the Railer and Dinbad the Kailer 
and Vinbad the Quailer and Linbad the Yailer and Xinbad 
the Phthailer. When? Going to a dark bed there was 
a square round Sinbad the Sailor roc’s auk’s eggin the 
night of the bed of all the auks of the 
rocs of Darkinbad the Brightdayler. Where? 18 Yes because he 
never did a thing like that before as ask to 
get his breakfast in bed with a couple of eggs 
since the City Arms hotel when he used to be 
pretending to be laid up with a sick voice doing 
his highness to make himself interesting to that old faggot 
Mrs Riordan that he thought he had a great leg 
of and she never left us a farthing all for 
masses for herself and her soul greatest miser ever was 
