there about a lady, now an inmate of Horne’s house, 
that was in an interesting condition, poor lady, from woman’s 
woe (and here he fetched a deep sigh) to know 
if her happiness had yet taken place. Mr Dixon, to 
turn the table, took on to ask of Mr Mulligan 
himself whether his incipient ventripotence, upon which he rallied him, 
betokened an ovoblastic gestation in the prostatic utricle or male 
womb or was due as with the noted physician, Mr 
Austin Meldon, to a wolf in the stomach. For answer 
Mr Mulligan, in a gale of laughter at his smalls, 
smote himself bravely below the diaphragm, exclaiming with an admirable 
droll mimic of Mother Grogan (the most excellent creature of 
her sex though ’tis pity she’s a trollop) : There’s 
a belly that never bore a bastard. This was so 
happy a conceit that it renewed the storms of mirth 
and threw the whole room into the most violent agitations 
of delight. The spry rattle had run on in the 
same vein of mimicry but for some larum in the 
antechamber. Here the listener, who was none other than the 
Scotch student, a little fume of a fellow, blond as 
tow, congratulated in the liveliest fashion with the young gentleman 
and, interrupting the narrative at a salient point, having desired 
his visavis with a polite beck to have the obligingness 
to pass him a flagon of cordial waters at the 
same time by a questioning poise of the head (a 
whole century of polite breeding had not achieved so nice 
a gesture) to which was united an equivalent but contrary 
balance of the head asked the narrator as plainly as 
was ever done in words if he might treat him 
with a cup of it. Mais bien sûr, noble stranger, 
said he cheerily, et mille compliments. That you may and 
very opportunely. There wanted nothing but this cup to crown 
my felicity. But, gracious heaven, was I left with but 
a crust in my wallet and a cupful of water 
from the well, my God, I would accept of them 
and find it in my heart to kneel down upon 
the ground and give thanks to the powers above for 
the happiness vouchsafed me by the Giver of good things. 
With these words he approached the goblet to his lips, 
took a complacent draught of the cordial, slicked his hair 
and, opening his bosom, out popped a locket that hung 
from a silk riband that very picture which he had 
cherished ever since her hand had wrote therein. Gazing upon 
those features with a world of tenderness, Ah, Monsieur, he 
said, had you but beheld her as I did with 
these eyes at that affecting instant with her dainty tucker 
and her new coquette cap (a gift for her feast 
day as she told me) in such an artless disorder, 
of so melting a tenderness, ’pon my conscience, even you, 
Monsieur, had been impelled by generous nature to deliver yourself 
