And in the porches of mine ear did pour. By 
the way how did he find that out? He died 
in his sleep. Or the other story, beast with two 
backs? — What was that? the professor asked. ITALIA, MAGISTRA 
ARTIUM — He spoke on the law of evidence, J.J. 
O’Molloy said, of Roman justice as contrasted with the earlier 
Mosaic code, the lex talionis. And he cited the Moses 
of Michelangelo in the Vatican. — Ha. — A few 
wellchosen words, Lenehan prefaced. Silence! Pause. J.J. O’Mollooy too kout 
his cigarette case. False lull. Something quite ordinary. Messenger took 
out his matchbox thoughtfully and lit his cigar. I have 
often thought since on looking back over that strange time 
that it was that small act, trivial in itself, that 
striking of that match, that determined the whole aftercourse of 
both our lives. A POLISHED PERIOD J.J. O’Molloy resumed, moulding 
his words : — He said of it : that 
stony effigy in frozen music, horned and terrible, of the 
human form divine, that eternal symbol of wisdom and prophecy 
which if aught that the imagination or the hand of 
sculptor has wrought in marble of soultransfigured and of soultransfiguring 
deserves to live, deserves to live. His slim hand with 
a wave graced echo and fall. — Fine! Myles Crawford 
said at once. — The divine afflatus, Mr O’Madden Burke 
said. — You like it? J.J. O’Molloy asked Stephen. Stephen, 
his blood wooed by grace of language and gesture, blushed. 
He took a cigarette from the case. J.J. O’Molloy offered 
his case to Myles Crawford. Lenehan lit their cigarettes as 
before and took his trophy, saying : — Muchibus thankibus. 
A MAN OF HIGH MORALE — Professor Magennis was speaking 
to me about you, J.J. O’Molloy said to Stephen. What 
do you think really of that hermetic crowd, the opal 
hush poets : A. E. the master mystic? That Blavatsky 
woman started it. She was a nice old bag of 
tricks. A. E. has been telling some yankee interviewer that 
you came to him in the small hours of the 
morning to ask him about planes of consciousness. Magennis thinks 
you must have been pulling A. E.’s leg. He is 
a man of the very highest morale, Magennis. Speaking about 
me. What did he say? What did he say? What 
did he say about me? Don’t ask. — No, thanks, 
professor MacHugh said, waving the cigarette case aside. Wait a 
moment. Let me say one thing. The finest display of 
oratory I ever heard was a speech made by John 
F. Taylor at the college historical society. Mr Justice Fitzgibbon, 
the present lord justice of appeal, had spoken and the 
paper under debate was an essay (new for those days), 
advocating the revival of the Irish tongue. He turned towards 
Myles Crawford and said : — You know Gerald Fitzgibbon. 
Then you can imagine the style of his discourse. — 
He is sitting withim T Healy, J.J. O’Molloy said, rumour 
