journalist, Drumont, know what he called queen Victoria? Old hag 
with the yellow teeth. Vieille ogresse with the dents jaunes. 
Maud Gonne, beautiful woman, La Patrie, M. Millevoye, Félix Faure, 
know how he died? Licentious men. The froeken, bonne à 
tout faire, who rubs male nakedness in the bath at 
Upsala. Moi faire, she said. Tous les messieurs not this 
Monsieur, I said. Most licentious custom. Bath a most private 
thing. I wouldn’t let my brother, not even my own 
brother, most lascivious thing. Green eyes, I see you. Fang, 
I feel. Lascivious people. The blue fuse burns deadly between 
hands and burns clear. Loose tobacco shreds catch fire : 
a flame and acrid smoke light our corner. Raw facebones 
under his peep of day boy’s hat. How the head 
centre got away, authentic version. Got up as a young 
bride, man, veil orangeblossoms, drove out the road to Malahide. 
Did, faith. Of lost leaders, the betrayed, wild escapes. Disguises, 
clutched at, gone, not here. Spurned lover. I was a 
strapping young gossoon at that time, I tell you, I’ll 
show you my likeness one day. I was, faith. Lover, 
for her love he prowled with colonel Richard Burke, tanist 
of his sept, under the walls of Clerkenwell and, crouching, 
saw a flame of vengeance hurl them upward in the 
fog. Shattered glass and toppling masonry. In gay Paree he 
hides, Egan of Paris, unsought by any save by me. 
Making his day’s stations, the dingy printingcase, his three taverns, 
the Montmartre lair he sleeps short night in, rue de 
la Goutted’Or, damascened with flyblown faces of the gone. Loveless, 
landless, wifeless. She is quite nicey comfy without her outcast 
man, madame, in rue Gît-le-Cœur,canary and two buck lodgers. Peachy 
cheeks, a zebra skirt, frisky as a young thing’s. Spurned 
and undespairing. Tell Pat you saw me, won’t you? I 
wanted to get poor Pat a job one time. Mon 
fils, soldier of France. I taught him to sing. The 
boys of Kilkenny are stout roaring blades. Know that old 
lay? I taught Patrice that. Old Kilkenny : saint Canice, 
Strongbow’s castle on the Nore. Goes like this. O, O. 
He takes me, Napper Tandy, by the hand. O, O 
the boys of Kilkenny… Weak wasting hand on mine. They 
have forgotten Kevin Egan, not he them. Remembering thee, O 
Sion. He had come nearer the edge of the sea 
and wet sand slapped his boots. The new air greeted 
him, harping in wild nerves, wind of wild air of 
seeds of brightness. Here, I am not walking out to 
the Kish lightship, am I? He stood suddenly, his feet 
beginning to sink slowly in the quaking soil. Turn back. 
Turning, he scanned the shore south, his feet sinking again 
slowly in new sockets. The cold domed room of the 
tower waits. Through the barbacans the shafts of light are 
moving ever, slowly ever as my feet are sinking, creeping 
duskward over the dial floor. Blue dusk, nightfall, deep blue 
