and fatchuck cheekchops of Jollypoldy the rixdix doldy. At Antonio 
Rabaiotti’s door Bloom halts, sweated under the bright arclamps. He 
disappears. In a moment he reappears and hurries on.) bloom 
Fish and taters. N. g. Ah! (He disappears into Olhousen’s, 
the pork butcher’s, under the downcoming rollshutter. A few moments 
later he emerges from under the shutter, puffing Poldy, blowing 
Bloohoom. In each hand he holds a parcel, one containing 
a lukewarm pig’s crubeen, the other a cold sheep’s trotter 
sprinkled with wholepepper He gasps, standing upright. Then bending to 
one side he presses a parcel against his rib and 
groans.) bloom Stitch in my side. Why did I run? 
(He takes breath with care and goes forward slowly towards 
the lampset siding. The glow leaps again.) bloom What is 
that? A flasher? Searchlight. (He stands at Cormack’s corner, watching.) 
bloom Aurora borealis or a steel foundry? Ah, the brigade, 
of course. South side anyhow. Big blaze. Might be his 
house. Beggar’s bush. We’re safe. (He hums cheerfully.) London’s burning, 
London’s burning! On fire, on fire! (He catches sight of 
the navvy lurching through the crowd at the farther side 
of Talbot street.) I’ll miss him. Run. Quick. Better cross 
here. (He darts to cross the road. Urchins shout.) the 
urchins Mind out, mister! (Two cyclists, with lighted paper lanterns 
awsing, swim by him, grazing him, their bells rattling.) the 
bells Haltyaltyaltyall. bloom (Halts erect stung by a spasm.) Ow. 
(He looks round, darts forward suddenly. Through rising fog a 
dragon sandstrewer, travelling at caution, slews heavily down upon him, 
its huge red headlight winking, its trolley hissing on the 
wire. The motorman bangs his footgong.) the gong Bang Bang 
Bla Bak Blud Bugg Bloo. (The brake cracks violently. Bloom, 
raising a policeman’s whitegloved hand, blunders stifflegged, out of the 
track. The motorman thrown forward, pugnosed, on the guidewheel, yells 
as he slides past over chains and keys.) the motorman 
Hey, shitbreeches, are you doing the hattrick? bloom (Bloom trickleaps 
to the curbstone and halts again. He brushes a mudflake 
from his cheek with a parcelled hand.) No thoroughfare. Close 
shave that but cured the stitch. Must take up Sandow’s 
exerciser again. On the hands down. Insure against street accident 
too. The Providential. (He feels his trouser pocket.) Poor mamma’s 
panacea. Heel easily catch in tracks or bootlace in a 
cog. Day, the wheel of the black Maria, peeled off 
my shoe at Leonard’s corner. Third time is the charm. 
Shoe trick. Insolent driver. I ought to report him. Tension 
makes them nervous. Might be the fellow balked me this 
morning with that horsey woman. Same style of beauty. Quick 
of him all he same. The stiff walk. True word 
spoken in jest. That awful cramp in Lad lane. Something 
poisonous I ate. Emblem of luck. Why? Probably lost cattle. 
Mark of the beast. (He closes his eyes an instant.) 
Bit light in the head. Monthly or effect of the 
other. Brainfogfag. That tired feeling. Too much for me now. 
