with keyholes, queens with prize bulls. The son unborn mars 
beauty : born, he brings pain, divides affection, increases care. 
He is a male : his growth is his father’s 
decline, his youth his father’s envy, his friend his father’s 
enemy. In rue Monsieur-le-Prince I thought it. — What links 
them in nature? An instant of blind rut. Am I 
father? If I were? Shrunken uncertain hand. — Sabellius, the 
African, subtlest heresiarch of all the beasts of the field, 
held that the Father was Himself His Own Son. The 
bulldog of Aquin, with whom no word shall be impossible, 
refutes him. Well : if the father who has not 
a son be not a father can the son who 
has not a father be a son? When Rutlandbaconsouthamptonshakespeare or 
another poet of the same name in the comedy of 
errors wrote Hamlet he was not the father of his 
own son merely but, being no more a son, he 
was and felt himself the father of all his race, 
the father of his own grandfather, the father of his 
unborn grandson who, by the same token, never was born 
for nature, as Mr Magee understands her, abhors perfection. Eglintoneyes, 
quick with pleasure, looked up shybrightly. Gladly glancing, a merry 
puritan, through the twisted eglantine. Flatter. Rarely. But Flatter. — 
Himself his own father, Sonmulligan told himself. Wait. I am 
big with child. I have an unborn child in my 
brain. Pallas Athena! A play! The play’s the thing! Let 
me parturiate! He clasped his paunchbrow with both birthaiding hands. 
— As for his family, Stephen said, his mother’s name 
lives in the forest of Arden. Her death brought from 
him the scene with Volumnia in Coriolanus. His boyson’s death 
is the deathscene of young Arthur in King John. Hamlet, 
the black prince, is Hamnet Shakespeare. Who the girls in 
The Tempest, in Pericles, in Winter’s Tale are we know. 
Who Cleopatra, fleshpot of Egypt, and Cressid and Venus are 
we may guess. But there is another member of his 
family who is recorded. — The plot thickens, John Eglinton 
said. The quaker librarian, quaking, tiptoed in, quake, his mask, 
quake, with haste, quake, quack. Door closed. Cell. Day. They 
list. Three. They. I you he they. Come, mess. Stephen 
He had three brothers, Gilbert, Edmund, Richard. Gilbert in his 
old age told some cavaliers he got a pass for 
nowt from Maister Gatherer one time mass he did and 
he seen his brud Maister Wull the playwriter up in 
Lunnon in a wrastling play wud a man on’s back. 
The playhouse sausage filled Gilbert’s soul. He is nowhere : 
but an Edmund and a Richard are recorded in the 
works of sweet William. Mageeglinjohn Names! What’s in a name? 
Best That is my name, Richard, don’t you know. I 
hope you are going to say a good word for 
Richard, don’t you know, for my sake. (Laughter.) Buck Mulligan 
(Piano, diminuendo.) Then outspoke medical Dick To his comrade medical 
