could see and he was looking all the time that 
he was winding the watch or whatever he was doing 
to it and then he put it back and put 
his hands back into his pockets. She felt a kind 
of a sensation rushing all over her and she knew 
by the feel of her scalp and that irritation against 
her stays that that thing must be coming on because 
the last time too was when she clipped her hair 
on account of the moon. His dark eyes fixed themselves 
on her again drinking in her every contour, literally worshipping 
at her shrine. If ever there was undisguised admiration in 
a man’s passionate gaze it was there plain to be 
seen on that man’s face. It is for you, Gertrude 
Mac Dowell, and you know it. Edy began to get 
ready to go and it was high time for her 
and Gerty noticed that that little hint she gave had 
the desired effect because it was a long way along 
the strand to where there was the place to push 
up the pushcar and Cissy took off the twins’ caps 
and tidied their hair to make herself attractive of course 
and Canon O’Hanlon stood up with his cope poking up 
at his neck and Father Conroy handed him the card 
to read off and he read out Panem de coelo 
praestitisti eis and Edy and Cissy were talking about the 
time all the time and asking her but Gerty could 
pay them back in their own coin and she just 
answered with scathing politeness when Edy asked her was she 
heartbroken about her best boy throwing her over. Gerty winced 
sharply. A brief cold blaze shone from her eyes that 
spoke volumes of scorn immeasurable. It hurt. O yes, it 
cut deep because Edy had her own quiet way of 
saying things like that she knew would wound like the 
confounded little cat she was. Gerty’s lips parted swiftly to 
frame the word but she fought back the sob that 
rose to her throat, so slim, so flawless, so beautifully 
moulded it seemed one an artist might have dreamed of. 
She had loved him better than he knew. Lighthearted deceiver 
and fickle like all his sex he would never understand 
what he had meant to her and for an instant 
there was in the blue eyes a quick stinging of 
tears. Their eyes were probing her mercilessly but with a 
brave effort she sparkled back in sympathy as she glanced 
at her new conquest for them to see. — O, 
responded Gerty, quick as lightning, laughing, and the proud head 
flashed up, I can throw my cap at who I 
like because it’s leap year. Her words rang out crystalclear, 
more musical than the cooing of the ringdove, but they 
cut the silence icily. There was that in her young 
voice that told that she was not a one to 
be lightly trifled with. As for Mr Reggy with his 
