Gill’s, catholic club, the industrious blind. Why? Some reason. Sun 
or wind. At night too. Chummies and slaveys. Under the 
patronage of the late Father Matew. Foundation stone for Parnell. 
Breakdown. Heart. White horses with white frontlet plumes came round 
the Rotunda corner, galloping. A tinycoffin flashed by. In a 
hurry to bury. A mourning coach. Unmarried. Black for the 
married. Piebald for bachelors. Dun for a nun. — Sad, 
Martin Cunningham said. A child. A dwarf’s face mauve and 
wrinkled like little Rudy’s was. Dwarf’s body, weak as putty, 
in a whitelined deal box. Burial friendly society pays. Penny 
a week for a sod of turf. Our. Little. Beggar. 
Baby. Meant nothing. Mistake of nature. If it’s healthy it’s 
from the mother. If not the man. Better luck next 
time. — Poor little thing, Mr Dedalus said. It’s well 
out of it. The carriage climbed more slowly the hill 
of Rutland square. Rattle his bones. Over the stones. Only 
a pauper. Nobody owns. — In the midst of life, 
Martin Cunningham said. — But the worst of all, Mr 
Power said, is the man who takes his own life. 
Martin Cunningham drew out his watch briskly, coughed and put 
it back. — The greatest disgrace to have in the 
family, Mr Power added. — Temporary insanity, of course, Martin 
Cunningham said decisively. We must take a charitable view of 
it. — They say a man who does it is 
a coward, Mr Dedalus said. — It is not for 
us to judge, Martin Cunningham said. Mr Bloom, about to 
speak, closed his lips again. Martin Cunningham’s large eyes. Looking 
away now. Sympathetic human man he is. Intelligent. Like Shakespeare’s 
face. Always a good word to say. They have no 
mercy on that here or infanticide. Refuse christian burial. They 
used to drive a stake of wood through his heart 
in the grave. As if it wasn’t broken already. Yet 
sometimes they repent too late. Found in the riverbed clutching 
rushes. He looked at me. And that awful drunkard of 
a wife of his. Setting up house for her time 
after time and then pawning the furniture on him every 
Saturday almost. Leading him the life of the damned. Wear 
the heart out of a stone, that. Monday morning start 
afresh. Shoulder to the wheel. Lord, she must have looked 
a sight that night, Dedalus told me he was in 
there. Drunk about the place and capering with Martin’s umbrella 
: —And they call me the jewel of Asia, Of 
Asia, The geisha. He looked away from me. He knows. 
Rattle his bones. That afternoon of the inquest. The redlabelled 
bottle on the table. The room in the hotel with 
hunting pictures. Stuffy it was. Sunlight through the slats of 
the Venetian blinds. The coroner’s ears, big and hairy. Boots 
giving evidence. Thought he was asleep first. Then saw like 
yellow streaks on his face. Had slipped down to the 
foot of the bed. Verdict : overdose. Death by misadventure. 
