eyes were upon her mesial groove. Venus Kallipyge. O, the 
thunder of those loins! The god pursuing the maiden hid. 
— We want to hear more, John Eglinton decided with 
Mr Best’s approval. We begin to be interested in Mrs 
S. Till now we had thought of her, if at 
all, as a patient Griselda, a Penelope stayathome. — Antisthenes, 
pupil of Gorgias, Stephen said, took the palm of beauty 
from Kyrios Menelaus’ brooddam, Argive Helen, the wooden mare of 
Troy in whom a score of heroes slept, and handed 
it to poor Penelope. Twenty years he lived in London 
and, during part of that time, he drew a salary 
equal to that of the lord chancellor of Ireland. His 
life was rich. His art, more than the art of 
feudalism, as Walt Whitman called it, is the art of 
surfeit. Hot herringpies, green mugs of sack, honeysauces, sugar of 
roses, marchpane, gooseberried pigeons, ringocandies. Sir Walter Raleigh, when they 
arrested him, had half a million francs on his back 
including a pair of fancy stays. The gombeenwoman Eliza Tudor 
had underlinen enough to vie with her of Sheba. Twenty 
years he dallied there between conjugial love and its chaste 
delights and scortatory love and its foul pleasures. You know 
Manningham’s story of the burgher’s wife who bade Dick Burbage 
to her bed after she had seen him in Richard 
III and how Shakespeare, overhearing, without more ado about nothing, 
took the cow by the horns and, when Burbage came 
knocking at the gate, answered from the capon ‘s blankets 
: William the conqueror came before Richard III. And the 
gay lakin, Mistress Fitton, mount and cry O, and his 
dainty birdsnies, Lady Penelope Rich, a clean quality woman is 
suited for a player, and the punks of the bankside, 
a penny a time. Cours-la-Reine. Encore vingt sous. Nous ferons 
de petites cochonneries. Minette? Tu veux? — The height of 
fine society. And sir William Davenant of Oxford’s mother with 
her cup of canary for every cockcanary. Buck Mulligan, his 
pious eyes upturned, prayed : — Blessed Margaret Mary Anycock! 
— And Harry of six wives’ daughter and other lady 
friends from neighbour seats, as Lawn Tennyson, gentleman poet, sings. 
But all those twenty years what do you suppose poor 
Penelope in Stratford was doing behind the diamond panes? Do 
and do. Thing done. In a rosery of Fetter Lane 
of Gerard, herbalist, he walks, greyedauburn. An azured harebell like 
her veins. Lids of Juno’s eyes, violets. He walks. One 
life is all. One body. Do. But do. Afar, in 
a reek of lust and squalor, hands are laid on 
whiteness. Buck Mulligan rapped John Eglinton’s desk sharply. — Whom 
do you suspect? he challenged. — Say that he is 
the spurned lover in the sonnets. Once spurned twice spurned. 
But the court wanton spurned him for a lord, his 
dearmylove. Love that dare not speak its name. — As 
an Englishman, you mean, John sturdy Eglinton put in, he 
