apply your eye to the keyhole and play with yourself 
while I just go through her a few times. bloom 
Thank you, sir, I will, sir. May I bring two 
men chums to witness the deed and take a snapshot? 
(He holds an ointment jar.) Vaseline, sir? Orangeflower?… Lukewarm water?… 
kitty (From the sofa.) Tell us, Florry. Tell us. What. 
(Florry whispers to her. Whispering lovewords murmur liplapping loudly, poppysmic 
plopslop.) mina kennedy (Her eyes upturned.) O, it must be 
like the scent of geraniums and lovely peaches! O, he 
simply idolises every bit of her! Stuck together! Covered with 
kisses! lydia douce (Her mouth opening.) Yumyum. O, he’s carrying 
her round the room doing it! Ride a cock horse. 
You could hear them in Paris and New York. Like 
mouthfuls of strawberries and cream. kitty (Laughing.) Hee hee hee. 
boylan’s voice (Sweetly, hoarsely, in the pit of his stomach.) 
Ah! Gooblazeqruk brukarchkrasht! marion’s voice (Hoarsely, sweetly rising to her 
throat.) O! Weeshwashtkissimapooisthnapoohuck! bloom (His eyes wildly dilated, clasps himself.) 
Show! Hide! Show! Plough her! More! Shoot! bella, zoe, florry, 
kitty Ho ho! Ha ha! Hee hee! lynch (Points.) The 
mirror up to nature. (He laughs.) Hu hu hu hu 
hu. (Stephen and Bloom gaze in the mirror. The face 
of William Shakespeare, beardless, appears there, rigid in facial paralysis, 
crowned by the reflection of the reindeer antlered hatrack in 
the hall.) shakespeare (In dignified ventriloquy.) ’Tis the loud laugh 
bespeaks the vacant mind. (To Bloom.) Thou thoughtest as how 
thou wastest invisible. Gaze. (He crows with a black capon’s 
laugh.) Iagogo! How my Oldfellow chokit his Thursdaymomun. Iagogogo! bloom 
(Smiles yellowly at the whores.) When will I hear the 
joke? zoe Before you’re twice married and once a widower. 
bloom Lapses are condoned. Even the great Napoleon, when measurements 
were taken near the skin after his death… (Mrs Dignam, 
widow woman, her snubnose and cheeks flushed with deathtalk, fears 
and Tunny’s tawny sherry, hurries by in her weeds, her 
bonnet awry, rouging and powdering her cheeks, lips and nose 
a pen chivvying her brood of cygnets. Beneath her skirt 
appear her late husband’s everyday trousers and turnedup boots, large 
eights. She holds a Scottish widow’s insurance policy and large 
marqueeumbrella under which her brood runs with her, Patsy, hopping 
on one short foot, his collar loose, a hank of 
porksteaks dangling, Freddy whimpering, Susy with a crying cods’ mouth, 
Alice, struggling with the baby. She cuffs them on, her 
streamers flaunting aloft.) freddy Ah, ma, you’re dragging me along! 
susy Mamma, the beeftea is fizzing over! shakespeare (With paralytic 
rage.) Weda seca whokilla farst. (The face of Martin Cunningham, 
bearded, refeatures Shakespeare’s beardless face. The marqueeumbrella sways drunkenly, the 
children run aside. Under the umbrella appears Mrs Cunningham in 
Merry Widow hat and kimono gown. She glides sidling and 
bowing, twisting japanesily.) mrs cunningham (Sings.) And they call me 
the jewel of Asia. martin cunningham (Gazes on her impassive.) 
Immense! Most bloody awful demirep! stephen Et exaltabuntur cornua iusti. 
