someone sent him with u. p. : up on it 
to take a li… And he doubled up. — Take 
a what? says I. — Libel action, says he, for 
ten thousand pounds. — O hell! says I. The bloody 
mongrel began to growl that’d put the fear of God 
in you seeing something was up but the citizen gave 
him a kick in the ribs. — Bi i dho 
husht, says he. — Who? says Joe. — Breen, says 
Alf. He was in John Henry Menton’s and then he 
went round to Collis and Ward’s and then Tom Rochford 
met him and sent him round to the subsheriff’s for 
a lark. O God, I’ve a pain laughing. U. p. 
: up. The long fellow gave him an eye as 
good as a process and now the bloody old lunatic 
is gone round to Green Street to look for a 
G. man. — When is long John going to hang 
that fellow in Mountjoy? says Joe. — Bergan, says Bob 
Doran, waking up. Is that Alf Bergan? — Yes, says 
Alf. Hanging? Wait till I show you. Here, Terry, give 
us a pony. That bloody old fool! Ten thousand pounds. 
You should have seen long John’s eye. U. p… And 
he started laughing. — Who are you laughing at? says 
Bob Doran. Is that Bergan? — Hurry up, Terry boy, 
says Alf. Terence O’Ryan heard him and straightway brought him 
a crystal cup full of the foaming ebon ale which 
the noble twin brothers Bungiveagh and Bungardilaun brew ever in 
their divine alevats, cunning as the sons of deathless Leda. 
For they garner the succulent berries of the hop and 
mass and sift and bruise and brew them and they 
mix therewith sour juices and bring the must to the 
sacred fire and cease not night or day from their 
toil, those cunning brothers, lords of the vat. Then did 
you, chivalrous Terence, hand forth, as to the manner born, 
that nectarous beverage and you offered the crystal cup to 
him that thirsted, the soul of chivalry, in beauty akin 
to the immortals. But he, the young chief of the 
O’Bergan’s, could ill brook to be outdone in generous deeds 
but gave therefor with gracious gesture a testoon of costliest 
bronze. Thereon embossed in excellent smithwork was seen the image 
of a queen of regal port, scion of the house 
of Brunswick, Victoria her name, Her Most Excellent Majesty, by 
grace of God of the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Ireland and of the British dominions beyond the sea, 
queen, defender of the faith, Empress of India, even she, 
who bore rule, a victress over many peoples, the wellbeloved, 
for they knew and loved her from the rising of 
the sun to the going down thereof, the pale, the 
dark, the ruddy and the ethiop. — What’s that bloody 
freemason doing, says the citizen, prowling up and down outside? 
— What’s that? says Joe. — Here you are, says 
