Pisces, miniature mechanical orreries, arithmetical gelatine lozenges, geometrical to correspond 
with zoological biscuits, globemap playing balls, historically costumed dolls. What 
also stimulated him in his cogitations? The financial success achieved 
by Ephraim Marks and Charles A. James, the former by 
his id. bazaar at 42 George’s Street, South, the latter 
at his 6 1/2d. shop and world’s fancy fair and 
waxwork exhibition at 30 Henry Street, admission 2d., children 1d.; 
and the infinite possibilities hitherto unexploited of the modern art 
of advertisement if condensed in triliteral monoideal symbols, vertically of 
maximum visibility (divined), horizontally of maximum legibility (deciphered) and of 
magnetising efficacy to arrest involuntary attention, to interest, to convince, 
to decide. Such as? K. 11. Kino’s 11/– Trousers. House 
of Keys. Alexander J. Keyes. Such as not? Look at 
this long candle. Calculate when it burns out and you 
receive gratis 1 pair of our special non-compo boots, guaranteed 
1 candle power. Address : Barclay and Cook, 18 Talbot 
Street. Bacilikil (Insect Powder). Veribest (Boot Blacking). Uwantit (Combined pocket 
twoblade penknife with corkscrew, nailfile and pipecleaner). Such as never? 
What is home without Plumtree’s Potted Meat? Incomplete. With it 
an abode of bliss. Manufactured by George Plumtree, 23 Merchant’s 
quay, Dublin, put up in 4 oz. pots, and inserted 
by Councillor Joseph P. Nannetti, M. P., Rotunda Ward, 19 
Hardwicke Street, under the obituary notices and anniversaries of deceases. 
The name on the label is Plumtree. A plumtree is 
a meatpot, registered trade mark. Beware of imitations. Peatmot. Trumplee. 
Montpat. Plamtroo. Which example did he adduce to induce Stephen 
to deduce that originality, though producing its own reward, does 
not invariably conduce to success? His own ideated and rejected 
project of an illuminated showcart, drawn by a beast of 
burden, in which two smartly dressed girls were to be 
seated engaged in writing. What suggested scene was then constructed 
by Stephen? Solitary hotel in mountain pass. Autumn. Twilight. Fire 
lit. In dark corner young man seated. Young woman enters. 
Restless. Solitary. She sits. She goes to window. She stands. 
She sits. Twilight. She thinks. On solitary hotel paper she 
writes. She thinks. She writes. She sighs. Wheels and hoofs. 
She hurries out. He comes from his dark corner. He 
seizes solitary paper. He holds it towards fire. Twilight. He 
reads. Solitary. What? In sloping, upright and backhands : Queen’s 
hotel, Queen’s hotel, Queen’s Ho… What suggested scene was then 
reconstructed by Bloom? The Queen’s Hotel, Ennis, County Clare where 
Rudolph Bloom (Rudolf Virag) died on the evening of the 
27 June 1886, at some hour unstated, in consequence of 
an overdose of monkshood (aconite) selfadministered in the form of 
a neuralgic liniment, composed of 2 parts of aconite liniment 
to 1 of chloroform liniment (purchased by him at 10. 
20 a. m. on the morning of 27 June 1886 
at the medical hall of Francis Dennehy, 17 Church street, 
Ennis) after having, though not in consequence of having, purchased 
at 3. 15 p. m. on the afternoon of 27 
