bank passbook issued by the Ulster Bank, College Green branch 
showing statement of a/c for halfyear ending 31 December 1903, 
balance in depositor’s favour : £ 18 – 14 – 
6 (eighteen pounds, fourteen shillings and six pence, sterling), net 
personalty : certificate of possession of £ 900 Canadian 4 
% (inscribed) government stock (free of stamp duty) : dockets 
of the Catholic Cemeteries’ (Glasnevin) Committee, relative to a graveplot 
purchased : a local press cutting concerning change of name 
by deedpoll. Quote the textual terms of this notice. I, 
Rudolph Virag, now resident at n° 52 Clanbrassil street, Dublin, 
formerly of Szombathely in the kingdom of Hungary, hereby give 
notice that I have assumed and intend henceforth upon all 
occasions and at all times to be known by the 
name of Rudolph Bloom. What other objects relative to Rudolph 
Bloom (born Virag) were in the 2nd drawer? An indistinct 
daguerrotype of Rudolph Virag and his father Leopold Virag executed 
in the year 1852 in the portrait atelier of their 
(respectively) ist and 2nd cousin, Stefan Virag of Szesfehervar, Hungary. 
An ancient hagadah book in which a pair of hornrimmed 
convex spectacles inserted marked the passage of thanksgiving in the 
ritual prayers for Pessach (Passover) : a photocard of the 
Queen’s Hotel, Ennis, proprietor, Rudolph Bloom : an envelope addressed 
: To my Dear Son Leopold. What fractions of phrases 
did the lecture of those four whole words evoke? Tomorrow 
will be a week that I received… it is no 
use Leopold to be… with your dear mother… that is 
not more to stand… to her… all for me is 
out… be kind to Athos, Leopold… my dear son… always… 
of me… das Herz… Gott… dein… What reminiscences of a 
human subject suffering from progressive melancholia did these objects evoke 
in Bloom? An old man widower, unkempt hair, in bed, 
with head covered, sighing : an infirm dog, Athos : 
aconite, resorted to by increasing doses of grains and scruples 
as a palliative of recrudescent neuralgia : the face in 
death of a septuagenarian suicide by poison. Why did Bloom 
experience a sentiment of remorse? Because in immature impatience he 
had treated with disrespect certain beliefs and practices. As? The 
prohibition of the use of fleshmeat and milk at one 
meal, the hebdomadary symposium of incoordinately abstract, perfervidly concrete mercantile 
coexreligionist excompatriots : the circumcision of male infants : the 
supernatural character of Judaic scripture : the ineffability of the 
tetragrammation : the sanctity of the sabbath. How did these 
beliefs and practices now appear to him? Not more rational 
than they had then appeared, not less rational than other 
beliefs and practices now appeared. What first reminiscence had he 
of Rudolph Bloom (deceased)? Rudolph Bloom (deceased) narrated to his 
son Leopold Bloom (aged 6) a retrospective arrangement of migrations 
and settlements in and between Dublin, London, Florence, Milan, Vienna, 
Budapest, Szombathely with statements of satisfaction (his grandfather having seen 
Maria Theresia, empress of Austria, queen of Hungary), with commercial 
