heifer, big of her age and beef to the heel 
and all this while poured with rain and so both 
together on to Horne’s. There Leop. Bloom of Crawford’s journal 
sitting snug with a covey of wags, likely brangling fellows, 
Dixon jun., scholar of my lady of Mercy, Vin. Lynch, 
a Scots fellow, Will. Madden, T. Lenehan, very sad for 
a racinghorse he fancied and Stephen D. Leop. Bloom there 
for a langour he had but was now better, he 
having dreamed tonight a strange fancy of his dame Mrs 
Moll with red slippers on in pair of Turkey trunks 
which is thought by those in ken to be for 
a change and Mistress Purefoy there, that got in through 
pleading her belly, and now on the stools, poor body, 
two days past her term, the midwives sore put to 
it and can’t deliver, she queasy for a bowl of 
riceslop that is a shrewd drier up of the insides 
and her breath very heavy more than good and should 
be a bullyboy from the knocks they say, but God 
give her soon issue. ’Tis her ninth chick to live, 
I hear, and Lady day bit off her last chick’s 
nails that was then a twelvemonth and with other three 
all breastfed that died written out in a fair hand 
in the king’s bible. Her hub fifty odd and a 
methodist but takes the Sacrament and is to be seen 
any fair sabbath with a pair of his boys off 
Bullock harbour dapping on the sound with a heavybraked reel 
or in a punt he has trailing for flounder and 
pollock and catches a fine bag, I hear. In sum 
an infinite great fall of rain and all refreshed and 
will much increase the harvest yet those in ken say 
after wind and water fire shall come for a prognostication 
of Malachi’s almanac (and I hear that Mr Russell has 
done a prophetical charm of the same gist out of 
the Hindustanish for his farmer’s gazette) to have three things 
in all but this a mere fetch without bottom of 
reason for old crones and bairns yet sometimes they are 
found in the right guess with their queerities no telling 
how. With this came up Lenehan to the feet of 
the table to say how the letter was in that 
night’s gazette and he made a show to find it 
about him (for he swore with an oath that he 
had been at pains about it) but on Stephen’s persuasion 
he gave over to search and was bidden to sit 
near by which he did mighty brisk. He was a 
kind of sport gentleman that went for a merryandrew or 
honest pickle and what belonged of woman, horseflesh, or hot 
scandal he had it pat. To tell the truth he 
was mean in fortunes and for the most part hankered 
about the coffeehouses and low taverns with crimps, ostlers, bookies, 
Paul’s men, runners, flatcaps, waistcoateers, ladies of the bagnio and 
