god. — History shows that to be true, inquit Eglintonus 
Chronolologos. The ages succeed one another. But we have it 
on high authority that a man’s worst enemies shall be 
those of his own house and family. I feel that 
Russell is right. What do we care for his wife 
and father? I should say that only family poets have 
family lives. Falstaff was not a family man. I feel 
that the fat knight is his supreme creation. Lean, he 
lay back. Shy, deny thy kindred, the unco guid. Shy 
supping with the godless, he sneaks the cup. A sire 
in Ultonian Antrim bade it him. Visits him here on 
quarter days. Mr Magee, sir, there’s a gentleman to see 
you. Me? Says he’s your father, sir. Give me my 
Wordsworth. Enter Magee Mor Matthew, a rugged rough rugheaded kern, 
in strossers with a buttoned codpiece, his nether stocks bemired 
with clauber of ten forests, a wand of wilding in 
his hand. Your own? He knows your old fellow. The 
widower. Hurrying to her squalid deathlair from gay Paris on 
the quayside I touched his hand. The voice, new warmth, 
speaking. Dr Bob Kenny is attending her. The eyes that 
wish me well. But do not know me. — A 
father, Stephen said, battling against hopelessness, is a necessary evil. 
He wrote the play in the months that followed his 
father’s death. If you hold that he, a greying man 
with two marriageable daughters, with thirtyfive years of life, nel 
mezzo del cammin di nostra vita, with fifty of experience 
is the beardless undergraduate from Wittemberg then you must hold 
that his seventyyear old mother is the lustful queen. No. 
The corpse of John Shakespeare does not walk the night. 
From hour to hour it rots and rots. He rests, 
disarmed of fatherhood, having devised that mystical estate upon his 
son. Boccaccio’s Calandrino was the first and last man who 
felt himself with child. Fatherhood, in the sense of conscious 
begetting, is unknown to man. It is a mystical estate, 
an apostolic succession, from only begetter to only begotten. On 
that mystery and not on the madonna which the cunning 
Italian intellect flung to the mob of Europe the church 
is founded and founded irremovably because founded, like the world, 
macro and microcosm, upon the void. Upon incertitude, upon unlikelihood, 
Amor matris, subjective and objective genitive, may be the only 
true thing in life. Paternity may be a legal fiction. 
Who is the father of any son that any son 
should love him or he any son? What the hell 
are you driving at? I know. Shut up. Blast you! 
I have reasons. Amplius. Adhuc. Iterum. Postea. Are you condemned 
to do this? — They are sundered by a bodily 
shame so steadfast that the criminal annals of the world, 
stained with all other incests and bestialities, hardly record its 
breach. Sons with mothers, sires with daughters, lesbic sisters, loves 
that dare not speak their name, nephews with grandmothers, jailbirds 
