that was in the lock with the pox she got 
from Jimmy Pidgeon in the blue caps had a child 
off him that couldn’t swallow and was smothered with the 
convulsions in the mattress and we all subscribed for the 
funeral. philip drunk (Gravely.) Qui vous a mis dans cette 
fichue position, Philippe? philip sober (Gaily.) C’était le sacré pigeon, 
Philippe. (Kitty unpins her hat and sets it down calmly, 
patting her henna hair. And a prettier, a daintier head 
of winsome curls was never seen on a whore’s shoulders. 
Lynch puts on her hat. She whips it off.) lynch 
(Laughs.) And to such delights has Metchnikoff inoculated anthropoid apes. 
florry (Nods.) Locomotor ataxy. zoe (Gaily.) O, my dictionary. lynch 
Three wise virgins. virag (Agueschaken, profuse yellow spawn foaming over 
his bony epileptic lips.) She sold lovephiltres, whitewax, orange flower. 
Panther, the Roman centurion, polluted her with his genitories. (He 
sticks out a flickering phosphorescent scorpion tongue, his hand on 
his fork.) Messiah! He burst her tympanum. (With gibbering baboon’s 
cries he jerks his hips in the cynical spasm.) Hik! 
Hek! Hak! Hok! Huk! Kok! Kuk! (Ben Jumbo Dollard, rubicund, 
musclebound, hairynostrilled, hugebearded, cabbageeared, shaggychested, shockmaned, fatpapped, stands forth, his 
loins and genitals tightened into a pair of black bathing 
bagslops.) ben dollard (Nakkering castanet bones in his huge padded 
paws, yodels jovially in base barreltone.) When love absorbs my 
ardent soul. (The virgins, Nurse Callan and Nurse Quigley, burst 
through the ringkeepers and the ropes and mob him with 
open arms.) the virgins (Gushingly.) Big Ben! Ben Mac Chree! 
a voice Hold that fellow with the bad breeches. ben 
dollard (Smites his thigh in abundant laughter.) Hold him now. 
henry (Caressing on his breast a severed female head, murmurs.) 
Thine heart, mine love. (He pluks his lutestrings.) When first 
I saw… virag (Sloughing his skins, his multitudinous plumage moulting.) 
Rats! (He yawns, showing a coalblack throat and closes his 
jaws by an upward push of his parchment roll.) After 
having said which I took my departure. Farewell. Fare thee 
well. Dreck! (Henry Flower combs his moustache and beard rapidly 
with a pocketcomb and gives a cow’s lick to his 
hair. Steered by his rapier, he glides to the door, 
his wild harp slung behind him. Virag reaches the door 
in two ungainly stilthops, his tail cocked, and deftly claps 
sideways on the wall a pusyellow flybill, butting it with 
his head.) the flybill K. 11. post no bills. Strictly 
confidential. Dr Hy Franks. henry All is lost now. (Virag 
unscrews his head in a trice and holds it under 
his arm.) virag’s head Quack! (Exeunt severally.) stephen (Over his 
shoulder to Zoe.) You would have preferred the fighting parson 
who founded the protestant error. But beware Antisthenes, the dog 
sage, and the last end of Arius Heresiarchus. The agony 
in the closet. lynch All one and the same God 
to her. stephen (Devoutly.) And Sovereign Lord of all things. 
florry (To Stephen.) I’m sure you are a spoiled priest. 
