—As bad as old Antonio, For he left me on 
my ownio. The face of a streetwalker, glazed and haggard 
under a black straw hat, peered askew round the door 
of the shelter, palpably reconnoitring on her own with the 
object of bringing more grist to her mill. Mr Bloom, 
scarcely knowing which way to look, turned away on the 
moment, flusterfied but outwardly calm, and picking up from the 
table the pink sheet of the Abbey street organ which 
the jarvey, if such he was, had laid aside, he 
picked it up and looked at the pink of the 
paper though why pink? His reason for so doing was 
he recognised on the moment round the door the same 
face he had caught a fleeting glimpse of that afternoon 
on Ormond Quay, the partially idiotic female, namely, of the 
lane, who knew the lady in the brown costume does 
be with you (Mrs B.), and begged the chance of 
his washing. Also why washing, which seemed rather vague than 
not? Your washing. Still, candour compelled him to admit that 
he had washed his wife’s undergarments when soiled in Holles 
Street and women would and did too a man’s similar 
garments initialled with Bewley and Draper’s marking ink (hers were, 
that is) if they really loved him, that is to 
say. Love me, love my dirty shirt. Still, just then, 
being on tenterhooks, he desired the female’s room more than 
her company so it came as a genuine relief when 
the keeper made her a rude sign to take herself 
off. Round the side of the Evening Telegraph he just 
caught a fleeting glimpse of her face round the side 
of the door with a kind of demented glassy grin 
showing that she was not exactly all there, viewing with 
evident amusement the group of gazers round Skipper Murphy’s nautical 
chest and then there was no more of her. — 
The gunboat, the keeper said. — It beats me, Mr 
Bloom confided to Stephen, medically I am speaking, how a 
wretched creature like that from the Lock Hospital, reeking with 
disease, can be barefaced enough to solicit or how any 
man in his sober senses, if he values his health 
in the least. Unfortunate creature! Of course, I suppose some 
man is ultimately responsible for her condition. Still no matter 
what the cause is from… Stephen had not noticed her 
and shrugged his shoulders, merely remarking : — In this 
country people sell much more than she ever had and 
do a roaring trade. Fear not them that sell the 
body but have not power to buy the soul. She 
is a bad merchant. She buys dear and sells cheap. 
The elder man, though not by any manner of means 
an old maid or a prude, said that it was 
nothing short of a crying scandal that ought to be 
put a stop to instanter to say that women of 
that stamp (quite apart from any oldmaidish squeamishness on the 
