prototypes in other vaunted prize regions for very beauty, of 
bosky grove and undulating plain and luscious pastureland of vernal 
green, steeped in the transcendent translucent glow of our mild 
mysterious Irish twilight… HIS NATIVE DORIC — The moon, professor 
MacHugh said. He forgot Hamlet. — That mantles the vista 
far and wide and wait till the glowing orb of 
the moon shines forth to irradiate her silver effulgence. — 
O! Mr Dedalus cried, giving vent to a hopeless groan, 
shite and onions! That’ll do, Ned. Life is too short. 
He took off his silk hat and, blowing out impatiently 
his bushy moustache, welshcombed his hair with raking fingers. Ned 
Lambert tossed the newspaper aside, chuckling with delight. An instant 
after a hoarse bark of laughter burst over professor MacHugh’s 
unshaven blackspectacled face. — Doughy Daw! he cried. WHAT WETHERUP 
SAID All very fine to jeer at it now in 
cold print but it goes down like hot cake that 
stuff. He was in the bakery line too wasn’t he? 
Why they call him Doughy Daw. Feathered his nest well 
anyhow. Daughter engaged to that chap in the inland revenue 
office with the motor. Hooked that nicely. Entertainments open house. 
Big blow out. Wetherup always said that. Get a grip 
of them by the stomach. The inner door was opened 
violently and a scarlet beaked face, crested by a comb 
of feathery hair, thrust itself in. The bold blue eyes 
stared about them and the harsh voice asked : — 
What is it? — And here comes the sham squire 
himself, professor MacHugh said grandly. — Getououthat, you bloody old 
pedagogue! the editor said in recognition. — Come, Ned, Mr 
Dedalus said, putting on his hat. I must get a 
drink after that. — Drink! the editor cried. No drinks 
served before mass. — Quite right too, Mr Dedalus said, 
going out. Come on, Ned. Ned Lambert sidled down from 
the table. The editor’s blue eyes roved towards Mr Bloom’s 
face, shadowed by a smile. — Will you join us, 
Myles? Ned Lambert asked. MEMORABLE BATTLES RECALLED — North Cork 
militia! the editor cried, striding to the mantelpiece. We won 
every time! North Cork and Spanish officers! — Where was 
that, Myles? Ned Lambert asked with a reflective glance at 
his toecaps. — In Ohio! the editor shouted. — So 
it was, begad, Ned Lambert agreed. Passing out, he whispered 
to J.J. O’Molloy : — Incipient jigs. Sad case. — 
Ohio! the editor crowed in high treble from his uplifted 
scarlet face. My Ohio! — A Perfect cretic! the professor 
said. Long, short and long. O, HARP EOLIAN! He took 
a reel of dental floss from his waistcoat pocket and, 
breaking off a piece, twanged it smartly between two and 
two of his resonant unwashed teeth. — Bingbang, bangbang. Mr 
Bloom, seeing the coast clear, made for the inner door. 
— Just a moment, Mr Crawford, he said. I just 
want to phone about an ad. He went in. — 
