spit of sand, crouched in flight. He slunk back in 
a curve. Doesn’t see me. Along by the edge of 
the mole he lolloped, dawdled, smelt a rock and from 
under a cocked hindleg pissed against it. He trotted forward 
and, lifting his hindleg, pissed quick short at an unsmelt 
rock. The simple pleasures of the poor. His hindpaws then 
scattered sand : then his forepaws dabbled and delved. Something 
he buried there, his grandmother. He rooted in the sand, 
dabbling, delving and stopped to listen to the air, scraped 
up the sand again with a fury of his claws, 
soon ceasing, a pard, a panther, got in spousebreach, vulturing 
the dead. After he woke me up last night same 
dream or was it? Wait. Open hallway. Street of harlots. 
Remember. Haroun al Raschid. I am almosting it. That man 
led me, spoke. I was not afraid. The melon he 
had he held against my face. Smiled : creamfruit smell. 
That was the rule, said. In. Come. Red carpet spread. 
You will see who. Shouldering their bags they trudged, the 
red Egyptians. His blued feet out of turnedup trousers slapped 
the clammy sand, a dull brick muffler strangling his unshaven 
neck. With woman steps she followed : the ruffian and 
his strolling mort. Spoils slung at her back. Loose sand 
and shellgrit crusted her bare feet. A bout her windraw 
face her hair trailed. Behind her lord his helpmate, bing 
awast, to Romeville. When night hides her body’s flaws calling 
under her brown shawl from an archway where dogs have 
mired. Her fancyman is treating two Royal Dublins in O’Loughlin’s 
of Blackpitts. Buss her, wap in rogue’s rum lingo, for, 
O, my dimber wapping dell. A shefiend’s whiteness under her 
rancid rags. Fumbally’s lane that night : the tanyard smells. 
White thy fambles, red thy gan And thy quarrons dainty 
is. Couch a hogshead with me then. In the darkmans 
clip and kiss. Morose delectation Aquinas tunbelly calls this, frate 
porcospino. Unfallen Adam rode and not rutted. Call away let 
him : thy quarrons dainty is. Language no whit worse 
than his. Monkwords, marybeads jabber on their girdles : roguewords, 
tough nuggets patter in their pockets. Passing now. A side-eye 
at my Hamlet hat. If I were suddenly naked here 
as I sit? I am not. Across the sands of 
all the world, followed by the sun’s flaming sword, to 
the west, trekking to evening lands. She trudges, schlepps, trains, 
drags, trascines her load. A tide westering, moondrawn, in her 
wake. Tides, myriadislanded, within her, blood not mine, oinopa ponton, 
a winedark sea. Behold the handmaid of the moon. In 
sleep the wet sign calls her hour, bids her rise. 
Bridebed, childbed, bed of death, ghostcandled. Omnis caro ad te 
veniet. He comes, pale vampire, through storm his eyes, his 
bat sails bloodying the sea, mouth to her mouth’s kiss. 
Here. Put a pin in that chap, will you? My 
tablets. Mouth to her kiss. No. Must be two of 
