Pillowed on my coat she had her hair, earwigs in 
the heather scrub my hand under her nape, you’ll toss 
me all. O wonder! Coolsoft with ointments her hand touched 
me, caressed : her eyes upon me did not turn 
away. Ravished over her I lay, full lips full open, 
kissed her mouth. Yum. Softly she gave me in my 
mouth the seedcake warm and chewed. Mawkish pulp her mouth 
had mumbled sweet and sour with spittle. Joy : I 
ate it : joy. Young life, her lips that gave 
me pouting. Soft, warm, sticky gumjelly lips. Flowers her eyes 
were, take me, willing eyes. Pebbles fell. She lay still. 
A goat. No-one. High on Ben Howth rhododendrons a nannygoat 
walking surefooted, dropping currants. Screened under ferns she laughed warmfolded. 
Wildly I lay on her, kissed her; eyes, her lips, 
her stretched neck, beating, woman’s breasts full in her blouse 
of nun’s veiling, fat nipples upright. Hot I tongued her. 
She kissed me. I was kissed. All yielding she tossed 
my hair. Kissed, she kissed me. Me. And me now. 
Stuck, the flies buzzed. His downcast eyes followed the silent 
veining of the oaken slab. Beauty : it curves, curves 
are beauty. Shapely goddesses, Venus, Juno : curves the world 
admires. Can see them library museum standing in the round 
hall, naked goddesses. Aids to digestion. They don’t care what 
man looks. All to see. Never speaking. I mean to 
say to fellows like Flynn. Suppose she did Pygmalion and 
Galatea what would she say first? Mortal! Put you in 
your proper place. Quaffing nectar at mess with gods, golden 
dishes, all ambrosial. Not like a tanner lunch we have, 
boiled mutton, carrots and turnips, bottle of Allsop. Nectar, imagine 
it drinking electricity : gods’ food. Lovely forms of woman 
sculped Junonian. Immortal lovely. And we stuffing food in one 
hole and out behind : food, chyle, blood, dung, earth, 
food : have to feed it like stoking au engine. 
They have no. Never looked. I’ll look today. Keeper won’t 
see. Bend down let something fall see if she. Dribbling 
a quiet message from his bladder came to go to 
do not to do there to do. A man and 
ready he drained his glass to the lees and walked, 
to men too they gave themselves, manly conscious, lay with 
men lovers, a youth enjoyed her, to the yard. When 
the sound of his boots had ceased Davy Byrne said 
from his book : — What is this he is? 
Isn’t he in the insurance line? — He’s out of 
that long ago, Nosey Flynn said. He does canvassing for 
the Freeman. — I know him well to see, Davy 
Byrne said. Is he in trouble? — Trouble? Nosey Flynn 
said. Not that I heard of. Why? — I noticed 
he was in mourning. — Was he? Nosey Flynn said. 
So he was, faith. I asked him how was all 
at home. You’re right, by God. So he was. — 
