bearer, by the way, of one of the most timehonoured 
names in Albion’s history) placed on the finger of his 
blushing fiancée an expensive engagement ring with emeralds set in 
the form of a fourleaved shamrock excitement knew no bounds. 
Nay, even the stern provostmarshal, lieutenantcolonel Tomkin-Maxwell ffrenchmullan Tomlinson, who 
presided on the sad occasion, he who had blown a 
considerable number of sepoys from the cannonmouth without flinching, could 
not now restrain his natural emotion. With his mailed gauntlet 
he brushed away a furtive tear and was overheard by 
those privileged burghers who happened to be in his immediate 
entourage to murmur to himself in a faltering undertone : 
— God blimey if she aint a clinker, that there 
bleeding tart. Blimey it makes me kind of bleeding cry, 
straight, it does, when I sees her cause I thinks 
of my old mashtub what’s waiting for me down Limehouse 
way. So then the citizens begin talking about the Irish 
language and the corporation meeting and all to that and 
the shoneens that can’t speak their own language and Joe 
chipping in because he stuck someone for a quid and 
Bloom putting in his old goo with his twopenny stump 
that he cadged off of Joe and talking about the 
Gaelic league and the antitreating league and drink, the curse 
of Ireland. Antitreating is about the size of it. Gob, 
he’d let you pour all manner of drink down his 
throat till the Lord would call him before you’d ever 
see the froth of his pint. And one night I 
went in with a fellow into one of their musical 
evenings, song and dance about she could get up on 
a truss of hay she could my Maureen Lay and 
there was a fellow with a Ballyhooly blue ribbon badge 
spiffing out of him in Irish and a lot of 
colleen bawns going about with temperance beverages and selling medals 
and oranges and lemonade and a few old dry buns, 
gob, flahoolagh entertainment, don’t be talking. Ireland sober is Ireland 
free. And then an old fellow starts blowing into his 
bagpipes and all the gougers shuffling their feet to the 
tune the old cow died of. And one or two 
sky pilots having an eye around that there was no 
goings on with the females, hitting below the belt. So 
howandever, as I was saying, the old dog seeing the 
tin was empty starts mousing around by Joe and me. 
I’d train him by kindness, so I would, if he 
was my dog. Give him a rousing fine kick now 
and again where it wouldn’t blind him. — Afraid he’ll 
bite you? says the citizen, sneering. — No, says I. 
But he might take my leg for a lampost. So 
he calls the old dog over. — What’s on you, 
Garry? says he. Then he starts hauling and mauling and 
talking to him in Irish and the old towser growling, 
letting on to answer, like a duet in the opera. 
