other rogues of the game or with a chanceable catchpole 
or a tipstaff often at nights till broad day of 
whom he picked up between his sackpossets much loose gossip. 
He took his ordinary at a boilingcook’s and if he 
had but gotten into him a mess of broken victuals 
or a platter of tripes with a bare tester in 
his purse he could always bring himself off with his 
tongue, some randy quip he had from a punk or 
whatnot that every mother’s son of them would burst their 
sides. The other, Costello, that is, hearing this talk asked 
was it poetry or a tale. Faith, no, he says, 
Frank (that was his name), ’tis all about Kerry cows 
that are to be butchered along of the plague. But 
they can go hang, says he with a wink, for 
me with their bully beef, a pox on it. There’s 
as good fish in this tin as ever came out 
of it and very friendly he offered to take of 
some salty sprats that stood by which he had eyed 
wishly in the meantime and found the place which was 
indeed the chief design of his embassy as he was 
sharpset. Mort aux vaches, says Frank then in the French 
language that had been indentured to a brandy shipper that 
has a winelodge in Bordeaux and he spoke French like 
a gentleman too. From a child this Frank had been 
a donought that his father, a headborough, who could ill 
keep him to school to learn his letters and the 
use of the globes, matriculated at the university to study 
the mechanics but he took the bit between his teeth 
like a raw colt and was more familiar with the 
justiciary and the parish beadle than with his volumes. One 
time he would be a playactor, then a sutler or 
a welsher, then nought would keep him from the bearpit 
and the cocking main, then he was for the ocean 
sea or to foot it on the roads with the 
Romany folk, kidnapping a squire’s heir by favour of moonlight 
or fecking maid’s linen or choking chickens behind a hedge. 
He had been off as many times as a cat 
has lives and back again with naked pockets as many 
more to his father the headborough who shed a pint 
of tears as often as he saw him. What, says 
Mr Leopold with his hands across, that was earnest to 
know the drift of it, will they slaughter all? I 
protest I saw them but this day morning going to 
the Liverpool boats, says he. I can scarce believe ’tis 
so bad, says he. And he had experience of the 
like brood beasts and of springers, greasy hoggets and wether 
wools having been some years before actuary for Mr Joseph 
Cuffe, a worthy salesmaster that drove his trade for live 
stock and meadow auctions hard by Mr Gavin Low’s yard 
in Prussia street. I question with you there, says he. 
