Harold’s Cross. The hoarse Dublin United Tramway Company’s timekeeper bawled 
them off : — Rathgar and Terenure! — Come on, 
Sandymount Green! Right and left parallel clanging ringing a doubledecker 
and a singledeck moved from their railheads, swerved to the 
down line, glided parallel. — Start, Palmerston park! THE WEARER 
OF THE CROWN Under the porch of the general post 
office shoeblacks called and polished. Parked in North Prince’s street 
His Majesty’s vermilion mailcars, bearing on their sides the royal 
initials, E. R., received loudly flung sacks of letters, postcards, 
lettecards, parcels, insured and paid, for local, provincial, British and 
overseas delivery. GENTLEMEN OF THE PRESS Grossbooted draymen rolled barrels 
dullthudding out of Prince’s stores and bumped them up on 
the brewery float. On the brewery float bumped dullthudding barrels 
rolled by grossbooted draymen out of Prince’s stores. — There 
it is Red Murray said. Alexander Keyes. — Just cut 
it out, will you? Mr Bloom said, and I’ll take 
it round to the Telegraph office. The door of Ruttledge’s 
office creaked again. Davy Stephens, minute in a large capecoat, 
a small felt hat crowning his ringlets, passed out with 
a roll of papers under his cape, a king’s courier. 
Red Murray’s long shears sliced out the advertisement from the 
newspaper in four clean strokes. Scissors and paste. — I’ll 
go through the printing works, Mr Bloom said, taking the 
cut square. — Of course, if he wants a par, 
Red Murray said earnestly, a pen behind his ear, we 
can do him one. — Right, Mr Bloom said with 
a nod. I’ll rub that in. We. WILLIAM BRAYDEN, ESQUIRE, 
OF OAKLANDS, SANDYMOUNT Red Murray touched Mr Bloom’s arm with 
the shears and whispered : — Brayden. Mr Bloom turned 
and saw the liveried porter raise his lettered cap as 
a stately figure entered between the newsboards of the Weekly 
Freeman and National Press and the Freeman’s Journal and National 
Press. Dullthudding Guinness’s barrels. It passed stately up the staircase 
steered by an umbrella, a solemn beardframed face. The broadcloth 
back ascended each step : back. All his brains are 
in the nape of his neck, Simon Dedalus says. Welts 
of flesh behind on him. Fat folds of neck, fat, 
neck, fat, neck. — Don’t you think his face is 
like Our Saviour? Red Murray whispered. The door of Ruttledge’s 
office whispered : ee : cree. They always build one 
door opposite another for the wind to. Way in. Way 
out. Our Saviour : beardframed oval face : talking in 
the dusk Mary, Martha. Steered by an umbrella sword to 
the footlights : Mario the tenor. — Or like Mario, 
Mr Bloom said. — Yes, Red Murray agreed. But Mario 
was said to be the picture of Our Saviour. Jesus 
Mario with rougy cheeks, doublet and spindle legs. Hand on 
his heart. In Martha. Co-ome thou lost one, Co-ome thou 
dear one THE CROZIER AND THE PEN — His grace 
phoned down twice this morning, Red Murray said gravely. They 
