by the contretemps, with Stephen passed through the gap of 
the chains, divided by the upright, and, stepping over a 
strand of mire, went across towards Gardiner Street lower, Stephen 
singing more boldly, but not loudly, the end of the 
ballad : Und alle Schiffe brücken. The driver never said 
a word, good, bad or indifferent. He merely watched the 
two figures, as he sat on his lowbacked car, both 
black — one full, one lean — walk towards the 
railway bridge, to be married by Father Maher. As they 
walked, they at times stopped and walked again, continuing their 
tête à tête (which of course he was utterly out 
of), about sirens, enemies of man’s reason, mingled with a 
number of other topics of the same category, usurpers, historical 
cases of the kind while the man in the sweeper 
car or you might as well call it in the 
sleeper car who in any case couldn’t possibly hear because 
they were too far simply sat in his sest near 
the end of lower Gardiner street and looked after their 
lowbacked car. 17 What parallel courses did Bloom and Stephen 
follow returning? Starting united both at normal walking pace from 
Beresford Place they followed in the order named Lower and 
Middle Gardiner streets and Mountjoy square, west : then, at 
reduced pace, each bearing left, Gardiner’s place by an inadvertance 
as far as the farther corner of Temple street, north 
: then at reduced pace with interruptions of halt, bearing 
right, Temple street, north, as far as Hardwicke place. Approaching, 
disparate, at relaxed walking pace they crossed both the circus 
before George’s church diametrically, the chord in any circle being 
less than the arc which it subtends. Of what did 
the duumvirate deliberate during their itinerary? Music, literature, Ireland, Dublin, 
Paris, friendship, woman, prostitution, diet, the influence of gaslight or 
the light of arc and glowlamps on the growth of 
adjoining paraheliotropic trees, exposed corporation emergency dustbuckets, the Roman catholic 
church, ecclesiastical celibacy, the Irish nation, jesuit education, careers, the 
study of medicine, the past day, the maleficent influence of 
the presabbath, Stephen’s collapse. Did Bloom discover common factors of 
similarity between their respective like and unlike reactions to experience? 
Both were sensitive to artistic impressions musical in preference to 
plastic or pictorial. Both preferred a continental to an insular 
manner of life, a cisatlantic to a transatlantic place of 
residence. Both indurated by early domestic training and an inherited 
tenacity of heterodox resistance professed their disbelief in many orthodox 
religions, national, social and ethical doctrines. Both admitted the alternately 
stimulating and obtunding influence of heterosexual magnetism. Were their views 
on some points divergent? Stephen dissented openly from Bloom’s view 
on the importance of dietary and civic selfhelp while Bloom 
dissented tacitly from Stephen’s views on the eternal affirmation of 
the spirit of man in literature. Bloom assently covertly to 
Stephen’s rectification of the anachronism involved in assigning the date 
of the conversion of the Irish nation to christianity from 
