the lingering singer out with it. — With it, Simon. 
— It, Simon. — Ladies and gentlemen, I am most 
deeply obliged by your kind solicitations. — It, Simon. — 
I have no money but if you will lend me 
your attention I shall endeavour to sing to you of 
a heart bowed down. By the sandwichbell in screening shadow, 
Lydia her bronze and rose, a lady’s grace, gave and 
withheld : as in cool glaucous eau de Nil Mina 
to tankards two her pinnacles of gold. The harping chords 
of prelude closed. A chord longdrawn, expectant drew a voice 
away. — When first I saw that form endearing. Richie 
turned. — Si Dedalus’ voice, he said. Braintipped, cheek touched 
with flame, they listened feeling that flow endearing flow over 
skin limbs human heart soul spine. Bloom signed to Pat, 
bald Pat is a waiter hard of hearing, to set 
ajar the door of the bar. The door of the 
bar. So. That will do. Pat, waiter, waited, waiting to 
hear, for he was hard of hear by the door. 
— Sorrow from me seemed to depart. Through the hush 
of air a voice sang to them, low, not rain, 
not leaves in murmur, like no voice of strings of 
reeds or whatdoyoucallthem dulcimers, touching their still ears with words, 
still hearts of their each his remembered lives. Good, good 
to hear : sorrow from them each seemed to from 
both depart when first they heard. When first they saw, 
lost Richie, Poldy, mercy of beauty, heard from a person 
wouldn’t expect it in the least, her first merciful lovesoft 
oftloved word. Love that is singing : love’s old sweet 
song. Bloom unwound slowly the elastic band of his packet. 
Love’s old sweet sonnez la gold. Bloom wound a skein 
round four forkfingers, stretched it, relaxed, and wound it round 
his troubled double, fourfold, in octave, gyved them fast. — 
Full of hope and all delighted… Tenors get women by 
the score. Increase their flow. Throw flower at his feet 
when will we meet? My head it simply. Jingle all 
delighted. He can’t sing for tall hats. Your head it 
simply swurls. Perfumed for him. What perfume does your wife? 
I want to know. Jing. Stop. Knock. Last look at 
mirror always before she answers the door. The hall. There? 
How do you? I do well. There? What? Or? Phial 
of cachous, kissing comfits, in her satchel. Yes? Hands felt 
for the opulent. Alas! The voice rose, sighing, changed : 
loud, full, shining, proud. — But alas, ’twas idle dreaming… 
Glorious tone he has still. Cork air softer also their 
brogue. Silly man! Could have made oceans of money. Singing 
wrong words. Wore out his wife : now sings. But 
hard to tell. Only the two themselves. If he doesn’t 
break down. Keep a trot for the avenue. His hands 
and feet sing too. Drink. Nerves overstrung. Must be abstemious 
to sing. Jenny Lind soup : stock, sage, raw eggs, 
