said with bitterness : — It is a symbol of 
Irish art. The cracked lookingglass of a servant. Buck Mulligan 
suddenly linked his arm in Stephen’s and walked with him 
round the tower, his razor and mirror clacking in the 
pocket where he had thrust them. — It’s not fair 
to tease you like that, Kinch, is it? he said 
kindly. God knows you have more spirit than any of 
them. Parried again. He fears the lancet of my art 
as I fear that of his. The cold steel pen. 
— Cracked lookingglass of a servant. Tell that to the 
oxy chap downstairs and touch him for a guinea. He’s 
stinking with money and thinks you’re not a gentleman. His 
old fellow made his tin by selling jalap to Zulus 
or some bloody swindle or other. God, Kinch, if you 
and I could only work together we might do something 
for the island. Hellenise it. Cranly’s arm. His arm. — 
And to think of your having to beg from these 
swine. I’m the only one that knows what you are. 
Why don’t you trust me more? What have you up 
your nose against me? Is it Haines? If he makes 
any noise here I’ll bring down Seymour and we’ll give 
him a ragging worse than they gave Clive Kempthorpe. Young 
shouts of moneyed voices in Clive Kempthorpe’s rooms. Palefaces : 
they hold their ribs with laughter, one clasping another, O, 
I shall expire ! Break the news to her gently, 
Aubrey ! I shall die ! With slit ribbons of 
his shirt whipping the air he hops and hobbles round 
the table, with trousers down at heels, chased by Ades 
of Magdalen with the tailor’s shears. A scared calf’s face 
gilded with marmalade. I don’t want to be debagged ! 
Don’t you play the giddy ox with me ! Shouts 
from the open window startling evening in the quadrangle. A 
deaf gardener, aproned, masked with Matthew Arnold’s face, pushes his 
mower on the sombre lawn watching narrowly the dancing motes 
of grasshalms. To ourselves… new paganism… omphalos. — Let him 
stay, Stephen said. There’s nothing wrong with him except at 
night. — Then what is it? Buck Mulligan asked impatiently. 
Cough it up. I’m quite frank with you. What have 
you against me now? They halted, looking towards the blunt 
cape of Bray Head that lay on the water like 
the snout of a sleeping whale. Stephen freed his arm 
quietly. — Do you wish me to tell you? he 
asked. — Yes, what is it? Buck Mulligan answered. I 
don’t remember anything. He looked in Stephen’s face as he 
spoke. A light wind passed his brow, fanning softly his 
fair uncombed hair and stirring silver points of anxiety in 
his eyes. Stephen, depressed by his own voice, said : 
— Do you remember the first day I went to 
your house after my mother’s death? Buck Mulligan frowned quickly 
and said : — What? Where? I can’t remember anything. 
