the African mission and of the propagation of the faith 
and of the millions of black and brown and yellow 
souls that had not received the baptism of water when 
their last hour came like a thief in the night. 
That book by the Belgian jesuit, Le Nombre des Élus, 
seemed to Father Conmee a reasonable plea. Those were millions 
of human souls created by God in His Own likeness 
to whom the faith had not (D. V.) been brought. 
But they were God’s souls created by God. It seemed 
to Father Conmee a pity that they should all be 
lost, a waste, if one might say. At the Howth 
road stop Father Conmee alighted, was saluted by the conductor 
and saluted in his turn. The Malahide road was quiet. 
It pleased Father Conmee, road and name. The joybells were 
ringing in gay Malahide. Lord Talbot de Malahide, immediate hereditary 
lord admiral of Malahide and the seas adjoining. Then came 
the call to arms and she was maid, wife and 
widow in one day. Those were old worldish days, loyal 
times in joyous townlands, old times in the barony. Father 
Conmee, walking, thought of his little book Old Times in 
the Barony and of the book that might be written 
about jesuit houses and of Mary Rochfort, daughter of lord 
Molesworth, first countess of Belvedere. A listless lady, no more 
young, walked alone the shore of lough Ennel, Mary, first 
countess of Belvedere, listlessly walking in the evening, not startled 
when an otter plunged. Who could know the truth? Not 
the jealous lord Belvedere and not her confessor if she 
had not committed adultery fully, eiaculatio seminis inter vas naturale 
mulieris, with her husband’s brother? She would half confess if 
she had not all sinned as women did. Only God 
knew and she and he, her husband’s brother. Father Conmee 
thought of that tyrannous incontinence, needed however for men’s race 
on earth, and of the ways of God which were 
not our ways. Don John Conmee walked and moved in 
times of yore. He was humane and honoured there. He 
bore in mind secrets confessed and he smiled at smiling 
noble faces in a beeswaxed drawingroom, ceiled with full fruit 
clusters. And the hands of a bride and of a 
bridegroom, noble to noble, were impalmed by don John Conmee. 
It was a charming day. The lychgate of a field 
showed Father Conmee breadths of cabbages, curtseying to him with 
ample underleaves. The sky showed him a flock of small 
white clouds going slowly down the wind. Moutonner, the French 
said. A homely and just word. Father Conmee, reading his 
office, watched a flock of muttoning clouds over Rathcoffey. His 
thinsocked ankles were tickled by the stubble of Clongowes field. 
He walked there, reading in the evening, and heard the 
cries of the boys’ lines at their play, young cries 
in the quiet evening. He was their rector : his 
reign was mild. Father Conmee drew off his gloves and 
