watching the silent typesetters at their cases. ORTHOGRAPHICAL Want to 
be sure of his spelling. Proof fever. Martin Cunningham forgot 
to give us his spellingbee conundrum this morning. It is 
amusing to view the unpar one ar alleled embarra two 
ars is it? double ess ment of a harassed pedlar 
while gauging au the symmetry of a peeled pear under 
a cemetery wall. Silly, isn’t it? Cemetery put in of 
course on account of the symmetry. I could have said 
when he clapped on his topper. Thank you. I ought 
to have said something about an old hat or something. 
No, I could have said. Looks as good as new 
now. See his phiz then. Sllt. The nethermost deck of 
the first machine jogged forwards its flyboard with sllt the 
first batch of quirefolded papers. Sllt. Almost human the way 
it sllt to call attention. Doing its level best to 
speak. That door too sllt creaking, asking to be shut. 
Everything speaks in its own way. Sllt. NOTED CHURCHMAN AN 
OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTOR The foreman handed back the galleypage suddenly, saying 
: — Wait. Where’s the archbishop’s letter? It’s to be 
repeated in the Telegraph. Where’s what’s his name? He looked 
about him round his loud unanswering machines. — Monks, sir? 
a voice asked from the castingbox. — Ay. Where’s Monks? 
— Monks! Mr Bloom took up his cutting. Time to 
get out. — Then I’ll get the design, Mr Nannetti, 
he said, and you’ll give it a good place I 
know. — Monks! — Yes, sir. Three months’ renewal. Want 
to get some wind off my chest first. Try it 
anyhow. Rub in August : good idea : horseshow month. 
Ballsbridge. Tourists over for the show. A DAYFATHER He walked 
on through the caseroom, passing an old man, bowed, spectacled, 
aproned. Old Monks, the dayfather. Queer lot of stuff he 
must have put through his hands in his time : 
obituary notices, pubs’ ads, speeches, divorce suits, found drowned. Nearing 
the end of his tether now. Sober serious man with 
a bit in the savingsbank I’d say. Wife a good 
cook and washer. Daughter working the machine in the parlour. 
Plain Jane, no damn nonsense. AND IT WAS THE FEAST 
OF THE PASSOVER He stayed in his walk to watch 
a typesetter neatly distributing type. Reads it backwards first. Quickly 
he does it. Must require some practice that. mangiD. kcirtaP. 
Poor papa with his hagadah book, reading backwards with his 
finger to me. Pessach. Next year in Jerusalem. Dear, O 
dear! All that long business about that brought us out 
of the land of Egypt and into the house of 
bondage alleluia. Shema Israel Adonai Elohenu. No, that’s the other. 
Then the twelve brothers, Jacob’s sons. And then the lamb 
and the cat and the dog and the stick and 
the water and the butcher and then the angel of 
death kills the butcher and he kills the ox and 
the dog kills the cat. Sounds a bit silly till 
