minds. Old Mrs Thornton was a jolly old soul. All 
my babies, she said. The spoon of pap in her 
mouth before she fed them. O, that’s nyumyum. Got her 
hand crushed by old Tom Wall’s son. His first bow 
to the public. Head like a prize pumpkin. Snuffy Dr 
Murren. People knocking them up at all hours. For God’sake 
doctor. Wife In her throes. Then keep them waiting months 
for their fee. To attendance on your wife. No gratitude 
in people. Humane doctors, most of them. Before the huge 
high door of the Irish house of parliament a flock 
of pigeons flew. Their little frolic after meals. Who will 
we do it on? I pick the fellow in black. 
Here goes. Here’s good luck. Must be thrilling from the 
air. Apjohn, myself and Owen Goldberg up in the trees 
near Goose green playing the monkeys. Mackerel they called me. 
A squad of constables debouched from College street, marching in 
Indian file. Goose step. Foodheated faces, sweating helmets, patting their 
truncheons. After their feed with a good load of fat 
soup under their belts. Policeman’s lot is oft a happy 
one. They split up into groups and scattered, saluting towards 
their beats. Let out to graze. Best moment to attack 
one in pudding time. A punch in his dinner. A 
squad of others, marching irregularly, rounded Trinity railings, making for 
the station. Bound for their troughs. Prepare to receive cavalry. 
Prepare to receive soup. He crossed under Tommy Moore’s roguish 
finger. They did right to put him up over a 
urinal : meeting of the waters. Ought to be places 
for women. Running into cakeshops. Settle my hat straight. There 
is not in this wide world a vallee. Great song 
of Julia Morkan’s. Kept her voice up to the very 
last. Pupil of Michael Balfe’s wasn’t she? He gazed after 
the last broad tunic. Nasty customers to tackle. Jack Power 
could a tale unfold : father a G man. If 
a fellow gave them trouble being lagged they let him 
have it hot and heavy in the bridewell. Can’t blame 
them after all with the job they have especially the 
young hornies. That horse policeman the day Joe Chamberlain was 
given his degree in Trinity he got a run for 
his money. My word he did! His horse’s hoofs clattering 
after us down Abbey street. Luck I had the presenee 
of mind to dive into Manning’s or I was souped. 
He did come a wallop, by George. Must have cracked 
his skull on the cobblestones. I oughtn’t to have got 
myself swept along with those medicals. And the Trinity jibs 
in their mortarboards. Looking for trouble. Still I got to 
know that young Dixon who dressed that sting for me 
in the Mater and now he’s in Holles street where 
Mrs Purefoy. Wheels within wheels. Police whistle in my ears 
still. All skedaddled. Why he fixed on me. Give me 
in charge. Right here it began. — Up the Boers! 
