the name of this erigible or erected residence? Bloom Cottage. 
Saint Leopold’s. Flowerville. Could Bloom of 7 Eccles Street foresee 
Bloom of Flowerville? In loose allwool garments with Harris tweed 
cap, price 8/6, and useful garden boots with elastic gussets 
and wateringcan, planting aligned young firtrees, syringing, pruning, staking, sowing 
hayseed, trundling a weedladen wheelbarrow without excessive fatigue at sunset 
amid the scent of newmown hay, ameliorating the soil, multiplying 
wisdom, achieving longevity. What syllabus of intellectual pursuits was simultaneously 
possible? Snapshot photography, comparative study of religions, folklore relative to 
various amatory and superstitious practices, contemplation of the celestial constellations. 
What lighter recreations? Outdoor : garden and fieldwork, cycling on 
level macadamised causeways, ascents of moderately high hills, natation in 
secluded fresh water and unmolested river boating in secure wherry 
or light curricle with kedge anchor on reaches free from 
weirs and rapids (period of estivation), vespertinal perambulation or equestrian 
circumprocession with inspection of sterile landscape and contrastingly agreeable cottagers’ 
fires of smoking peat turves (period of hibernation). Indoor discussion 
in tepid security of unsolved historical and criminal problems : 
lecture of unexpurgated exotic erotic masterpieces : house carpentry with 
toolbox containing hammer, awl, nails, screws, tintacks, gimlet, tweezers, bullnose 
plane and turnscrew. Might he become a gentleman farmer of 
field produce and live stock? Not impossibly, with 1 or 
2 stripper cows, 1 pike of upland hay and requisite 
farming implements, e. g., an end-to-end churn, a turnip pulper 
etc. What would be his civic functions and social status 
among the county families and landed gentry? Arranged successively in 
ascending powers of hierarchical order, that of gardener, groundsman, cultivator, 
breeder, and at the zenith of his career, resident magistrate 
or justice of the peace with a family crest and 
coat of arms and appropriate classical motto (Semper paratus), duly 
recorded in the court directory (Bloom, Leopold P., M. P., 
P. C., K. P., L. L. D. honoris causa, Bloomville, 
Dundrum) and mentioned in court and fashionable intelligence (Mr and 
Mrs Leopold Bloom have left Kingstown for England). What course 
of action did he outline for himself in such capacity? 
A course that lay between undue clemency and excessive rigour 
: the dispensation in a heterogeneous society of arbitrary classes, 
incessantly rearranged in terms of greater and lesser social inequality 
of unbiassed homogeneous indisputable justice, tempered with mitigants of the 
widest possible latitude but exactable to the uttermost farthing with 
confiscation of estate, real and personal, to the crown. Loyal 
to the highest constituted power in the land, actuated by 
an innate love of rectitude his aims would be the 
strict maintenance of public order, the repression of many abuses 
though not of all simultaneously (every measure of reform or 
retrenchment being a preliminary solution to be contained by fluxion 
in the final solution), the upholding of the letter of 
the law (common, statute and law merchant) against all traversers 
in covin and trespassers acting in contravention of bylaws and 
regulations, all resuscitators (by trespass and petty larceny of kindlings) 
