You will fall. You are falling. On the hands down! 
bloom (Her eyes upturned in the sign of admiration, closing.) 
Truffles! (With a piercing epileptic cry she sinks on all 
fours, grunting, snuffling, rooting at his feet, then lies, shamming 
dead with eyes shut tight, trembling eyelids, bowed upon the 
ground in the attitude of most excellent master.) bello (With 
bobbed hair, purple gills, fat moustache rings ronnd his shaven 
mouth, in mountaineer’s puttees, green silverbuttoned coat, sport skirt and 
alpine hat with moorcock’s feather, his hands stuck deep in 
his breeches pockets, places his heel on her neck and 
grinds it in.) Feel my entire weight. Bow, bondslave, before 
the throne of your despot’s glorious heels, so glistening in 
their proud erectness. bloom (Enthralled, bleats.) I promise never to 
disobey. bello (Laughs loudly.) Holy smoke! You little know what’s 
in store for you. I’m the tartar to settle your 
little lot and break you in! I’ll bet Kentucky cocktails 
all round I shame it out of you, old son. 
Cheek me, I dare you. If you do tremble in 
anticipation of heel discipline to be inflicted in gym costume. 
(Bloom creeps under the sofa and peers out through the 
fringe.) zoe (Widening her slip to screen her.) She’s not 
here. bloom (Closing her eyes.) She’s not here. florry (Hiding 
her with her gown.) She didn’t mean it, Mr Bello. 
She’ll be good, sir. kitty Don’t be too hard on 
her, Mr Bello. Sure you won’t, ma’amsir. bello (Coaxingly.) Come, 
ducky dear. I want a word with you, darling, just 
to administer correction. Just a little heart to heart talk, 
sweety. (Bloom puts out her timid head.) There’s a good 
girly now. (Bello grabs her hair violently and drags her 
forward.) I only want to correct you for your own 
good on a soft safe spot. How’s that tender behind? 
O, ever so gently, pet. Begin to get ready. bloom 
(Fainting.) Don’t tear my… bello (Savagely.) The nosering, the pliers, 
the bastinado, the hanging hook, the knout I’ll make you 
kiss while the flutes play like the Nubian slave of 
old. You’re in for it this time. I’ll make you 
remember me for the balance of your natural life. (His 
forehead veins swollen, his face congested.) I shall sit on 
your ottomansaddleback every morning after my thumping good breakfast of 
Matterson’s fat ham rashers and a bottle of Guinness’s porter. 
(He belches.) And suck my thumping good Stock Exchange cigar 
while I read the Licensed Victualler’s Gazette. Very possibly I 
shall have you slaughtered and skewered in my stables and 
enjoy a slice Of you with crisp crackling from the 
baking tin basted and baked like sucking pig with rice 
and lemon or currant sauce. It will hurt you. (He 
twists her arm. Bloom squeaks, turning turtle.) bloom Don’t be 
cruel, nurse! Don’t! bello (Twisting.) Another! bloom (Screams.) O, it’s 
hell itself! Every nerve in my body aches like mad! 
bello (Shouts.) Good, by the rumping jumping general! That’s the 
