everlasting. Two old women fresh from their whiff of the 
briny trudged through Irishtown along London bridge road, one with 
a sanded umbrella, one with a midwife’s bag in which 
eleven cockles rolled. The whirr of flapping leathern bands and 
hum of dynamos from the powerhouse urged Stephen to be 
on. Beingless beings. Stop! Throb always without you and the 
throb always within. Your heart you sing of. I between 
them. Where? Between two roaring worlds where they swirl, I. 
Shatter them, one and both. But stun myself too in 
the blow. Shatter me you who can. Bawd and butcher, 
were the words. I say! Not yet awhile. A look 
around. Yes, quite true. Very large and wonderful and keeps 
famous time. You say right, sir. A Monday morning, ’twas 
so, indeed. Stephen went down Bedford row, the handle of 
the ash clacking against his shoulderblade. In Clohissey’s window a 
faded 1860 print of Heenan boxing Sayers held his eye. 
Staring backers with square hats stood round the roped prizering. 
The heavyweights in light loincloths proposed gently each to other 
his bulbous fists. And they are throbbing : heroes’ hearts. 
He turned and halted by the slanted bookcart. — Twopence 
each, the huckster said. Four for sixpence. Tattered pages. The 
Irish Beekeeper. Life and Miracles of the Curé of Ars. 
Pocket Guide to Killarney. I might find here one of 
my pawned schoolprizes. Stephano Dedalo, alumno optimo, palmam ferenti. Father 
Conmee, having read his little hours, walked through the hamlet 
of Donnycarney, murmuring vespers. Binding too good probably, what is 
this? Eighth and ninth book of Moses. Secret of all 
secrets. Seal of King David. Thumbed pages : read and 
read. Who has passed here before me? How to soften 
chapped hands. Recipe for white wine vinegar. How to win 
a woman’s love. For me this. Say the following talisman 
three times with hands folded : — Se et yilo 
nebrakada femininum! Amor me solo! Sanktus! Amen. Who wrote this? 
Charms and invocations of the most blessed abbot Peter Salanka 
to all true believers divulged. As good as any other 
abbot’s charms, as mumbling Joachim’s. Down, baldynoddle, or we’ll wool 
your wool. — What are you doing here, Stephen? Dilly’s 
high shoulders and shabby dress. Shut the book quick. Don’t 
let see. — What are you doing? Stephen said. A 
Stuart face of nonesuch Charles, lank locks falling at its 
sides. It glowed as she crouched feeding the fire with 
broken boots. I told her of Paris. Late lieabed under 
a quilt of old overcoats, fingering a pinchbeck bracelet, Dan 
Kelly’s token. Nebrakada femininum. — What have you there? Stephen 
asked. — I bought it from the other cart for 
a penny, Dilly said, laughing nervously. Is it any good? 
My eyes they say she has. Do others see me 
so? Quick, far and daring. Shadow of my mind. He 
took the coverless book from her hand. Chardenal’s French primer. 
— What did you buy that for? he asked. To 
