give his hand in salutation. The second in the cofferoom 
of Breslin’s hotel on a rainy Sunday in the January 
of 1892, in the company of Stephen’s father and Stephen’s 
granduncle, Stephen being then 5 years older. Did Bloom accept 
the invitation to dinner given then by the son and 
afterwards seconded by the father? Very gratefully, with grateful appreciation, 
with sincere appreciative gratitude, in appreciatively grateful sincerity of regret, 
he declined. Did their conversation on the subject of these 
reminiscences reveal a third connecting link between them? Mrs Riordan, 
a widow of independent means, had resided in the house 
of Stephen’s parents from 1 September 1888 to 29 December 
1891 and had also resided during the years 1892, 1893 
and 1894 in the City Arms Hotel owned by Elizabeth 
O’Dowd of 54 Prussia street where during parts of the 
years 1893 and 1894 she had been a constant informant 
of Bloom who resided also in the same hotel, being 
at that time a clerk in the employment of Joseph 
Cuffe of 5 Smithfield for the superintendence of sales in 
the adjacent Dublin Cattle market on the North Circular road. 
Had he performed any special corporal work of mercy for 
her? He had sometimes propelled her on warm summer evenings, 
an infirm widow of independent, if limited means, in her 
convalescent bathchair with slow revolutions of its wheels as far 
as the corner of the North Circular road opposite Mr 
Gavin Low’s place of business where she had remained for 
a certain time scanning through his onelensed binocular fieldglasses unrecognisable 
citizens on tramcars, roadster bicycles, equipped with inflated pneumatic tyres, 
hackney carriages, tandems, private and hired landaus, dogcarts, ponytraps and 
brakes passing from the city to the Phoenix Park and 
vice versa. Why could he then support that his vigil 
with the greater equanimity? Because in middle youth he had 
often sat observing through a rondel of bossed glass of 
a multicoloured pane the spectacle offered with continual changes of 
the thoroughfare without, pedestrians, quadrupeds, velocipedes, vehicles, passing slowly, quickly, 
evenly, round and round and round the rim of a 
round precipitous globe. What distinct different memories had each of 
her now eight years deceased? The older, her bezique cards 
and counters, her Skye terrier, her suppositious wealth, her lapses 
of responsiveness and incipient catarrhal deafness : the younger, her 
lamp of colza oil before the statue of the Immaculate 
Conception, her green and maroon brushes for Charles Stewart Parnell 
and for Michael Davitt, her tissue papers. Were there no 
means still remaining to him to achieve the rejuvenation which 
these reminiscences divulged to a younger companion rendered the more 
desirable? The indoor exercices, formerly intermittently practised, subsequently abandoned, prescribed 
in Eugen Sandow’s Physical Strength and How To Obtain It 
which, designed particularly for commercial men engaged in sedentary occupations, 
were to be made with mental concentration in front of 
a mirror so as to bring into play the various 
families of muscles and produce successively a pleasant relaxation and 
