a pious medal he had that saved him. So then 
after that they drifted on to the wreck of Daunt’s 
rock, wreck of that illfated Norwegian barque — nobody could 
think of her name for the moment till the jarvey 
who had really quite a look of Henry Campbell remembered 
it, Palme, on Booterstown Strand, that was the talk of 
the town that year (Albert William Quill wrote a fine 
piece of original verse of distinctive merit on the topic 
for the Irish Times) breakers running over her and crowds 
and crowds on the shore in commotion petrified with horror. 
Then someone said something about the case of the s. 
s. Lady Cairns of Swansea, run into by the Mona, 
which was on an opposite tack, in rather muggyish weather 
and lost with all hands on deck. No aid was 
given. Her master, the Mona’s, said he was afraid his 
collision bulkhead would give way. She had no water, it 
appears, in her hold. At this stage an incident happened. 
It having become necessary for him to unfurl a reef, 
the sailor vacated his seat. — Let me cross your 
bows, mate, he said to his neighbour, who was just 
gently dropping off into a peaceful dose. He made tracks 
heavily, slowly, with a dumpy sort of a gait to 
the door, stepped heavily down the one step there was 
out of the shelter and bore due left. While he 
was in the act of getting his bearings, Mr Bloom, 
who noticed when he stood up that he had two 
flasks of presumably ship’s rum sticking one out of each 
pocket for the private consumption of his burning interior, saw 
him produce a bottle and uncork it, or unscrew, and, 
applying its nozzle to his lips, take a good old 
delectable swig out of it with a gurgling noise. The 
irrepressible Bloom, who also had a shrewd suspicion that the 
old stager went out on a manœuvre after the counterattraction 
in the shape of a female, who, however, had disappeared 
to all intents and purposes, could, by straining, just perceive 
him, when duly refreshed, by his rum puncheon exploit, gazing 
up at the piers and girders of the Loop Line, 
rather out of his depth, as of course it was 
all radically altered since his last visit and greatly improved. 
Some person or persons invisible directed him to the male 
urinal erected by the cleansing committee all over the place 
for the purpose but, after a brief space of time 
during which silence reigned supreme, the sailor, evidently giving it 
a wide berth, eased himself close at hand, the noise 
of his bilgewater some little time subsequently splashing on the 
ground where it apparently woke a horse of the cabrank. 
A hoof scooped anyway for new foothold after sleep and 
harness jingled. Slightly disturbed in his sentrybox by the brazier 
of live coke, the watcher of the corporation, who, though 
now broken down and fast breaking up, was none other 
