brought it in. ’Twas murmur we did for a gallus 
potion would rouse a friar, I’m thinking, and he limp 
with leching. And we one hour and two hours and 
three hours in Connery’s sitting civil waiting for pints apiece. 
He wailed! — And we to be there, mavrone, and 
you to be unbeknownst sending us your conglomerations the way 
we to have our tongues out a yard long like 
the drouthy clerics do be fainting for a pussful. Stephen 
laughed. Quickly, warningfully Buck Mulligan bent down : — The 
tramper Synge is looking for you, he said, to murder 
you. He heard you pissed on his halldoor in Glasthule. 
He’s out in pampooties to murder you. — Me! Stephen 
exclaimed. That was your contribution to literature. Buck Mulligan gleefully 
bent back, laughing to the dark eavesdropping ceiling. — Murder 
you! he laughed. Harsh gargoyle face that warred against me 
over our mess of hash of lights in rue Saint-André-des-Arts. 
In words of words for words, palabras. Oisin with Patrick. 
Faunman he met in Clamart woods, brandishing a winebottle, C’est 
vendredi saint! Murthering Irish. His image, wandering, he met. I 
mine. I met a fool i’ the forest. — Mr 
Lyster, an attendant said from the door ajar. — … 
in which everyone can find his own. So Mr Justice 
Madden in his Diary of Master Silence has found the 
hunting terms… Yes? What is it? — There’s a gentleman 
here, sir, the attendant said, coming forward and offering a 
card. From the Freeman. He wants to see the files 
of the Kilkenny People for last year. — Certainly, certainly, 
certainly. Is the gentleman?… He took the eager card, glanced, 
not saw, laid down, unglanced, looked, asked, creaked, asked : 
— Is he?… O there! Brisk in a galliard he 
was off and out. In the daylit corridor he talked 
with voluble pains of zeal, in duty bound, most fair, 
most kind, most honest broadbrim. — This gentleman? Freeman’s Journal? 
Kilkenny People? To be sure. Good day, sir. Kilkenny… We 
have certainly… A patient silhouette waited, listening. — All the 
leading provincial… Northern Whig, Cork Examiner, Enniscorthy Guardian, I9O3… Will 
you please?… Evans, conduct this gentleman… If you just follow 
the atten… Or please allow me… This way… Please, sir… 
Voluble, dutiful, he led the way to all the provincial 
papers, a bowing dark figure following his hasty heels. The 
door closed. — The sheeny! Buck Mulligan cried. He jumped 
up and snatched the card. — What’s his name? Ikey 
Moses? Bloom. He rattled on. — Jehovah, collector of prepuces, 
is no more. I found him over in the museum 
when I went to hail the foamborn Aphrodite. The Greek 
mouth that has never been twisted in prayer. Every day 
we must do homage to her. Life of life, thy 
lips enkindle. Suddenly he turned to Stephen : — He 
knows you. He knows your old fellow. O, I fear 
me, he is Greeker than the Greeks. His pale Galilean 
