tryst. From house to house, giving his everwelcome double knock, 
went the nine o’clock postman, the glowworm’s lamp at his 
belt gleaming here and there through the laurel hedges. And 
among the five young trees a hoisted lintstock lit the 
lamp at Leahy’s terrace. By screens of lighted windows, by 
equal gardens a shrill voice went crying, wailing : Evening 
Telegraph, stop press edition! Result of the Gold Cup races! 
and from the door of Dignam’s house a boy ran 
out and called. Twittering the bat flew here, flew there. 
Far out over the sands the coming surf crept, grey. 
Howth settled for slumber tired of long days, of yumyum 
rhododendrons (he was old) and felt gladly the night breeze 
lift, ruffle his fell of ferns. He lay but opened 
a red eye unsleeping, deep and slowly breathing, slumberous but 
awake. And far on Kish bank the anchored lightship twinkled, 
winked at Mr Bloom. Life those chaps out there must 
have, stuck in the same spot. Irish Lights board. Penance 
for their sins. Coastguards too. Rocket and breeches buoy and 
lifeboat. Day we went out for the pleasure cruise in 
the Erin’s King, throwing them the sack of old papers. 
Bears in the zoo. Filthy trip. Drunkards out to shake 
up their livers. Puking overboard to feed the herrings. Nausea. 
And the women, fear of God in their faces. Milly, 
no sign of funk. Her blue scarf loose, laughing. Don’t 
know what death is at that age. And then their 
stomachs clean. But being lost they fear. When we hid 
behind the tree at Crumlin. I didn’t want to. Mamma! 
Mamma! Babes in the wood. Frightening them with masks too. 
Throwing them up in the air to catch them. I’ll 
murder you. Is it only half fun? Or children playing 
battle. Whole earnest. How can people aim guns at each 
other. Sometimes they go off. Poor kids. Only troubles wildfire 
and nettlerash. Calomel purge I got her for that. After 
getting better asleep with Molly. Very same teeth she has. 
What do they love? Another themselves? But the morning she 
chased her with the umbrella. Perhaps so as not to 
hurt. I felt her pulse. Ticking. Little hand it was 
: now big. Dearest Papli. All that the hand says 
when you touch. Loved to count my waistcoat buttons. Her 
first stays I remember. Made me laugh to see. Little 
paps to begin with. Left one is more sensitive, I 
think. Mine too. Nearer the heart. Padding themselves out if 
fat is in fashion. Her growing pains at night, calling, 
wakening me. Frightened she was when her nature came on 
her first. Poor child! Strange moment for the mother too. 
Brings back her girlhood. Gibraltar. Looking from Buena Vista. O’Hara’s 
tower. The seabirds screaming. Old Barbary ape that gobbled all 
his family. Sundown, gunfire for the men to cross the 
lines. Looking out over the sea she told me. Evening 
like this, but clear, no clouds. I always thought I’d 
