sublunary disasters? It seemed to him as possible of proof 
as of confutation and the nomenclature employed in its selenographical 
charts as attributable to verifiable intuition as to fallacious analogy 
: the lake of dreams, the sea of rains, the 
gulf of dews, the ocean of fecundity. What special affinities 
appeared to him to exist between the moon and woman? 
Her antiquity in preceding and surviving successive tellurian generations : 
her nocturnal predominance : her satellitic dependence : her luminary 
reflection : her constancy under all her phases, rising, and 
setting by her appointed times, waxing and waning : the 
forced invariability of her aspect : her indeterminate response to 
inaffirmative interrogation : her potency over effluent and refluent waters 
: her power to enamour, to mortify, to invest with 
beauty, to render insane, to incite to and aid delinquency 
: the tranquil inscrutability of her visage : the terribility 
of her isolated dominant implacable resplendent propinquity : her omens 
of tempest and of calm : the stimulation of her 
light, her motion and her presence : the admonition of 
her craters, her arid seas, her silence : her splendour, 
when visible : her attraction, when invisible. What visible luminous 
sign attracted Bloom’s, who attracted Stephen’s gaze? In the second 
storey (rere) of his (Bloom’s) house the light of a 
paraffin oil lamp with oblique shade projected on a screen 
of roller blind supplied by Frank O’Hara, window blind, curtain 
pole and revolving shutter manufacturer, 16 Aungier street. How did 
he elucidate the mystery of an invisible person, his wife 
Marion (Molly) Bloom, denoted by a visible splendid sign, a 
lamp? With indirect and direct verbal allusions or affirmations : 
with subdued affection and admiration : with description : with 
impediment : with suggestion. Both then were silent? Silent, each 
contemplating the other in both mirrors of the reciprocal flesh 
of theirhisnothis fellowfaces. Were they indefinitely inactive? At Stephen’s suggestion, 
at Bloom’s instigation both, first Stephen, then Bloom, in penumbra 
urinated, their sides contiguous, their organs of micturition reciprocally rendered 
invisible by manual circumposition, their gazes, first Bloom’s, then Stephen’s, 
elevated to the projected luminous and semiluminous shadow. Similarly? The 
trajectories of their, first sequent, then simultaneous, urinations were dissimilar 
: Bloom’s longer, less irruent, in the incomplete form of 
the bifurcated penultimate alphabetical letter who in his ultimate year 
at High School (1880) had been capable of attaining the 
point of greatest altitude against the whole concurrent strength of 
the institution, 210 scholars : Stephen’s higher, more sibilant, who 
in the ultimate hours of the previous day had augmented 
by diuretic consumption an insistent vescical pressure. What different problems 
presented themselves to each concerning the invisible audible collateral organ 
of the other? To Bloom : the problems of irritability, 
tumescence, rigidity, reactivity, dimension, sanitariness, pelosity. To Stephen : the 
problem of the sacerdotal integrity of Jesus circumcised (1st January, 
holiday of obligation to hear mass and abstain from unnecessary 
servile work) and the problem as to whether the divine 
