it rubbed on the menthol cone on her forehead but 
Gerty though she didn’t like her mother taking pinches of 
snuff and that was the only single thing they ever 
had words about, taking snuff. Everyone thought the world of 
her for her gentle ways. It was Gerty who turned 
off the gas at the main every night and it 
was Gerty who tacked up on the wall of that 
place where she never forgot every fortnight the chlorate of 
lime Mr Tunney the grocer’s christmas almanac the picture of 
halcyon days where a young gentleman in the costume they 
used to wear then with a threecornered hat was offering 
a bunch of flowers to his ladylove with oldtime chivalry 
through her lattice window. You could see there was a 
story behind it. The colours were done something lovely. She 
was in a soft clinging white in a studied attitude 
and the gentleman was in chocolate and he looked a 
thorough aristocrat. She often looked at them dreamily when there 
for a certain purpose and felt her own arms that 
were white and soft just like hers with the sleeves 
back and thought about those times because she had found 
out in Walker’s pronouncing dictionary that belonged to grandpapa Giltrap 
about the halcyon days what they meant. The twins were 
now playing in the most approved brotherly fashion, till at 
last Master Jacky who was really as bold as brass 
there was no getting behind that deliberately kicked the ball 
as hard as ever he could down towards the seaweedy 
rocks. Needless to say poor Tommy was not slow to 
voice his dismay but luckily the gentleman in black who 
was sitting there by himself came gallantly to the rescue 
and intercepted the ball. Our two champions claimed their plaything 
with lusty cries and to avoid trouble Cissy Caffrey called 
to the gentleman to throw it to her please. The 
gentleman aimed the ball once or twice and then threw 
it up the strand towards Cissy Caffrey but it rolled 
down the slope and stopped right under Gerty’s skirt near 
the little pool by the rock. The twins clamoured again 
for it and Cissy told her to kick it away 
and let them fight for it so Gerty drew back 
her foot but she wished their stupid ball hadn’t come 
rolling down to her and she gave a kick but 
she missed and Edy and Cissy laughed. — If you 
fail try again, Edy Boardman said. Gerty smiled assent and 
bit her lip. A delicate pink crept into her pretty 
cheek but she was determined to let them see so 
she just lifted her skirt a little but just enough 
and took good aim and gave the ball a jolly 
good kick and it went ever so far and the 
two twins after it down towards the shingle. Pure jealousy 
of course it was nothing else to draw attention on 
account of the gentleman opposite looking. She felt the warm 
