would I get money? Mr Dedalus said. There is no-one 
in Dublin would lend me fourpence. — You got some, 
Dilly said, looking in his eyes. — How do you 
know that? Mr Dedalus asked, his tongue in his cheek. 
Mr Kernan, pleased with the order he had booked, walked 
boldly along James’s street. — I know you did, Dilly 
answered. Were you in the Scotch house now? — I 
was not then, Mr Dedalus said, smiling. Was it the 
little nuns taught you to be so saucy? Here. He 
handed her a shilling. — See if you can do 
anything with that, he said. — I suppose you got 
five, Dilly said. Give me more than that. — Wait 
awhile, Mr Dedalus said threateningly. You’re like the rest of 
them, are you? An insolent pack of little bitches since 
your poor mother died. But wait awhile. You’ll all get 
a short shrift and a long day from me. Low 
blackguardism! I’m going to get rid of you. Wouldn’t care 
if I was stretched out stiff. He’s dead. The man 
upstairs is dead. He left her and walked on. Dilly 
followed quickly and pulled his coat. — Well, what is 
it? he said, stopping. The lacquey rang his bell behind 
their backs. — Barang! — Curse your bloody blatant soul, 
Mr Dedalus cried, turning on him. The lacquey, aware of 
comment, shook the lolling clapper of his bell : but 
feebly : — Bang! Mr Dedalus stared at him. — 
Watch him, he said. It’s instructive. I wonder will he 
allow us to talk. — You got more than that, 
father, Dilly said. — I’m going to show you a 
little trick, Mr Dedalus said. I’ll leave you all where 
Jesus left the jews. Look, that’s all I have. I 
got two shillings from Jack Power and I spent twopence 
for a shave for the funeral. He drew forth a 
handful of copper coins nervously. — Can’t you look for 
some money somewhere? Dilly said. Mr Dedalus thought and nodded. 
— I will, he said gravely. I looked all along 
the gutter in O’Connell street. I’ll try this one now. 
— You’re very funny, Dilly said, grinning. — Here, Mr 
Dedalus said, handing her two pennies. Get a glass of 
milk for yourself and a bun or a something. I’ll 
be home shortly. He put the other coins in his 
pocket and started to walk on. The viceregal cavalcade passed, 
greeted by obsequious policemen, out of Parkgate. — I’m sure 
you have another shilling, Dilly said. The lacquey banged loudly. 
Mr Dedalus amid the din walked off, murmuring to himself 
with a pursing mincing mouth : — The little nuns! 
Nice little things! O, sure they wouldn’t do anything! O, 
sure they wouldn’t really! Is it little sister Monica! From 
the sundial towards James’s Gate walked Mr Kernan pleased with 
the order he had booked for Pulbrook Robertson boldly along 
James’s street, past Shackleton’s offices. Got round him all right. 
