to sir Simon and to this his son young Stephen 
and for that his langour becalmed him there after longest 
wanderings insomuch as they feasted him for that time in 
the honourablest manner. Ruth red him, love led on with 
will to wander, loth to leave. For they were right 
witty scholars. And he heard their aresouns each gen other 
as touching birth and righteousness, young Madden maintaining that put 
such case it were hard the wife to die (for 
so it had fallen out a matter of some year 
agone with a woman of Eblana in Horne’s house that 
now was trespassed out of this world and the self 
night next before her death all leeches and pothecaries had 
taken counsel of her case). And they said farther she 
should live because in the beginning they said the woman 
should bring forth in pain and wherefore they that were 
of this imagination affirmed how young Madden had said truth 
for he had conscience to let her die. And not 
few and of these was young Lynch were in doubt 
that the world was now right evil governed as it 
was never other howbeit the mean people believed it otherwise 
but the law nor his judges did provide no remedy. 
A redress God grant. This was scant said but all 
cried with one acclaim nay, by our Virgin Mother, the 
wife should live and the babe to die. In colour 
whereof they waxed hot upon that head what with argument 
and what for their drinking but the franklin Lenehan was 
prompt each when to pour them ale so that at 
the least way mirth might not lack. Then young Madden 
showed all the whole affair and when he said how 
that she was dead and how for holy religion sake 
by rede of palmer and bedesman and for a vow 
he had made to Saint Ultan of Arbraccan her goodman 
husband would not let her death whereby they were all 
wondrous grieved. To whom young Stephen had these words following, 
Murmur, sirs, is eke oft among lay folk. Both babe 
and parent now glorify their Maker, the one in limbo 
gloom, the other in purge fire. But, gramercy, what of 
those Godpossibled souls that we nightly impossibilise, which is the 
sin against the Holy Ghost, Very God, Lord and Giver 
of Life? For, sirs, he said, our lust is brief. 
We are means to those small creatures within us and 
nature has other ends than we. Then said Dixon junior 
to Punch Costello wist he what ends. But he had 
overmuch drunken and the best word he could have of 
him was that he would ever dishonest a woman whoso 
she were or wife or maid or leman if it 
so fortuned him to be delivered of his spleen of 
lustihead. Whereat Crotthers of Alba Longa sang young Malachi’s praise 
of that beast the unicorn how once in the millennium 
he cometh by his horn the other all this while 
