occasion of the interment of Mrs Mary Goulding, 26 June 
1903, vigil of the anniversary of the decease of Rudolph 
Bloom (born Virag). Was the proposal of asylum accepted? Promptly, 
inexplicably, with amicability, gratefully it was declined. What exchange of 
money took place between host and guest? The former returned 
to the latter, without interest, a sum of money (£ 
1-7-0), one pound seven shilling, advanced by the latter to 
the former. What counterproposals were alternately advanced, accepted, modified, declined, 
restated in other terms, reaccepted, ratified, reconfirmed? To inaugurate a 
prearranged course of Italian instruction, place the residence of the 
instructed. To inaugurate a course of vocal instruction, place the 
residence of the instructress. To inaugurate a series of static, 
semistatic and peripatetic intellectual dialogues, places the residence of both 
speakers (if both speakers were resident in the same place) 
the Ship hotel and tavern, 6 Lower Abbey street (W. 
and E. Connery, proprietors), the National Library of Ireland, 10 
Kildare street, the National Maternity Hospital, 29, 30 and 31 
Holles street, a public garden, the vicinity of a place 
of worship, a conjunction of two or more public thoroughfares, 
the point of bisection of a right line drawn between 
their residences (if both speakers were resident in different places). 
What rendered problematic for Bloom the realisation of these mutually 
selfexcluding propositions? The irreparability of the past : once at 
a performance of Albert Hengler’s circus in the Rotunda, Rutland 
Square, Dublin, anintuitive parti coloured clown in quest of paternity 
had penetrated from the ring to a place in the 
auditorium where Bloom, solitary, was seated and had publicly declared 
to an exhilarated audience that he (Bloom) was his (the 
clown’s) papa. The imprevidibility of the future : once in 
the summer of 1898 he (Bloom) had marked a florin 
(2/–) with three notches on the milled edge and tendered 
it in payment of an account due to and received 
by J. and T. Davy family grocers, i Charlemont Mall, 
Grand Canal, for circulation on the waters of civic finance, 
for possible, circuitous or direct, return. Was the clown Bloom’s 
son? No. Had Bloom’s coin returned? Never. Why would a 
recurrent frustration the more depress him? Because at the critical 
turningpoint of human existence he desired to amend many social 
conditions, the product of inequality and avarice and international animosity. 
He believed then that human life was infinitely perfectible, eliminating 
these conditions? There remained the generic conditions imposed by natural, 
as distinct from human law, as integral parts of the 
human whole; the necessity of destruction to procure alimentary sustenance 
: the painful character of the ultimate functions of separate 
existence, the agonies of birth and death : the monotonous 
menstruation, of simian and (particularly) human females extending from the 
age of puberty to the menopause; inevitable accidents at sea, 
in mines and factories : certain very painful maladies and 
their resultant surgical operations, innate lunacy and congenital criminality, decimating 
epidemics : catastrophic cataclyms which make terror the basis of 
