kip? Buck Mulligan said. How much? Four quid? Lend us 
one. — If you want it, Stephen said. — Four 
shining sovereigns, Buck Mulligan cried with delight. We’ll have a 
glorious drunk to astonish the druidy druids. Four omnipotent sovereigns. 
He flung up his hands and tramped down the stone 
stairs, singing out of tune with a Cockney accent : 
O, won’t we have a merry time, Drinking whisky, beer 
and wine, On coronation Coronation day? O, won’t we have 
a merry time On coronation day? Warm sunshine merrying over 
the sea. The nickel shavingbowl shone, forgotten, on the parapet. 
Why should I bring it down? Or leave it there 
all day, forgotten friendship? He went over to it, held 
it in his hands awhile, feeling its coolness, smelling the 
clammy slaver of the lather in which the brush was 
stuck. So I carried the boat of incense then at 
Clongowes. I am another now and yet the same. A 
servant too. A server of a servant. In the gloomy 
domed livingroom of the tower Buck Mulligan’s gowned form moved 
briskly about the hearth to and fro, hiding and revealing 
its yellow glow. Two shafts of soft daylight fell across 
the flagged floor from the high barbacans : and at 
the meeting of their rays a cloud of coalsmoke and 
fumes of fried grease floated, turning. — We’ll be choked, 
Buck Mulligan said. Haines, open that door, will you? Stephen 
laid the shavingbowl on the locker. A tall figure rose 
from the hammock where it had been sitting, went to 
the doorway and pulled open the inner doors. — Have 
you the key? a voice asked. — Dedalus has it, 
Buck Mulligan said. Janey Mack, I’m choked. He howled without 
looking up from the fire : — Kinch! — It’s 
in the lock, Stephen said, coming forward. The key scraped 
round harshly twice and, when the heavy door had been 
set ajar, welcome light and bright air entered. Haines stood 
at the doorway, looking out. Stephen haled his upended valise 
to the table and sat down to wait. Buck Mulligan 
tossed the fry on to the dish beside him. Then 
he carried the dish and a large teapot over to 
the table, set them down heavily and sighed with relief. 
— I’m melting, he said, as the candle remarked when… 
But hush. Not a word more on that subject. Kinch, 
wake up. Bread, butter, honey. Haines, come in. The grub 
is ready. Bless us, O Lord, and these thy gifts. 
Where’s the sugar? O, jay, there’s no milk. Stephen fetched 
the loaf and the pot of honey and the buttercooler 
from the locker. Buck Mulligan sat down in a sudden 
pet. — What sort of a kip is this? he 
said. I told her to come after eight. — We 
can drink it black, Stephen said. There’s a lemon in 
the locker. — O, damn you and your Paris fads, 
Buck Mulligan said. I want Sandycove milk. Haines came in 
