earthly. Through here. They went up the steps and under 
Merchants’ arch. A darkbacked figure scanned books on the hawker’s 
cart. — There he is, Lenehan said. — Wonder what 
he is buying, M’Coy said, glancing behind. — Leopoldo or 
the Bloom is on the Rye, Lenehan said. — He’s 
dead nuts on sales, M’Coy said. I was with him 
one day and he bought a book from an old 
one in Liffey street for two bob. There were fine 
plates in it worth double the money, the stars and 
the moon and comets with long tails. Astronomy it was 
about. Lenehan laughed. — I’ll tell you a damn good 
one about comet’s tails, he said. Come over in the 
sun. They crossed to the metal bridge and went along 
Wellington quay by the river wall. Master Patrick Aloysius Dignam 
came out of Mangan’s, late Fehrenbach’s, carrying a pound and 
a half of porksteaks. — There was a big spread 
out at Glencree reformatory, Lenehan said eagerly. The annual dinner 
you know. Boiled shirt affair. The lord mayor was there, 
Val Dillon it was, and sir Charles Cameron and Dan 
Dawson spoke and there was music. Bartell D’Arcy sang and 
Benjamin Dollard… — I know, M’Coy broke in. My missus 
sang there once. — Did she? Lenehan said. A card 
Unfurnished Apartments reappeared on the windowsash of number 7 Eccles 
street. He checked his tale a moment but broke out 
in a wheezy laugh. — But wait till I tell 
you, he said. Delahunt of Camden street had the catering 
and yours truly was chief bottlewasher. Bloom and the wife 
were there. Lashings of stuff we put up : port 
wine and sherry and curacoa to which we did ample 
justice. Fast and furious it was. After liquids came solids. 
Cold joints galore and mince pies… — I know, M’Coy 
said. The year the missus was there… Lenehan linked his 
arm warmly. — But wait till I tell you, he 
said. We had a midnight lunch too after all the 
jollification and when we sallied forth it was blue o’clock 
the morning after the night before. Coming home it was 
a gorgeous winter’s night on the Featherbed Mountain. Bloom and 
Chris Callinan were on one side of the car and 
I was with the wife on the other. We started 
singing glees and duets : Lo, the early beam of 
morning. She was well primed with a good load of 
Delahunt’s port under her bellyband. Every jolt the bloody car 
gave I had her bumping up against me. Hell’s delights! 
She has a fine pair, God bless her. Like that. 
He held his caved hands a cubit from him, frowning 
: — I was tucking the rug under her and 
settling her boa all the time. Know what I mean? 
His hands moulded ample curves of air. He shut his 
eyes tight in delight, his body shrinking, and blew a 
sweet chirp from his lips. — The lad stood to 
