till you heard another and blinking facts and the Nelson 
policy putting your blind eye to the telescope and drawing 
un a bill of attainder to impeach a nation and 
Bloom trying to back him up moderation and botheration and 
their colonies and their civilisation. — Their syphilisation, you mean, 
says the citizen. To hell with them! The curse of 
a goodfornothing God light sideways on the bloody thicklugged sons 
of whores’ gets! No music and no art and no 
literature worthy of the name. Any civilisation they have they 
stole from us. Tonguetied sons of bastards’ ghosts. — The 
European family, says J. J… — There’re not European, says 
the citizen. I was in Europe with Kevin Egan of 
Paris. You wouldn’t see a trace of them or their 
language anywhere in Europe except in a cabinet d’aisance. And 
says John Wyse : — Full many a flower is 
born to blush unseen. And says Lenehan that knows a 
bit of the lingo : — Conspuez les Anglais! Perfide 
Albion! He said and then lifted he in his rude 
great brawny strengthy hands the medher of dark strong foamy 
ale and, uttering his tribal slogan Lamh Dearg Abu, he 
drank to the undoing of his foes, a race of 
mighty valorous heroes, rulers of the waves, who sit on 
thrones of alabaster silent as the deathless gods. — What’s 
up with you, says I to Lenehan. You look like 
a fellow that had lost a bob and found a 
tanner. — Gold cup, says he. — Who won, Mr 
Lenehan? says Terry. — Throwaway, says he, at twenty to 
one. A rank outsider. And the rest nowhere. — And 
Bass’s mare? says Terry. — Still running, says he. We’re 
all in a cart. Boylan plunged two quid on my 
tip Sceptre for himself and a lady friend. — I 
had half a crown myself, says Terry, on Zinfandel that 
Mr Flynn gave me. Lord Howard de Walden’s. — Twenty 
to one, says Lenehan. Such is life in an outhouse. 
Throwaway, says he. Takes the biscuit and talking about bunions. 
Frailty, thy name is Sceptre. So he went over to 
the biscuit tin Bob Doran left to see if there 
was anything he could lift on the nod, the old 
cur after him backing his luck with his mangy snout 
up. Old mother Hubbard went to the cupboard. — Not 
there, my child, says he. — Keep your pecker up, 
says Joe. She’d have won the money only for the 
other dog. And J. J. and the citizen arguing about 
law and history with Bloom sticking in an odd word. 
— Some people, says Bloom, can see the mote in 
others’ eyes but they can’t see the beam in their 
own. — Raimeis, says the citizen. There’s no-one as blind 
as the fellow that won’t see, if you know what 
that means. Where are our missing twenty millions of Irish 
should be here today instead of four, our lost tribes? 
