For what we have already received may the Lord make 
us. Milly was a kiddy then. Molly had that elephantgrey 
dress with the braided frogs. Mantailored with selcovered buttons. She 
didn’t like it because I sprained my ankle first day 
she wore choir picnic at the Sugarloaf. As if that. 
Old Goodwin’s tall hat done up with some sticky stuff. 
Flies’ picnic too. Never put a dress on her back 
like it. Fitted her like a glove, shoulder and hips. 
Just beginning to plump it out well. Rabbit pie we 
had that day. People looking after her. Happy. Happier then. 
Snug little room that was with the red wallpaper, Dockrell’s, 
one and ninepence a dozen. Milly’s tubbing night. American soap 
I bought : elderflower. Cosy smell of her bathwater. Funny 
she looked soaped all over. Shapely too. Now photography. Poor 
papa’s daguerrotype atelier he told me of. Hereditary taste. He 
walked along the curbstone. Stream of life. What was the 
name of that priestylooking chap was always squinting in when 
he passed? Weak eyes, woman. Stopped in Citron’s saint Kevin’s 
parade. Pen something. Pendennis? My memory is getting. Pen…? of 
course it’s years ago. Noise of the trams probably. Well, 
if he couldn’t remember the dayfather’s name that he sees 
every day. Bartell d’Arcy was the tenor, just coming out 
then. Seeing her home after practice. Conceited fellow with his 
waxedup moustache. Gave her that song Winds that blow from 
the south. Windy night that was I went to fetch 
her there was that lodge meeting on about those lottery 
tickets after Goodwin’s concert in the supper room or oakroom 
of the mansion house. He and I behind. Sheet of 
her music blew out of my hand against the high 
school railings. Lucky it didn’t. Thing like that spoils the 
effect of a night for her. Professor Goodwin linking her 
in front. Shaky on his pins, poor old sot. His 
farewell concerts. Positively last appearance on any stage. May be 
for months and may be for never. Remember her laughing 
at the wind, her blizzard collar up. Corner of Harcourt 
road remember that gust? Brrfoo! Blew up all her skirts 
and her boa nearly smothered old Goodwin. She did get 
flushed in the wind. Remember when we got home raking 
up the fire and frying up those pieces of lap 
of mutton for her supper with the Chutney sauce she 
liked. And the mulled rum. Could see her in the 
bedroom from the hearth unclamping the busk of her stays. 
White. Swish and soft flop her stays made on the 
bed. Always warm from her. Always liked to let herself 
out. Sitting there after till near two, taking out her 
hairpins. Milly tucked up in beddyhouse. Happy. Happy. That was 
the night… — O, Mr Bloom, how do you do? 
— Oh, how do you do, Mrs Breen? — No 
use complaining. How is Molly those times? Haven’t seen her 
for ages. — In the pink, Mr Bloom said gaily, 
