own Metropolitan police, guardians of our homes, the pluckiest lads 
and the finest body of men, as physique, in the 
service of our sovereign. a voice Turncoat! Up the Boers! 
Who booed Joe Chamberlain? bloom (His hand on the shoulder 
of the first watch.) My old dad too was a 
J.P. I’m as staunch a Britisher as you are, sir. 
I fought with the colours for king and country in 
the absentminded war under general Gough in the park and 
was disabled at Spion Kop and Bloemfontein, was mentioned in 
dispatches. I did all a white man could. (With quiet 
feeling.) Jim Bludso. Hold her nozzle again the bank. first 
watch Profession or trade. bloom Well, I follow a literary 
occupation. Author-journalist. In fact we are just bringing out a 
collection of prize stories of which I am the inventor, 
something that is an entirely new departure. I am connected 
with the British and Irish press. If you ring up… 
(Myles Crawford strides out jerkily, a quill between his teeth. 
His scarlet beak blazes within the aureole of his straw 
hat. He dangles a hank of Spanish onions in one 
hand and holds with the other hand a telephone receiver 
nozzle to his ear.) myles crawford (His cock’s wattles wagging.) 
Hello, seventyseven eightfour. Hello. Freeman’s Urinal and Weekly Arsewiper here. 
Paralyse Europe. You which? Bluebags? Who writes? Is it Bloom? 
(Mr Philip Beaufoy, palefaced, stands in the witnessbox, in accurate 
morning dress, outbreast pocket with peak of handkerchief showing, creased 
lavender trousers and patent boots. He cames a lace portfolio 
labelled Matcham’s Masterstrokes.) beaufoy (Drawls.) No, you aren’t, not by 
a long shot if I know it. I don’t see 
it, that’s all. No born gentleman, no one with the 
most rudimentary promptings of a gentleman would stoop to such 
particularly loathsome conduct. One of those, my lord. A plagiarist. 
A soapy sneak masquerading as a literateur. It’s perfectly obvious 
that with the most inherent baseness he has cribbed some 
of my bestselling books, really gorgeous stuff, a perfect gem, 
the love passages in which are beneath suspicion. The Beaufoy 
books of love and great possessions with which your lordship 
is doubtless familiar, are a household word throughout the kingdom. 
bloom (Murmurs with hangdog meekness.) That bit about the laughing 
witch hand in hand I take exception to, if I 
may… beaufoy (His lip upcurled, smiles superciliously on the court.) 
You funny ass, you! You’re too beastly awfully weird for 
words! I don’t think you need over excessively disincommodate yourself 
in that regard. My literary agent Mr J. B. Pinker 
is in attendance. I presume, my lord, we shall receive 
the usual witnesses’ fees, shan’t we? We are considerably out 
of pocket over this bally pressman johnny, this jackdaw of 
Rheims, who has not even been to a university. bloom 
(Indistinctly.) University of life. Bad art. beaufoy (Shouts.) It’s a 
damnably foul lie showing the moral rottenness of the man! 
(He extends his portfolio.) We have here damning evidence, the 
