such as talafana, alavatar, hatakalda, wataklasat and that the highest 
adepts were steeped in waves of volupcy of the very 
purest nature. Having requested a quart of buttermilk this was 
brought and evidently afforded relief. Asked if he had any 
message for the living he exhorted all who were still 
at the wrong side of Maya to acknowledge the true 
path for it was reported in devanic circles that Mars 
and Jupiter were out for mischief on the eastern angle 
where the ram has power. It was then queried whether 
there were any special desires on the part of the 
defunct and the reply was : We greet you, friends 
of earth, who are still in the body. Mind C. 
K. doesn’t pile it on. It was ascertained that the 
reference was to Mr Cornelius Kelleher, manager of Messrs H. 
J. O’Neill’s popular funeral establishment, a personal friend of the 
defunct, who had been responsible for the carrying out of 
the interment arrangements. Before departing he requested that it should 
be told to his dear son Patsy that the other 
boot which he had been looking for was at present 
under the commode in the return room and that the 
pair should be sent to Cullen’s to be soled only 
as the heels were still good. He stated that this 
had greatly perturbed his peace of mind in the other 
region and earnestly requested that his desire should be made 
known. Assurances were given that the matter would be attended 
to and it was intimated that this had given satisfaction. 
He is gone from mortal haunts : O’Dignam, sun of 
our morning. Fleet was his foot on the bracken : 
Patrick of the beamy brow. Wail, Banba, with your wind 
: and wail, O ocean, with your whirlwind. — There 
he is again, says the citizen, staring out. — Who? 
says I. — Bloom, says he. He’s on point duty 
up and down there for the last ten minutes. And, 
begob, I saw his physog do a peep in and 
then slidder off again. Little Alf was knocked bawways. Faith, 
he was. — Good Christ! says he. I could have 
sworn it was him. And says Bob Doran, with the 
hat on the back of his poll, lowest blackguard in 
Dublin when he’s under the influence : — Who said 
Christ is good? — I beg your parsnips, says Alf. 
— Is that a good Christ, says Bob Doran, to 
take away poor little Willy Dignam? — Ah, well, says 
Alf, trying to pass it off. He’s over all his 
troubles. But Bob Doran shouts out of him. — He’s 
a bloody ruffian I say, to take away poor little 
Willy Dignam. Terry came down and tipped him the wink 
to keep quiet, that they didn’t want that kind of 
talk in a respectable licensed premises. And Bob Doran starts 
doing the weeps about Paddy Dignam, true as you’re there. 
— The finest man, says he, snivelling, the finest purest 
