beware of imitations. Just you give it a fair trial. 
We enjoyed ourselves immensely. Come. I thirst. Clouding over. No 
black clouds anywhere, are there? Thunderstorm. Allbright he falls, proud 
lightning of the intellect, Lucifer, dico, qui nescit occasum. No. 
My cockle hat and staff and hismy sandal shoon. Where? 
To evening lands. Evening will find itself. He took the 
hilt of his ashplant, lunging with it softly, dallying still. 
Yes, evening will find itself in me, without me. All 
days make their end. By the way next when is 
it? Tuesday will be the longest day. Of all the 
glad new year, mother, the rum tum tiddledy tum. Lawn 
Tennyson, gentleman poet. Già. For the old hag with the 
yellow teeth. And Monsieur Drumont, gentleman journalist. Già. My teeth 
are very bad. Why, I wonder? Feel. That one is 
going too. Shells. Ought I go to a dentist, I 
wonder, with that money? That one. Toothless Kinch, the superman. 
Why is that, I wonder, or does it mean something 
perhaps? My handkerchief. He threw it. I remember. Did I 
not take it up? His hand groped vainly in his 
pockets. No, I didn’t. Better buy one. He laid the 
dry snot picked from his nostril on a ledge of 
rock, carefully. For the rest let look who will. Behind. 
Perhaps there is someone. He turned his face over a 
shoulder, rere regardant. Moving through the air high spars of 
a threemaster, her sails brailed up on the crosstrees, homing, 
upstream, silently moving, a silent ship. 04 Mr Leopold Bloom 
ate with relish the inner organs of beasts and fowls. 
He liked thick giblet soup, nutty gizzards, a stuffed roast 
heart, liver slices fried with crustcrumbs, fried hencods’ roes. Most 
of all he liked grilled mutton kidneys which gave to 
his palate a fine tang of faintly scented urine. Kidneys 
were in his mind as he moved about the kitchen 
softly, righting her breakfast things on the humpy tray. Gelid 
light and air were in the kitchen but out of 
doors gentle summer morning everywhere. Made him feel a bit 
peckish. The coals were reddening. Another slice of bread and 
butter : three, four : right. She didn’t like her 
plate full. Right. He turned from the tray, lifted the 
kettle off the hob and set it sideways on the 
fire. It sat there, dull and squat, its spout stuck 
out. Cup of tea soon. Good. Mouth dry. The cat 
walked stiffly round a leg of the table with tail 
on high. — Mkgnao! — O, there you are, Mr 
Bloom said, turning from the fire. The cat mewed in 
answer and stalked again stiffly round a leg of the 
table, mewing. Just how she stalks over my writingtable. Prr. 
Scratch my head. Prr. Mr Bloom watched curiously, kindly, the 
lithe black form. Clean to see : the gloss of 
her sleek hide, the white button under the butt of 
her tail, the green flashing eyes. He bent down to 
