Waiting always for a word of help his hand moved 
faithfully the unsteady symbols, a faint hue of shame flickering 
behind his dull skin. Amor matris : subjective and objective 
genitive. With her weak blood and wheysour milk she had 
fed him and hid from sight of others his swaddling 
bands. Like him was I, these sloping shoulders, this gracelessness. 
My childhood bends beside me. Too far for me to 
lay a hand there once or lightly. Mine is far 
and his secret as our eyes. Secrets, silent, stony sit 
in the dark palaces of both our hearts : secrets 
weary of their tyranny : tyrants willing to be dethroned. 
The sum was done. — It is very simple, Stephen 
said as he stood up. — Yes, sir. Thanks, Sargent 
answered. He dried the page with a sheet of thin 
blottingpaper and carried his copybook back to his desk. — 
You had better get your stick and go out to 
the others, Stephen said as he followed towards the door 
the boy’s graceless form. — Yes, sir. In the corridor 
his name was heard, called from the playfield. — Sargent 
! — Run on, Stephen said. Mr Deasy is calling 
you. He stood in the porch and watched the laggard 
hurry towards the scrappy field where sharp voices were in 
strife. They were sorted in teams and Mr Deasy came 
stepping over wisps of grass with gaitered feet. When he 
had reached the schoolhouse voices again contending called to him. 
He turned his angry white moustache. — What is it 
now? he cried continually without listening. — Cochrane and Halliday 
are on the same side, sir, Stephen cried. — Will 
you wait in my study for a moment, Mr Deasy 
said, till I restore order here. And as he stepped 
fussily back across the field his old man’s voice cried 
sternly : — What is the matter? What is it 
now? Their sharp voices cried about him on all sides 
: their many forms closed round him, the garish sunshine 
bleaching the honey of his illdyed head. Stale smoky air 
hung in the study with the smell of drab abraded 
leather of its chairs. As on the first day he 
bargained with me here. As it was in the beginning, 
is now. On the sideboard the tray of Stuart coins, 
base treasure of a bog : and ever shall be. 
And snug in their spooncase of purple plush, faded, the 
twelve apostles having preached to all the gentiles : world 
without end. A hasty step over the stone porch and 
in the corridor. Blowing out his rare moustache Mr Deasy 
halted at the table. — First, our little financial settlement, 
he said. He brought out of his coat a pocketbook 
bound by a leather thong. It slapped open and he 
took from it two notes, one of joined halves, and 
laid them carefully on the table strapping and — Two, 
he said, strapping and stowing his pocketbook away. And now 
