towards him along the gutter, scarlet sashes across their boards. 
Bargains. Like that priest they are this morning : we 
have sinned : we have suffered. He read the scarlet 
letters on their five tall white hats : H. E. 
L. Y. S. Wisdom Hely’s. Y lagging behind drew a 
chunk of bread from under his foreboard, crammed it into 
his mouth and munched as he walked. Our staple food. 
Three bob a day, walking along the gutters, street after 
street. Just keep skin and bone together, bread and skilly. 
They are not Boyl : no : M’Glade’s men. Doesn’t 
bring in any business either. I suggested to him about 
a transparent show cart with two smart girls sitting inside 
writing letters, copybooks, envelopes, blotting paper. I bet that would 
have caught on. Smart girls writing something catch the eye 
at once. Everyone dying to know what she’s writing. Get 
twenty of them round you if you stare at nothing. 
Have a finger in the pie. Women too. Curiosity. Pillar 
of salt, Wouldn’t have it of course because he didn’t 
think of it himself first. Or the inkbottle I suggested 
with a false stain of black celluloid. His ideas for 
ads like Plumtree’s potted under the obituaries, cold meat department. 
You can’t lick ’em. What? Our envelopes. Hello! Jones, where 
are you going? Can’t stop, Robinson, I am hastening to 
purchase the only reliable inkeraser Kansell, sold by Hely’s Ltd, 
85 Dame Street. Well out of that ruck I am. 
Devil of a job it was collecting accounts of those 
convents. Tranquilla convent. That was a nice nun there, really 
sweet face. Wimple suited her small head. Sister? Sister? I 
am sure she was crossed in love by her eyes. 
Very hard to bargain with that sort of woman. I 
disturbed her at her devotions that morning. But glad to 
communicate with the outside world. Our great day, she said. 
Feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel. Sweet name too 
: caramel. She knew, I think she knew by the 
way she. If she had married she would have changed. 
I suppose they really were short of money. Fried everything 
in the best butter all the same. No lard for 
them. My heart’s broke eating dripping. They like buttering themselves 
in and out. Molly tasting it, her veil up. Sister? 
Pat Claffey, the pawnbroker’s daughter. It was a nun they 
say invented barbed wire. He crossed Westmoreland street when apostrophe 
S had plodded by. Rover cycleshop. Those races are on 
today. How long ago is that? Year Phil Gilligan died. 
We were in Lombard street west. Wait, was in Thom’s. 
Got the job in Wisdom Hely’s year we married. Six 
years. Ten years ago : ninetyfour he died, yes that’s 
right, the big fire at Arnott’s. Val Dillon was lord 
mayor. The Glencree dinner. Alderman Robert O’Reilly emptying the port 
into his soup before the flag fell, Bobbob lapping it 
for the inner alderman. Couldn’t hear what the band played. 
