on the jagged granite, leaned his palm against his brow 
and gazed at the fraying edge of his shiny black 
coatsleeve. Pain, that was not yet the pain of love, 
fretted his heart. Silently, in a dream she had come 
to him after her death, her wasted body within its 
loose brown graveclothes giving off an odour of wax and 
rosewood, her breath, that had bent upon him, mute, reproachful, 
a faint odour of wetted ashes. Across the threadbare cuffedge 
he saw the sea hailed as a great sweet mother 
by the wellfed voice beside him. The ring of bay 
and skyline held a dull green mass of liquid. A 
bowl of white china had stood beside her deathbed holding 
the green sluggish bile which she had torn up from 
her rotting liver by fits of loud groaning vomiting. Buck 
Mulligan wiped again his razorblade. — Ah, poor dogsbody, he 
said in a kind voice. I must give you a 
shirt and a few noserags. How are the secondhand breeks? 
— They fit well enough, Stephen answered. Buck Mulligan attacked 
the hollow beneath his underlip. — The mockery of it, 
he said contentedly, secondleg they should be. God knows what 
poxy bowsy left them off. I have a lovely pair 
with a hair stripe, grey. You’ll look spiffing in them. 
I’m not joking, Kinch. You look damn well when you’re 
dressed. — Thanks, Stephen said. I can’t wear them if 
they are grey. — He can’t wear them, Buck Mulligan 
told his face in the mirror. Etiquette is etiquette. He 
kills his mother but he can’t wear grey trousers. He 
folded his razor neatly and with stroking palps of fingers 
felt the smooth skin. Stephen turned his gaze from the 
sea and to the plump face with its smokeblue mobile 
eyes. — That fellow I was with in the Ship 
last night, said Buck Mulligan says you have g. p. 
i. He’s up in Dottyville with Conolly Norman. Genera paralysis 
of the insane. He swept the mirror a half circle 
in the air to flash the tidings abroad in sunlight 
now radiant on the sea. His curling shaven lips laughed 
and the edges of his white glittering teeth. Laughter seized 
all his strong wellknit trunk. — Look at yourself, he 
said, you dreadful bard. Stephen bent forward and peered at 
the mirror held out to him, cleft by a crooked 
crack, hair on end. As he and others see me. 
Who chose this face for me? This dogsbody to rid 
of vermin. It asks me too. — I pinched it 
out of the skivvy’s room, Buck Mulligan said. It does 
her all right. The aunt always keeps plainlooking servants for 
Malachi. Lead him not into temptation. And her name is 
Ursula. Laughing again, he brought the mirror away from Stephen’s 
peering eyes. — The rage of Caliban at not seeing 
his face in a mirror, he said. If Wilde were 
only alive to see you. Drawing back and pointing, Stephen 
