There was a time I was as good as the 
next fellow anyhow. — Put it there, citizen, says Joe. 
You were and a bloody sight better. — Is that 
really a fact? says Alf. — Yes, says Bloom. That’s 
well known. Do you not know that? So off they 
started about Irish sport and shoneen games the like of 
the lawn tennis and about hurley and putting the stone 
and racy of the soil and building up a nation 
once again and all of that. And of course Bloom 
had to have his say too about if a fellow 
had a rower’s heart violent exercise was bad. I declare 
to my antimacassar if you took up a straw from 
the bloody floor and if you said to Bloom : 
Look at, Bloom. Do you see that straw? That’s a 
straw. Declare to my aunt he’d talk about it for 
an hour so he would and talk steady. A most 
interesting discussion took place in the ancient hall of Brian 
O’Ciarnain’s in Sraid na Bretaine Bheag, under the auspices of 
Sluagh na h-Eireann, on the revival of ancient Gaelic sports 
and the importance of physical culture, as understood in ancient 
Greece and ancient Rome and ancient Ireland, for the development 
of the race. The venerable president of this noble order 
was in the chair and the attendance was of large 
dimensions. After an instructive discourse by the chairman, a magnificent 
oration eloquently and forcibly expressed, a most interesting and instructive 
discussion of the usual high standard of excellence ensued as 
to the desirability of the revivability of the ancient games 
and sports of our ancient panceltic forefathers. The wellknown and 
highly respected worker in the cause of our old tongue, 
Mr Joseph M’Carthy Hynes, made an eloquent appeal for the 
resuscitation of the ancient Gaelic sports and pastimes, practised morning 
and evening by Finn Mac Cool, as calculated to revive 
the best traditions of manly strength and powers handed down 
to us from ancient ages. L. Bloom, who met with 
a mixed reception of applause and hisses, having espoused the 
negative the vocalist chairman brought the discussion to a close, 
in response to repeated requests and hearty plaudits from all 
parts of a bumper house house, by a remarkably noteworthy 
rendering of the immortal Thomas Osborne Davis’ evergreen verses (happily 
too familiar to need recalling here) A nation once again 
in the execution of which the veteran patriot champion may 
be said without fear of contradiction to have fairly excelled 
himself. The Irish Caruso-Garibaldi was in superlative form and his 
stentorian notes were heard to the greatest advantage in the 
timehonoured anthem sung as only our citizen can sing it. 
His superb highclass vocalism, which by its superquality greatly enchanced 
his already international reputation, was vociferously applauded by the large 
audience amongst which were to be noticed many prominent members 
of the clergy as well as representatives of the press 
and the bar and the other learned professions. The proceedings 
