druidism by Patrick son of Calpornus, son of Potitus, son 
of Odyssus, sent by pope Celestine I in the year 
432 in the reign of Leary to the year 260 
or thereabouts in the reign of Cormac Mac Art († 
266 A. D.) suffocated by imperfect deglutition of aliment at 
Sletty and interred at Rossnaree. The collapse which Bloom ascribed 
to gastric inanition and certain chemical compounds of varying degrees 
of adulteration and alcoholic strength, accelerated by mental exertion and 
the velocity of rapid circular motion in a relaxing atmosphere, 
Stephen attributed to the reapparition of a matutinal cloud (perceived 
by both from two different points of observation, Sandycove and 
Dublin) at first no bigger than a woman’s hand. Was 
there one point on which their views were equal and 
negative? The influence of gaslight or electric light on the 
growth of adjoining paraheliotropic trees. Had Bloom discussed similar subjects 
during nocturnal perambulations in the past? In 1884 with Ower 
Goldberg and Cecil Turnbull at night on public thoroughfares between 
Longwood avenue and Leonard’s corner and Leonard’s corner and Synge 
street and Synge street and Bloomfield avenue. In 1885 with 
Percy Apjohn in the evenings, reclined against the wall between 
Gibraltar villa and Bloomfield house in Crumlin, barony of Uppercross. 
In 1886 occusionally with casual acquaintances and prospective purchasers on 
doorsteps, in front parlours, in third class railway carriages of 
suburban lines. In 1888 frequently with major Brian Tweedy and 
his daughter Miss Marion Tweedy, together and separately on the 
lounge in Matthew Dillon’s house in Roundtown. Once in 1892 
and once in 1893 with Julius Mastiansky, on both occasions 
in the parlour of his (Bloom’s) house in Lombard street, 
west. What reflection concerning the irregular sequence of dates 1884, 
1885, 1886, 1888, 1892, 1893, 1904 did Bloom make before 
their arrival at their destination? He reflected that the progressive 
extension of the field of individual development and experience was 
regressively accompanied by a restriction of the converse domain of 
interindividual relations. As in what ways? From inexistence to existence 
he came to many and was as one received : 
existence with existence he was with any as any with 
any : from existence to nonexistence gone he would be 
by all as none perceived. What did Bloom make on 
their arrival at their destination? At the housesteps of the 
4th of the equidifferent uneven numbers, number 7 Eccles street, 
he inserted his hand mechanically into the back pocket of 
his trousers to obtain his latchkey. Was it there? It 
was in the corresponding pocket of the trousers which he 
had worn on the day but one preceding. Why was 
he doubly irritated? Because he had forgotten and because he 
remembered that he had reminded himself twice not to forget. 
What were then the alternatives before the, premeditatedly (respectively) and 
inadvertently, keyless couple? To enter or not to enter. To 
knock or not to knock. Bloom’s decision? A stratagem. Resting 
his feet on the dwarf wall, he climbed over the 
