all night long and lie like old boots. Look at 
him. Yet still, though his eyes were thick with sleep 
and sea air, life was full of a host of 
things and coincidences of a terrible nature and it was 
quite within the bounds of possibility that it was not 
an entire fabrication though at first blush there was not 
much inherent probability in all the spoof he got off 
his chest being strictly accurate gospel. He had been meantime 
taking stock of the individual in front of him and 
Sherlockholmesing him up, ever since he clapped eyes on him. 
Though a wellpreserved man of no little stamina, if a 
trifle prone to baldness, there was something spurious in the 
cut of his jib that suggested a jail delivery and 
it required no violent stretch of imagination to associate such 
a weirdlooking specimen with the oakum and treadmill fraternity. He 
might even have done for his man, supposing it was 
his own case he told, as people often did about 
others, namely, that he killed him himself and had served 
his four or five goodlooking years in durance vile to 
say nothing of the Antonio personage (no relation to the 
dramatic personage of identical name who sprang from the pen 
of our national poet) who expiated his crimes in the 
melodramatic manner above described. On the other hand he might 
be only bluffing, a pardonable weakness, because meeting unmistakable mugs, 
Dublin residents, like those jarvies waiting news from abroad, would 
tempt any ancient mariner who sailed the ocean seas to 
draw the long bow about the schooner Hesperus and etcetera. 
And when all was said and done, the lies a 
fellow told about himself couldn’t probably hold a proverbial candle 
to the wholesale whoppers other fellows coined about him. — 
Mind you, I’m not saying that it’s all a pure 
invention, he resumed. Analogous scenes are occasionally, if not often, 
met with. Giants, though, that is rather a far cry 
you see once in a way. Marcella, the midget queen. 
In those waxworks in Henry street I myself saw some 
Aztecs, as they are called, sitting bowlegged. They couldn’t straighten 
their legs if you paid them because the muscles here, 
you see, he proceeded, indicating on his companion the brief 
outline, the sinews, or whatever you like to call them, 
behind the right knee, were utterly powerless from sitting that 
way so long cramped up, being adored as gods. There’s 
an example again of simple souls. However, reverting to friend 
Sinbad and his horrifying adventures (who reminded him a bit 
of Ludwig, alias Ledwidge, when he occupied the boards of 
the Gaiety when Michael Gunn was identified with the management 
in the Flying Dutchman, a stupendous success, and his host 
of admirers came in large numbers, everyone simply flocking to 
hear him though ships of any sort, phantom or the 
reverse, on the stage usually fell a bit flat as 
also did trains), there was nothing intrinsically incompatible about it, 
