of fluid from the thunderhead, look you, having taken place, 
and all of the order of a natural phenomenon. But 
was young Boasthard’s fear vanquished by Calmer’s words? No, for 
he had in his bosom a spike named Bitterness which 
could not by words be done away. And was he 
then neither calm like the one nor godly like the 
other? He was neither as much as he would have 
liked to be either. But could he not have endeavoured 
to have found again as in his youth the bottle 
Holiness that then he lived withal? Indeed not for Grace 
was not there to find that bottle. Heard he then 
in that clap the voice of the god Bringforth or, 
what Calmer said, a hubbub of Phenomenon? Heard? Why, he 
could not but hear unless he had plugged up the 
tube Understanding (which he had not done). For through that 
tube he saw that he was in the land of 
Phenomenon where he must for a certain one day die 
as he was like the rest too a passing show. 
And would he not accept to die like the rest 
and pass away? By no means would he and make 
more shows according as men do with wives which Phenomenon 
has commanded them to do by the book Law. Then 
wotted he nought of that other land which is called 
Believe-on-Me, that is the land of promise which behoves to 
the king Delightful and shall be for ever where there 
is no death and no birth neither wiving nor mothering 
at which all shall come as many as believe on 
it? Yes, Pious had told him of that land and 
Chaste had pointed him to the way but the reason 
was that in the way he fell in with a 
certain whore of an eyepleasing exterior whose name, she said, 
is Bird-in-the-Hand and she beguiled him wrongways from the true 
path by her flatteries that she said to him as, 
Ho, you pretty man, turn aside hither and I will 
show you a brave place, and she lay at him 
so flatteringly that she had him in her grot which 
is named Two-in-the-Bush or, by some learned, Carnal Concupiscence. This 
was it what all that company that sat there at 
commons in Manse of Mothers the most lusted after and 
if they met with this whore Bird-in-the-Hand (which was within 
all foul plagues, monsters and a wicked devil) they would 
strain the last but they would make at her and 
know her. For regarding Believe-on-Me they said it was nought 
else but notion and they could conceive no thought of 
it for, first, Two-in-the-Bush whither she ticed them was the 
very goodliest grot and in it were four pillows on 
which were four tickets with these words printed on them, 
Pickaback and Topsyturvy and Shameface and Cheek by Jowl and, 
second, for that foul plague Allpox and the monsters they 
cared not for them for Preservative had given them a 
