which was impossible. What considerations rendered it desirable? The attractive 
character of certain localities in Ireland and abroad, as represented 
in general geographical maps of polychrome design or in special 
ordnance survey charts by employment of scale numerals and hachures. 
In Ireland? The cliffs of Moher, the windy wilds of 
Connemara, lough Neagh with submerged petrified city, the Giant’s Causeway, 
Fort Camden and Fort Carlisle, the Golden Vale of Tipperary, 
the islands of Aran, the pastures of royal Meath, Brigid’s 
elm in Kildare, the Queen’s Island shipyard in Belfast, the 
Salmon Leap, the lakes of Killarney. Abroad? Ceylon (with spicegardens 
supplying tea to Thomas Kernan, agent for Pulbrook, Robertson and 
Co, 2 Mincing Lane, London, E. C, 5 Dame Street, 
Dublin), Jerusalem, tbe holy city (with mosque of Omar and 
gate of Damascus, goal of aspiration), the straits of Gibraltar 
(the unique birthplace of Marion Tweedy), the Parthenon (containing statues, 
nude Grecian divinities), the Wall street money market (which controlled 
international finance), the Plaza de Toros at La Linea, Spain 
(where O’Hara of the Camerons had slain the bull), Niagara 
(over which no human being had passed with impunity), the 
land of the Eskimos (eaters of soap), the forbidden country 
of Thibet (from which no traveller returns), the bay of 
Naples (to see which was to die), the Dead Sea. 
Under what guidance, following what signs? At sea, septentrional, by 
night the polestar, located at the point of intersection of 
the right line from beta to alpha in Ursa Major 
produced and divided externally at omega and the hypotenuse of 
the rightangled triangle formed by the line alpha omega so 
produced and the line alpha delta of Ursa Major. On 
land, meridional, a bispherical moon, reveated in imperfect varying phases 
of lunation through the posterior interstice of the imperfectly occluded 
skirt of a carnose negligent perambulating female, a pillar of 
the cloud by day. What public advertisement would divulge the 
occultation of the departed? £ 5 reward, lost, stolen or 
strayed from his residence 7 Eccles street, missing gent about 
40, answering to the name of Bloom Leopold (Poldy), height 
5 ft., 9 1/2 inches, full build, olive complexion, may 
have since grown a beard, when last seen was wearing 
a black suit. Above sum will be paid for information 
leading to his discovery. What universal binomial denominations would be 
his as entity and nonentity? Assumed by any or known 
to none. Everyman or Noman. What tributes his? Honour and 
gifts of strangers, the friends of Everyman. A nymph immortal, 
beauty, the bride of Noman. Would the departed never nowhere 
nohow reappear? Ever he would wander, selfcompelled, to the extreme 
limit of his cometary orbit, beyond the fixed stars and 
variable suns and telescopic planets, astronomical waifs and strays, to 
the extreme boundary of space, passing from land to land, 
among peoples, amid events. Somewhere imperceptibly hea would her and 
somehow reluctantly, suncompelled, obey the summons of recall. Whence, disappearing 
from the constellation of the Northern Crown he would somehow 
