bronze. The maids of honour, Miss Larch Conifer and Miss 
Spruce Conifer, sisters of the bride, wore very becoming costumes 
in the same tone, a dainty motif of plume rose 
being worked into the pleats in a pinstripe and repeated 
capriciously in the jadegreen toques in the form of heron 
feathers of paletinted coral. Senhor Enrique Flor presided at the 
organ with his wellknown ability and, in addition to the 
prescribed numbers of the nuptial mass, played a new and 
striking arrangement of Woodman, spare that tree at the conclusion 
of the service. On leaving the church of Saint Fiacre 
in Horto after the papal blessing the happy pair were 
subjected to a playful crossfire of hazelnuts, beechmast, bayleaves, catkins 
of willow, ivytod, hollyberries, mistletoe sprigs and quicken shoots. Mr 
and Mrs Wyse Conifer Neaulan will spend a quiet honeymoon 
in the Black Forest. — And our eyes are on 
Europe, says the citizen. We had our trade with Spain 
and the French and with the Flemings before those mongrels 
were pupped, Spanish ale in Galway, the winebark on the 
winedark waterway. — And will again, says Joe. — And 
with the help of the holy mother of God we 
will again, says the citizen, clapping his thigh. Our harbours 
that are empty will be full again, Queenstown, Kinsale, Galway, 
Blacksod Bay, Ventry in the kingdom of Kerry, Killybegs, the 
third largest harbour in the wide world with a fleet 
of masts of the Galway Lynches and the Cavan O’Reillys 
and the O’Kennedys of Dublin when the earl of Desmond 
could make a treaty with the emperor Charles the Fifth 
himself. And will again, says he, when the first Irish 
battleship is seen breasting the waves with our own flag 
to the fore, none of your Henry Tudor’s harps, no, 
the oldest flag afloat, the flag of the province of 
Desmond and Thomond, three crowns on a blue field, the 
three sons of Milesius. And he took the last swig 
out of the pint, Moya. All wind and piss like 
a tanyard cat. Cows in Connacht have long horns. As 
much as his bloody life is worth to go down 
and address his tall talk to the assembled multitude in 
Shanagolden where he daren’t show his nose with the Molly 
Maguires looking for him to let daylight through him for 
grabbing the holding of an evicted tenant. — Hear, hear 
to that, says John Wyse. What will you have? — 
An imperial yeomanry, says Lenehan, to celebrate the occasion. — 
Half one, Terry, says John Wyse, and a hands up. 
Terry! Are you asleep? — Yes, sir, says Terry. Small 
whisky and bottle of Allsop. Right, sir. Hanging over the 
bloody paper with Alf looking for spicy bits instead of 
attending to the general public. Picture of a butting match, 
trying to crack their bloody skulls, one chap going for 
the other with his head down like a bull at 
a gate. And another one : Black Beast Burned in 
