up on the other. — Quite so, Martin Cunningham said. 
Mary Anderson is up there now. — Have you good 
artists? — Louis Werner is touring her, Mr Bloom said. 
O yes, we’ll have all topnobbers. J. C. Doyle and 
John MacCormack I hope and. The best, in fact. — 
And Madame, Mr Power said, smiling. Last but not least. 
Mr Bloom unclasped his hands in a gesture of soft 
politeness and clasped them. Smith O’Brien. Someone has laid a 
bunch of flowers there. Woman. Must be his deathday. For 
many happy returns. The carriage wheeling by Farrell’s statue united 
noiselessly their unresisting knees. Oot : a dullgarbed old man 
from the curbstone tendered his wares, his mouth opening : 
oot. — Four bootlaces for a penny. Wonder why he 
was struck off the rolls. Had his office in Hume 
street. Same house as Molly’s namesake. Tweedy, crown solicitor for 
Waterford. Has that silk hat ever since. Relics of old 
decency. Mourning too. Terrible comedown, poor wretch! kicked about like 
snuff at a wake. O’Callaghan on his last legs. And 
Madame. Twenty past eleven. Up. Mrs Fleming is in to 
clean. Doing her hair, humming : voglio e non vorrei. 
No : vorrei e non. Looking at the tips of 
her hairs to see if they are split. Mi trema 
un poco il. Beautiful on that tre her voice is 
: weeping tone. A thrush. A throstle. There is a 
word throstle that expresses that. His eyes passed lightly over 
Mr Power’s goodlooking face. Greyish over the ears. Madame : 
smiling. I smiled back. A smile does a long way. 
Only politeness perhaps. Nice fellow. Who knows is that true 
about the woman he keeps? Not pleasant for the wife. 
Yet they say, who was it told me, there is 
no carnal. You would imagine that would get played out 
pretty quick. Yes, it was Crofton met him one evening 
bringing her a pound of rumpsteak. What is this she 
was? Barmaid in Jury’s. Or the Moira, was it? They 
passed under the hugecloaked Liberator’s form. Martin Cunningham nudged Mr 
Power. — Of the tribe of Reuben, he said. A 
tall blackbearded figure, bent on a stick, stumping round the 
corner of Elvery’s elephant house showed them a curved hand 
open on his spine. — In all his pristine beauty, 
Mr Power said. Mr Dedalus looked after the stumping figure 
and said mildly : — The devil break the hasp 
of your back! Mr Power, collapsing in laughter, shaded his 
face from the window as the carriage passed Gray’s statue. 
— We have all been there, Martin Cunningham said broadly. 
His eyes met Mr Bloom’s eyes. He caressed his beard, 
adding : — Well, nearly all of us. Mr Bloom 
began to speak with sudden eagerness to his companions’ faces. 
— That’s an awfully good one that’s going the rounds 
about Reuben J. and the son. — About the boatman? 
Mr Power asked. — Yes. Isn’t it awfully good? — 
