to pleasure him and took apertly somewhat in amity for 
he never drank no manner of mead which he then 
put by and anon full privily he voided the more 
part in his neighbour glass and his neighbour nist not 
of his wile. And he sat down in that castle 
with them for to rest him there awhile. Thanked be 
Almighty God. This meanwhile this good sister stood by the 
door and begged them at the reverence of Jesu our 
alther liege lord to leave their wassailing for there was 
above one quick with child a gentle dame, whose time 
hied fast. Sir Leopold heard on the upfloor cry on 
high and he wondered what cry that it was whether 
of child or woman and I marvel, said he, that 
it be not come or now. Meseems it dureth overlong. 
And he was ware and saw a franklin that hight 
Lenehan on that side the table that was older than 
any of the tother and for that they both were 
knights virtuous in the one emprise and eke by cause 
that he was elder he spoke to him full gently. 
But, said he, or it be long too she will 
bring forth by God His bounty and have joy of 
her childing for she hath waited marvellous long. And the 
franklin that had drunken said, Expecting each moment to be 
her next. Also he took the cup that stood tofore 
him for him needed never none asking nor desiring of 
him to drink and, Now drink, said he, fully delectably, 
and he quaffed as far as he might to their 
both’s health for he was a passing good man of 
his lustiness. And sir Leopold that was the goodliest guest 
that ever sat in scholars’ hall and that was the 
meekest man and the kindest that ever laid husbandly hand 
under hen and that was the very truest knight of 
the world one that ever did minion service to lady 
gentle pledged him courtly in the cup. Woman’s woe with 
wonder pondering. Now let us speak of that fellowship that 
was there to the intent to be drunken an they 
might. There was a sort of scholars along either side 
the board, that is to wit, Dixon yclept junior of 
saint Mary Merciable’s with other his fellows Lynch and Madden, 
scholars of medicine, and the franklin that hight Lenehan and 
one from Alba Longa, one Crotthers, and young Stephen that 
had mien of a frere that was at head of 
the board and Costello that men clepen Punch Costello all 
long of a mastery of him erewhile gested (and of 
all them, reserved young Stephen, he was the most drunken 
that demanded still of more mead) and beside the meek 
sir Leopold. But on young Malachi they waited for that 
he promised to have come and such as intended to 
no goodness said how he had broke his avow. And 
sir Leopold sat with them for he bore fast friendship 
