Eh? Corny Kelleher said. Mr Kernan assured him. — Who 
is that chap behind with Tom Kernan? John Henry Menton 
asked. I know his face. Ned Lambert glanced back. — 
Bloom, he said, Madam Marion Tweedy that was, is, I 
mean, the soprano. She’s his wife. — O, to be 
sure, John Henry Menton said. I haven’t seen her for 
some time. She was a finelooking woman. I danced with 
her, wait, fifteen seventeen golden years ago, at Mat Dillon’s, 
in Roundtown. And a good armful she was. He looked 
behind through the others. — What is he? he asked. 
What does he do? Wasn’t he in the stationery line? 
I fell foul of him one evening, I remember, at 
bowls. Ned Lambert smiled. — Yes, he was, he said, 
in Wisdom Hely’s. A traveller for blottingpaper. — In God’s 
name, John Henry Menton said, what did she marry a 
coon like that for? She had plenty of game in 
her then. — Has still, Ned Lambert said. He does 
some canvassing for ads. John Henry Menton’s large eyes stared 
ahead. The barrow turned into a side lane. A portly 
man, ambushed among the grasses, raised his hat in homage. 
The gravediggers touched their caps. — John O’Connell, Mr Power 
said, pleased. He never forgets a friend. Mr O’Connell shook 
all their hands in silence. Mr Dedalus said : — 
I am come to pay you another visit. — My 
dear Simon, the caretaker answered in a low voice. I 
don’t want your custom at all. Saluting Ned Lambert and 
John Henry Menton he walked on at Martin Cunningham’s side, 
puzzling two keys at his back. — Did you hear 
that one, he asked them, about Mulcahy from the Coombe? 
— I did not, Martin Cunningham said. They bent their 
silk hats in concert and Hynes inclined his ear. The 
caretaker hung his thumbs in the loops of his gold 
watch chain and spoke in a discreet tone to their 
vacant smiles. — They tell the story, he said, that 
two drunks came out here one foggy evening to look 
for the grave of a friend of theirs. They asked 
for Mulcahy from the Coombe and were told where he 
was buried. After traipsing about in the fog they found 
the grave, sure enough. One of the drunks spelt out 
the name : Terence Mulcahy. The other drunk was blinking 
up at a statue of our Saviour the widow had 
got put up. The caretaker blinked up at one of 
the sepulchres they passed. He resumed : — And, after 
blinking up at the sacred figure, Not a bloody bit 
like the man, says he. That’s not Mulcahy, says he, 
whoever done it. Rewarded by smiles he fell back and 
spoke with Corny Kelleher, accepting the dockets given him, turning 
them over and scanning them as he walked. — That’s 
all done with a purpose, Martin Cunningham explained to Hynes. 
— I know, Hynes said, I know that. — To 
