one imperial pint, the total quantity originally delivered, two cloves, 
a halfpenny and a small dish containing a slice of 
fresh ribsteak. On the upper shelf a battery of jamjars 
of various sizes and proveniences. What attracted his attention lying 
on the apron of the dresser? Four polygonal fragments of 
two lacerated scarlet betting tickets, numbered 8 87, 8 86. 
What reminiscences temporarily corrugated his brow? Reminiscences of coincidences, truth 
stranger than fiction, preindicative of the result of the Gold 
Cup flat handicap, the official and definitive result of which 
he had read in the Evening Telegraph, late pink edition, 
in the cabman’s shelter, at Butt bridge. Where had previous 
intimations of the result, effected or projected, been received by 
him? In Bernard Kiernan’s licensed premises 8, 9 and 10 
Little Britain street : in David Byrne’s licensed premises, 14 
Duke street : in O’Connell street lower, outside Graham Lemon’s 
when a dark man had placed in his hand a 
throwaway (subsequently thrown away), advertising Elijah, restorer of the church 
in Zion : in Lincoln place outside the premises of 
F. W. Sweny and Co (Limited), dispensing chemists, when, when 
Frederick M. (Bantam) Lyons had rapidly and successively requested, perused 
and restituted the copy of the current issue of the 
Freeman’s Journal and National Press which he had been about 
to throw away (subsequently thrown away), he had proceeded towards 
the oriental edifice of the Turkish and Warm Baths, 11 
Leinster street, with the light of inspiration shining in his 
countenance and bearing in his arms the secret of the 
race, graven in the language of prediction. What qualifying considerations 
allayed his perturbations? The difficulties of interpretation since the significance 
of any event followed its occurrence as variably as the 
acoustic report followed the electrical discharge and of counterestimating against 
an actual loss by failure to interpret the total sum 
of possible losses proceeding originally from a successful interpretation. His 
mood? He had not risked, he did not expect, he 
had not been disappointed, he was satisfied. What satisfied him? 
To have sustained no positive loss. To have brought a 
positive gain to others. Light to the gentiles. How did 
Bloom prepare a collation for a gentile? He poured into 
two teacups two level spoonfuls, four in all, of Epps’s 
soluble cocoa and proceeded according to the directions for use 
printed on the label, to each adding after sufficient time 
for infusion the prescribed ingredients for diffusion in the manner 
and in the quantity prescribed. What supererogatory marks of special 
hospitality did the host show his guest? Relinquishing his symposiarchal 
right to the moustache cup of imitation Crown Derby presented 
to him by his only daughter, Millicent (Milly), he substituted 
a cup identical with that of his guest and served 
extraordinarily to his guest and, in reduced measure, to himself, 
the viscous cream ordinarily reserved for the breakfast of his 
wife Marion (Molly). Was the guest conscious of and did 
he acknowledge these marks of hospitality? His attention was directed 
