Like holding water in your hand. Would you go back 
to then? Just beginning then. Would you? Are you not 
happy in your home, you poor little naughty boy? Wants 
to sew on buttons for me. I must answer. Write 
it in the library. Grafton street gay with housed awnings 
lured his senses. Muslin prints, silk,dames and dowagers, jingle of 
harnesses, hoofthuds lowringing in the baking causeway. Thick feet that 
woman has in the white stockings. Hope the rain mucks 
them up on her. Country bred chawbacon. All the beef 
to the heels were in. Always gives a woman clumsy 
feet. Molly looks out of plumb. He passed, dallying the 
windows of Brown Thomas, silk mercers. Cascades of ribbons. Flimsy 
China silks. A tilted urn poured from its mouth a 
flood of bloodhued poplin : lustrous blood. The huguenots brought 
that here. La causa è santa! Tara tara. Great chorus 
that. Tara. Must be washed in rainwater. Meyerbeer. Tara : 
bom bom bom. Pincushions. I’m a long time threatening to 
buy one. Stick them all over the place. Needles in 
window curtains. He bared slightly his left forearm. Scrape : 
nearly gone. Not today anyhow. Must go back for that 
lotion. For her birthday perhaps. Junejuly augseptember eighth. Nearly three 
months off. Then she mightn’t like it. Women won’t pick 
up pins. Say it cuts lo. Gleaming silks, petticoats on 
slim brass rails, rays of flat silk stockings. Useless to 
go back. Had to be. Tell me all. High voices. 
Sunwarm silk. Jingling harnesses. All for a woman, home and 
houses, silk webs, silver, rich fruits, spicy from Jaffa. Agendath 
Netaim. Wealth of the world. A warm human plumpness settled 
down on his brain. His brain yielded. Perfume of embraces 
all him assailed. With hungered flesh obscurely, he mutely craved 
to adore. Duke street. Here we are. Must eat. The 
Burton. Feel better then. He turned Combridge’s corner, still pursued. 
Jingling hoofthuds. Perfumed bodies, warm, full. All kissed, yielded : 
In deep summer fields, tangled pressed grass, in trickling hallways 
of tenements, along sofas, creaking beds. — Jack, love! — 
Darling! — Kiss me, Reggy! — My boy! — Love! 
His heart astir he pushed in the door of the 
Burton restaurant. Stink gripped his trembling breath : pungent meatjuice, 
slop of greens. See the animals feed. Men, men, men. 
Perched on high stools by the bar, hats shoved back, 
at the tables calling for more bread no charge, swilling, 
wolfing gobfuls of sloppy food, their eyes bulging, wiping wetted 
moustaches. A pallid suetfaced young man polished his tumbler knife 
fork and spoon with his napkin. New set of microbes. 
A man with an infant’s saucestained napkin tucked round him 
shovelled gurgling soup down his gullet. A man spitting back 
on his plate : halfmasticated gristle : no teeth to 
chewchewchew it. Chump chop from the grill. Bolting to get 
it over. Sad booser’s eyes. Bitten off more than he 
can chew. Am I like that? See ourselves as others 
