no doubt as several famous cases of feminine infatuation proved 
up to the hilt. It was a thousand pities a 
young fellow blessed with an allowance of brains, as his 
neighbour obviously was, should waste his valuable time with profligate 
women, who might present him with a nice dose to 
last him his lifetime. Inthe nature of single blessedness he 
would one day take unto himself a wife when when 
Miss Right came on the scene but in the interim 
ladies’ society was a conditio sine qua non though he 
had the gravest possible doubts, not that he wanted in 
the smallest to pump Stephen about Miss Ferguson (who was 
very possibly the particular lodestar who brought him down to 
Irishtown so early in the morning), as to whether he 
would find much satisfaction basking in the boy and girl 
courtship idea and the company of smirking misses without a 
penny to their names bi-or tri-weekly with the orthodox preliminary 
canter of complimentpaying and walking out leading up to fond 
lovers’ ways and flowers and chocs. To think of him 
house and homeless, rooked by some landlady worse than any 
stepmother, was really too bad at his age. The queer 
suddenly things he popped out with attracted the elder man 
who was several years the other’s senior or like his 
father. But something substantial he certainly ought to eat, were 
it only an eggflip made on unadulterated maternal nutriment or, 
failing that, the homely Humpty Dumpty boiled. — At what 
o’clock did you dine? he questioned of the slim form 
and tired though unwrinkled face. — Some time yesterday, Stephen 
said. — Yesterday, exclaimed Bloom till he remembered it was 
already tomorrow, Friday. Ah, you mean it’s after twelve! — 
The day before yesterday, Stephen said, improving on himself. Literally 
astounded at this piece of intelligence Bloom, reflected. Though they 
didn’t see eye to eye in everything, a certain analogy 
there somehow was, as if both their minds were travelling, 
so to speak, in the one train of thought. At 
his age when dabbling in politics roughly some score of 
years previously when he had been a quasi aspirant to 
parliamentary honours in the Buckshot Foster days he too recollected 
in retrospect (which was a source of keen satisfaction in 
itself) he had a sneaking regard for those same ultra 
ideas. For instance, when the evicted tenants question, then at 
its first inception, bulked largely in people’s minds though, it 
goes without saying, not contributing a copper or pinning his 
faith absolutely to its dictums, some of which wouldn’t exactly 
hold water, he at the outset in principle, at all 
events, was in thorough sympathy with peasant possession, as voicing 
the trend of modern opinion, a partiality, however, which, realising 
his mistake, he was subsequently partially cured of, and even 
was twitted with going a step further than Michael Davitt 
in the striking views he at one time inculcated as 
a backtothelander, which was one reason he strongly resented the 
