sugars. Because he no pay me my moneys? For nonperishable 
goods bought of Moses Herzog, of 13 Saint Kevin’s parade, 
Wood quay ward, merchant, hereinafter called the vendor, and sold 
and delivered to Michael E. Geraghty, Esquire, of 29 Arbour 
Hill in the city of Dublin, Arran quay ward, gentleman, 
hereinafter called the purchaser, videlicet, five pounds avoirdupois of first 
choice tea at three shillings per pound avoirdupois and three 
stone avoirdupois of sugar, crushed crystal, at three pence per 
pound avoirdupois, the said purchaser debtor to the said vendor 
of one pound five shillings and six pence sterling for 
value received which amount shall be paid by said purchaser 
to said vendor in weekly instalments every seven calendar days 
of three shillings and no pence sterling : and the 
said nonperishable goods shall not be pawned or pledged or 
sold or otherwise alienated by the said purchaser but shall 
be and remain and be held to be the sole 
and exclusive property of the said vendor to be disposed 
of at his good will and pleasure until the said 
amount shall have been duly paid by the said purchaser 
to the said vendor in the manner herein set forth 
as this day hereby agreed between the said vendor his 
heirs, successors, trustees and assigns of the one part and 
the said purchaser, his heirs, successors, trustees and assigns of 
the other part. — Are you a strict t. t.? 
says Joe. — Not taking anything between drinks, says I. 
— What about paying our respects to our friend? says 
Joe. — Who? says I. Sure, he’s in John of 
God’s off his head, poor man. — Drinking his own 
stuff? says Joe. — Ay, says I. Whisky and water 
on the brain. — Come around to Barney Kiernan’s, says 
Joe. I want to see the citizen. — Barney mavourneen’s 
be it, says I. Anything strange or wonderful, Joe? — 
Not a word, says Joe. I was up at that 
meeting in the City Arms. — What was that, Joe? 
says I. — Cattle traders, says Joe, about the foot 
and mouth disease. I want to give the citizen the 
hard word about it. So we went around by the 
Linenhall barracks and the back of the courthouse talking of 
one thing or another. Decent fellow Joe when he has 
it but sure like that he never has it. Jesus, 
I couldn’t get over that bloody foxy Geraghty, the daylight 
robber. For trading without a licence, says he. In Inisfail 
the fair there lies a land, the land of holy 
Michan. There rises a watchtower beheld of men afar. There 
sleep the mighty dead as in life they slept, warriors 
and princes of high renown. A pleasant land it is 
in sooth of murmuring waters, fishful streams where sport the 
gunnard, the plaice, the roach, the halibut, the gibbed haddock, 
the grilse, the dab, the brill, the flounder, the mixed 
coarse fish generally and other denizens of the aqueous kingdom 
