practical catholic : useful at mission time. A onlegged sailor, 
swinging himself onward by lazy jerks of his crutches, growled 
some notes. He jerked short before the convent of the 
sisters of charity and held out a peaked cap for 
aims towards the very reverend John Conmee S. J. Father 
Conmee blessed him in the sun for his purse held, 
he knew, one silver crown. Father Conmee crossed to Mountjoy 
square. He thought, but not for long, of soldiers and 
sailors, whose legs had been shot off by cannonballs, ending 
their days in some pauper ward, and of cardinal Wolsey’s 
words : If I had served my God as I 
have served my king He would not have abandoned me 
in my old days. He walked by the treeshade of 
sunnywinking leaves and towards him come the wife of Mr 
David Sheehy M. P. — Very well, indeed, father. And 
you father? Father Conmee was wonderfully well indeed. He would 
go to Buxton probably for the waters. And her boys, 
were they getting on well at Belvedere? Was that so? 
Father Conmee was very glad indeed to hear that. And 
Mr Sheehy himself? Still in London. The house was still 
sitting, to be sure it was. Beautiful weather it was, 
delightful indeed. Yes, it was very probable that Father Bernard 
Vaughan would come again to preach. O, yes : a 
very great success. A wonderful man really. Father Conmee was 
very glad to see the wife of Mr David Sheehy 
M. P. looking so well and he begged to be 
remembered to Mr David Sheedy M. P. Yes, he would 
certainly call. — Good afternoon, Mrs Sheehy. Father Conmee doffed 
his silk hat, as he took leave, at the jet 
beads of her mantilla inkshining in the sun. And smiled 
yet again in going. He had cleaned his teeth, he 
knew, with arecanut paste. Father Conmee walked and, walking, smiled 
for he thought on Father Bernard Vaughan’s droll eyes and 
cockney voice. — Pilate! Wy don’t you old back that 
owlin mob? A zealous man, however. Really he was. And 
really did great good in his way. Beyond a doubt. 
He loved Ireland, he said, and he loved the Irish. 
Of good family too would one think it? Welsh, were 
they not? O, lest he forget. That letter to father 
provincial. Father Conmee stropped three little schoolboys at the corner 
of Mountjoy square. Yes : they were from Belvedere. The 
little house : Aha. And were they good boys at 
school? O. That was very good now. And what was 
his name? Jack Sohan. And his name? Ger. Gallaher. And 
the other little man? His name was Brunny Lynam. O, 
that was a very nice name to have. Father Conmee 
gave a letter from his breast to master Brunny Lynam 
and pointed to the red pillarbox at the corner of 
Fitzgibbon street. — But mind you don’t post yourself into 
the box, little man, he said. The boys sixeyed Father 
