walk like? Forget : a dispossessed. With mother’s money order, 
eight shillings, the banging door of the post office slammed 
in your face by the usher. Hunger toothache. Encore deux 
minutes. Look clock. Must get. Fermé. Hired dog ! Shoot 
him to bloody bits with a bang shotgun, bits man 
spattered walls all brass buttons. Bits all khrrrrklak in place 
clack back. Not hurt? O, that’s all right. Shake hands. 
See what I meant, see? O, that’s all right. Shake 
a shake. O, that’s all only all right. You were 
going to do wonders, what? Missionary to Europe after fiery 
Columbanus. Fiacre and Scotus on their creepystools in heaven spilt 
from their pintpots, loudlatinlaughing : Euge ! Euge ! Pretending 
to speak broken English as you dragged your valise, porter 
threepence, across the slimy pier at Newhaven. Comment? Rich booty 
you brought back; Le Tutu, five tattered numbers of Pantalon 
Blanc et Culotte Rouge, a blue French telegram, curiosity to 
show : — Mother dying come home father. The aunt 
thinks you killed your mother. That’s why she won’t. Then 
here’s a health to Mulligan’s aunt And I’ll tell you 
the reason why. She always kept things decent in The 
Hannigan famileye. His feet marched in sudden proud rhythm over 
the sand furrows, along by the boulders of the south 
wall. He stared at them proudly, piled stone mammoth skulls. 
Gold light on sea, on sand, on boulders. The sun 
is there, the slender trees, the lemon houses. Paris rawly 
waking, crude sunlight on her lemon streets. Moist pith of 
farls of bread, the froggreen wormwood, her matin incense, court 
the air. Belluomo rises from the bed of his wife’s 
lover’s wife, the kerchiefed housewife is astir, a saucer of 
acetic acid in her hands. In Rodot’s Yvonne and Madeleine 
newmake their tumbled beauties, shattering with gold teeth chaussons of 
pastry, their mouths yellowed with the pus of flan bréton. 
Faces of Paris men go by, their well pleased pleasers, 
curled conquistadores. Noon slumbers. Kevin Egan rolls gunpowder cigarettes through 
fingers smeared with printer’s ink, sipping his green fairy as 
Patrice his white. About us gobblers fork spiced beans down 
their gullets. Un demi sétier! A jet of coffee steam 
from the burnished caldron. She serves me at his beck. 
Il est Irlandais. Hollandais? Non fromage. Deux Irlandais, nous, Irlande, 
vous savez? Ah oui! She thought you wanted a cheese 
hollandais. Your postprandial, do you know that word? Postprandial. There 
was a fellow I knew once in Barcelona, queer fellow, 
used to call it his postprandial. Well : slainte! Around 
the slabbed tables the tangle of wined breaths and grumbling 
gorges. His breath hangs over our saucestained plates, the green 
fairy’s fang thrusting between his lips. Of Ireland, the Dalcassians, 
of hopes, conspiracies, of Arthur Griffith now. To yoke me 
as his yokefellow, our crimes our common cause. You’re your 
father’s son. I know the voice. His fustian shirt, sanguineflowered, 
trembles its Spanish tassels at his secrets. M. Drumont, famous 
