Latin poet has handed down to us in the pages 
of his Metamorphoses. The impression made by his words was 
immediate but shortlived. It was effaced as easily as it 
had been evoked by an allocution from Mr Candidate Mulligan 
in that vein of pleasantry which none better than he 
knew how to affect, postulating as the supremest object of 
desire a nice clean old man. Contemporaneously, a heated argument 
having arisen between Mr Delegate Madden and Mr Candidate Lynch 
regarding the juridical and theological dilemma in the even of 
one Siamese twin predeceasing the other, the difficulty by mutual 
consent was referred to Mr Canvasser Bloom for instant submittal 
to Mr Coadjutor Deacon Dedalus. Hitherto silent, whether the better 
to show by preternatural gravity that curious dignity of the 
garb with which he was invested or in obedience to 
an inward voice, he delivered briefly, and as some thought 
perfunctorily, the ecclesiastical ordinance forbidding man to put asunder what 
God has joined. But Malachias’ tale began to freeze them 
with horror. He conjured up the scene before them. The 
secret panel beside the chimney slid back and in the 
recess appeared… Haines! Which of us did not feel his 
flesh creep? He had a portfolio full of Celtic literature 
in one hand, in the other a phial marked Poison. 
Surprise, horror, loathing were depicted on all faces while he 
eyed them with a ghastly grin. I anticipated some such 
reception, he began with an eldritch laugh, for which, it 
seems, history is to blame. Yes, it is true. I 
am the murderer of Samuel Childs. And how I am 
punished! The inferno has no terrors for me. This is 
the appearance is on me. Tare and ages, what way 
would I be resting at all, he muttered thickly, and 
I tramping Dublin this while back with my share of 
songs and himself after me the like of a soulth 
or a bullawurrus? My hell, and Ireland’s, is in this 
life. It is what I tried to obliterate my crime. 
Distractions, rookshooting, the Erse language (he recited some), laudanum (he 
raised the phial to his lips), camping out. In vain! 
His spectre stalks me. Dope is my only hope… Ah! 
Destruction! The black panther! With a cry he suddenly vanished 
and the panel slid back. An instant later his head 
appeared in the door opposite and said : Meet me 
at Westland row station at ten past eleven. He was 
gone! Tears gushed from the eyes of the dissipated host. 
The seer raised his hand to heaven, murmuring : The 
vendetta of Mannanaun! The sage repeated Lex talionis. The sentimentalist 
is he who would enjoy without incurring the immense debtorship 
for a thing done. Malachias, overcome by emotion, ceased. The 
mystery was unveiled. Haines was the third brother. His real 
name was Childs. The black panther was himself the ghost 
of his own father. He drank drugs to obliterate. For 
this relief much thanks. The lonely house by the graveyard 
