a bill for me no later than last week. You 
must take the will for the deed. Sorry, Jack. With 
a heart and a half if I could raise the 
wind anyhow. J. J. O’Molloy pulled a long face and 
walked on silently. They caught up on the others and 
walked abreast. — When they have eaten the brawn and 
the bread and wiped their twenty fingers in the paper 
the bread was wrapped in, they go nearer to the 
railings. — Something for you, the professor explained to Myles 
Crawford. Two old Dublin women on the top of Nelson’s 
pillar. SOME COLUMN! — THAT’S WHAT WADDLER ONE SAID — 
That’s new, Myles Crawford said. That’s copy. Out for the 
waxies’ Dargle. Two old trickies, what? — But they are 
afraid the pillar will fall, Stephen went on. They see 
the roofs and argue about where the different churches are 
: Rathmines’blue dome, Adam and Eve’s, saint Laurence O’Toole’s. But 
it makes them giddy to look so they pull up 
their skirts… THOSE SLIGHTLY RAMBUNCTIOUS FEMALES — Easy all, Myles 
Crawford said, no poetic licence. We’re in the archdiocese here. 
— And settle down on their striped petticoats, peering up 
at the statue of the onehandled adulterer. — Onehandled adulterer! 
the professor cried. I like that. I see the idea. 
I see what you mean. DAMES DONATE DUBLIN’S CITS SPEEDPILLS 
VELOCITOUS AEROLITHS, BELIEF — It gives them a crick in 
their necks, Stephen said, and they are too tired to 
look up or down or to speak. They put the 
bag of plums between them and eat the plums out 
of it one after another, wiping off with their handkerchiefs 
the plumjuice that dribbles out of their mouths and spitting 
the plumstones slowly out between the railings. He gave a 
sudden loud young laugh as a close. Lenehan and Mr 
O’Madden Burke, hearing, turned, beckoned and led on across towards 
Mooney’s. — Finished? Myles Crawford said. So long as they 
do no worse. SOPHIST WALLOPS HAUGHTY HELEN SQUARE ON PROBOSCIS. 
SPARTANS GNASH MOLARS. ITHACANS VOW PEN IS CHAMP — You 
remind me of Antisthenes, the professor said, a disciple of 
Gorgias, the sophist. It is said of him that none 
could tell if he were bitterer against others or against 
himself. He was the son of a noble and a 
bondwoman. And he wrote a book in which he took 
away the palm of beauty from Argive Helen and handed 
it to poor Penelope. Poor Penelope. Penelope Rich. They made 
ready to cross O’Connell street. HELLO THERE, CENTRAL! At various 
points along the eight lines tramcars with motionless trolleys stood 
in their tracks, bound for or from Rathmines, Rathfarnham, Kingstown, 
Blackrock and Dalkey, Sandymount Green, Ringsend and Sandymount tower Donnybrook, 
Palmerston Park and Upper Rathmines, all still, becalmed in short 
circuit. Hackney cars, cabs, delivery waggons, mailvans, private broughams, aerated 
mineral water floats with rattling crates of bottles, rattled, rolled, 
horsedrawn, rapidly. AND LIKEWISE — WHERE? — But what do 
