the most pleasant repristination of juvenile agility. Had any special 
agility been his in earlier youth? Though ringweight lifting had 
been beyond his strength and the full circle gyration beyond 
his courage yet as a High School scholar he had 
excelled in his stable and protracted execution of the half 
lever movement on the parallel bars in consequence of his 
abnormally developed abdominal muscles. Did either openly allude to their 
racial difference? Neither. What, reduced to their simplest reciprocal form, 
were Bloom’s thoughts about Stephen’s thoughts about Bloom about Stephen’s 
thoughts about Bloom’s thoughts about Stephen? He thought that he 
thought that he was a jew whereas he knew that 
he knew that he knew that he was not. What, 
the enclosures of reticence removed, were their respective parentages? Bloom, 
only born male transubstantial heir of Rudolf Virag (subsequently Rudolf 
Bloom) of Szombathely, Vienna, Budapest, Milan, London and Dublin and 
of Ellen Higgins, second daughter of Julius Higgins (born Karoly) 
and Fanny Higgins (born Hegarty). Stephen, eldest surviving male consubstantial 
heir of Simon Dedalus of Cork and Dublin and of 
Mary, daughter of Richard and Christina Goulding (born Grier). Had 
Bloom and Stephen been baptised, and where and by whom, 
cleric or layman? Bloom (three times) by the reverend Mr 
Gilmer Johnston M. A. alone in the protestant church of 
Saint Nicolas Without, Coombe; by James O’Connor, Philip Gilligan and 
James Fitzpatrick, together, under a pump in the village of 
Swords; and by the reverend Charles Malone C. C., in 
the church of the Three Patrons, Rathgar. Stephen (once) by 
the reverend Charles Malone, C. C. alone, in the church 
of the Three Patrons, Rathgar. Did they find their educational 
careers similar? Substituting Stephen for Bloom Stoom would have passed 
successively through a dame’s school and the high school. Substituting 
Bloom for Stephen Blephen would have passed successively through the 
preparatory, junior, middle and senior grades of the intermediate and 
through the matriculation, first arts second arts and arts degree 
courses of the royal university. Why did Bloom refrain from 
stating that he had frequented the university of life? Because 
of his fluctuating incertitude as to whether this observation had 
or had not been already made by him to Stephen 
or by Stephen to him. What two temperaments did they 
individually represent? The scientific. The artistic. What proofs did Bloom 
adduce to prove that his tendency was towards applied, rather 
than towards pure, science? Certain possible inventions of which he 
had cogitated when reclining in a state of supine repletion 
to aid digestion, stimulated by his appreciation of the importance 
of inventions now common but once revolutionary, for example, the 
aeronautic parachute, the reflecting telescope, the spiral corkscrew, the safety 
pin, the mineral water siphon, the canal lock with winch 
and sluice, the suction pump. Were these inventions principally intended 
for an improved scheme of kindergarten? Yes, rendering obsolete popguns, 
elastic airbladders, games of hazard, catapults. They comprised astronomical kaleidoscopes 
exhibiting the twelve constellations of the zodiac from Aries to 
