attention anyhow, he said with a sigh. She’s a gamey 
mare and no mistake. Bloom was pointing out all the 
stars and the comets in the heavens to Chris Callinan 
and the jarvey : the great bear and Hercules and 
the dragon and the whole jingbang lot. But, by God, 
I was lost, so to speak, in the milky way. 
He knows them all, faith. At last she spotted a 
weeny weeshy one miles away. And what star is that, 
Poldy? says she. By God, she had Bloom cornered. That 
one, is it? says Chris Callinan, sure that’s only what 
you might call a pinprick. By God, he wasn’t far 
wide of the mark. Lenehan stopped and leaned on the 
riverwall, panting with soft laughter. — I’m weak, he gasped. 
M’Coy’s white face smiled about it at instants and grew 
grave. Lenehan walked on again. He lifted his yachtingcap and 
scratched his hindhead rapidly. He glanced sideways in the sunlight 
at M’Coy. — He’s a cultured allroundman, Bloom is, he 
said seriously. He’s not one of your common or garden… 
you know… There’s a touch of the artist about old 
Bloom. Mr Bloom turned over idly pages of The Awful 
Disclosures of Maria Monk, then of Aristotle’s Masterpiece. Crooked botched 
print. Plates : infants cuddled in a ball in bloodred 
wombs like livers of slaughtered cows. Lots of them like 
that at this moment all over the world. All butting 
with their skulls to get out of it. Child born 
every minute somewhere. Mrs Purefoy. He laid both books aside 
and glanced at the third : Tales of the Ghetto 
by Leopold von Sacher Masoch. — That I had, he 
said, pushing it by. The shopman let two volumes fall 
on the counter. — Them are two good ones, he 
said. Onions of his breath came across the counter out 
of his ruined mouth. He bent to make a bundle 
of the other books, hugged them against his unbuttoned waistcoat 
and bore them off behind the dingy curtain. On O 
’Connell bridge many persons observed the grave deportment and gay 
apparel of Mr Denis J. Maginni, professor of dancing &c. 
Mr Bloom, alone, looked at the titles. Fair Tyrants by 
James Lovebirch. Know the kind that is. Had it? Yes. 
He opened it. Thought so. A woman’s voice behind the 
dingy curtain. Listen : The man. No : she wouldn’t 
like that much. Got her it once. He read the 
other title : Sweets of Sin. More in her line. 
Let us see. He read where his finger opened. — 
All the dollarbills her husband gave her were spent in 
the stores on wondrous gowns and costliest frillies. For him! 
For Raoul! Yes. This. Here. Try. — Her mouth glued 
on his in a luscious voluptuous kiss while his hands 
felt for the opulent curves inside her deshabillé. Yes. Take 
this. The end. — You are late, he spoke hoarsely, 
eyeing her with a suspicious glare. The beautiful woman threw 
