in mother’s clothes. Time enough, understand all the ways of 
the world. And the dark one with the mop head 
and the nigger mouth. I knew she could whistle. Mouth 
made for that. Like Molly. Why that high class whore 
In Jammet’s wore her veil only to her nose. Would 
you mind, please, telling me the right time? I’ll tell 
you the right time up a dark lane. Say prunes 
and prisms forty times every morning, cure for fat lips. 
Caressing the little boy too. Onlookers see most of the 
game. Of course they understand birds, animals, babies. In their 
line. Didn’t look back when she was going down the 
strand. Wouldn’t give that satisfaction. Those girls, those girls, those 
lovely seaside girls. Fine eyes she had, clear. It’s the 
white of the eye brings that out not so much 
the pupil. Did she know what I? Course. Like a 
cat sitting beyond a dog’s jump. Women never meet one 
like that Wilkins in the high school drawing a picture 
of Venus with all his belongings on show. Call that 
innocence? Poor idiot! His wife has her work cut out 
for her. Never see them sit on a bench marked 
Wet Paint. Eyes all over them. Look under the bed 
for what’s not there. Longing to get the fright of 
their lives. Sharp as needles they are. When I said 
to Molly the man at the corner of Cuffe street 
was goodlooking, thought she might like, twigged at once he 
had a false arm. Had too. Where do they get 
that? Typist going up Roger Greene’s stairs two at a 
time to show her understandings. Handed down from father to 
mother to daughter, I mean. Bred in the bone. Milly 
for example drying her handkerchief on the mirror to save 
the ironing. Best place for an ad to catch a 
woman’s eye on a mirror. And when I sent her 
for Molly’s Paisley shawl to Presscott’s, by the way that 
ad I must, carrying home the change in her stocking. 
Clever little minx! I never told her. Neat way she 
carries parcels too. Attract men, small thing like that. Holding 
up her hand, shaking it, to let the blood flow 
back when it was red. Who did you learn that 
from? Nobody. Something the nurse taught me. O, don’t they 
know? Three years old she was in front of Molly’s 
dressingtable just before we left Lombard street west. Me have 
a nice pace. Mullingar. Who knows? Ways of the world. 
Young student. Straight on her pins anyway not like the 
other. Still she was game. Lord, I am wet. Devil 
you are. Swell of her calf. Transparent stockings, stretched to 
breaking point. Not like that frump today. A. E. Rumpled 
stockings. Or the one in Grafton street. White. Wow! Beef 
to the heel. A monkey puzzle rocket burst, spluttering in 
darting crackles. Zrads and zrads, zrads, zrads. And Cissy and 
Tommy ran out to see and Edy after with the 
