of the cave to vibrate and tremble. He wore a 
long unsleeved garment of recently flayed oxhide reaching to the 
knees in a loose kilt and this was bound about 
his middle by a girdle of plaited straw and rushes. 
Beneath this he wore trews of deerskin, roughly stitched with 
gut. His nether extremities were encased in high Balbriggan buskins 
dyed in lichen purple, the feet being shod with brogues 
of salted cowhide laced with the windpipe of the same 
beast. From his girdle hung a row of seastones which 
dangled at every movement of his portentous frame and on 
these were graven with rude yet striking art the tribal 
images of many Irish heroes and heroines of antiquity, Cuchulin, 
Conn of hundred battles, Niall of nine hostages, Brian of 
Kincora, the Ardri Malachi, Art Mac Murragh, Shane O’Neill, Father 
John Murphy, Owen Roe, Patrick Sarsfield, Red Hugh O’Donnell, Red 
Jim MacDermott, Soggarth Eoghan O’Growney, Michael Dwyer, Francy Higgins, Henry 
Joy M’Cracken, Goliath, Horace Wheatley, Thomas Conneff, Peg Woffington, the 
Village Blacksmith, Captain Moonlight, Captain Boycott, Dante Alighieri, Christopher Columbus, 
S. Fursa, S. Brendan, Marshal Mac Mahon, Charlemagne, Theobald Wolfe 
Tone, the Mother of the Maccabees, the Last of the 
Mohicans, the Rose of Castile, the Man for Galway, The 
Man that Broke the Bank at Monte Carlo, The Man 
in the Gap, The Woman Who Didn’t, Benjamin Franklin, Napoleon 
Bonaparte, John L. Sullivan, Cleopatra, Savourneen Deelish, Julius Caesar, Paracelsus, 
sir Thomas Lipton, William Tell, Michelangelo, Hayes, Muhammad, the Bride 
of Lammermoor, Peter the Hermit, Peter the Packer, Dark Rosaleen, 
Patrick W. Shakespeare, Brian Confucius, Murtagh Gutenberg, Patricio Velasquez, Captain 
Nemo, Tristan and Isolde, the first Prince of Wales, Thomas 
Cook and Son, the Bold Soldier Boy, Arrah na Pogue, 
Dick Turpin, Ludwig Beethoven, the Colleen Bawn, Waddler Healy, Angus 
the Culdee, Dolly Mount, Sidney Parade, Ben Howth, Valentine Greatrakes, 
Adam and Eve, Arthur Wellesley, Boss Croker, Herodotus, Jack the 
Giantkiller, Gautama Buddha, Lady Godiva, The Lily of Killarney, Balor 
of the Evil Eye, the Queen of Sheba, Acky Nagle, 
Joe Nagle, Alessandro Volta, Jeremiah O’Donovan Rossa, Don Philip O’Sullivan 
Beare. A couched spear of acuminated granite rested by him 
while at his feet reposed a savage animal of the 
canine tribe whose stertorous gasps announced that he was sunk 
in uneasy slumber, a supposition confirmed by hoarse growls and 
spasmodic movements which his master repressed from time to time 
by tranquilising blows of a mighty cudgel rudely fashioned out 
of paleolithic stone. So anyhow Terry brought the three pints 
Joe was standing and begob the sight nearly left my 
eyes when I saw him land out a quid. O, 
as true as I’m telling you. A goodlooking sovereign. — 
And there’s more where that came from, says he. — 
Were you robbing the poorbox, Joe? says I. — Sweat 
of my brow, says Joe. ’Twas the prudent member gave 
me the wheeze. — I saw him before I met 
you, says I, sloping around by Pill lane and Greek 
