He saw the priest bend down and kiss the altar 
and then face about and bless all the people. All 
crossed themselves and stood up. Mr Bloom glanced about him 
and then stood up, looking over the risen hats. Stand 
up at the gospel of course. Then all settled down 
on their knees again and he sat back quietly in 
his bench. The priest came down from the altar, holding 
the thing out from him, and he and the massboy 
answered each other in Latin. Then the priest knelt down 
and began to read off a card : — O 
God, our refuge and our strength… Mr Bloom put his 
face forward to catch the words. English. Throw them the 
bone. I remember slightly. How long since your last mass? 
Gloria and immaculate virgin Joseph her spouse. Peter and Paul. 
More interesting if you understood what it was all about. 
Wonderful organisation certainly, goes like clockwork. Confession. Everyone wants to. 
Then I will tell you all. Penance. Punish me, please. 
Great weapon in their hands. More than doctor or solicitor. 
Woman dying to. And I schschschschschsch. And did you chachachachacha? 
And why did you? Look down at her ring to 
find an excuse. Whispering gallery walls have ears. Husband learn 
to his surprise. God’s little joke. Then out she comes. 
Repentance skindeep. Lovely shame. Pray at an altar. Hail Mary 
and Holy Mary. Flowers, incense, candles melting. Hide her blushes. 
Salvation army blatant imitation. Reformed prostitute will address the meeting. 
How I found the Lord. Squareheaded chaps those must be 
in Rome : they work the whole show. And don’t 
they rake in the money too? Bequests also : to 
the P. P. for the time being in his absolute 
discretion. Masses for the repose of my soul to be 
said publicly with open doors. Monasteries and convents. The priest 
in the Fermanagh will case in the witness box. No 
browbeating him. He had his answer pat for everything. Liberty 
and exaltation of our holy mother the church. The doctors 
of the church : they mapped out the whole theology 
of it. The priest prayed : — Blessed Michael, archangel, 
defend us in the hour of conflict. Be our safeguard 
against the wickedness and snares of the devil (may God 
restrain him, we humbly pray) : and do thou, O 
prince of the heavenly host, by the power of God 
thrust Satan down to hell and with him those other 
wicked spirits who wander through the world for the ruin 
of souls. The priest and the massboy stood up and 
walked off. All over. The women remained behind : thanksgiving. 
Better be shoving along. Brother Buzz. Come around with the 
plate perhaps. Pay your Easter duty. He stood up. Hello. 
Were those two buttons of my waistcoat open all the 
time. Women enjoy it. Annoyed if you don’t. Why didn’t 
you tell me before. Never tell you. But we. Excuse, 
miss, there’s a (whh!) just a (whh!) fluff. Or their 
