in May. Under its leaf he watched through peacocktwittering lashes 
the southing sun. I am caught in this burning scene. 
Pan’s hour, the faunal noon. Among gumheavy serpentplants, milkoozing fruits, 
where on the tawny waters leaves lie wide. Pain is 
far. And no more turn aside and brood. His gaze 
brooded on his broadtoed boots, a buck’s castoffs nebeneinander. He 
counted the creases of rucked leather wherein another’s foot had 
nested warm. The foot that beat the ground in tripudium, 
foot I dislove. But you were delighted when Esther Osvalt’s 
shoe went on you : girl I knew in Paris. 
Tiens, quel petit pied! Staunch friend, a brother soul : 
Wilde’s love that dare not speak its name. He now 
will leave me. And the blame? As I am. As 
I am. All or not at all. In long lassoes 
from the Cock lake the water flowed full, covering greengoldenly 
lagoons of sand, rising, flowing. My ashplant will float away. 
I shall wait. No, they will pass on, passing chafing 
against the low rocks, swirling, passing. Better get this job 
over quick. Listen : a fourworded wavespeech : seesoo, hrss, 
rsseeiss, ooos. Vehement breath of waters amid seasnakes, rearing horses, 
rocks. In cups of rocks it slops : flop, slop, 
slap : bounded in barrels. And, spent, its speech ceases. 
It flows purling, widely flowing, floating foampool, flower unfurling. Under 
the upswelling tide he saw the writhing weeds lift languidly 
and sway reluctant arms, hising up their petticoats, in whispering 
water swaying and upturning coy silver fronds. Day by day 
: night by night : lifted, flooded and let fall. 
Lord, they are weary : and, whispered to, they sigh. 
Saint Ambrose heard it, sigh of leaves and waves, waiting, 
awaiting the fullness of their times, diebus ac noctibus iniurias 
patiens ingemiscit. To no end gathered : vainly then released, 
forth flowing, wending back : loom of the moon. Weary 
too in sight of lovers, lascivious men, a naked woman 
shining in her courts, she draws a toil of waters. 
Five fathoms out there. Full fathom five thy father lies. 
At one he said. Found drowned. High water at Dublin 
bar. Driving before it a loose drift of rubble, fanshoals 
of fishes, silly shells. A corpse rising saltwhite from the 
undertow, bobbing landward, a pace a pace a porpoise. There 
he is. Hook it quick. Sunk though he be beneath 
the watery floor. We have him. Easy now. Bag of 
corpsegas sopping in foul brine. A quiver of minnows, fat 
of a spongy titbit, flash through the slits of his 
buttoned trouserfly. God becomes man becomes fish becomes barnacle goose 
becomes featherbed mountain. Dead breaths I living breathe, tread dead 
dust, devour a urinous offal from all dead. Hauled stark 
over the gunwale he breathes upward the stench of his 
green grave, his leprous nosehole snoring to the sun. A 
seachange this, brown eyes saltblue. Seadeath, mildest of all deaths 
known to man. Old Father Ocean. Prix de Paris : 
