pushcar and then Gerty beyond the curve of the rocks. 
Will she? Watch! Watch! See! Looked round. She smelt an 
onion. Darling, I saw your. I saw all. Lord! Did 
me good all the same. Off colour after Kiernan’s, Dignam’s. 
For this relief much thanks. In Hamlet, that is. Lord! 
It was all things combined. Excitement. When she leaned back 
felt an ache at the butt of my tongue. Your 
head it simply swirls. He’s right. Might have made a 
worse fool of myself however. Instead of talking about nothing. 
Then I will tell you all. Still it was a 
kind of language between us. It couldn’t be? No, Gerty 
they called her. Might be false name however like my 
and the address Dolphin’s barn a blind. Her maiden name 
was Jemina Brown And she lived with her mother in 
Irishtown. Place made me think of that I suppose. All 
tarred with the same brush. Wiping pens in their stockings. 
But the ball rolled down to her as if it 
understood. Every bullet has its billet. Course I never could 
throw anything straight at school. Crooked as a ram’s horn. 
Sad however because it lasts only a few years till 
they settle down to potwalloping and papa’s pants will soon 
fit Willy and fullers’ earth for the baby when they 
hold him out to do ah ah. No soft job. 
Saves them. Keeps them out of harm’s way. Nature. Washing 
child, washing corpse. Dignam. Children’s hands always round them. Cocoanut 
skulls, monkeys, not even closed at first, sour milk in 
their swaddles and tainted curds. Oughtn’t to have given that 
child an empty teat to suck. Fill it up with 
wind. Mrs Beaufoy, Purefoy. Must call to the hospital. Wonder 
is nurse Callan there still. She used to look over 
some nights when Molly was in the Coffee Palace. That 
young doctor O’Hare I noticed her brushing his coat. And, 
Mrs Breen and Mrs Dignam once like that too, marriageable. 
Worst of all at night Mrs Duggan told me in 
the City Arms. Husband rolling in drunk, stink of pub 
off him like a polecat. Have that in your nose 
in the dark, whiff of stale boose. Then ask in 
the morning : was I drunk last night? Bad policy 
however to fault the husband. Chickens come home to roost. 
They stick by one another like glue. Maybe the women’s 
fault also. That’s where Molly can knock spots off them. 
It is the blood of the south. Moorish. Also the 
form, the figure. Hands felt for the opulent. Just compare 
for instance those others. Wife locked up at home, skeleton 
in the cupboard. Allow me to introduce my. Then they 
trot you out some kind of a nondescript, wouldn’t know 
what to call her. Always see a fellow’s weak point 
in his wife. Still there’s destiny in it, falling in 
love. Have their own secrets between them. Chaps that would 
go to the dogs if some woman didn’t take them 
