of all space, shattered glass and toppling masonry, and time 
one livid final flame. What’s left us then? — I 
forget the place, sir. 279 B.C. — Asculum, Stephen said, 
glancing at the name and date in the gorescarred book. 
— Yes, sir. And he said : Another victory like 
that and we are done for. That phrase the world 
had remembered. A dull ease of the mind. From a 
hill above a corpsestrewn plain a general speaking to his 
officers, leaned upon his spear. Any general to any officers. 
They lend ear. — You, Armstrong, Stephen said. What was 
the end of Pyrrhus? — End of Pyrrhus, sir? — 
I know, sir. Ask me, sir, Comyn said. — Wait. 
You, Armstrong. Do you know anything about Pyrrhus? A bag 
of figrolls lay snugly in Armstrong’s satchel. He curled them 
between his palms at whiles and swallowed them softly. Crumbs 
adhered to the tissues of his lips. A sweetened boy’s 
breath. Welloff people, proud that their eldest son was in 
the navy. Vico Road, Dalkey. — Pyrrhus, sir? Pyrrhus, a 
pier. All laughed. Mirthless high malicious laughter. Armstrong looked round 
at his classmates, silly glee in profile. In a moment 
they will laugh more loudly, aware of my lack of 
rule and of the fees their papas pay. — Tell 
me now, Stephen said, poking the boy’s shoulder with the 
book, what is a pier. — A pier, sir, Armstrong 
said. A thing out in the waves. A kind of 
bridge. Kingstown pier, sir. Some laughed again : mirthless but 
with meaning. Two in the back bench whispered. Yes. They 
knew : had never learned nor ever been innocent. All. 
With envy he watched their faces. Edith, Ethel, Gerty, Lily. 
Their likes : their breaths, too, sweetened with tea and 
jam, their bracelets tittering in the struggle. — Kingstown pier, 
Stephen said. Yes, a disappointed bridge. The words troubled their 
gaze. — How, sir? Comyn asked. A bridge is across 
a river. For Haines’s chapbook. No-one here to hear. Tonight 
deftly amid wild drink and talk, to pierce the polished 
mail of his mind. What then? A jester at the 
court of his master, indulged and disesteemed, winning a clement 
master’s praise. Why had they chosen all that part? Not 
wholly for the smooth caress. For them too history was 
a tale like any other too often heard, their land 
a pawnshop. Had Pyrrhus not fallen by a beldam’s hand 
in Argos or Julius Caesar not been knifed to death? 
They are not to be thought away. Time has branded 
them and fettered they are lodged in the room of 
the infinite possibilities they have ousted. But can those have 
been possible seeing that they never were? Or was that 
only possible which came to pass? Weave, weaver of the 
wind. — Tell us a story, sir. — Oh, do, 
sir. A ghoststory. — Where do you begin in this? 
Stephen asked, opening another book. — Weep no more, Comyn 
