Street, Mary Street, Capel Street, Little Britain Street, chanting the 
introit in Epiphania Domini which beginneth Surge, illuminare and thereafter 
most sweetly the gradual Omnes which saith de Saba venient 
they did divers wonders such as casting out devils, raising 
the dead to life, multiplying fishes, healing the halt and 
the blind, discovering various articles which had beed mislaid, interpreting 
and fulfilling the scriptures, blessing and prophesying. And last, beneath 
a canopy of cloth of gold came the reverend Father 
O’Flynn attended by Malachi and Patrick. And when the good 
fathers had reached the appointed place, the house of Bernard 
Kiernan and Co, limited, 8,9 and 10 little Britain street, 
wholesale grocers, wine and brandy shippers, licensed for the sale 
of beer, wine and spirits for consumption on the premises, 
the celebrant blessed the house and censed the mullioned windows 
and the groynes and the vaults and the arrises and 
the capitals and the pediments and the cornices and the 
engrailed arches and the spires and the cupolas and sprinkled 
the lintels thereof with blessed water and prayed that God 
might bless that house as he had blessed the house 
of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and make the angels 
of His light to inhabit therein. And entering he blessed 
the viands and the beverages and the company of all 
the blessed answered his prayers. — Adiutorium nostrum in nomine 
Domini. — Que fecit cœlum et terram. — Dominus vobiscum. 
— Et cum spiritu tuo. And he laid his hands 
upon the blessed and gave thanks and he prayed and 
they all with him prayed : — Deus, cuius verbo 
sanctificantur omnia, benedictionem tuam effunde super creaturas istas : et 
praesta ut quisquis eis secundum legem et voluntatem Tuam cum 
gratiarum actione usus fuerit per invocationem sanctissimi nominis Tui corporis 
sanitatem et animæ tutelam Te auctore percipiat per Christum Dominum 
nostrum. — And so say all of us, says Jack. 
— Thousand a year, Lambert, says Crofton or Crawford. — 
Right, says Ned, taking up his John Jameson. And butter 
for fish. I was just looking round to see who 
the happy thought would strike when be damned but in 
he comes again letting on to be in a hell 
of a hurry. — I was just round at the 
courthouse. says he, looking for you. I hope I’m not… 
— No, says Martin, we’re ready. Courthouse my eye and 
your pockets hanging down with gold and silver. Mean bloody 
scut. Stand us a drink itself. Devil a sweet fear! 
There’s a jew for you! All for number one. Cute 
as a shithouse rat. Hundred to five. — Don’t tell 
anyone, says the citizen. — Beg your pardon, says he. 
— Come on boys, says Martin, seeing it was looking 
blue. Come along now. — Don’t tell anyone, says the 
citizen, letting a bawl out of him. It’s a secret. 
And the bloody dog woke up and let a growl. 
— Bye bye all, says Martin. And he got them 
