high pointed hat. He places a bag of gunpowder round 
his neck and hands him over to the civil power, 
saying.) Forgive him his trespasses. (Lieutenant Myers of the Dublin 
Fire Brigade by general request sets fire to Bloom. Lamentations.) 
the citizen Thank heaven! bloom (In a seamless garment marked 
I. H. S. stands upright amid phoenix flames.) Weep not 
for me, O daughters of Erin. (He exhibits to Dublin 
reporters traces of burning. The daughters of Erin, in black 
garments with large prayerbooks and long lighted candles in their 
hands, kneel down and pray.) the daughters of erin Kidney 
of Bloom, pray for us. Flower of the Bath, pray 
for us. Mentor of Menton, pray for us. Canvasser for 
the Freeman, pray for us Charitable Mason, pray for us. 
Wandering Soap, pray for us. Sweets of Sin, pray for 
us. Music without Words, pray for us. Reprover of the 
Citizen, pray for us. Friend of all Frillies, pray for 
us. Midwife Most Merciful, pray for us. Potato Preservative against 
Plague and Pestilence, pray for us. (A choir of six 
hundred voices, conducted by Mr Vincent O’Brien, sings the Alleluia 
chorus, accompanied on the organ by Joseph Glynn. Bloom becomes 
mute, shrunken, carbonised.) zoe Talk away till you’re black in 
the face. bloom (In caubeen with clay pipe stuck in 
the band, dsuty brogues, an emigrant’s red handkerchief bundle in 
his hand, leading a black bogoak pig by a sugaun, 
with a smile in his eye.) Let me be going 
now, woman of the house, for by all the goats 
in Connemara I’m after having the father and mother of 
a bating. (With a tear in his eye.) All insanity. 
Patriotism, sorrow for the dead, music, future of the race. 
To be or not to be. Life’s dream is o’er. 
End it peacefully. They can live on. (He gazes far 
away mournfully.) I am ruined. A few pastilles of aconite. 
The blinds drawn. A letter. Then lie back to rest. 
(He breathes softly.) No more. I have lived. Fare. Farewell. 
zoe (Stiffly, her finger in her neckfillet.) Honest? Till the 
next time. (She sneers.) Suppose you got up the wrong 
side of the bed or came too quick with your 
best girl. O, I can read your thoughts. bloom (Bitterly.) 
Man and woman, love, what is it? A cork and 
bottle. zoe (In sudden sulks.) I hate a rotter that’s 
insincere. Give a bleeding whore a chance. bloom (Repentantly.) I 
am very disagreeable. You are a necessary evil. Where are 
you from? London? zoe (Glibly.) Hog’s Norton where the pigs 
plays the organs. I’m Yorkshire born (She holds his hand 
which is feeling for her nipple.) I say, Tommy Tittlemouse. 
Stop that and begin worse. Have you cash for a 
short time? Ten shillings? bloom (Smiles, nods slowly.) More, houri, 
more. zoe And more’s mother? (She pats him offhandedly with 
velvet paws.) Are you coming into the musicroom to see 
our new pianola? Come and I’ll peel off. bloom (Feeling 
