final meditations? Of some one sole unique advertisement to cause 
passers to stop in wonders a poster novelty, with all 
extraneous accretions excluded, reduced to its simplest and most efficient 
terms not exceeding the span of casual vision and congruous 
with the velocity of modern life. What did the first 
drawer unlocked contain? A Vere Foster’s handwriting copybook, property of 
Milly (Millicent) Bloom, certain pages of which bore diagram drawings 
marked Papli, which showed a large globular head with 5 
hairs erect, 2 eyes in profile, the trunk full front 
with 3 large buttons, 1 triangular foot : 2 fading 
photographs of queen Alexandra of England and of Maud Branscombe, 
actress and professional beauty : a Yuletide card, bearing on 
it a pictorial representation of a parasitic plant, the legend 
Mizpah, the date Xmas 1892, the name of the senders 
: from Mr and Mrs M. Comerford, the versicle : 
May this Yuletide bring to thee, Joy and peace and 
welcome glee : a butt of red partly liquefied sealing 
wax, obtained from the stores department of Messrs Hely’s, Ltd., 
89, 90 and 91 Dame street : a box containing 
the remainder of a gross of gilt « J » 
pennibs, obtained from same department of same firm : an 
old sandglass which rolled containing sand which rolled : a 
sealed prophecy (never unsealed) written by Leopold Bloom in 1886 
concerning the consequences of the passing into law of William 
Ewart Gladstone’s Home Rule bill of 1886 (never passed into 
law) : a bazaar ticket N° 2004, of S. Kevin’s 
Charity Fair, price 6 d. 100 prizes : an infantile 
epistle, dated, small em monday, reading : capital pee Papli 
comma capital aitch How are you note of interrogation capital 
eye I am very well full stop new paragraph signature 
with flourishes capital em Milly no stop : a cameo 
brooch, property of Ellen Bloom (born Higgins), deceased : 3 
typewritten letters, addressee, Henry Flower, c/o P. O. Westland Row, 
addresser, Martha Clifford, c/o P. O. Dolphin’s Barn : the 
transliterated name and address of the addresser of the 3 
letters in reserved alphabetic boustrephodontic punctated quadrilinear cryptogram (vowels suppressed) 
N.IGS./WI.UU.OX W.OKS.MHY.IM : a press cutting from an English weekly 
periodical Modern Society, subject corporal chastisement in girls’ schools : 
a pink ribbon which had festooned an Easter egg in 
the year 1899 : two partly uncoiled rubber preservatives with 
reserve pockets, purchased by post from Box 32, P. O., 
Charing Cross, London, W. C. : 1 pack of 1 
dozen creamlaid envelopes and feintruled notepaper, watermarked, now reduced by 
3 : some assorted Austrian-Hungarian coins : 2 coupons of 
the Royal and Privileged Hungarian Lottery. a lowpower magnifying glass 
: 2 erotic photocards showing. a) buccal coition between nude 
senorita (rere presentation, superior position) and nude torero (fore presentation, 
inferior position). b) anal violation by male religious (fully clothed, 
eyes abject) of female religious (partly clothed, eyes direct), purchased 
by post from Box 32, P. O., Charing Cross, London, 
