iron, in part reflected, in part absorbed, in part transmitted, 
gradually raising the temperature of the water from normal to 
boiling point, a rise in temperature expressible as the result 
of an expenditure of 72 thermal units needed to raise 
1 pound of water from 50° to 212° Fahrenheit. What 
announced the accomplishment of this rise in temperature? A double 
falciform ejection of water vapour from under the kettlelid at 
both sides simultaneously. For what personal purpose could Bloom have 
applied the water so boiled? To shave himself. What advantages 
attended shaving by night? A softer beard : a softer 
brush if intentionally allowed to remain from shave to shave 
in its agglutinated lather : a softer skin if unexpectedly 
encountering female acquaintances in remote places at incustomary hours : 
quiet reflections upon the course of the day : a 
cleaner sensation when awaking after a fresher sleep since matutinal 
noises, premonitions and perturbations, a clattered milkcan, a postman’s double 
knock, a paper read, reread while lathering, relathering the same 
spot, a shock, a shoot, with thought of aught he 
sought though fraught with nought might cause a faster rate 
of shaving and a nick on which incision plaster with 
precision cut and humected and applied adhered which was to 
be done. Why did absence of light disturb him less 
than presence of noise? Because of the surety of the 
sense of touch in his firm full masculine feminine passive 
active hand. What quality did it (his hand) possess but 
with what counteracting influence? The operative surgical quality but that 
he was reluctant to shed human blood even when the 
end justified the means, preferring in their natural order, heliotherapy, 
psychophysicotherapeutics, osteopathic surgery. What lay under exposure on the lower 
middle and upper shelves of the kitchen dresser opened by 
Bloom? On the lower shelf five vertical breakfast plates, six 
horizontal breakfast saucers on which rested inverted breakfast cups, a 
moustachecup, uninverted, and saucer of Crown Derby, four white goldrimmed 
eggcups, and open shammy purse displaying coins, mostly copper, and 
a phial of aromatic violet comfits. On the middle shelf 
a chipped eggcup containing pepper, a drum of table salt, 
four conglomerated black olivesin oleaginous paper, an empty pot of 
Plumtree’s potted meat, an oval wicker basket bedded with fibre 
and containing one Jersey pear, a halfempty bottle of William 
Gilbey and Co’s white invalid port, half disrobed of its 
swathe of coralpink tissue paper, a packet of Epps’s soluble 
cocoa, five ounces of Anne Lynch’s choice tea at 2/– 
per lb. in a crinkled leadpaper bag, a cylindrical canister 
containing the best crystallised lump sugar, two onions, one the 
larger, Spanish, entire, the other, smaller, Irish, bisected with augmented 
surface and more redolent, a jar of Irish Model Dairy’s 
cream, a jug of brown crockery containing a naggin and 
a quarter of soured adulterated milk, converted by heat into 
water, acidulous serum and semisolidified curds, which added to the 
quantity subtracted for Mr Bloom’s and Mrs Fleming’s breakfasts made 
