The letter. For my son Leopold. No more pain. Wake 
no more. Nobody owns. The carriage rattled swiftly along Blessington 
street. Over the stones. — We are going the pace, 
I think, Martin Cunningham said. — God grant he doesn’t 
upset us on the road, Mr Power said. — I 
hope not, Martin Cunningham said. That will be a great 
race tomorrow in Germany. The Gordon Bennett. — Yes, by 
Jove, Mr Dedalus said. That will be worth seeing, faith. 
As they turned into Berkeley street a streetorgan near the 
Basin sent over and after them a rollicking rattling song 
of the halls. Has anybody here seen Kelly? Kay ee 
double ell wy. Dead march from Saul. He’s as bad 
as old Antonio. He left me on my ownio. Pirouette! 
The Mater Misericordiæ. Eccles street. My house down there. Big 
place. Ward for incurables there. Very encouraging. Our Lady’s Hospice 
for the dying. Deadhouse handy underneath. Where old Mrs Riordan 
died. They look terrible the women. Her feeding cup and 
rubbing her mouth with the spoon. Then the screen round 
her bed for her to die. Nice young student that 
was dressed that bite the bee gave me. He’s gone 
over to the lying-in hospital they told me. From one 
extreme to the other. The carriage galloped round a corner 
: stopped. — What’s wrong now? A divided drove of 
branded cattle passed the windows, lowing, slouching by on padded 
hoofs, whisking their tails slowly on their clotted bony croups. 
Outside them and through them ran raddled sheep bleating their 
fear. — Emigrants, Mr Power said. — Huuuh! the drover’s 
voice cried, his switch sounding on their flanks. Huuuh! out 
of that! Thursday of course. Tomorrow is killing day. Springers. 
Cuffe sold them about twentyseven quid each. For Liverpool probably. 
Roast beef for old England. They buy up all the 
juicy ones. And then the fifth quarter is lost : 
all that raw stuff, hide, hair, horns. Comes to a 
big thing in a year. Dead meat trade. Byproducts of 
the slaughterhouses for tanneries, soap, margarine. Wonder if that dodge 
works now getting dicky meat off the train at Clonsilla. 
The carriage moved on through the drove. — I can’t 
make out why the corporation doesn’t run a tramline from 
the parkgate to the quays, Mr Bloom said. All those 
animals could be taken in trucks down to the boats. 
— Instead of blocking up the thoroughfare, Martin Cunningham said. 
Quite right. They ought to. — Yes, Mr Bloom said, 
and another thing I often thought is to have municipal 
funeral trams like they have in Milan, you know. Run 
the line out to the cemetery gates and have special 
trams, hearse and carriage and all. Don’t you see what 
I mean? — O that be damned for a story, 
Mr Dedalus said. Pullman car and saloon diningroom. — A 
poor lookout for Corny, Mr Power added. — Why? Mr 
Bloom asked, turning to Mr Dedalus. Wouldn’t it be more 
