kiss me. Still I feel. The strength it gives a 
man. That’s the secret of it. Good job I let 
off there behind coming out of Dignam’s. Cider that was. 
Otherwise I couldn’t have. Makes you want to sing after. 
Lacaus esant taratara. Suppose I spoke to her. What about? 
Bad plan however of you don’t know how to end 
the conversation. Ask them a question they ask you another. 
Good idea if you’re in a cart. Wonderful of course 
if you say : good evening, and you see she’s 
on for it : good evening. O but the dark 
evening in the Appian way I nearly spoke to Mrs 
Clinch O thinking she was. Whew! Girl in Meath street 
that night. All the dirty things I made her say 
all wrong of course. My arks she called it. It’s 
so hard to find one who. Aho! If you don’t 
answer when they solicit must be horrible for them till 
they harden. And kissed my hand when I gave her 
the extra two shillings. Parrots. Press the button and the 
bird will squeak. Wish she hadn’t called me sir. Oh, 
her mouth in the dark! And you a married man 
with a single girl! That’s what they enjoy. Taking a 
man from another woman. Or even hear of it. Different 
with me. Glad to get away from other chap’s wife. 
Eating off his cold plate. Chap in the Burton today 
spitting back gumchewed gristle. French letter still in my pocketbook. 
Cause of half the trouble. But might happen sometime, I 
don’t think. Come in. All is prepared. I dreamt. What? 
Worst is beginning. How they change the venue when it’s 
not what they like. Ask you do you like mushrooms 
because she once knew a gentleman who. Or ask you 
what someone was going to say when he changed his 
mind and stopped. Yet if I went the whole hog, 
say : I want to, something like that. Because I 
did. She too. Offend her. Then make it up. Pretend 
to want something awfully, then cry off for her sake. 
Flatters them. She must have been thinking of someone else 
all the time. What harm? Must since she came to 
the use of reason, he, he and he. First kiss 
does the trick. The propitious moment. Something inside them goes 
pop. Mushy like, tell by their eye, on the sly. 
First thoughts are best. Remember that till their dying day. 
Molly, lieutenant Mulvey that kissed her under the Moorish wall 
beside the gardens. Fifteen she told me. But her breasts 
were developed. Fell asleep then. After Glencree dinner that was 
when we drove home the featherbed mountain. Gnashing her teeth 
in sleep. Lord mayor had his eye off her too. 
Val Dillon. Apoplectic. There she is with them down there 
for the fireworks. My fireworks. Up like a rocket, down 
like a stick. And the children, twins they must be, 
waiting for something to happen. Want to be grownups. Dressing 
