well sad, that, my faith, yes. O get, rev on 
a gradient one in nine. Live axle drives are souped. 
Lay you two to one Jenatzy licks him ruddy well 
hollow. Jappies? High angle fire, inyah! Sunk by war specials. 
Be worse for him, says he, nor any Rooshian. Time 
all. There’s eleven of them. Get ye gone. Forward, woozy 
wobblers! Night. Night. May Allah, the Excellent One, your soul 
this night ever tremendously conserve. Your attention! We’re nae the 
fou. The Leith police dismisseth us. The least tholice. Ware 
hawks for the chap puking. Unwell in his abominable regions. 
Yooka. Night. Mona, my thrue love. Yook. Mona, my own 
love. Ook. Hark! Shut your obstropolos. Pflaap! Pflaap! Blase on. 
There she goes. Brigade! Bout ship. Mount street way. Cut 
up. Pflaap! Tally ho. You not come? Run, skelter, race. 
Pflaaaap! Lynch! Hey? Sign on long o me. Denzille lane 
this way. Change here for Bawdyhouse. We two, she said, 
will seek the kips there shady Mary is. Righto, any 
old time. Laetabuntur in cubilibus suis. You coming long? Whisper, 
who the sooty hell’s the johnny in the black duds? 
Hush! Sinned against the light and even now that day 
is at hand when he shall come to judge the 
world by fire. Pflaap! Ut implerentur scripturae. Strike up a 
ballad. Then outspake medical Dick to his comrade medical Davy. 
Christicle, who’s this excrement yellow gospeller on the Merrion hall? 
Elijah is coming. Washed in the Blood of the Lamb. 
Come on, you winefizzling ginsizzling booseguzzling existences! Come on, you 
dog-gone, bullnecked, beetlebrowed, hogjowled, peanutbrained, weaseleyed fourflushers, false alarms and 
excess baggage! Come on, you triple extract of infamy! Alexander 
J. Christ Dowie, that’s yanked to glory mosthalf this planet 
from ’Frisco Beach to Vladivostok. The Deity aint no nickel 
dime bumshow. I put it to you that he’s on 
the square and a corking fine business proposition. He’s the 
grandest thing yet and don’t you forget it. Shout salvation 
in King Jesus. You’ll need to rise precious early, you 
sinner there, if you want to diddle the Almighty God. 
Pflaaaap! Not half. He’s got a coughmixture with a punch 
in it for you, my friend, in his backpocket. Just 
you try it on. 15 (The Mabbot street entrance of 
nighttown, before which stretches an uncobbled tramsiding set with skeleton 
tracks, red and green will-o’-the-wisps and danger signals. Rows of 
flimsy houses with gaping doors. Rare lamps with faint rainbow 
fans. Round Rabaiotti’s halted ice gondola stunted men and women 
squabble. They grab wafers between which are wedged lumps of 
coal and copper snow. Sucking, they scatter slowly. Children. The 
swancomb of the gondola, highreared, forges on through the murk, 
white and blue under a lighthouse. Whistles call and answer.) 
the calls Wait, my love, and I’ll be with you. 
the answers Round behind the stable. (A deafmute idiot with 
goggle eyes, his shapeless mouth dribbling, jerks past, shaken in 
Saint Vitus’ dance. A chain of children’s hands imprisons him.) 
