after, tour round the body, changing biliary duct, spleen squirting 
liver, gastric juice coils of intestines like pipes. But the 
poor buffer would have to stand all the time with 
his insides entrails on show. Science. — A cenar teco. 
What does that teco mean? Tonight perhaps. Don Giovanni, thou 
hast me invited To come to supper tonight, The rum 
the rumdum. Doesn’t go properly. Keyes : two months if 
I get Nannetti to. That’ll be two pounds ten, about 
two pounds eight. Three Hynes owes me. Two eleven. Presscott’s 
ad. Two fifteen. Five guineas about. On the pig’s back. 
Could buy one of those silk petticoats for Molly, colour 
of her new garters. Today. Today. Not think. Tour the 
south then. What about English watering places? Brighton, Margate. Piers 
by moonlight. Her voice floating out. Those lovely seaside girls. 
Against John Long’s a drowsing loafer lounged in heavy thought, 
gnawing a crusted knuckle. Handy man wants job. Small wages. 
Will eat anything. Mr Bloom turned at Gray’s confectioner’s window 
of unbought tarts and passed the reverend Thomas Connellan’s bookstore. 
Why I left the church of Rome? Bird’s Nest. Women 
run him. They say they used to give pauper children 
soup to change to protestants in the time of the 
potato blight. Society over the way papa went to for 
the conversion of poor jews. Same bait. Why we left 
the church of Rome? A blind stripling stood tapping the 
curbstone with his slender cane. No tram in sight. Wants 
to cross. — Do you want to cross? Mr Bloom 
asked. The blind stripling did not answer. His wall face 
frowned weakly. He moved his head uncertainly. — You’re in 
Dawson street, Mr Bloom said. Molesworth street is opposite. Do 
you want to cross? There’s nothing in the way. The 
cane moved out trembling to the left. Mr Bloom’s eye 
followed its line and saw again the dyeworks’ van drawn 
up before Drago’s. Where I saw his brilliantined hair just 
when I was. Horse drooping. Driver in John Long’s. Slaking 
his drouth. — There’s a van there, Mr Bloom said, 
but it’s not moving. I’ll see you across. Do you 
want to go to Molesworth street? — Yes, the stripling 
answered. South Frederick street. — Come, Mr Bloom said. He 
touched the thin elbow gently : then took the limp 
seeing hand to guide it forward. Say something to him. 
Better not do the condescending. They mistrust what you tell 
them. Pass a common remark : — The rain kept 
off. No answer. Stains on his coat. Slobbers his food 
I suppose. Tastes all different for him. Have to be 
spoonfed first. Like a child’s hand his hand. Like Milly’s 
was. Sensitive. Sizing me up I daresay from my hand. 
Wonder if he has a name. Van. Keep his cane 
clear of the horse’s legs tired drudge get his doze. 
That’s right. Clear. Behind a bull : in front of 
a horse. — Thanks, sir. Knows I’m a man. Voice. 
