lost or cast away : and fitly is she too 
a haven of refuge for the afflicted because of the 
seven dolours which transpierced her own heart. Gerty could picture 
the whole scene in the church, the stained glass windows 
lighted up, the candles, the flowers and the blue banners 
of the blessed Virgin’s sodality and Father Conroy was helping 
Canon O’Hanlon at the altar, carrying things in and out 
with his eyes cast down. He looked almost a saint 
and his confessionbox was so quiet and clean and dark 
and his hands were just like white wax and if 
ever she became a Dominican nun in their white habit 
perhaps he might come to the convent for the novena 
of Saint Dominic. He told her that time when she 
told him about that in confession crimsoning up to the 
roots of her hair for fear he could see, not 
to be troubled because that was only the voice of 
nature and we were all subject to nature’s laws, he 
said, in this life and that that was no sin 
because that came from the nature of woman instituted by 
God, he said, and that Our Blessed Lady herself said 
to the archangel Gabriel be it done unto me according 
to Thy Word. He was so kind and holy and 
often and often she thought and thought could she work 
a ruched teacosy with embroidered floral design for him as 
a present or a clock but they had a clock 
she noticed on the mantelpiece white and gold with a 
canary bird that came out of a little house to 
tell the time the day she went there about the 
flowers for the forty hours’ adoration because it was hard 
to know what sort of a present to give or 
perhaps an album of illuminated views of Dublin or some 
place. The exasperating little brats of twins began to quarrel 
again and Jacky threw the ball out towards the sea 
and they both ran after it. Little monkeys common as 
ditchwater. Someone ought to take them and give them a 
good hiding for themselves to keep them in their places, 
the both of them. And Cissy and Edy shouted after 
them to come back because they were afraid the tide 
might come in on them and be drowned. — Jacky! 
Tommy! Not they! What a great notion they had! So 
Cissy said it was the very last time she’d ever 
bring them out. She jumped up and called them and 
she ran down the slope past him, tossing her hair 
behind her which had a good enough colour if there 
had been more of it but with all the thingamerry 
she was always rubbing into it she couldn’t get it 
to grow long because it wasn’t natural so she could 
just go and throw her hat at it. She ran 
with long gandery strides it was a wonder she didn’t 
rip up her skirt at the side that was too 
