go at you myself. A man I know on the 
turf named Charles Alberta Marsh (I was in bed with 
him just now and another gentleman out of the Hanaper 
and Petty Bag office) is on the lookout for a 
maid of all work at a short knock. Swell the 
bust. Smile. Droop shoulders. What offers? (He points.) For that 
lot trained by owner to fetch and carry, basket in 
mouth. (He bares his arm and plunges it elbowdeep in 
Bloom’s vulva.) There’s fine depth for you! What, boys? That 
give you a hardon? (He shoves his arm in a 
bidder’s face.) Here, wet the deck and wipe it round! 
a bidder A florin! (Dillon’s lacquey rings his handbell.) a 
voice One and eightpence too much. the lacquey Barang! charles 
alberta marsh Must be virgin. Good breath. Clean. bello (Gives 
a rap with his gavel.) Two bar. Rockbottom figure and 
cheap at the price. Fourteen hands high. Touch and examine 
shis points. Handle hrim. This downy skin, these soft muscles, 
this tender flesh. If I had only my gold piercer 
here! And quite easy to milk. Three newlaid gallons a 
day. A pure stockgetter, due to lay within the hour. 
His sire’s milk record was a thousand gallons of whole 
milk in forty weeks. Whoa, my jewel! Beg up! Whoa! 
(He brands his initial C on Bloom’s croup.) So! Warranted 
Cohen! What advance on two bob, gentlemen? a darkvisaged man 
(In disguised accent.) Hoondert punt sterlink. voices (Subdued.) For the 
Caliph Haroun Al Raschid. bello (Gaily.) Right. Let them all 
come. The scanty, daringly short skirt, riding up at the 
knee to show a peep of white pantalette, is a 
potent weapon and transparent stockings, emeraldgartered, with the long straight 
seam trailing up beyond the knee, appeal to the better 
instincts of the blasé man about town. Learn the smooth 
mincing walk on four inch Louis XV heels, the Grecian 
bend with provoking croup, the thighs fluescent, knees modestly kissing. 
Bring all your power of fascination to bear on them. 
Pander to their Gomorrahan vices. bloom (Bends his blushing face 
into his armpit and simpers with forefinger in mouth.) O, 
I know what you’re hinting at now. bello What else 
are you good for, an impotent thing like you? (He 
stoops and, peering, pokes with his fan rudely under the 
fat suet folds of Bloom’s haunches.) Up! Up! Manx cat! 
What have we here? Where’s your curly teapot gone to 
or who docked it on you, cockyolly? Sing, birdy, sing. 
It’s as limp as a boy of six’s doing his 
pooly behind a cart. Buy a bucket or sell your 
pump. (Loudly.) Can you do a man’s job? bloom Eccles 
Street… bello (Sarcastically.) I wouldn’t hurt your feelings for the 
world but there’s a man of brawn in possession there. 
The tables are turned, my gay young fellow! He is 
something like a fullgrown outdoor man. Well for you, you 
muff, if you had that weapon with knobs and lumps 
