the street was manœuvring and Stephen went on about the 
highly interesting old… — What’s this I was saying? Ah, 
yes! My wife, he intimated, plunging in medias res, would 
have the greatest of pleasure in making your acquaintance as 
she is passionately attached to music of any kind. He 
looked sideways in a friendly fashion at the sideface of 
Stephen, image of his mother, which was not quite the 
same as the usual blackguard type they unquestionably had an 
indubitable hankering after as he was perhaps not that way 
built. Still, supposing he had his father’s gift, as he 
more than suspected, it opened up new vistas in his 
mind, such as Lady Fingall’s Irish industries concert on the 
preceding Monday, and aristocracy in general. Exquisite variations he was 
now describing on an air Youth here has End by 
Jans Pieter Sweelinck, a Dutchman of Amsterdam where the frows 
come from. Even more he liked an old German song 
of Johannes Jeep about the clear sea and the voices 
of sirens, sweet murderers of men, which boggled Bloom a 
bit : Von der Sirenen Listigkeit Tun die Poeten dichten. 
These opening bars he sang and translated extempore. Bloom, nodding, 
said he perfectly understood and begged him to go on 
by all means, which he did. A phenomenally beautiful tenor 
voice like that, the rarest of boons, which Bloom appreciated 
at the very first note he got out, could easily, 
if properly handled by some recognised authority on voice production 
such as Barraclough and being able to read music into 
the bargain, command its own price where baritones were ten 
a penny and procure for its fortunate possessor in the 
near future an entrée into fashionable houses in the best 
residential quarters of financial magnates in a large way of 
business and titled people where, with his university degree of 
B. A. (a huge ad in its way) and gentlemanly 
bearing to all the more influence the good impression he 
would infallibly score a distinct success, being blessed with brains 
which also could be utilised for the purpose and other 
requisites, if his clothes were properly attended to, so as 
to the better worm his way into their good graces 
as he, a youthful tyro in society’s sartorial niceties, hardly 
understood how a little thing like that could militate against 
you. It was in fact only a matter of months 
and he could easily foresee him participating in their musical 
and artistic conversaziones during the festivities of the Christmas season, 
for choice, causing a slight flutter in the dovecotes of 
the fair sex and being made a lot of by 
ladies out for sensation, cases of which, as he happened 
to know, were on record, in fact, without giving the 
show away, he himself once upon a time, if he 
cared to, could easily have… Added to which of course, 
would be the pecuniar y emolument by no means to 
be sneezed at, going hand in hand with his tuition 
