that language? Bella Poetria! it is so melodious and full. 
Belladonna voglio. Stephen, who was trying his dead best to 
yawn, if he could, suffering from dead lassitude generally, replied 
: — To fill the ear of a cow elephant. 
They were haggling over money. — Is that so? Mr 
Bloom asked. Of course, he subjoined pensively, at the inward 
reflection of there being more languages to start with than 
were absolutely necessary, it may be only the southern glamour 
that surrounds it. The keeper of the shelter in the 
middle of this tête-à-tête put a boiling swimming cup of 
a choice concoction labelled coffee on the table and a 
rather antediluvian specimen of a bun, or so it seemed, 
after which he beat a retreat to his counter. Mr 
Bloom determining to have a good square look at him 
later on so as not to appear to… for which 
reason he encouraged Stephen to proceed with his eyes while 
he did the honours by surreptitiously pushing the cup of 
what was temporarily supposed to be called coffee gradually nearer 
him. — Sounds are impostures, Stephens aid after a pause 
of some little time. Like names, Cicero, Podmore, Napoleon, Mr 
Goodbody, Jesus, Mr Doyle, Shakespeares were as common as Murphies. 
What’s in a name? — Yes, to be sure, Mr 
Bloom unaffectedly concurred. Of course. Our name was changed too, 
he added, pushing the socalled roll across. The redbearded sailor, 
who had his weather eye on the newcomers, boarded Stephen, 
whom he had singled out for attention in particular, squarely 
by asking : — And what might your name be? 
Just in the nick of time Mr Bloom touched his 
companion’s boot but Stephen, apparently disregarding the warm pressure, from 
an unexpected quarter, answered : — Dedalus. The sailor stared 
at him heavily from a pair of drowsy baggy eyes, 
rather bunged up from excessive use of boose, preferably good 
old Hollands and water. — You know Simon Dedalus? he 
asked at length. — I’ve heard of him, Stephen said. 
Mr Bloom was all at sea for a moment, seeing 
the others evidently eavesdropping too. — He’s Irish, the seaman 
bold affirmed, staring still in much the same way and 
nodding. All Irish. — All too Irish, Stephen rejoined. As 
for Mr Bloom he could neither make head or tail 
of the whole business and he was just asking himself 
what possible connection when the sailor, of his own accord, 
turned to the other occupants of the shelter with the 
remark : — I seen him shoot two eggs off 
two bottles at fifty yards over his shoulder. The left 
hand dead shot. Though he was slightly hampered by an 
occasional stammer and his gestures being also clumsy as it 
was still he did his best to explain. — Bottle 
Out there, say. Fifty yards measured. Eggs on the bottles. 
Cocks his gun over his shoulder. Aims. He turned his 
body half round, shut up his right eye completely, then 
