property office secondhand waterproof. Stamps : stickyback pictures. Daresay lots 
of officers are in the swim too. Course they do. 
The sweated legend in the crown of his hat told 
him mutely : Plasto’s high grade ha. He peeped quickly 
inside the leather headband. White slip of paper. Quite safe. 
On the doorstep he felt in his hip pocket for 
the latchkey. Not there. In the trousers I left off 
must get it. Potato I have. Creaky wardrobe. No use 
disturbing her. She turned over sleepily that time. He pulled 
the halldoor to after him very quietly, more, till the 
footleaf dropped gently over rhe threshold, a limp lid. Looked 
shut. All right till I come back anyhow. He crossed 
to the bright side, avoiding the loose cellarflap of number 
seventyfive. The sun was nearing the steeple of George’s church. 
Be a warm day I fancy. Specially in these black 
clothes feel it more. Black conducts, reflects (refracts is it?), 
the heat. But I couldn’t go in that light suit. 
Make a picnic of it. His eyelids sank quietly often 
as he walked in happy warmth. Boland’s breadvan delivering with 
trays our daily but she prefers yesterday’s loaves turnovers crisp 
crowns hot. Makes you feel young. Somewhere in the east 
: early morning : set off at dawn, travel round 
in front of the sun steal a day’s march on 
him. Keep it up for ever never grow a day 
older technically. Walk along a strand, strange land, come to 
a city gate, sentry there, old ranker too, old Tweedy’s 
big moustaches leaning on a long kind of a spear. 
Wander through awned streets. Turbaned faces going by. Dark caves 
of carpet shops, big man, Turko the terrible, seated crosslegged 
smoking a coiled pipe. Cries of sellers in the streets. 
Drink water scented with fennel, sherbet. Wander along all day. 
Might meet a robber or two. Well, meet him. Getting 
on to sundown. The shadows of the mosques along the 
pillars : priest with a scroll rolled up. A shiver 
of the trees, signal, the evening wind. I pass on. 
Fading gold sky. A mother watches from her doorway. She 
calls her children home in their dark language. High wall 
: beyond strings twanged. Night sky moon, violet, colour of 
Molly’s new garters. Strings. Listen. A girl playing one of 
those instruments what do you call them : dulcimers. I 
pass. Probably not a bit like it really. Kind of 
stuff you read : in the track of the sun. 
Sunburst on the titlepage. He smiled, pleasing himself. What Arthur 
Griffith said about the headpiece over the Freeman leader : 
a homerule sun rising up in the northwest from the 
laneway behind the bank of Ireland. He prolonged his pleased 
smile. Ikey touch that : homerule sun rising up in 
the northwest. He approached Larry O’Rourke’s. From the cellar grating 
floated up the flabby gush of porter. Through the open 
doorway the bar squirted out whiffs of ginger, teadust, biscuitmush. 
