nearest the heart. bloom When you made your present choice 
they said it was beauty and the beast. I can 
never forgive you for that. (His clenched fist at his 
brow.) Think what it means. All you meant to me 
then. (Hoarsely.) Woman, it’s breaking me! (Dennis Breen, whitetallhatted, with 
Wisdom Hely’s sandwich board, shuffles past them in carpet slippers, 
his dull beard thrust out, muttering to right and left. 
Little Alf Bergan, cloaked in the pall of the ace 
of spades, dogs him to left and right, doubled in 
laughter.) alf bergan (Points jeering at the sandwich boards.) U.p. 
: Up. mrs breen (To Bloom.) High jinks below stairs. 
(She gives him the glad eye.) Why didn’t you kiss 
the spot to make it well? You wanted to. bloom 
(Shocked.) Molly’s best friend! Could you? mrs breen (Her pulpy 
tongue between her lips, offers a pigeon kiss.) Hnhn. The 
answer is a lemon. Have you a little present for 
me there? bloom (Offhandedly.) Kosher. A snack for supper. The 
home without potted meat is incomplete. I was at Leah. 
Mrs Bandman Palmer. Trenchant exponent of Shakespeare. Unfortunately threw away 
the programme. Rattling good place round there for pig’s feet. 
Feel. (Richie Goulding, three ladies’ hats pinned on his head, 
appears weighted to one side by the black legal bag 
of Collis and Ward on which a skull and crossbones 
are painted in white limewash. He ins it and shows 
it full of polonies, kippered, herrings, Findon haddies and tightpacked 
pills.) richie Best value in Dub. (Bald Pat, bothered beetle, 
stands on the curbstone, folding his napkin, waiting to wait.) 
pat (Advances with a tilted dish of spillspilling gravy.) Steak 
and kidney. Bottle of lager. Hee hee hee. Wait till 
I wait. richie Goodgod. Inev erate inall… (With hanging head 
he marches doggedly forward. The navvy, lurching by, gores him 
with his flaming pronghorn.) richie (With a cry of pain, 
his hand to his back.) Ah! Bright’s! Lights! bloom (Points 
to the navvy.) A spy. Don’t attract attention. I hate 
stupid crowds. I am not on pleasure bent. I am 
in a grave predicament. mrs breen Humbugging and deluthering as 
per usual with your cock and bull story. bloom I 
want to tell you a little secret about how I 
came to be here. But you must never tell. Not 
even Molly. I have a most particular reason. mrs breen 
(All agog.) O, not for worlds. bloom Let’s walk on. 
Shall us? mrs breen Let’s. (The bawd makes an unheeded 
sign. Bloom walks on with Mrs Breen. The terrier follows, 
whining piteously, wagging his tail.) the bawd Jewman’s melt! bloom 
(In an oatmeal sporting suit, a sprig of woodbine in 
the lapel, tony buff shirt, shepherd’s plaid Saint Andrew’s cross 
scarftie, white spats, fawn dustcoat on his arm, tawny red 
brogues, fieldglasses in bandolier and a grey billycock hat.) Do 
you remember a long long time, years and years ago, 
just after Milly, Marionette we called her, was weaned when 
