in professor Goodwin’s hat! All we laughed. Sex breaking out 
even then. Pert little piece she was. He prodded a 
fork into the kidney and slapped it over : then 
fitted the teapot on the tray. Its hump bumped as 
he took it up. Everything on it? Bread and butter, 
four, sugar, spoon, her cream. Yes. He carried it upstairs, 
his thumb hooked in the teapot handle. Nudging the door 
open with his knee he carried the tray in and 
set it on the chair by the bedhead. — What 
a time you were? she said. She set the brasses 
jingling as she raised herself briskly, an elbow on the 
pillow. He looked calmly down on her bulk and between 
her large soft bubs, sloping within her nightdress like a 
shegoat’s udder. The warmth of her couched body rose on 
the air, mingling with the fragrance of the tea she 
poured. A strip of torn envelope peeped from under the 
dimpled pillow. In the act of going he stayed to 
straighten the bedspread. — Who was the letter from? he 
asked. Bold hand. Marion. — O, Boylan, she said. He’s 
bringing the programme. — What are you singing? — Là 
ci darem with J. C. Doyle, she said, and Love’s 
Old Sweet Song. Her full lips, drinking, smiled. Rather stale 
smell that incense leaves next day. Like foul flowerwater. — 
Would you like the window open a little? She doubled 
a slice of bread into her mouth, asking : — 
What time is the funeral? — Eleven, I think, he 
answered. I didn’t see the paper. Following the pointing of 
her finger he took up a leg of her soiled 
drawers from the bed. No? Then, a twisted grey garter 
looped round a stocking : rumpled, shiny sole. — No 
: that book. Other stocking. Her petticoat. — It must 
have fell down, she said. He felt here and there. 
Voglio e non vorrei. Wonder if she pronounces that right 
: voglio. Not in the bed. Must have slid down. 
He stooped and lifted the valance. The book, fallen, sprawled 
against the bulge of the orangekeyed chamberpot. — Show here, 
she said. I put a mark in it. There’s a 
word I wanted to ask you. She swallowed a draught 
of tea from her cup held by nothandle and, having 
wiped her fingertips smartly on the blanket, began to search 
the text with the hairpin till she reached the word. 
— Met him what? he asked. — Here, she said. 
What does that mean? He leaned downwards and read near 
her polished thumbnail. — Metempsychosis? — Yes. Who’s he when 
he’s at home? — Metempsychosis, he said, frowning. It’s Greek 
: from the Greek. That means the transmigration of souls. 
— O, rocks! she said. Tell us in plain words. 
He smiled, glancing askance at her mocking eye. The same 
young eyes. The first night after the charades. Dolphin’s Barn. 
He turned over the smudged pages. Ruby : the Pride 
