thigh by sevens. Dark lady and fair man. Cat furry 
black ball. Torn strip of envelope. Love’s Old Sweet Song 
Comes lo-ve’s old… — It’s a kind of a tour, 
don’t you see? Mr Bloom said thoughtfully. Sweeeet song. There’s 
a committee formed. Part shares and part profits. M’Coy nodded, 
picking at his moustache stubble. — O well, he said. 
That’s good news. He moved to go. — Well, glad 
to see you looking fit, he said. Meet you knocking 
around. — Yes, Mr Bloom said. — Tell you what, 
M’Coy said. You might put down my name at the 
funeral, will you? I’d like to go but I mightn’t 
be able, you see. There’s a drowning case at Sandycove 
may turn up and then the coroner and myself would 
have to go down if the body is found. You 
just shove in my name if I’m not there, will 
you? — I’ll do that, Mr Bloom said, moving to 
get off. That’ll be all right. — Right, M’Coy said 
brightly. Thanks, old man. I’d go if I possibly could. 
Well, tolloll. Just C. P. M’Coy will do. — That 
will be done, Mr Bloom answered firmly. Didn’t catch me 
napping that wheeze. The quick touch. Soft mark. I’d like 
my job. Valise I have a particular fancy for. Leather. 
Capped corners, riveted edges, double action lever lock. Bob Cowley 
lent him his for the Wicklow regatta concert last year 
and never heard tidings of it from that good day 
to this. Mr Bloom, strolling towards Brunswick street, smiled. My 
missus has just got an. Reedy freckled soprano. Cheeseparing nose. 
Nice enough in its way : for a little ballad. 
No guts in it. You and me, don’t you know? 
In the same boat. Softsoaping. Give you the needle that 
would. Can’t he hear the difference? Think he’s that way 
inclined a bit. Against my grain somehow. Thought that Belfast 
would fetch him. I hope that smallpox up there doesn’t 
get worse. Suppose she wouldn’t let herself be vaccinated again. 
Your wife and my wife. Wonder is he pimping after 
me? Mr Bloom stood at the corner, his eyes wandering 
over the multicoloured hoardings. Cantrell and Cochrane’s Ginger Ale (Aromatic). 
Clery’s summer sale. No, he’s going on straight. Hello. Leah 
tonight : Mrs Bandman Palmer. Like to see her in 
that again. Hamlet she played last night. Male impersonator. Perhaps 
he was a woman. Why Ophelia committed suicide? Poor papa! 
How he used to talk about Kate Bateman in that! 
Outside the Adelphi in London waited all the afternoon to 
get in. Year before I was born that was : 
sixtyfive. And Ristori in Vienna. What is this the right 
name is? By Mosenthal it is. Rachel, is it? No. 
The scene he was always talking about where the old 
blind Abraham recognises the voice and puts his fingers on 
his face. — Nathan’s voice! His son’s voice! I hear 
the voice of Nathan who left his father to die 
