What about that leader this evening? professor MacHugh asked, coming 
to the editor and laying a firm hand on his 
shoulder. — That’ll be all right, Myles Crawford said more 
calmly. Never you fret. Hello, Jack. That’s all right. — 
Good day, Myles, J.J. O’Molloy said, letting the pages he 
held slip limply back on the file. Is that Canada 
swindle case on today? The telephone whirred inside. — Twenty 
eight… No, twenty… Double four… Yes. SPOT THE WINNER Lenehan 
came out of the inner office with Sport’s tissues. — 
Who wants a dead cert for the Gold cup? he 
asked. Sceptre with O. Madden up. He tossed the tissues 
on to the table. Screams of newsboys barefoot in the 
hall rushed near and the door was flung open. — 
Hush, Lenehan said. I hear feetstoops. Professor MacHugh strode across 
the room and seized the cringing urchin by the collar 
as the others scampered out of the hall and down 
the steps. The tissues rustled up in the draught, floated 
softly in the air blue scrawls and under the table 
came to earth. — It wasn’t me, sir. It was 
the big fellow shoved me, sir. — Throw him out 
and shut the door, the editor said. There’s a hurricane 
blowing. Lenehan began to paw the tissues up from the 
floor, grunting as he stooped twice. — Waiting for the 
racing special, sir, the newsboy said. It was Pat Farrell 
shoved me, sir. He pointed to two faces peering in 
round the doorframe. — Him, sir. — Out of this 
with you, professor MacHugh said gruffly. He hustled the boy 
out and banged the door to. J.J. O’Molloy turned the 
files crackingly over, murmuring, seeking : — Continued on page 
six, column four. — Yes… Evening Telegraph here, Mr Bloom 
phoned from the inner office. Is the boss…? Yes, Telegraph… 
To where?… Aha! Which auction rooms?… Aha! I see… Right. 
I’ll catch him. A COLLISION ENSUES The bell whirred again 
as he rang off. He came in quickly and bumped 
against Lenehan who was struggling up with the second tissue. 
— Pardon, monsieur, Lenehan said, clutching him for an instant 
and making a grimace. — My fault, Mr Bloom said, 
suffering his grip. Are you hurt? I’m in a hurry. 
— Knee, Lenehan said. He made a comic face and 
whined, rubbing his knee. — The accumulation of the anno 
Domini. — Sorry, Mr Bloom said. He went to the 
door and, holding it ajar, paused. J.J. O’Molloy slapped the 
heavy pages over. The noise of two shrill voices, a 
mouthorgan, echoed in the bare hallway from the newsboys squatted 
on the doorsteps : We are the boys of Wexford 
Who fought with heart and hand. EXIT BLOOM — I’m 
just running round to Bachelor’s walk, Mr Bloom said, about 
this ad of Keyes’s. Want to fix it up. They 
tell me he’s round there in Dillon’s. He looked indecisively 
for a moment at their faces. The editor who, leaning 
