behind, grey mittens and cameo brooch, her hair plaited in 
a crispine net, appears over the staircase banisters, a slanted 
candlestick in her hand and cries out in shrill alarm.) 
O blessed Redeemer, what have they done to him! My 
smelling salts! (She hauls up a reef of skirt and 
ransacks the pouch of her striped blay petticoat. A phial, 
an Agnus Dei, a shrivelled potato and a celluloid doll 
fall out.) Sacred Heart of Mary, where were you at 
all, at all? (Bloom, mumbling, his eyes downcast, begins to 
bestow his parcels in his filled pockets but desists, muttering.) 
a voice (Sharply.) Poldy! bloom Who? (He ducks and wards 
off a blow clumsily.) At your service. (He looks up. 
Beside her mirage of datepalms a handsome woman in Turkish 
costume stands before him. Opulent curves fill out her scarlet 
trousers and jacket slashed with gold. A wide yells cummerbund 
girdles her. A white yashmak violet in the night, covers 
her face, leaving free only her lace dark eyes and 
raven hair.) bloom Molly! marion Welly? Mrs Marion from this 
out, my dear man, when you speak to me. (Satirically.) 
Has poor little hubby cold feet waiting so long? bloom 
(Shifts from foot to foot.) No, no. Not the least 
little bit. (He breathes in deep agitation, swallowing gulps of 
air, questions, hopes, crubeens for her supper, things to tell 
her, excuses, desire, spellbound. A coin gleams on her forehead. 
On her feet are jewelled toerings. Her ankles are linked 
by a slender fetterchain. Beside her a camel, hooded with 
a turreting turban, waits. A silk ladder of innumerable rungs 
climbs to his bobbing howdah. He ambles near with disgruntled 
hindquarters. Fiercely she slaps his haunch, her goldcurb wristbangles angriling, 
scolding him in Moorish.) marion Nebrakada! Feminimum. (The camel, lifting 
a foreleg, plucks from a tree a largee mango fruit, 
offers it to his mistress, blinking, in his cloven hoof 
then droops his head and, grunting, with uplifted neck, fumbles 
to kneel. Bloom stoops his back for leapfrog.) bloom I 
can give you… I mean as your business menagerer… Mrs 
Marion… if you… marion So you notice some change? (Her 
hands passing slowly over her trinketed stomacher. A slow friendly 
mockery in her eyes.) O Poldy, Poldy, you are a 
poor old stick in the mud! Go and see life. 
See the wide world. bloom I was just going back 
for that lotion whitewax, orangeflower water. Shop closes early on 
Thursday. But the first thing in the morning. (He pats 
divers pockets.) This moving kidney. Ah! (He points to the 
south, then to the east. A cake of new clean 
lemon soap arises, diffusing light and perfume.) the soap We’re 
a capital couple are Bloom and I He brightens the 
earth, I polish the sky. (The freckled face of Sweny, 
the druggist, appears in the disc of the soapsun.) sweny 
Three and a penny, please. bloom Yes. For my wife, 
Mrs Marion. Special recipe. marion (Softly.) Poldy! bloom Yes, ma’am? 
