expression in his eyes. He was eying her as a 
snake eyes its prey. Her woman’s instinct told her that 
she had raised the devil in him and at the 
thought a burning scarlet swept from throat to brow till 
the lovely colour of her face became a glorious rose. 
Edy Boardman was noticing it too because she was squinting 
at Gerty, half smiling, with her specs, like an old 
maid, pretending to nurse the baby. Irritable little gnat she 
was and always would be and that was why no-one 
could get on with her, poking her nose into what 
was no concern of hers. And she said to Gerty 
: — A penny for your thoughts. — What? replied 
Gerty with a smile reinforced by the whitest of teeth. 
I was only wondering was it late. Because she wished 
to goodness they’d take the snottynosed twins and their baby 
home to the mischief out of that so that was 
why she just gave a gentle hint about its being 
late. And when Cissy came up Edy asked her the 
time and Miss Cissy, as glib as you like, said 
it was half past kissing time, time to kiss again. 
But Edy wanted to know because they were told to 
be in early. — Wait, said Cissy, I’ll ask my 
uncle Peter over there what’s the time by his conundrum. 
So over she went and when he saw her coming 
she could see him take his hand out of his 
pocket, getting nervous, and beginning to play with his watchchain, 
looking at the church. Passionate nature though he was Gerty 
could see that he had enormous control over himself. One 
moment he had been there, fascinated by a loveliness that 
made him gaze and the next moment it was the 
quiet gravefaced gentleman, selfcontrol expressed in every line of his 
distinguishedlooking figure. Cissy said to excuse her would he mind 
telling her what was the right time and Gerty could 
see him taking out his watch, listening to it and 
looking up and clearing his throat and he said he 
was very sorry his watch was stopped but he thought 
it must be after eight because the sun was set. 
His voice had a cultured ring in it and though 
he spoke in measured accents there was a suspicion of 
a quiver in the mellow tones. Cissy said thanks and 
came back with her tongue out and said uncle said 
his waterworks were out of order. Then they sang the 
second verse of the Tantum ergo and Canon O’Hanlon got 
up again and censed the Blessed Sacrament and knelt down 
and he told Father Conroy that one of the candles 
was just going to set fire to the flowers and 
Father Conroy got up and settled it all right and 
she could see the gentleman winding his watch and listening 
to the works and she swung her leg more in 
and out in time. It was getting darker but he 
