your grandmother how to milk ducks. Pisser Burke was telling 
me in the hotel the wife used to be in 
rivers of tears sometimes with Mrs O’Dowd crying her eyes 
out with her eight inches of fat all over her. 
Couldn’t loosen her farting strings but old cod’s eye was 
waltzing around her showing her how to do it. What’s 
your programme today? Ay. Humane methods. Because the poor animals 
suffer and experts say and the best known remedy that 
doesn’t cause pain to the animal and on the sore 
spot administer gently. Gob, he’d have a soft hand under 
a hen. Ga Ga Gara. Klook Klook Klook. Black Liz 
is our hen. She lays eggs for us. When she 
lays her egg she is so glad. Gara. Klook Klook 
Klook. Then comes good uncle Leo. He puts his hand 
under black Liz and takes her fresh egg. Ga ga 
ga ga Gara. Klook Klook Klook. — Anyhow, says Joe. 
Field and Nannetti are going over tonight to London to 
ask about it on the floor of the House of 
Commons. — Are you sure, says Bloom, the councillor is 
going. I wanted to see him, as it happens. — 
Well, he’s going off by the mailboat, says Joe, tonight. 
— That’s too bad, says Bloom. I wanted particularly. Perhaps 
only Mr Field is going. I couldn’t phone. No. You’re 
sure? — Nannan’s going too, says Joe. The league told 
him to ask a question tomorrow about the commissioner of 
police forbidding Irish games in the park. What do you 
think of that, citizen? The Sluagh na h-Eireann. Mr Cowe 
Conacre (Multifarnham. Nat.) : Arising out of the question of 
my honourable friend, the member for Shillelagh, may I ask 
the right honourable gentleman whether the Government has issued orders 
that these animals shall be slaughtered though no medical evidence 
is forthcoming as to their pathological condition? Mr Allfours (Tamoshant. 
Con.) : Honourable members are already in possession of the 
evidence produced before a committee of the whole house. I 
feel I cannot usefully add anything to that. The answer 
to the honourable member’s question is in the affirmative. Mr 
Orelli (Montenotte. Nat.) : Have similar orders been issued for 
the slaughter of human animals who dare to play Irish 
games in the Phoenix park? Mr Allfours : The answer 
is in the negative. Mr Cowe Conacre : Has the 
right honourable gentleman’s famous Mitchelstown telegram inspired the policy of 
gentlemen on the treasury bench? (O! O!) Mr Allfours : 
I must have notice of that question. Mr Staylewit (Buncombe. 
Ind.) : Don’t hesitate to shoot. (Ironical opposition cheers.) The 
speaker : Order! Order! (The house rises. Cheers.) — There’s 
the man, says Joe, that made the Gaelic sports revival. 
There he is sitting there. The man that got away 
James Stephens. The champion of all Ireland at putting the 
sixteen pound shot. What was your best throw, citizen? — 
Na bacleis, says the citizen, letting on to be modest. 
