Mr Best said brightly, gladly, raising his new book, gladly, 
brightly. He murmured then with blonde delight for all : 
Between the acres of the rye These pretty countryfolk would 
lie. Paris : the wellpleased pleaser. A tall figure in 
bearded homespun rose from shadow and unveiled its cooperative watch. 
— I am afraid I am due at the Homestead. 
Whither away? Exploitable ground. — Are you going, John Eglinton’s 
active eyebrows asked. Shall we see you at Moore’s tonight? 
Piper is coming. — Piper! Mr Best piped. Is Piper 
back? Peter Piper pecked a peck of pick of peck 
of pickled pepper. — I don’t know if I can. 
Thursday. We have our meeting. If I can get away 
in time. Yogibogeybox in Dawson chambers. Isis Unveiled. Their Pali 
book we tried to pawn. Crosslegged under an umbrel umbershoot 
he thrones an Aztec logos, functioning on astral levels, their 
oversoul, mahamahatma. The faithful hermetists await the light, ripe for 
chelaship, ringroundabout him. Louis H. Victory. T. Caulfield Irwin. Lotus 
ladies tend them i’the eyes, their pineal glands aglow. Filled 
with his god he thrones, Buddh under plantain. Gulfer of 
souls, engulfer. Hesouls, shesouls, shoals of souls. Engulfed with wailing 
creecries, whirled, whirling, they bewail. In quintessential triviality For years 
in this fleshcase a shesoul dwelt. — They say we 
are to have a literary surprise, the quaker librarian said, 
friendly and earnest. Mr Russell, rumour has it, is gathering 
together a sheaf of our younger poets’ verses. We are 
all looking forward anxiously. Anxiously he glanced in the cone 
of lamplight where three faces, lighted, shone. See this. Remember. 
Stephen looked down on a wide headless caubeen, hung on 
his ashplanthandle over his knee. My casque and sword. Touch 
lightly with two index fingers. Aristotle’s experiment. One or two? 
Necessity is that in virtue of which it is impossible 
that one can be otherwise. Argai, one hat is one 
hat. Listen. Young Colum and Starkey. George Roberts is doing 
the commercial part. Longworth will give it a good puff 
in the Express. O, will he? I liked Colum’s Drover. 
Yes, I think he has that queer thing, genius. Do 
you think he has genius really? Yeats admired his line 
: As in wild earth a Grecian vase. Did he? 
I hope you’ll be able to come tonight. Malachi Mulligan 
is coming too. Moore asked him to bring Haines. Did 
you hear Miss Mitchell’s joke about Moore and Martyn? That 
Moore is Martyn’s wild oats? Awfully clever, isn’t it? They 
remind one of don Quixote and Sancho Panza. Our national 
epic has yet to be written, Dr Sigerson says. Moore 
is the man for it. A knight of the rueful 
countenance here in Dublin. With a saffron kilt? O’Neill Russell? 
O, yes, he must speak the grand old tongue. And 
his Dulcinea? James Stephens is doing some clever sketches. We 
are becoming important, it seems. Cordelia. Cordoglio. Lir’s loneliest daughter. 
Nookshotten. Now your best French polish. — Thank you very 
