his strongroom for the gold. Stephen’s embarrassed hand moved over 
the shells heaped in the cold stone mortar : whelks 
and money, cowries and leopard shells : and this, whorled 
as an emir’s turban, and this, the scallop of Saint 
James. An old pilgrim’s hoard, dead treasure, hollow shells. A 
sovereign fell, bright and new, on the soft pile of 
the tablecloth. — Three, Mr Deasy said, turning his little 
savingsbox about in his hand. These are handy things to 
have. See. This is for sovereigns. This is for shillings, 
sixpences, halfcrowns. And here crowns. See. He shot from it 
two crowns and two shillings. — Three twelve, he said. 
I think you’ll find that’s right. — Thank you, sir, 
Stephen said, gathering the money together with shy haste and 
putting it all in a pocket of his trousers. — 
No thanks at all, Mr Deasy said. You have earned 
it. Stephen’s hand, free again, went back to the hollow 
shells. Symbols too of beauty and of power. A lump 
in my pocket. Symbols soiled by greed and misery. — 
Don’t carry it like that, Mr Deasy said. You’ll pull 
it out somewhere and lose it. You just buy one 
of these machines. You’ll find them very handy. Answer something. 
— Mine would be often empty, Stephen said. The same 
room and hour, the same wisdom : and I the 
same. Three times now. Three nooses round me here. Well. 
I can break them in this instant if I will. 
— Because you don’t save, Mr Deasy said, pointing his 
finger. You don’t know yet what money is. Money is 
power, when you have lived as long as I have. 
I know, I know. If youth but knew. But what 
does Shakespeare say? Put but money in thy purse. — 
Iago, Stephen murmured. He lifted his gaze from the idle 
shells to the old man’s stare. — He knew what 
money was, Mr Deasy said. He made money. A poet. 
but an Englishman too. Do you know what is the 
pride of the English? Do you know what is the 
proudest word you will ever hear from an Englishman’s mouth? 
The seas’ ruler. His seacold eyes looked on the empty 
bay : history is to blame : on me and 
on my words, unhating. — That on his empire, Stephen 
said, the sun never sets. — Ba ! Mr Deasy 
cried. That’s not English. A French Celt said that. He 
tapped his savingsbox against his thumbnail. — I will tell 
you, he said solemnly, what is his proudest boast. I 
paid my way. Goood man, good man. — I paid 
my way. I never borrowed a shilling in my life. 
Can you feel that? I owe nothing. Can you? Mulligan, 
nine pounds, three pairs of socks, one pair brogues, ties. 
Curran, ten guineas. McCann, one guinea. Fred Ryan, two shillings. 
Temple, two lunches. Russell, one guinea, Cousins, ten shillings, Bob 
Reynolds, half a guinea, Köhler, three guineas, Mrs McKernan, five 
