have it today? Martha, she. Something in the air. That’s 
the moon. But then why don’t all women menstruate at 
the same time with same moon, I mean? Depends on 
the time they were born, I suppose. Or all start 
scratch then get out of step. Sometimes Molly and Milly 
together. Anyhow I got the best of that. Damned glad 
I didn’t do it in the bath this morning over 
her silly I will punish you letter. Made up for 
that tramdriver this morning. That gouger M’Coy stopping me to 
say nothing. And his wife engagement in the country valise, 
voice like a pickaxe. Thankful for small mercies. Cheap too. 
Yours for the asking. Because they want it themselves. Their 
natural craving. Shoals of them every evening poured out of 
offices. Reserve better. Don’t want it they throw it at 
you. Catch em alive, O. Pity they can’t see themselves. 
A dream of wellfilled hose. Where was that? Ah, yes. 
Mutoscope pictures in Capel street : for men only. Peeping 
Tom. Willy’s hat and what the girls did with it. 
Do they snapshot those girls or is it all a 
fake? Lingerie does it. Felt for the curves inside her 
deshabillé. Excites them also when they’re. I’m all clean come 
and dirty me. And they like dressing one another for 
the sacrifice. Milly delighted with Molly’s new blouse. At first. 
Put them all on to take them all off. Molly. 
Why I bought her the violet garters. Us too : 
the tie he wore, his lovely socks and turnedup trousers. 
He wore a pair of gaiters the night that first 
we met. His lovely shirt was shining beneath his what? 
of jet. Say a woman loses a charm with every 
pin she takes out. Pinned together. O Mairy lost the 
pin of her. Dressed up to the nines for somebody. 
Fashion part of their charm. Just changes when you’re on 
the track of the secret. Except the east : Mary, 
Martha : now as then. No reasonable offer refused. She 
wasn’t in a hurry either. Always off to a fellow 
when they are. They never forget an appointment. Out on 
spec probably. They believe in chance because like themselves. And 
the others inclined to give her an odd dig. Girl 
friends at school, arms round each other’s neck or with 
ten fingers locked, kissing and whispering secrets about nothing in 
the convent garden. Nuns with whitewashed faces, cool coif and 
their rosaries going up and down, vindictive too for what 
they can’t get. Barbed wire. Be sure now and write 
to me. And I’ll write to you. Now won’t you? 
Molly and Josie Powell. Till Mr Right comes, along then 
meet once in a blue moon. Tableau! O, look who 
it is for the love of God! How are you 
at all? What have you been doing with yourself? Kiss 
and delighted to, kiss, to see you. Picking holes in 
each other’s appearance. You’re looking splendid. Sister souls showing their 
