best bit of news I heard these six weeks. Here, 
don’t keep me waiting, damn you. (He slaps her face.) 
bloom (Whimpers.) You’re after hitting me. I’ll tell… bello Hold 
him down, girls, till I squat on him. zoe Yes. 
Walk on him! I will. florry I will. Don’t be 
greedy. kitty No, me. Lend him to me. (The brothel 
cook, Mrs Keogh, wrinkled, greybearded, in a greasy bib, men’s 
grey and green socks and brogues, floursmeared, a rollingpin stuck 
with raw pastry in her bare red arm and hand, 
appears at the door.) mrs keogh (Ferociously.) Can I help? 
(They hold and pinion Bloom.) bello (Squats, with a grunt, 
on Bloom’s upturned face, puffing cigarsmoke, nursing a fat leg.) 
I see Keating Clay is elected chairman of the Richmond 
Asylum and bytheby Guinness’s preference shares are at sixteen three 
quarters. Curse me for a fool that I didn’t buy 
that lot Craig and Gardner told me about. Just my 
infernal luck, curse it. And that Goddamned outsider Throwaway at 
twenty to one. (He quenches his cigar angrily on Bloom’s 
ear.) Where’s that Goddamned cursed ashtray? bloom (Goaded, buttocksmothered.) O! 
O! Monsters! Cruel one! bello Ask for that every ten 
minutes. Beg, pray for it as you never prayed before. 
(He thrusts out a figged fist and foul cigar.) Here, 
kiss that. Both. Kiss. (He throws a leg astride and, 
pressing with horseman’s knees, calls in a hard voice.) Gee 
up! A cockhorse to Banbury cross. I’ll ride him for 
the Eclipse stakes. (He bends sideways and squeezes his mount’s 
testicles roughly, shouting.) Ho! off we pop! I’ll nurse you 
in proper fashion. (He horserides cockhorse, leaping in the, in 
the saddle.) The lady goes a pace a pace and 
the coachman goes a trot a trot and the gentleman 
goes a gallop a gallop a gallop a gallop. florry 
(Pulls at Bello.) Let me on him now. You had 
enough. I asked before you. zoe (Pulling at Florry.) Me. 
Me. Are you not finished with him yet, suckeress? bloom 
(Stifling.) Can’t. bello Well, I’m not. Wait. (He holds in 
his breath.) Curse it. Here. This bung’s about burst. (He 
uncorks himself behind : then, contorting his features, farts loudly.) 
Take that! (He recorks himself.) Yes, by Jingo, sixteen three 
quarters. bloom (A sweat breaking out over him.) Not man. 
(He sniffs.) Woman. bello (Stands up.) No more blow hot 
and cold. What you longed for has come to pass. 
Henceforth you are unmanned and mine in earnest, a thing 
under the yoke. Now for your punishment frock. You will 
shed your male garments, you understand, Ruby Cohen? and don 
the shot silk luxuriously rustling over head and shoulders and 
quickly too. bloom (Shrinks.) Silk, mistress said! O crinkly! scrapy! 
Must I tiptouch it with my nails? bello (Points to 
his whores.) As they are now, so will you be, 
wigged, singed, perfumesprayed, ricepowdered, with smoothshaven armpits. Tape measurements will 
be taken next your skin. You will be laced with 
