the soil would be quite fat with corpse manure, bones, 
flesh, nails, charnelhouses. Dreadful. Turning green and pink, decomposing. Rot 
quick in damp earth lean. The lean old ones tougher. 
Then a kind of a tallowy kind of a cheesy. 
Then begin to get black, treacle oozing out of them. 
Then dried up. Deathmoths. Of course the cells or whatever 
they are go on living. Changing about. Live for ever 
practically. Nothing to feed on feed on themselves. But they 
must breed a devil of a lot of maggots. Soil 
must be simply swirling with them. Your head it simply 
swurls. Those pretty little seaside gurls. He looks cheerful enough 
over it. Gives him a sense of power seeing all 
the others go under first. Wonder how he looks at 
life. Cracking his jokes too : warms the cockles of 
his heart. The one about the bulletin. Spurgeon went to 
heaven 4 a. m. this morning. 11 p. m. (closing 
time). Not arrived yet. Peter. The dead themselves the men 
anyhow would like to hear an odd joke or the 
women to know what’s in fashion. A juicy pear or 
ladies’ punch, hot, strong and sweet. Keep out the damp. 
You must laugh sometimes so better do it that way. 
Gravediggers in Hamlet. Shows the profound knowledge of the human 
heart. Daren’t joke about the dead for two years at 
least. De mortuis nil nisi prius. Go out of mourning 
first. Hard to imagine his funeral. Seems a sort of 
a joke. Read your own obituary notice they say you 
live longer. Gives you second wind. New lease of life. 
— How many have you for tomorrow? the caretaker asked. 
— Two, Corny Kelleher said. Half ten and eleven. The 
caretaker put the papers in his pocket. The barrow had 
ceased to trundle. The mourners split and moved to each 
side of the hole, stepping with care round the graves. 
The gravediggers bore the coffin and set its nose on 
the brink, looping the bands round it. Burying him. We 
come to bury Caesar. His ides of March or June. 
He doesn’t know who is here nor care. Now who 
is that lankylooking galoot over there in the macintosh? Now 
who is he I’d like to know? Now, I’d give 
a trifle to know who he is. Always someone turns 
up you never dreamt of. A fellow could live on 
his lonesome all his life. Yes, he could. Still he’d 
have to get someone to sod him after he died 
though he could dig his own grave. We all do. 
Only man buries. No ants too. First thing strikes anybody. 
Bury the dead. Say Robinson Crusoe was true to life. 
Well then Friday buried him. Every Friday buries a Thursday 
if you come to look at it. O, poor Robinson 
Crusoe, How could you possibly do so? Poor Dignam! His 
last lie on the earth in his box. When you 
think of them all it does seem a waste of 
