that were blown down by that cyclone last year and 
thought she’d buy a view of Dublin. And it turned 
out to be a commemoration postcard of Joe Brady or 
Number One or Skin-the-goat. Right outside the viceregal lodge, imagine! 
— They’re only in the hook and eye department, Myles 
Crawford said. Psha! Press and the bar! Where have you 
a man now at the bar like those fellows, like 
Whiteside, like Isaac Butt, like silvertongued O’Hagan? Eh? Ah, bloody 
nonsense! Only in the halfpenny place! His mouth continued to 
twitch unspeaking in nervous curls of disdain. Would anyone wish 
that mouth for her kiss? How do you know? Why 
did you write it then? RHYMES AND REASONS Mouth, south. 
Is the mouth south someway? Or the south a mouth? 
Must be some. South, pout, out, shout, drouth. Rhymes : 
two men dressed the same, looking the same, two by 
two. … … … … … … … .la tua 
pace … … … … … . .che parlar ti 
piace … .mentreche il vento, come fa, si tace. He 
saw them three by three, approaching girls, in green, in 
rose, in russet, entwining, per l’aer perso in mauve, in 
purple, quella pacifica oriafiamma, in gold of oriflamme, di rimirar 
fè più ardenti. But I old men, penitent, leadenfooted, underdarkneath 
the night : mouth south : tomb womb. — Speak 
up for yourself, Mr O’Madden Burke said. SUFFICIENT FOR THE 
DAY… J.J. O’Molloy, smiling palely, took up the gage. — 
My dear Myles, he said, flinging his cigarette aside, you 
put a false construction on my words. I hold no 
brief, as at present advised, for the third profession qua 
profession but your Cork legs are running away with you. 
Why not bring in Henry Grattan and Flood and Demosthenes 
and Edmund Burke? Ignatius Gallaher we all know and his 
Chapelizod boss, Harmsworth of the farthing press, and his American 
cousin of the Bowery gutter sheet not to mention Paddy 
Kelly’s Budget, Pue’s Occurrences and our watchful friend The Skibereen 
Eagle. Why bring in a master of forensic eloquence like 
Whiteside? Sufficient for the day is the newspaper thereof. LINKS 
WITH BYGONE DAYS OF YORE — Grattan and Flood wrote 
for this very paper, the editor cried in his face. 
Irish volunteers. Where are you now? Established 1763. Dr Lucas. 
Who have you now like John Philpot Curran? Psha! — 
Well, J.J. O’Molloy said, Bushe K. C., for example. — 
Bushe? the editor said. Well, yes. Bushe, yes. He has 
a strain of it in his blood. Kendal Bushe or 
I mean Seymour Bushe. — He would have been on 
the bench long ago, the professor said, only for… But 
no matter. J.J. O’Molloy turned to Stephen and said quietly 
and slowly : — One of the most polished periods 
I think I ever listened to in my life fell 
from the lips of Seymour Bushe. It was in that 
case of fratricide, the Childs murder case. Bushe defended him. 
