cheer a fellow up, Martin Cunningham said. It’s pure goodheartedness 
: damn the thing else. Mr Bloom admired the caretaker’s 
prosperous bulk. All want to be on good terms with 
him. Decent fellow, John O’Connell, real good sort. Keys : 
like Keyes’s ad : no fear of anyone getting out, 
no passout checks. Habeat corpus. I must see about that 
ad after the funeral. Did I write Ballsbridge on the 
envelope I took to cover when she disturbed me writing 
to Martha? Hope it’s not chucked in the dead letter 
office. Be the better of a shave. Grey sprouting beard. 
That’s the first sign when the hairs come out grey 
and temper getting cross. Silver threads among the grey. Fancy 
being his wife. Wonder how he had the gumption to 
propose to any girl. Come out and live in the 
graveyard. Dangle that before her. It might thrill her first. 
Courting death… Shades of night hovering here with all the 
dead stretched about. The shadows of the tombs when churchyards 
yawn and Daniel O’Connell must be a descendant I suppose 
who is this used to say he was a queer 
breedy man great catholic all the same like a big 
giant in the dark. Will o’the wisp. Gas of graves. 
Want to keep her mind off it to conceive at 
all. Women especially are so touchy. Tell her a ghost 
story in bed to make her sleep. Have you ever 
seen a ghost? Well, I have. It was a pitchdark 
night. The clock was on the stroke of twelve. Still 
they’d kiss all right if properly keyed up. Whores in 
Turkish graveyards. Learn anything if taken young. You might pick 
up a young widow here. Men like that. Love among 
the tombstones. Romeo. Spice of pleasure. In the midst of 
death we are in life. Both ends meet. Tantalising for 
the poor dead. Smell of grilled beefsteaks to the starving 
gnawing their vitals. Desire to grig people. Molly wanting to 
do it at the window. Eight children he has anyway. 
He has seen a fair share go under in his 
time, lying around him field after field. Holy fields. More 
room if they buried them standing. Sitting or kneeling you 
couldn’t. Standing? His head might come up some day above 
ground in a landslip with his hand pointing. All honeycombed 
the ground must be : oblong cells. And very neat 
he keeps it too, trim grass and edgings. His garden 
Major Gamble calls Mount Jerome. Well so it is. Ought 
to be flowers of sleep. Chinese cemeteries with giant poppies 
growing produce the best opium Mastiansky told me. The Botanic 
Gardens are just over there. It’s the blood sinking in 
the earth gives new life. Same idea those jews they 
said killed the christian boy. Every man his price. Well 
preserved fat corpse gentleman, epicure, invaluable for fruit garden. A 
bargain. By carcase of William Wilkinson, auditor and accountant, lately 
deceased, three pounds thirteen and six. With thanks. I daresay 
