povertystricken Breen out on grass with his beard out tripping 
him, bringing down the rain. And she with her nose 
cockahoop after she married him because a cousin of his 
old fellow’s was pew opener to the pope. Picture of 
him on the wall with his smashall sweeney’s moustaches. The 
signor Brini from Summerhill, the eyetallyano, papal zouave to the 
Holy Father, has left the quay and gone to Moss 
street. And who was he, tell us? A nobody, two 
pair back and passages, at seven shillings a week, and 
he covered with al kinds of breastplates bidding defiance to 
the world. — And moreover, says J. J., a postcard 
is publication. It was held to be sufficient evidence of 
malice in the testcase Sadgrove v. Hole. In my opinion 
an action might lie. Six and eightpence, please. Who wants 
your opinion? Let us drink our pints in peace. Gob, 
we won’t be let even do that much itself. — 
Well, good health, Jack, says Ned. — Good health, Ned, 
says J. J. — There he is again, says Joe. 
— Where? says Alf. And begob there he was passing 
the door with his books under his oxter and the 
wife beside him and Corny Kelleher with his wall eye 
looking in as they went passed, talking to him like 
a father, trying to sell him a secondhand coffin. — 
How did that Canada swindle case go off? says Joe. 
— Remanded, says J. J. One of the bottlenosed fraternity 
it was went by the name of James Wought alias 
Saphiro alias Spark and Spiro, put an ad in the 
papers saying he’d give a passage to Canada for twenty 
bob. What? Do you see any green in the white 
of my eye? Course it was a bloody barney. What? 
Swindled them all, skivvies and badhachs from the county Meath, 
ay, and his own kidney too. J. J. was telling 
us there was an ancient Hebrew Zaretsky or something weeping 
in the witnessbox with his hat on him, swearing by 
the holy Moses he was stuck for two quid. — 
Who tried the case? says Joe. — Recorder, says Ned. 
— Poor old sir Frederick, says Alf, you can cod 
him up to the two eyes. — Heart as big 
as a lion, says Ned. Tell him a tale of 
woe about arrears of rent and a sick wife and 
a squad of kids and, faith, he’ll dissolve in tears 
on the bench. — Ay, says Alf. Reuben J. was 
bloody lucky he didn’t clap him in the dock the 
other day for suing poor little Gumley that’s minding stones 
for the corporation there near Butt bridge. And he starts 
taking off the old recorder letting on to cry : 
— A most scandalous thing! This poor hardworking man! How 
many children? Ten, did you say? — Yes, your worship. 
And my wife has the typhoid! — And a wife 
with typhoid fever! Scandalous! Leave the court immediately, sir. No, 
