More like ’tis the hoose or the timber tongue. Mr 
Stephen, a little moved but very handsomely, told him no 
such matter and that he had dispatches from the emperor’s 
chief tailtickler thanking him for the hospitality, that was sending 
over Doctor Rinderpest, the bestquoted cowcatcher in all Muscovy, with 
a bolus or two of physic to take the bull 
by the horns. Come, come, says Mr Vincent, plain dealing. 
He’ll find himself on the horns of a dilemma if 
he meddles with a bull that’s Irish, says he. Irish 
by name and irish by nature, says Mr Stephen, and 
he sent the ale purling about. An Irish bull in 
an English chinashop. I conceive you, says Mr Dixon. It 
is that same bull that was sent to our island 
by farmer Nicholas, the bravest cattle breeder of them all, 
with an emerald ring in his nose. True for you, 
says Mr Vincent cross the table, and a bullseye into 
the bargain, says he, and a plumper and a portlier 
bull, says he, never shit on shamrock. He had horns 
galore, a coat of gold and a sweet smoky breath 
coming out of his nostrils so that the women of 
our island, leaving doughballs and rollingpins, followed after him hanging 
his bulliness in daisychains. What for that, says Mr Dixon, 
but before he came over farmer Nicholas that was a 
eunuch had him properly gelded by a college of doctors 
who were no better off than himself. So be off 
now, says he, and do all my cousin german the 
Lord Harry tells you and take a farmer’s blessing, and 
with that he slapped his posteriors very soundly. But the 
slap and the blessing stood him friend, says Mr Vincent, 
for to make up he taught him a trick worth 
two of the other so that maid, wife, abbess and 
widow to this day affirm that they would rather any 
time of the month whisper in his ear in the 
dark of a cowhouse or get a lick on the 
nape from his long holy tongue than lie with the 
finest strapping young ravisher in the four fields of all 
Ireland. Another then put in his word : And they 
dressed him, says he, in a point shift and petticoat 
with a tippet and girdle and ruffles on his wrists 
and clipped his forelock and rubbed him all over with 
spermacetic oil and built stables for him at every turn 
of the road with a gold manger in each full 
of the best hay in the market so that he 
could doss and dung to his heart’s content. By this 
time the father of the faithful (for so they called 
him) was grown so heavy that he could scarce walk 
to pasture. To remedy which our cozening dames and damsels 
brought him his fodder in their apronlaps and as soon 
as his belly was full he would rear up on 
his hind quarters to show their ladyships a mystery and 
