breeches of silk of whiterose ivory, wonder of a day, 
and Lambert Simnel, with a tail of nans and sutlers, 
a scullion crowned. All kings’ sons. Paradise of pretenders then 
and now. He saved men from drowning and you shake 
at a cur’s yelping. But the courtiers who mocked Guido 
in Or san Michele were in their own house. House 
of… We don’t want any of your medieval abstrusiosities. Would 
you do what he did? A boat would be near, 
a lifebuoy. Natürlich, put there for you. Would you or 
would you not? The man that was drowned nine days 
ago off Maiden’s rock. They are waiting for him now. 
The truth, spit it out. I would want to. I 
would try. I am not a strong swimmer. Water cold 
soft. When I put my face into it in the 
basin at Clongowes. Can’t see ! who’s behind me? Out 
quickly, quickly ! Do you see the tide flowing quickly 
in on all sides, sheeting the lows of sands quickly, 
shellcocoacoloured? If I had land under my feet I want 
his life still to be his, mine to be mine. 
A drowning man. His human eyes scream to me out 
of horror of his death. I… With him together down… 
I could not save her. Waters : bitter death : 
lost. A woman and a man. I see her skirties. 
Pinned up, I bet. Their dog ambled about a bank 
of dwindling sand, trotting, sniffing on all sides. Looking for 
something lost in a past life. Suddenly he made off 
like a bounding hare, ears flung back, chasing the shadow 
of a lowskimming gull. The man’s shrieked whistle struck his 
limp ears. He turned, bounded back, came nearer, trotted on 
twinkling shanks. On a field tenney a buck, trippant, proper, 
unattired. At the lacefringe of the tide he halted with 
stiff forehoofs, seawardpointed ears. His snout lifted barked at the 
wavenoise, herds of seamorse. They serpented towards his feet, curling, 
unfurling many crests, every ninth, breaking, plashing, from far, from 
farther out, waves and waves. Cocklepickers. They waded a little 
way in the water and, stooping, soused their bags, and, 
lifting them again, waded out. The dog yelped running to 
them, reared up and pawed them, dropping on all fours, 
again reared up at them with mute bearish fawning. Unheeded 
he kept by them as they came towards the drier 
sand, a rag of wolf’s tongue redpanting from his jaws. 
His speckled body ambled ahead of them and then loped 
off at a calf’s gallop. The carcase lay on his 
path. He stopped, sniffed, stalked round it, brother, nosing closer, 
went round it, sniffing rapidly like a dog all over 
the dead dog’s bedraggled fell. Dogskull, dogsniff, eyes on the 
ground, moves to one great goal. Ah, poor dogsbody. Here 
lies poor dogsbody’s body. — Tatters! Out of that, you 
mongrel. The cry brought him skulking back to his master 
and a blunt bootless kick sent him unscathed across a 
