far forth as to pretermit humanity upon any condition soever 
towards a gentlewoman when she was about her lawful occasions. 
To conclude, while from the sister’s words he had reckoned 
upon a speedy delivery he was, however, it must be 
owned, not a little alleviated by the intelligence that the 
issue so ausspicated after an ordeal of such duress now 
testified once more to the mercy as well as to 
the bounty of the Supreme Being. Accordingly he broke his 
mind to his neighbour, saying that, to express his notion 
of the thing, his opinion (who ought not perchance to 
express one) was that one must have a cold constitution 
and a frigid genius not to be rejoiced by this 
freshest news of the fruition of her confinement since she 
had been in such pain through no fault of hers. 
The dressy young blade said it was her husband’s that 
put her in that expectation or at least it ought 
to be unless she were another Ephesian matron. I must 
acquaint you, said Mr Crotthers, clapping on the table so 
as to evoke a resonant comment of emphasis, old Glory 
Allelujerum was round again today, an elderly man with dundrearies, 
preferring through his nose a request to have word of 
Wilhelmina, my life, as he calls her. I bade him 
hold himself in readiness for that the event would burst 
anon. ’Slife, I’ll be round with you. I cannot but 
extol the virile potency of the old bucko that could 
still knock another child out of her. All fell to 
praising of it, each after his own fashion, though the 
same young blade held with his former view that another 
than her conjugial had been the man in the gap, 
a clerk in orders, a linkboy (virtuous) or an itinerant 
vendor of articles needed in every household. Singular, communed the 
guest with himself, the wonderfully unequal faculty of metempsychosis possessed 
by them, that the puerperal dormitory and the dissecting theatre 
should be the seminaries of such frivolity, that the mere 
acquisition of academic titles should suffice to transform in a 
pinch of time these votaries of levity into exemplary practitioners 
of an art which most men anywise eminent have esteemed 
the noblest. But, he further added, it is mayhap to 
relieve the pentup feelings that in common oppress them for 
I have more than once observed that birds of a 
feather laugh together. But with what fitness, let it be 
asked, of the noble lord, his patron, has this alien, 
whom the concession of a gracious prince has admitted to 
civil rights, constituted himself the lord paramount of our internal 
polity? Where is now that gratitude which loyalty should have 
counselled? During the recent war whenever the enemy had a 
temporary advantage with his granados did this traitor to his 
kind not seize that moment to discharge his piece against 
the empire of which he is a tenant at will 
while he trembled for the security of his four per 
