will fight for the right till the end. For Ulster 
will fight And Ulster will be right. Stephen raised the 
sheets in his hand. — Well, sir, he began. — 
I foresee, Mr Deasy said, that you will not remain 
here very long at this work. You were not born 
to be a teacher, I think. Perhaps I am wrong. 
— A learner rather, Stephen said. — And here what 
will you learn more? Mr Deasy shook his head. — 
Who knows? he said. To learn one must be humble. 
But life is the great teacher. Stephen rustled the sheets 
again. — As regards these, he began. — Yes, Mr 
Deasy said. You have two copies there. If you can 
have them published at once. Telegraph. Irish Homestead. — I 
will try, Stephen said, and let you know tomorrow. I 
know two editors slightly. That will do, Mr Deasy said 
briskly. I wrote last night to Mr Field, M.P. There 
is a meeting of the cattletraders’ association today at the 
City Arms Hotel. I asked him to lay my letter 
before the meeting. You see if you can get it 
into your two papers. What are they? — The Evening 
Telegraph… — That will do, Mr Deasy said. There is 
no time to lose. Now I have to answer that 
letter from my cousin. — Good morning, sir, Stephen said, 
putting the sheets in his pocket. Thank you. — Not 
at all, Mr Deasy said as he searched the papers 
on his desk. I like to break a lance with 
you, old as I am. — Good morning, sir, Stephen 
said again, bowing to his bent back. He went out 
by the open porch and down the gravel path under 
the trees, hearing the cries of voices and crack of 
sticks from the playfield. The lions couchant on the pillars 
as he passed out through the gate; toothless terrors. Still 
I will help him in his fight. Mulligan will dub 
me a new name : the bullockbefriending bard. — Mr 
Dedalus ! Running after me. No more letters, I hope. 
— Just one moment. — Yes, sir, Stephen said, turning 
back at the gate. Mr Deasy halted, breathing hard and 
swallowing his breath. — I just wanted to say, he 
said. Ireland, they say, has the honour of being the 
only country which never persecuted the jews. Do you know 
that? No. And do you know why? He frowned sternly 
on the bright air. — Why, sir? Stephen asked, beginning 
to smile. — Because she never let them in, Mr 
Deasy said solemnly. A coughball of laughter leaped from his 
throat dragging after it a rattling chain of phlegm. He 
turned back quickly, coughing, laughing, his lifted arms waving to 
the air. — She never let them in, he cried 
again through his laughter as he stamped on gaitered feet 
over the gravel of the path. That’s why. On his 
wise shoulders through the checkerwork of leaves the sun flung 
