up the card hastily and offers it.) Allow me. My 
club is the Junior Army and Navy. Solicitors : Messrs 
John Henry Menton, 27 Bachelor’s Walk. first watch (Reads.) Henry 
Flower. No fixed abode. Unlawfully watching and besetting. second watch 
An alibi. You are cautioned. bloom (Produces from his heartpocket 
a crumpled yellow flower.) This is the flower in question. 
It was given me by a man I don’t know 
his name. (Plausibly.) You know that old joke, rose of 
Castile. Bloom. The change of name Virag. (He murmurs privately 
and confidentially.) We are engaged you see, sergeant. Lady in 
the case. Love entanglement. (He shoulders the second watch gently.) 
Dash it all. It’s a way we gallants have in 
the navy. Uniform that does it. (He turns gravely to 
the first watch.) Still, of course, you do get your 
Waterloo sometimes. Drop in some evening and have a glass 
of old Burgundy. (To the second watch gaily.) I’ll introduce 
you, inspector. She’s game. Do it in shake of a 
lamb’s tail. (A dark mercurialised face appears, leading a veiled 
figure.) the dark mercury The Castle is looking for him. 
He was drummed out of the army. martha (Thickveiled, a 
crimson halter round her neck, a copy of the Irish 
Times in her hand, in tone of reproach, pointing.) Henry! 
Leopold! Leopold! Lionel, thou lost one! Clear my name. first 
watch (Sternly.) Come to the station. bloom (Scared, hats himself, 
steps back then, plucking at his heart and lifting his 
right forearm on the square, he gives the sign and 
dueguard of fellowcraft.) No, no, worshipful master, light of love. 
Mistaken identity. The Lyons mail. Lesurques and Dubosc. You remember 
the Childs fratricide case. We medical men. By striking him 
dead with a hatchet. I am wrongfully accused. Better one 
guilty escape than ninetynine wrongfully condemned. martha (Sobbing behind her 
veil.) Breach of promise. My real name is Peggy Griffin. 
He wrote to me that he was miserable. I’ll tell 
my brother, the Bective rugger fullback, on you, heartless flirt. 
bloom (Behind his hand.) She’s drunk. The woman is inebriated. 
(He murmurs vaguely the past of Ephraim.) Shitbroleeth. second watch 
(Tears in his eyes, to Bloom.) You ought to be 
thoroughly well ashamed of yourself. bloom Gentlemen of the jury, 
let me explain. A pure mare’s nest. I am a 
man misunderstood. I am being made a scapegoat of I 
am a respectable married man, without a stain on my 
character. I live in Eccles street. My wife, I am 
the daughter of a most distinguished commander, a gallant upstanding 
gentleman, what do you call him, Majorgeneral Brian Tweedy, one 
of Britain’s fighting men who helped to win our battles. 
Got his majority for the heroic defence of Rorke’s Drift. 
first watch Regiment. bloom (Turns to the gallery.) The royal 
Dublins, boys, the salt of the earth, known the world 
over. I think I see some old comrades in arms 
up there among you. The R. D. F. With our 
