Long John Fanning could not remember him. Clatter of horsehoofs 
sounded from the air. — What’s that? Martin Cunningham said. 
All turned where they stood; John Wyse Nolan came down 
again. From the cool shadow of the doorway he saw 
the horses pass Parliament street, harness and glossy pasterns in 
sunlight shimmering. Gaily they went past before his cool unfriendly 
eyes, not quickly. In saddles of the leaders, leaping leaders, 
rode outriders. — What was it? Martin Cunningham asked, as 
they went on up the staircase. — The lord lieutenant 
general and general governor of Ireland, John Wyse Nolan answered 
from the stairfoot. As they trod across the thick carpet 
Buck Mulligan whispered behind his Panama to Haines. — Parnell’s 
brother. There in the corner. They chose a small table 
near the window opposite a longfaced man whose beard and 
gaze hung intently down on a chessboard. — Is that 
he? Haines asked, twisting round in his seat. — Yes, 
Mulligan said. That’s John Howard, his brother, our city marshal. 
John Howard Parnell translated a white bishop quietly and his 
grey claw went up again to his forehead whereat it 
rested. An instant after, under its screen, his eyes looked 
quickly, ghostbright, at his foe and fell once more upon 
a working corner. — I’ll take a mélange, Haines said 
to the waitress. — Two mélanges, Buck Mulligan said. And 
bring us some scones and butter and some cakes as 
well. When she had gone he said, laughing : — 
We call it D. B. C. because they have damn 
bad cakes. O, but you missed Dedalus on Hamlet. Haines 
opened his newbought book. — I’m sorry, he said. Shakespeare 
is the happy hunting ground of all minds that have 
lost their balance. The onelegged sailor growled at the area 
of I4 Nelson street : — England expects… Buck Mulligan’s 
primrose waistcoat shook gaily to his laughter. — You should 
see him, he said, when his body loses its balance. 
Wandering Ængus I call him. — I am sure he 
has an idée fixe, Haines said, pinching his chin thoughtfully 
with thumb and forefinger. How I am speculating what it 
would be likely to be. Such persons always have. Buck 
Mulligan bent across the table gravely. — They drove his 
wits astray, he said, by visions of hell. He will 
never capture the Attic note. The note of Swinburne, of 
all poets, the white death and the ruddy birth. That 
is his tragedy. He can never be a poet. The 
joy of creation. — Eternal punishment, Haines said, nodding curtly. 
I see. I tackled him this morning on belief. There 
was something on his mind, I saw. It’s rather interesting 
because Professor Pokorny of Vienna makes an interesting point out 
of that. Buck Mulligan’s watchful eyes saw the waitress come. 
He helped her to unload her tray. — He can 
find no trace of hell in ancient Irish myth, Haines 
said, amid the cheerful cups. The moral idea seems lacking, 
