Regular square feed for them. Flies come before he’s well 
dead. Got wind of Dignam. They wouldn’t care about the 
smell of it. Saltwhite crumbling mush of corpse : smell, 
taste like raw white turnips. The gates glimmered in front 
: still open. Back to the world again. Enough of 
this place. Brings you a bit nearer every time. Last 
time I was here was Mrs Sinico’s funeral. Poor papa 
too. The love that kills. And even scraping up the 
earth at night with a lantern like that case I 
read of to get at fresh buried females or even 
putrefied with running gravesores. Give you the creeps after a 
bit. I will appear to you after death. You will 
see my ghost after death. My ghost will haunt you 
after death. There is another world after death named hell. 
I do not like that other world she wrote. No 
more do I. Plenty to see and hear and feel 
yet. Feel live warm beings near you. Let them sleep 
in their maggoty beds. They are not going to get 
me this innings. Warm beds : warm fullblooded life. Martin 
Cunningham emerged from a sidepath, talking gravely. Solicitor, I think. 
I know his face. Menton. John Henry, solicitor, commissioner for 
oaths and affidavits. Dignam used to be In his office. 
Mat Dillon’s long ago. Jolly Mat convivial evenings. Cold fowl, 
cigars, the Tantalus glasses. Heart of gold really. Yes, Menton. 
Got his rag out that evening on the bowling green 
because I sailed inside him. Pure fluke of mine : 
the bias. Why he took such a rooted dislike to 
me. Hate at first sight. Molly and Floey Dillon linked 
under the lilactree, laughing. Fellow always like that, mortified if 
women are by. Got a dinge in the side of 
his hat. Carriage probably. — Excuse me, sir, Mr Bloom 
said beside them. They stopped. — Your hat is a 
little crushed, Mr Bloom said, pointing. John Henry Menton stared 
at him for an instant without moving. — There, Martin 
Cunningham helped, pointing also. John Henry Menton took off his 
hat, bulged out the dinge and smoothed the nap with 
care on his coatsleeve. He clapped the hat on his 
head again. — It’s all right now, Martin Cunningham said. 
John Henry Menton jerked his head down in acknowledgment. — 
Thank you, he said shortly. They walked on towards the 
gates. Mr Bloom, chapfallen, drew behind a few paces so 
as not to overhear. Martin laying down the law. Martin 
could wind a sappyhead like that round his little finger 
without his seeing it. Oyster eyes. Never mind. Be sorry 
after perhaps when it dawns on him. Get the pull 
over him that way. Thank you. How grand we are 
this morning! 07 IN THE HEART OF THE HIBERNIAN METROPOLIS 
Before Nelson’s pillar trams slowed, shunted, changed trolley started for 
Blackrock, Kingstown and Dalkey, Clonskea, Rathgar and Terenure, Palmerston park 
and upper Rathmines, Sandymount, Green Rathmines, Ringsend, and Sandymount Tower, 
