constable off Eccles Street corner, old doctor Brady with stethoscope, 
the mystery man on the beach, a retriever, Mrs Miriam 
Dandrade and all her lovers.) the hue and cry (Helterskelterpelterwelter.) 
He’s Bloom! Stop Bloom! Stopabloom! Stopperrobber! Hi! Hi! Stop him 
on the corner! (At the corner of Beaver Street beneath 
the scaffolding Bloom panting stops on the fringe of the 
noisy quarrelling knot, a lot not knowing a jot what 
hi! hi! row and wrangle round the whowhat brawlaltogether.) stephen 
(With elaborate gestures, breathing deeply and slowly.) You are my 
guests. The uninvited. By virtue of the fifth of George 
and seventh of Edward. History to blame. Fabled by mothers 
of memory. private carr (To Cissy Caffrey.) Was he insulting 
you? stephen Addressed her in vocative feminine. Probably neuter. Ungenitive. 
voices No, he didn’t. The girl’s telling lies. He was 
in Mrs Cohen’s. What’s up? Soldiers and civilians. cissy caffrey 
I was in company with the soldiers and they left 
me to do — you know and the young man 
ran up behind me. But I’m faithful to the man 
that’s treating me though I’m only a shilling whore. stephen 
(Catches sight of Kitty’s and Lynch’s heads.) Hail, Sisyphus. (He 
points to himself and the others.) Poetic. Neopoetic. voices She’s 
faithfultheman. cissy caffrey Yes, to go with him. And me 
with a soldier friend. private compton He doesn’t half want 
a thick ear, the blighter. Biff him one, Harry. private 
carr (To Cissy.) Was he insulting you while me and 
him was having a piss? lord tennyson (In Union Jack 
blazer and cricket flannels, bareheaded, flowingbearded.) Their’s not to reason 
why. private compton Biff him, Harry. stephen (To Private Compton.) 
I don’t know your name but you are quite right. 
Doctor Swift says one man in armour will beat ten 
men in their shirts. Shirt is synechdoche. Part for the 
whole. cissy caffrey (To the crowd.) No, I was with 
the private. stephen (Amiably.) Why not? The bold soldier boy. 
In my opinion every lady for example… private carr (His 
cap awry, advancing to Stephen.) Say, how would it be, 
governor, if I was to bash in your jaw? stephen 
(Looks up in the sky.) How? Very unpleasant. Noble art 
of selfpretence. Personally, I detest action. (He waves his hand.) 
Hand hurts me slightly. Enfin, ce sont vos oignons. (To 
Cissy Caffrey.) Some trouble is on here. What is it, 
precisely? dolly gray (From her balcony waves her handkerchief giving 
the sign of the heroine of Jericho.) Rahab. Cook’s son, 
goodbye. Safe home to Dolly. Dream of the girl you 
left behind and she will dream of you. (The soldiers 
turn their swimming eyes.) bloom (Elbowing through the crowd plucks 
Stephen’s sleeve vigorously.) Come now, professor, that carman is waiting. 
stephen (Turns.) Eh? (He disengages himself.) Why should I not 
speak to him or to any human being who walks 
upright upon this oblate orange? (He points his finger.) I’m 
not afraid of what I can talk to if I 
