police station. Between this point and the high, at present 
unlit, warehouses of Beresford Place Stephen thought to think of 
Ibsen, associated with Baird’s, the stonecutter’s in his mind somehow 
in Talbot Place, first turning on the right, while the 
other, who was acting as his fidus Achates inhaled with 
internal satisfaction the smell of James Rourke’s city bakery, situated 
quite close to where they were, the very palatable odour 
indeed of our daily bread, of all commodities of the 
public the primary and most indispensable. Bread, the staff of 
life, earn your bread, O tell me where is fancy 
bread? At Rourke’s the baker’s, it is said. En route, 
to his taciturn, and, not to put too fine a 
point on it, not yet perfectly sober companion, Mr Bloom, 
who at all events, was in complete possession of his 
faculties, never more so, in fact disgustingly sober, spoke a 
word of caution re the dangers of nighttown, women of 
ill fame and swell mobsmen, which, barely permissible once in 
a while, though not as a habitual practice, was of 
the nature of a regular deathtrap for young fellows of 
his age particularly if they had acquired drinking habits under 
the influence of liquor unless you knew a little juijitsu 
for every contingency as even a fellow on the broad 
of his back could administer a nasty kick if you 
didn’t look out. Highly providential was the appearance on the 
scene of Corny Kelleher when Stephen was blissfully unconscious that, 
but for that man in the gap turning up at 
the eleventh hour, the finis might have been that he 
might have been a candidate for the accident ward, or, 
failing that, the bridewell and an appearance in the court 
next day before Mr Tobias, or, he being the solicitor, 
rather old Wall, he meant to say, or Malony which 
simply spelt ruin for a chap when it got bruited 
about. The reason he mentioned the fact was that a 
lot of those policemen, whom he cordially disliked, were admittedly 
unscrupulous in the service of the Crown and, as Mr 
Bloom put it, recalling a case or two in the 
A Division in Clanbrassil street, prepared to swear a hole 
through a ten gallon pot. Never on the spot when 
wanted but in quiet parts of the City, Pembroke Road, 
for example, the guardians of the law were well in 
evidence, the obvious reason being they were paid to protect 
the upper classes. Another thing he commented on was equipping 
soldiers with firearms or sidearms of any description, liable to 
go off at any time which was tantamount to inciting 
them against civilians should by any chance they fall out 
over anything. You frittered away your time, he very sensibly 
maintained, and health and also character besides which the squandermania 
of the thing, fast women of the demimonde ran away 
with a lot of £. s. d. into the bargain 
and the greatest danger of all was who you got 
