an advertisement, to obtain a certain quantity of tea from 
Thomas Kernan (agent for Pulbrook, Robertson and C°, 5 Dame 
Street, Dublin, and 2 Mincing Lane, London, E. C.), to 
certify the presence or absence of posterior rectal orifice in 
the case of Hellenic female divinities, to obtain admission (gratuitous 
or paid) to the performance of Leah by Mrs Bandmann 
Palmer at the Gaiety Theatre, 46, 47, 48, 49, South 
King street. What impression of an absent face did Bloom, 
arrested, silently recall? The face of her father, the late 
Major Brian Cooper Tweedy, Royal Dublin Fusiliers, of Gibraltar and 
Rehoboth, Dolphin’s Barn. What recurrent impressions of the same were 
possible by the hypothesis? Retreating, at the terminus of the 
Great Northern Railway, Amiens street, with constant uniform acceleration, along 
parallel lines meeting at infinity, if produced : along parallel 
lines, reproduced from infinity, with constant uniform retardation, at the 
terminus of the Great Northern Railway, Amiens street, returning. What 
miscellaneous effects of female personal wearing apparel were perceived by 
him? A pair of new inodorous halfsilk black ladies’ hose, 
a pair of new violet garters, a pair of outsize 
ladies’ drawers of India mull, cut on generous lines, redolent 
of opoponax, jessamine and Muratti’s Turkish cigarettes and containing a 
long bright steel safety pin, folded curvilinear, a camisole of 
batiste with thin lace border, a accordion underskirt of blue 
silk moirette, all these objects being disposed irregularly on the 
top of a rectangular trunk, quadruple battened, having capped corners, 
with multicoloured labels, initialled on its fore side in white 
lettering B. C. T. (Brian Cooper Tweedy). What impersonal objects 
were perceived? A commode, one leg fractured, totally covered by 
square cretonne cutting, apple design, on which rested a lady’s 
black straw hat. Orangekeyed ware, bought of Henry Price, basket, 
fancy goods, chinaware and ironmongery manufacturer, 21, 22, 23 Moore 
Street, disposed irregularly on the washstand and floor, and consisting 
of basin, soapdish and brushtray (on the washstand, together), pitcher 
and night article (on the floor, separate). Bloom’s acts? He 
deposited the articles of clothing on a chair, removed his 
remaining articles of clothing, took from beneath the bolster at 
the head of the bed a folded long white nightshirt, 
inserted his head and arms into the proper apertures of 
the nightshirt, removed a pillow from the head to the 
foot of the bed, prepared the bedlinen accordingly and entered 
the bed. How? With circumspection, as invariably when entering an 
abode (his own or not his own) : with solicitude, 
the snakespiral springs of the mattress being old, the brass 
quoits and pendent viper radii loose and tremulous under stress 
and strain : prudently, as entering a lair or ambush 
of lust or adders : lightly, the less to disturb 
: reverently, the bed of conception and of birth, of 
consummation of marriage and of breach of marriage, of sleep 
and of death. What did his limbs, when gradually extended, 
encounter? New clean bedlinen, additional odours, the presence of a 
