sum of five pounds. j. j. o’molloy A Daniel did 
I say? Nay! A Peter O’Brien! nosey flynn Where do 
I draw the five pounds? pisser burke For bladder trouble? 
bloom Acid. nit. hydrochlor dil, 20 minims Tinct. mix. vom, 
5 minims Extr. taraxel. lig. 30 minims. Aq. dis. ter 
in die. chris callinan What is the parallax of the 
subsolar ecliptic of Aldebaran? bloom Pleased to hear from you, 
Chris. K. II. joe hynes Why aren’t you in uniform? 
bloom When my progenitor of sainted memory wore the uniform 
of the Austrian despot in a dank prison where was 
yours? ben dollard Pansies? bloom Embellish (beautify) suburban gardens. ben 
dollard When twins arrive? bloom Father (pater, dad) starts thinking. 
larry o’rourke An eight day licence for my new premises. 
You remember me, sir Leo, when you were in number 
seven. I’m sending around a dozen of stout for the 
missus. bloom (Coldly.) You have the advantage of me. Lady 
Bloom accepts no presents. crofton This is indeed a festivity. 
bloom (Solemnly.) You call it a festivity. I call it 
a sacrament. alexander keyes When will we have our own 
house of keys? bloom I stand for the reform of 
municipal morals and the plain ten commandments. New worlds for 
old. Union of all, jew, moslem and gentile. Three acres 
and a cow for all children of nature. Saloon motor 
hearses. Compulsory manual labour for all. All parks open to 
the public day and night. Electric dishscrubbers. Tuberculosis, lunacy, war 
and mendicancy must now cease. General amnesty, weekly carnival, with 
masked licence, bonuses for all, esperanto the universal brotherhood. No 
more patriotism of barspongers and dropsical impostors. Free money, free 
love and a free lay church in a free lay 
state. o’madden burke Free fox in a free henroost. davy 
byrne (Yawning.) Iiiiiiiiiaaaaaaach! bloom Mixed races and mixed marriage. lenehan 
What about mixed bathing? (Bloom explains to those near him 
his schemes for social regeneration. All agree with him. The 
keeper of the Kildare Street Museum appears, dragging a lorry 
on which are the shaking statues of several naked goddesses, 
Venus Callipyge, Venus Pandemos Venus Metempsychosis, and plaster figures, also 
naked, representing the new nine muses, Commerce, Operatic Music, Amor, 
Publicity, Manufacture, Liberty of Speech, Plural Voting, Gastronomy, Private Hygiene, 
Seaside Concert Entertainments, Painless Obstetrics and Astronomy for the People.) 
father farley He is an episcopalian, an agnostic, an anythingarian 
seeking to overthrow our holy faith. mrs riordan (Tears up 
her will.) I’m disappointed in you! You bad man! mother 
grogan (Removes her boot to throw it at Bloom.) You 
beast! You abominable person! nosey flynn Give us a tune, 
Bloom. One of the old sweet songs. bloom (With rollicking 
humour.) I vowed that I never would leave her, She 
turned out a cruel deceiver. With my tooraloom tooraloom tooralcom 
tooraloom. hoppy holohan Good old Bloom! There’s nobody like him 
after all. paddy leonard Stage Irishman! bloom What railway opera 
is like a tramline in Gibraltar? The Rows of Casteele 
