Such growling you never heard as they let off between 
them. Someone that has nothing better to do ought to 
write a letter pro bono publico to the papers about 
the muzzling order for a dog the like of that. 
Growling and grousing and his eye all bloodshot from the 
drouth is in it and the hydrophobia dropping out of 
his jaws. All those who are interested in the spread 
of human culture among the lower animals (and their name 
is legion) should make a point of not missing the 
really marvellous exhibition of cynanthropy given by the famous old 
Irish red wolfdog setter formerly known by the sobriquet of 
Garryowen and recently rechristened by his large circle of friends 
and acquaintances Owen Garry. The exhibition, which is the result 
of years of training by kindness and a carefully thoughtout 
dietary system, comprises, among other achievements, the recitation of verse. 
Our greatest living phonetic expert (wild horses shall not drag 
it from us!) has left no stone unturned in his 
efforts to delucidate and compare the verse recited and has 
found it bears a striking resemblance (the italics are ours) 
to the ranns of ancient Celtic bards. We are not 
speaking so much of those delightful lovesongs with which the 
writer who conceals his identity under the graceful pseudonym of 
the Little Sweet Branch has familiarised the bookloving world but 
rather (as a contributor D. O. C. points out in 
an interesting communication published by an evening contemporary) of the 
harsher and more personal note which is found in the 
satirical effusions of the famous Raftery and of Donald Mac 
Considine to say nothing of a more modern lyrist at 
present very much in the public eye. We subjoin a 
specimen which has been rendered into English by an eminent 
scholar whose name for the moment we are not at 
liberty to disclose though we believe that our readers will 
find the topical allusion rather more than an indication. The 
metrical system of the canine original, which recalls the intricate 
alliterative and isosyllabic rules of the Welsh englyn, is infinitely 
more complicated but we believe our readers will agree that 
the spirit has been well caught. Perhaps it should be 
added that the effect is greatly increased if Owen’s verse 
be spoken somewhat slowly and indistinctly in a tone suggestive 
of suppressed rancour. The curse of my curses Seven days 
every day And seven dry Thursdays On you, Barney Kiernan, 
Has no sup of water To cool my courage, And 
my guts red roaring After Lowry’s lights. So he told 
Terry to bring some water for the dog and, gob, 
you could hear him lapping it up a mile off. 
And Joe asked him would he have another. — I 
will, says he, a chara, to show there’s no ill 
feeling. Gob, he’s not as green as he’s cabbagelooking. Arsing 
around from one pub to another, leaving it to your 
own honour, with old Giltrap’s dog and getting fed up 
