you bad in the eyes? the sympathetic personage like the 
town clerk queried. — Why, answered the seafarer with the 
tartan beard, who seemingly was a bit of a literary 
cove in his own small way, staring out of seagreen 
portholes as you might well describe them as, I uses 
goggles reading. Sand in the Red Sea done that. One 
time I could read a book in the dark, manner 
of speaking, The Arabian Nights Entertainment was my favourite and 
Red as a Rose is She. Thereupon he pawed the 
journal open and pored upon Lord only knows what, found 
drowned or the exploits of King Willow, Iremonger having made 
a hundred and something second wicket not out for Notts, 
during which time (completely regardless of Ire) the keeper was 
intensely occupied loosening an apparently new or secondhand boot which 
manifestly pinched him, as he muttered against whoever it was 
sold it, all of them who were sufficiently awake enough 
to be picked out by their facial expressions, that is 
to say, either simply looking on glumly or passing a 
trivial remark. To cut a long story short Bloom, grasping 
the situation, was the first to rise from his feet 
so as not to outstay their welcome having first and 
foremost, being as good as his word that he would 
foot the bill for the occasion, taken the wise precaution 
to unobtrusively motion to mine host as a parting shot 
a scarcely perceptible sign when the others were not looking 
to the effect that the amount due was forthcoming, making 
a grand total of fourpence (the amount he deposited unobtrusively 
in four coppers, literally the last of the Mohicans) he 
having previously spotted on the printed pricelist for all who 
ran to read opposite to him in unmistakable figures, coffee 
2d., confectionery d°, and honestly well worth twice the money 
once in a way, as Wetherup used to remark. — 
Come, he counselled, to close the séance. Seeing that the 
ruse worked and the coast was clear, they left the 
shelter or shanty together and the élite society of oilskin 
and company whom nothing short of an earthquake would move 
out of their dolce far niente. Stephen, who confessed to 
still feeling poorly and fagged out, paused at the, for 
a moment… the door to… — One thing I never 
understood, he said, to be original on the spur of 
the moment, why they put tables upside down at night, 
I mean chairs upside down on the tables in cafés. 
To which impromptu the neverfailing Bloom replied without a moment’s 
hesitation, saying straight off : — To sweep the floor 
in the morning. So saying he skipped around nimbly, considering 
frankly, at the same time apologetic, to get on his 
companion’s right, a habit of his, by the bye the 
right side being, in classical idiom, his tender Achilles. The 
night air was certainly now a treat to breathe though 
Stephen was a bit weak on his pins. — It 
