Hark! Our friend, noise in the street! zoe (Holds up 
her hand.) Stop! private carr, private compton and cissy caffrey 
Yet I’ve a sort a Yorkshire relish for… zoe That’s 
me. (She claps her hands.) Dance! Dance! (She runs to 
the pianola.) Who has twopence? bloom Who’ll… lynch (Handing her 
coins.) Here. stephen (Cracking his fingers impatiently.) Quick! Quick! Where’s 
my augur’s rod? (He runs to the piano and takes 
his ashplant, beating his foot in tripudium.) zoe (Turns the 
drumhandle.) There. (She drops two pennies in the slot. Gold 
pink and violet lights start forth. The drum turns purring 
in low hesitation waltz. Professor Goodwin, in a bowknotted periwig, 
in court dress, wearing a stained inverness cape, bent in 
two from incredible age, totters across the room, his hands 
fluttering. He sits tinily on the piano stool and lifts 
and beats handless sticks of arms on the keyboard, nodding 
with damsels grace, his bowknot bobbing.) zoe (Twirls around herself, 
heeltapping.) Dance. Anybody here for there? Who’ll dance? (The pianola, 
with changing lights plays in waltz time the prelude of 
My Girl’s a Yorkshire Girl. Stephen throws his ashplant on 
the table and seizes Zoe around the waist. Florry and 
Bella push the table towards the fireplace. Stephen, arming Zoe 
with exaggerated grace, begins to waltz her around the room. 
Her sleeve, falling from gracing arms, reveals a white fleshflower 
of vaccination. Bloom stands aside. Between the curtains, Professor Maginni 
inserts a leg on the toepoint of which spins a 
silk hat. With a deft kick, he sends it spinning 
to his crown and jauntyhatted skates in. He wears a 
slate frockcoat with claret silk lapels, a gorget of cream 
tulle, a green lowcut waistcoat, stock collar with white kerchief, 
tight lavender trousers, patent pumps and canary gloves. In his 
buttonhole is a dahlia. He twirls in reversed directions a 
clouded cane, then wedges it tight in his oxter. He 
places a hand limply on his breastbone, bows and fondles 
his flower and buttons.) maginni The poetry of motion, art 
of callisthenics. No connection with Madam Legget Byrne’s or Levinstone’s. 
Fancy dress balls arranged. Deportment. The Katty Lanner steps. So. 
Watch me! My terpsichorean abilities. (He minuets forward three paces 
on tripping bee’s feet.) Tout le monde an avant! Reverence! 
Tout le monde en place! (The prelude ceases. Professor Goodwin, 
beating vague arms, shrivels, shrinks, his live cape falling about 
the stool. The air, in firmer waltz time, pounds. Stephen 
and Zoe circle freely. The lights change, glow, fade, gold, 
rose, violet.) the pianola Two young fellows were talking about 
their girls, girls, girls, Sweethearts they’d left behind… (From a 
corner the morning hours run out, goldhaired, slim, in girlish 
blue, waspwaisted, with innocent hands. Nimbly they dance, twirling their 
skipping ropes. The hours of noon follow in amber gold. 
Laughing linked, high haircombs flashing, they catch the sun in 
mocking mirrors, lifting their arms.) maginni (Clipclaps glovesilent hands.) Carré! 
Avant deux! Breathe evenly! Balance! (The morning and noon hours 
