often think of the beautiful name you have. Dear Henry, 
when will we meet? I think of you so often 
you have no idea. I have never felt myself so 
much drawn to a man as you. I feel so 
bad about. Please write me a long letter and tell 
me more. Remember if you do not I will punish 
you. So now you know what I will do to 
you, you naughty boy, if you do not wrote. O 
how I long to meet you. Henry dear, do not 
deny my request before my patience are exhausted. Then I 
will tell you all. Goodbye now, naughty darling. I have 
such a bad headache today and write by return to 
your longing Martha. P.S. Do tell me what kind of 
perfume does your wife use. I want to know. He 
tore the flower gravely from its pinhold smelt its almost 
no smell and placed it in his heart pocket. Language 
of flowers. They like it because no-one can hear. Or 
a poison bouquet to strike him down. Then, walking slowly 
forward, he read the letter again, murmuring here and there 
a word. Angry tulips with you darling manflower punish your 
cactus if you don’t please poor forgetmenot how I long 
violets to dear roses when we soon anemone meet all 
naughty nightstalk wife Martha’s perfume. Having read it all he 
took it from the newspaper and put it back in 
his sidepocket. Weak joy opened his lips. Changed since the 
first letter. Wonder did she wrote it herself. Doing the 
indignant : a girl of good family like me, respectable 
character. Could meet one Sunday after the rosary. Thank you 
: not having any. Usual love scrimmage. Then running round 
corners. Bad as a row with Molly. Cigar has a 
cooling effect. Narcotic. Go further next time. Naughty boy : 
punish : afraid of words, of course. Brutal, why not? 
Try it anyhow. A bit at a time. Fingering still 
the letter in his pocket he drew the pin out 
of it. Common pin, eh? He threw it on the 
road. Out of her clothes somewhere : pinned together. Queer 
the number of pins they always have. No roses without 
thorns. Flat Dublin voices bawled in his head. Those two 
sluts that night in the Coombe, linked together in the 
rain. O, Mairy lost the pin of her drawers. She 
didn’t know what to do To keep it up To 
keep it up. It? Them. Such a bad headache. Has 
her roses probably. Or sitting all day typing. Eyefocus bad 
for stomach nerves. What perfume does your wife use? Now 
could you make out a thing like that? To keep 
it up. Martha, Mary. I saw that picture somewhere I 
forget now old master or faked for money. He is 
sitting in their house, talking. Mysterious. Also the two sluts 
in the Coombe would listen. To keep it up. Nice 
kind of evening feeling. No more wandering about. Just loll 
