the children Kithogue! Salute! the idiot (Lifts a palsied left 
arm and gurgles.) Grhahute! the children Where’s the great light? 
the idiot (Gobbling.) Ghaghahest. (They release him. He jerks on. 
A pigmy woman swings on a rope slung between the 
railings, counting. A form sprawled against a dustbin and muffled 
by its arm and hat moves, groans, grinding growling teeth, 
and snores again. On a step a gnome totting among 
a rubbishtip crouches to shoulder a sack of rags and 
bones. A crone standing by with a smoky oil lamp 
rams the last bottle in the maw of his sack. 
He heaves his booty, tugs askew his peaked cap and 
hobbles off mutely. The crone makes back for her lair 
swaying her lamp. A bandy child, asquat on the doorstep 
with a papershuttlecock, crawls sidling after her in spurts, clutches 
her skirt, scrambles up. A drunken navvy grips with both 
hands the railings of an area, lurching heavily. At a 
corner two night watch in shoulder capes, their hands upon 
their staffholsters, loom tall. A plate crashes; a woman screams; 
a child wails. Oaths of a man roar, mutter, cease. 
Figures wander, lurk, peer from warrens. In a room lit 
by a candle stuck in a bottleneck a slut combs 
out the tatts from the hair of a scrufulous child. 
Cissy Caffrey’s voice, still young, sings shrill from a lane.) 
cissy caffrey I gave it to Molly Because she was 
jolly, The leg of the duck The leg of the 
duck. (Private Cart and Private Compton, swaggersticks tight in their 
oxters, as they march unsteadily rightaboutface and burst together from 
their mouths a volleyed fart. Laughter of men from the 
lane. A hoarse virago retorts.) the virago Signs on you, 
hairy arse. More power the Cavan girl. cissy caffrey More 
luck to me. Cavan, Cootehill and Belturbet. (She sings.) I 
gave it to Nelly To stick in her belly The 
leg of the duck The leg of the duck. (Private 
Carr and Private Compton turn and counterretort, their tunics bloodbright 
in a lampglow, black sockets of caps on their blond 
copped polls. Stephen Dedalus and Lynch pass through the crowd 
close to the redcoats.) private compton (Jerks his finger.) Way 
for the parson. private carr (Turns and calls.) What ho, 
parson! cissy caffrey (Her voice soaring higher.) She has it, 
she got it, Wherever she put it The leg of 
the duck. (Stephen, flourishing the ashplant in his left hand, 
chants with joy the introit for paschal time. Lynch, his 
jockey cap low on his brow, attends him, a sneer 
of discontent wrinkling his face.) stephen Vidi aquam egredientem de 
templo a latere dextro. Alleluia. (The famished snaggletusks of an 
elderly bawd protrude from a doorway.) the bawd (Her voice 
whispering huskily.) Sst! Come, here till I tell you. Maidenhead 
inside. Sst. stephen (Altius aliqantulum) Et omnes ad quos pervenit 
aqua ista. the bawd (Spits in their trail her jet 
of venom.) Trinity medicals. Fallopian tube. All prick and no 
