thumb. — Did you? Hynes asked. — Mm, Mr Bloom 
said. Look sharp and you’ll catch him. — Thanks, old 
man, Hynes said. I’ll tap him too. He hurried on 
eagerly towards the Freeman’s Journal. Three bob I lent him 
in Meagher’s. Three weeks. Third hint. WE SEE THE CANVASSER 
AT WORK Mr Bloom laid his cutting on Mr Nannetti’s 
desk. — Excuse me, councillor, he said. This ad, you 
see. Keyes, you remember. Mr Nannetti considered the cutting a 
while and nodded. — He wants it in for July, 
Mr Bloom said. He doesn’t hear it. Nannan. Iron nerves. 
The foreman moved his pencil towards it. — But wait, 
Mr Bloom said. He wants it changed. Keyes, you see. 
He wants two keys at the top. Hell of a 
racket they make. Maybe he understands what I. The foreman 
turned round to hear patiently and, lifting an elbow, began 
to scratch slowly in the armpit of his alpaca jacket. 
— Like that, Mr Bloom said, crossing his forefingers at 
the top. Let him take that in first. Mr Bloom, 
glancing sideways up from the cross he had made, saw 
the foreman’s sallow face, think he has a touch of 
jaundice, and beyond the obedient reels feeding in huge webs 
of paper. Clank it. Clank it. Miles of it unreeled. 
What becomes of it after? O, wrap up meat, parcels 
: various uses, thousand and one things. Slipping his words 
deftly into the pauses of the clanking he drew swiftly 
on the scarred woodwork. HOUSE OF KEY(E)S — Like that, 
see. Two crossed keys here. A circle. Then here the 
name Alexander Keyes, tea, wine and spirit merchant. So on. 
Better not teach him his own business. — You know 
yourself, councillor, just what he wants. Then round the top 
in leaded : the house of keys. You see? Do 
you think that’s a good idea? The foreman moved his 
scratching hand to his lower ribs and scratched there quietly. 
— The idea, Mr Bloom said, is the house of 
keys. You know, councillor, the Manx parliament. Innuendo of home 
rule. Tourists, you know, from the isle of Man. Catches 
the eye, you see. Can you do that? I could 
ask him perhaps about how to pronounce that voglio. But 
then if he didn’t know only make it awkward for 
him. Better not. — We can do that, the foreman 
said. Have you the design? — I can get it, 
Mr Bloom said. It was in a Kilkenny paper. He 
has a house there too. I’ll just run out and 
ask him. Well, you can do that and just a 
little par calling attention. You know the usual. High class 
licensed premises. Longfelt want. So on. The foreman thought for 
an instant. — We can do that, he said. Let 
him give us a three months’ renewal. A typesetter brought 
him a limp galleypage. He began to check it silently. 
Mr Bloom stood by, hearing the loud throbs of cranks, 
