inadvisable, all things considered. Something evidently riled them in his 
death. Either he petered out too tamely of acute pneumonia 
just when his various different political arrangements were nearing completion 
or whether it transpired he owed his death to his 
having neglected to change his boots and clothes after a 
wetting when a cold resulted and failing to consult a 
specialist he being confined to his room till he eventually 
died of it amid widespread regret before a fortnight was 
at an end or quite possibly they were distressed to 
find the job was taken out of their hands. Of 
course nobody being acquainted with his movements even before, there 
was absolutely no clue as to his whereabouts which were 
decidedly of the Alice, where art thou order even prior 
to his starting to go under several aliases such as 
Fox and Stewart, so the remark which emanated from friend 
cabby might be within the bounds of possibility. Naturally then, 
it would prey on his mind as a born leader 
of men, which undoubtedly he was, and a commanding figure, 
a sixfooter or at any rate five feet ten or 
eleven in his stockinged feet, whereas Messrs. So-and-So who, though 
they weren’t even a patch on the former man, ruled 
the roost after their redeeming features were very few and 
far between. It certainly pointed a moral, the idol with 
feet of clay. And then seventytwo of his trusty henchmen 
rounding on him with mutual mudslinging. And the identical same 
with murderers. You had to come back — that haunting 
sense kind of drew you — to show the understudy 
in the title rôle how to. He saw him once 
on the auspicious occasion when they broke up the type 
in the Insuppressible or was it United Ireland, a privilege 
he keenly appreciated, and, in point of fact, handed him 
his silk hat when it was knocked off and he 
said Thank you, excited as he undoubtedly was under his 
frigid expression notwithstanding the little misadventure mentioned between the cup 
and the lip, — what’s bred in the bone. Still, 
as regards return, you were a lucky dog if they 
didn’t set the terrier at you directly you got back. 
Then a lot of shillyshally usually followed. Tom for and 
Dick and Harry against. And then, number one, you came 
up against the man in possession and had to produce 
your credentials, like the claimant in the Tichborne case, Roger 
Charles Tichborne, Bella was the boat’s name to the best 
of his recollection he, the heir, went down in, as 
the evidence went to show, and there was a tattoo 
mark too in Indian ink, Lord Bellew, was it? As 
he might very easily have picked up the details from 
some pal on board ship and then, when got up 
to tally with the description given, introduce himself with, Excuse 
me, my name is So-and-So or some such commonplace remark. 
A more prudent course, Mr Bloom said to the not 
