the friars of Augustine, Brigittines, Premonstratesians, Servi, Trinitarians, and the 
children of Peter Nolasco : and therewith from Carmel mount 
the children of Elijah prophet led by Albert bishop and 
by Teresa of Avila, calced and other : and friars 
brown and grey, sons of poor Francis, capuchins, cordeliers, minimes 
and observants and the daughters of Clara : and the 
sons of Dominic, the friars preachers, and the sons of 
Vincent : and the monks of S. Wolstan : and 
Ignatius his children : and the confraternity of the christian 
brothers led by the reverend brother Edmund Ignatius Rice. And 
after came all saints and martyrs, virgins and confessors : 
S. Cyr and S. Isidore Arator and S. James the 
Less and S. Phocas of Sinope and S. Julian Hospitator 
and S. Felix de Cantalice and S. Simon Stylites and 
S. Stephen Protomartyr and S. John of God and S. 
Ferreol and S. Leugarde and S. Theodotus and S. Vulmar 
and S. Richard and S. Vincent de Paul and S. 
Martin of Todi and S. Martin of Tours and S. 
Alfred and S. Joseph and S. Denis and S. Cornelius 
and S. Leopold and S. Bernard and S. Terence and 
S. Edward and S. Owen Caniculus and S. Anonymous and 
S. Eponymous and S. Pseudonymous and S. Homonymous and S. 
Paronymous and S. Synonymous and S. Laurence O’Toole and S. 
James of Dingle and Compostella and S. Columcille and S. 
Columba and S. Celestine and S. Colman and S. Kevin 
and S. Brendan and S. Frigidian and S. Senan and 
S. Fachtna and S. Columbanus and S. Gall and S. 
Fursey and S. Fintan and S. Fiacre and S. John 
Nepomuc and S. Thomas Aquinas and S. Ives of Brittany 
and S. Michan and S. Herman-Joseph and the three patrons 
of holy youth S. Aloysius Gonzaga and S. Stanislaus Kostka 
and S. John Berchmans and the saints Gervasius, Servasius and 
Bonifacius and S. Bride and S. Kieran and S. Canice 
of Kilkenny and S. Jarlath of Tuam and S. Finbarr 
and S. Pappin of Ballymun and Brother Aloysius Pacificus and 
Brother Louis Bellicosus and the saints Rose of Lima and 
of Viterbo and S. Martha of Bethany and S. Mary 
of Egypt and S. Lucy and S. Brigid and S. 
Attracta and S. Dympna and S. Ita and S. Marion 
Calpensis and the Blessed Sister Teresa of the Child Jesus 
and S. Barbara and S. Scholastica and S. Ursula with 
eleven thousand virgins. And all came with nimbi and aureoles 
and gloriae, bearing palms and harps and swords and olive 
crowns, in robes whereon were woven the blessed symbols of 
their efficacies, inkhorns, arrows, loaves, cruses, fetters, axes, trees, bridges, 
babes in a bathtub, shells, wallets, shears, keys, dragons, lilies, 
buckshot, beards, hogs, lamps, bellows, beehives, soupladles, stars, snakes, anvils, 
boxes of vaseline, bells, crutches, forceps, stags’ horns, watertight boots, 
hawks, millstones, eyes on a dish, wax candles, aspergills, unicorns. 
And as they wended their way by Nelson’s Pillar, Henry 
