of venville rights, obsolete by desuetude, all orotund instigators of 
international persecution, all perpetuators of international animosities, all menial molestors 
of domestic conviviality, all recalcitrant violators of domestic connubiality. Prove 
that he had loved rectitude from his earliest youth. To 
master Percy Apjohn at High School in 1880 he had 
divulged his disbelief in the tenets of the Irish (protestant) 
church (to which his father Rudolf Virag, later Rudolph Bloom, 
had been converted from the Israelitic faith and communion in 
1865 by the Society for promoting Christianity among the jews) 
subsequently abjured by him in favour of Roman catholicism at 
the epoch of and with a view to his matrimony 
in 1888. To Daniel Magrane and Francis Wade in 1882 
during a juvenile friendship (terminated by the premature emigration of 
the former) he had advocated during nocturnal perambulations the political 
theory of colonial (e. g. Canadian) expansion and the evolutionary 
theories of Charles Darwin, expounded in The Descent of Man 
and The Origin of Species. In 1885 he had publicly 
expressed his adherence to the collective and national economic programme 
advocated by James Fintan Lalor, John Fisher Murray, John Mitchel, 
J. F. X. O’Brien and others, the agrarian policy of 
Michael Davitt, the constitutional agitation of Charles Stewart Parnell (M. 
P. for Cork City), the programme of peace, retrenchment and 
reform of William Ewart Gladstone (M. P. for Midlothian, N. 
B.) and, in support of his political convictions, had climbed 
up into a secure position amid the ramifications of a 
tree on Northumberland road to see the entrance (2 Febuary 
1888) into the capital of a demonstrative torchlight procession of 
20.000 torchbearers, divided into 120 trade corporations, bearing 2.000 torches 
in escort of the marquess of Ripon and John Morley. 
How much and how did he propose to pay for 
this country residence? As per prospectus of the Industrious Foreign 
Acclimatised Nationalised Friendly Stateaided Building Society (incorporated 1874), a maximum 
of £ 60 par annum, being 1/6 of an assured 
income, derived from giltedged securities, representing at 5 % simple 
interest on capital of £ 1.200 (estimate of price at 
20 years purchase) of which 1/3 to be paid on 
acquisition and the balance in the form of annual rent, 
viz. £ 800 plus 2 1/2 % interest on the 
same, repayable quarterly in equal annual instalments until extinction by 
amortisation of loan advanced for purchase within a period of 
20 years, amounting to an annual rental of £ 64, 
headrent included, the titledeeds to remain in possession of the 
lender or lenders with a saving clause envisaging forced sale, 
foreclosure and mutual compensation in the event of protracted failure 
to pay the terms assigned, otherwise the messuage to become 
the absolute property of the tenant occupier upon expiry of 
the period of years stipulated. What rapid but insecure means 
to opulence might facilitate immediate purchase? A private wireless telegraph 
which would transmit by dot and dash system the result 
of a national equine handicap (flat or steeplechase) of 1 
