the extra regulation fee before the too late box of 
the general postoffice of human life. The door and window 
open at a right angle cause a draught of thirtytwo 
feet per second according to the law of falling bodies. 
I have felt this instant a twinge of sciatica in 
my left glutear muscle. It runs in our family. Poor 
dear papa, a widower, was a regular barometer from it. 
He believed in animal heat. A skin of tabby lined 
his winter waistcoat. Near the end, remembering king David and 
the Sunamite, he shared his bed with Athos, faithful after 
death. A dog’s spittle, as you probably… (He winces.) Ah! 
richie goulding (Bagweighted, passes the door.) Mocking is catch. Best 
value in Dub. Fit for a prince’s liver and kidney. 
the fan (Tapping.) All things end. Be mine. Now. bloom 
(Undecided.) All now? I should not have parted with my 
talisman. Rain, exposure at dewfall on the sea rocks, a 
peccadillo at my time of life. Every phenomenon has a 
natural cause. the fan (Points downwards slowly.) You may. bloom 
(Looks downwards and perceives her unfastened bootlace.) We are observed. 
the fan (Points downwards quickly.) You must. bloom (With desire, 
with reluctance.) I can make a true black knot. Learned 
when I served my time and worked the mail order 
line for Kellett’s. Experienced hand. Every knot says a lot. 
Let me. In courtesy. I knelt once before today. Ah! 
(Bella raises her gown slightly and, steadying her pose, lifts 
to the edge of a chair a plump buskined hoof 
and a full pastern, silksocked. Bloom, stifflegged, aging, bends over 
her hoof and with gentle fingers draws out and in 
her laces.) bloom (Murmurs lovingly.) To be a shoefitter in 
Mansfield’s was my love’s young dream, the darling joys of 
sweet buttonhooking, to lace up crisscrossed to kneelength the dressy 
kid footwear satinlined, so incredibly small, of Clyde Road ladies. 
Even their wax model Raymonde I visited daily to admire 
her cobweb hose and stick of rhubarb toe, as worn 
in Paris. the hoof Smell my hot goathide. Feel my 
royal weight. bloom (Crosslacing.) Too tight? the hoof If you 
bungle, Handy Andy, I’ll kick your football for you. bloom 
Not to lace the wrong eyelet as I did the 
night of the bazaar dance. Bad luck. Nook in wrong 
tache of her… person you mentioned. That night she met… 
Now! (He knots the lace. Bella places her foot on 
the floor. Bloom raises his head. Her heavy face, her 
eyes strike him in midbrow. His eyes grow dull, darker 
and pouched, his nose thickens.) bloom (Mumbles.) Awaiting your further 
orders, we remain, gentlemen… bello (With a hard basilisk stare, 
in a baritone voice.) Hound of dishonour! bloom (Infatuated.) Empress! 
bello (His heavy cheekchops sagging.) Adorer of the adulterous rump! 
bloom (Plaintively.) Hugeness! bello Dungdevourer! bloom (With sinews semiflexed.) Magnificence! 
bello Down! (He taps her on the shoulder with his 
fan.) Incline feet forward! Slide left foot one pace back. 
