for both contending parties. The readywitted ninefooter’s suggestion at once 
appealed to all and was unanimously accepted. Constable MacFadden was 
heartily congratulated by all the F. O. T. E. I., 
several of whom were bleeding profusely. Commendatore Beninobenone having been 
extricated from underneath the presidential armchair, it was explained by 
his legal adviser Avvocato Pagamimi that the various articles secreted 
in his thirtytwo pockets had been abstracted by him during 
the affray from the pockets of his junior colleagues in 
the hope of bringing them to their senses. The objects 
(which included several hundred ladies’ and gentlemen’s gold and silver 
watches) were promptly restored to their rightful owners and general 
harmony reigned supreme. Quietly, unassumingly, Rumbold stepped on to the 
scaffold in faultless morning dress and wearing his favourite flower 
the Gladiolus Cruentus. He announced his presence by that gentle 
Rumboldian cough which so many have tried (unsuccessfully) to imitate 
— short, painstaking yet withal so characteristic of the man. 
The arrival of the worldrenowned headsman was greeted by a 
roar of acclamation from the huge concourse, the viceregal ladies 
waving their handkerchiefs in their excitement while the even more 
excitable foreign delegates cheered vociferously in a medley of cries, 
hoch, banzai, eljen, zivio, chinchin, polla kronia, hiphip, vive, Allah, 
amid which the ringing evviva of the delegate of the 
land of song (a high double F recalling those piercingly 
lovely notes with which the eunuch Catalani beglamoured our greatgreatgrandmothers) 
was easily distinguishable. It was exactly seventeen o’clock. The signal 
for prayer was then promptly given by megaphone and in 
an instant all heads were bared, the commendatore’s patriarchal sombrero, 
which has been in the possession of his family since 
the revolution of Rienzi, being removed by his medical adviser 
in attendance, Dr Pippi. The learned prelate who administered the 
last comforts of holy religion to the hero martyr when 
about to pay the death penalty knelt in a most 
christian spirit in a pool of rainwater, his cassock above 
his hoary head, and offered up to the throne of 
grace fervent prayers of supplication. Hard by the block stood 
the grim figure of the executioner, his visage being concealed 
in a tengallon pot with two circular perforated apertures through 
which his eyes glowered furiously. As he awaited the fatal 
signal he tested the edge of his horrible weapon by 
honing it upon his brawny forearm or decapitated in rapid 
succession a flock of sheep which had been provided by 
the admirers of his fell but necessary office. On a 
handsome mahogany table near him were neatly arranged the quartering 
knife, the various finely tempered disembowelling appliances (specially supplied by 
the worldfamous firm of cutlers, Messrs John Round and Sons, 
Sheffield), a terracotta saucepan for the reception of the duodenum, 
colon, blind intestine and appendix etc when successfully extracted and 
two commodious milkjugs destined to receive the most precious blood 
of the most precious victim. The housesteward of the amalgamated 
cats’ and dogs’ home was in attendance to convey these 
