What is that? Mr Dedalus asked. I didn’t hear it. 
— There was a girl in the case, Mr Bloom 
began, and he determined to send him to the isle 
of Man out of harm’s way but when they were 
both….. — What? Mr Dedalus asked. That confirmed bloody hobbledehoy 
is it? — Yes, Mr Bloom said. They were both 
on the way to the boat and he tried to 
drown….. — Drown Barabbas! Mr Dedalus cried. I wish to 
Christ he did! Mr Power sent a long laugh down 
his shaded nostrils. — No, Mr Bloom said, the son 
himself….. Martin Cunningham thwarted his speech rudely. — Reuben J. 
and the son were piking it down the quay next 
the river on their way to the isle of Man 
boat and the young chiseller suddenly got loose and over 
the wall with him into the Liffey. — For God’ 
sake! Mr Dedalus exclaimed in fright. Is he dead? — 
Dead! Martin Cunningham cried. Not he! A boatman got a 
pole and fished him out by the slack of the 
breeches and he was landed up to the father on 
the quay. More dead than alive. Half the town was 
there. — Yes, Mr Bloom said. But the funny part 
is….. — And Reuben J., Martin Cunningham said, gave the 
boatman a florin for saving his son’s life. A stifled 
sigh came from under Mr Power’s hand. — O, he 
did, Martin Cunningham affirmed. Like a hero. A silver florin. 
— Isn’t it awfully good? Mr Bloom said eagerly. — 
One and eightpence too much, Mr Dedalus said drily. Mr 
Power’s choked laugh burst quietly in the carriage. Nelson’s pillar. 
— Eight plums a penny! Eight for a penny! — 
We had better look a little serious, Martin Cunningham said. 
Mr Dedalus sighed. — Ah then indeed, he said, poor 
little Paddy wouldn’t grudge us a laugh. Many a good 
one he told himself. — The Lord forgive me! Mr 
Power said, wiping his wet eyes with his fingers. Poor 
Paddy! I little thought a week ago when I saw 
him last and he was in his usual health that 
I’d be driving after him like this. He’s gone from 
us. — As decent a little man as ever wore 
a hat, Mr Dedalus said. He went very suddenly. — 
Breakdown, Martin Cunningham said. Heart. He tapped his chest sadly. 
Blazing face : redhot. Too much John Barleycorn. Cure for 
a red nose. Drink like the devil till it turns 
adelite. A lot of money he spent colouring it. Mr 
Power gazed at the passing houses with rueful apprehension. — 
He had a sudden death, poor fellow, he said. — 
The best death, Mr Bloom said. Their wide open eyes 
looked at him. — No suffering, he said. A moment 
and all is over. Like dying in sleep. No-one spoke. 
Dead side of the street this. Dull business by day, 
land agents, temperance hotel, Falconer’s railway guide, civil service college, 
