milk, not hers. Old shrunken paps. She poured again a 
measureful and a tilly. Old and secret she had entered 
from a morning world, maybe a messenger. She praised the 
goodness of the milk, pouring it out. Crouching by a 
patient cow at daybreak in the lush field, a witch 
on her toadstool, her wrinkled fingers quick at the squirting 
dugs. They lowed about her whom they knew, dewsilky cattle. 
Silk of the kine and poor old woman, names given 
her in old times. A wandering crone, lowly form of 
an immortal serving her conqueror and her gay betrayer, their 
common cuckquean, a messenger from the secret morning. To serve 
or to upbraid, whether he could not tell : but 
scorned to beg her favour. — It is indeed, ma’am, 
Buck Mulligan said, pouring milk into their cups. — Taste 
it, sir, she said. He drank at her bidding. — 
If we could only live on good food like that, 
he said to her somewhat loudly, we wouldn’t have the 
country full of rotten teeth and rotten guts. Living in 
a bogswamp, eating cheap food and the streets paved with 
dust, horsedung and consumptives’ spits. — Are you a medical 
student, sir? the old woman asked. — I am, ma’am, 
Buck Mulligan answered. Stephen listened in scornful silence. She bows 
her old head to a voice that speaks to her 
loudly, her bonesetter, her medicineman; me she slights. To the 
voice that will shrive and oil for the grave all 
there is of her but her woman’s unclean loins, of 
man’s flesh made not in God’s likeness the serpent’s prey. 
And to the loud voice that now bids her be 
silent with wondering unsteady eyes. — Do you understand what 
he says? Stephen asked her. — Is it French you 
are talking, sir? the old woman said to Haines. Haines 
spoke to her again a longer speech, confidently. — Irish, 
Buck Mulligan said. Is there Gaelic on you? — I 
thought it was Irish, she said, by the sound of 
it. Are you from west, sir? — I am an 
Englishman, Haines answered. — He’s English, Buck Mulligan said, and 
he thinks we ought to speak Irish in Ireland. — 
Sure we ought to, the old woman said, and I’m 
ashamed I don’t speak the language myself. I’m told it’s 
a grand language by them that knows. — Grand is 
no name for it, said Buck Mulligan. Wonderful entirely. Fill 
us out some more tea, Kinch. Would you like a 
cup, ma’am? — No, thank you, sir, the old woman 
said, slipping the ring of the milkcan on her forearm 
and about to go. Haines said to her : — 
Have you your bill? We had better pay her, Mulligan, 
hadn’t we? Stephen filled the three cups. — Bill, sir? 
she said, halting. Well, it’s seven mornings a pint at 
two pence is seven twos is a shilling and twopence 
over and these three mornings a quart at fourpence is 
