June 1886 a new boater straw hat, extra smart (after 
having, though not in consequence of having, purchased at the 
hour and in the place aforesaid), the toxin aforesaid, at 
the general drapery store of James Cullen, 4 Main street, 
Ennis. Did he attribute this homonymity to information or coincidence 
or intuition? Coincidence. Did he depict the scene verbally for 
his guest to see? He preferred himself to see another’s 
face and listen to another’s words by which potential narration 
was realised and kinetic temperament relieved. Did he see only 
a second coincidence in the second scene narrated to him, 
described by the narrator as A Pisgah Sight of Palestine 
or The Parable of the Plums? It, with the preceding 
scene and with others unnarrated but existent by implication, to 
which add essays on various subjects or moral apothegms (e. 
g. My Favourite Hero or Procrastination is the Thief of 
Time) composed during schoolyears, seemed to him to contain in 
itself and in conjunction with the personal equation certain possibilities 
of financial, social, personal and sexual success, whether specially collected 
and selected as model pedagogie themes (of cent per cent 
merit) for the use of preparatory and junior grade students 
or contributed in printed form, following the precedent of Philip 
Beaufoy or Doctor Dick or Heblon’s Studies in Blue, to 
a publication of certified circulation and solvency or employed verbally 
as intellectual stimulation for sympathetic auditors, tacitly appreciative of successful 
narrative and confidently augurative of successful achievement, during the increasingly 
longer nights gradually following the summer solstice on the day 
but three following, videlicet, Tuesday, 21 June (S. Aloysius Gonzaga), 
sunrise, 3.33 a. m., sunset 8.29 p. m. Which domestic 
problem as much as, if not more than, any other 
frequently engaged his mind? What to do with our wives. 
What had been his hypothetical singular solutions? Parlour games (dominos, 
halma, tiddledywinks, spillikins, cup and ball, nap, spoil five, bezique, 
twentyfive, beggar my neighbour, draughts, chess or backgammon) : embroidery, 
darning or knitting for the policeaided clothing society : musical 
duets, mandoline and guitar, piano and flute, guitar and piano 
: legal scrivenery or envelope addressing : biweekly visits to 
variety entertainments : commercial activity as pleasantly commanding and pleasingly 
obeyed mistress proprietress in a cool dairy shop or warm 
cigar divan : the clandestine satisfaction of erotic irritation in 
masculine brothels, state inspected and medically controlled : social visits, 
at regular infrequent prevented intervals and with regular frequent preventive 
superintendence, to and from female acquaintances of recognised respectability in 
the vicinity : courses of evening instruction specially designed to 
render liberal instruction agreeable. What instances of deficient mental development 
in his wife inclined him in favour of the lastmentioned 
(ninth) solution? In disoccupied moments she had more than once 
covered a sheet of paper with signs and hieroglyphics which 
she stated were Greek and Irish and Hebrew characters. She 
had interrogated constantly at varying intervals as to the correct 
method of writing the capital initial of the name of 
