can quite understand that, he said calmly. An Irishman must 
think like that, I daresay. We feel in England that 
we have treated you rather unfairly. It seems history is 
to blame. The proud potent titles clanged over Stephen’s memory 
the triumph of their brazen bells : et unam sanctam 
catholicam et apostolicam ecclesiam : the slow growth and change 
of rite and dogma like his own rare thoughts, a 
chemistry of stars. Symbol of the apostles in the mass 
for pope Marcellus, the voices blended, singing alone loud in 
affirmation : and behind their chant the vigilant angel of 
the church militant disarmed and menaced her heresiarchs. A horde 
of heresies fleeing with mitres awry : Photius and the 
brood of mockers of whom Mulligan was one, and Arius, 
warring his life long upon the consubstantiality of the Son 
with the Father, and Valentine, spurning Christ’s terrene body, and 
the subtle African heresiarch Sabellius who held that the Father 
was Himself His own Son. Words Mulligan had spoken a 
moment since in mockery to the stranger. Idle mockery. The 
void awaits surely all them that weave the wind : 
a menace, a disarming and a worsting from those embattled 
angels of the church, Michael’s host, who defend her ever 
in the hour of conflict with their lances and their 
shields. Hear, hear. Prolonged applause. Zut! Nom de Dieu! — 
Of course I’m a Britisher, Haine’s voice said, and I 
feel as one. I don’t want to see my country 
fall into the hands of German jews either. That’s our 
national problem, I’m afraid, just now. Two men stood at 
the verge of the cliff, watching : businessman, boatman. — 
She’s making for Bullock harbour. The boatman nodded towards the 
north of the bay with some disdain. — There’s five 
fathoms out there, he said. It’ll be swept up that 
way when the tide comes in about one. It’s nine 
days today. The man that was drowned. A sail veering 
about the blank bay waiting for a swollen bundle to 
bob up, roll over to the sun a puffy face, 
salt white. Here I am. They followed the winding path 
down to the creek. Buck Mulligan stood on a stone, 
in shirtsleeves, his unclipped tie rippling over his shoulder. A 
young man clinging to a spur of rock near him 
moved slowly frogwise his green legs in the deep jelly 
of the water. — Is the brother with you, Malachi? 
— Down in Westmeath. With the Bannons. — Still there? 
I got a card from Bannon. Says he found a 
sweet young thing down there. Photo girl he calls her. 
— Shapshot, eh? Brief exposure. Buck Mulligan sat down to 
unlace his boots. An elderly man shot up near the 
spur of rock a blowing red face. He scrambled up 
by the stones, water glistening on his pate and on 
its garland of grey hair, water rilling over his chest 
and paunch and spilling jets out of his black sagging 
