out as quick as he could, Jack Power and Crofton 
or whatever you call him and him in the middle 
of them letting on to be all at sea up 
with them on the bloody jaunting car. — Off with 
you, says Martin to the jarvey. The milkwhite dolphin tossed 
his mane and, rising in the golden poop, the helmsman 
spread the bellying sail upon the wind and stood off 
forward with all sail set, the spinnaker to larboard. A 
many comely nymphs drew nigh to starboard and to larboard 
and, clinging to the sides of the noble bark, they 
linked their shining forms as doth the cunning wheelwright when 
he fashions about the heart of his wheel the equidistant 
rays whereof each one is sister to another and he 
binds them all with an outer ring and giveth speed 
to the feet of men whenas they ride to a 
hosting or contend for the smile of ladies fair. Even 
so did they come and set them, those willing nymphs, 
the undying sisters. And they laughed, sporting in a circle 
of their foam : and the bark clave the waves. 
But begob I was just lowering the heel of the 
pint when I saw the citizen getting up to waddle 
to the door, puffing and blowing with the dropsy and 
he cursing the curse of Cromwell on him, bell, book 
and candle in Irish, spitting and spatting out of him 
and Joe and little Alf round him like a leprechaun 
trying to peacify him. — Let me alone, says he. 
And begob he got as far as the door and 
they holding him and be bawls out of him : 
— Three cheers for Israel! Arrah, sit down on the 
parliamentary side of your arse for Christ’ sake and don’t 
be making a public exhibition of yourself. Jesus, there’s always 
some bloody clown or other kicking up a bloody murder 
about bloody nothing. Gob, it’d turn the porter sour in 
your guts, so it would. And all the ragamuffins and 
sluts of the nation round the door and Martin telling 
the jarvey to drive ahead and the citizen bawling and 
Alf and Joe at him to whisht and he on 
his high horse about the jews and the loafers calling 
for a speech and Jack Power trying to get him 
to sit down on the car and hold his bloody 
jaw and a loafer with a patch over his eye 
starts singing If the man in the moon was a 
jew, jew, jew and a slut shouts out of her 
: — Eh, mister! Your fly is open, mister! And 
says he : — Mendelssohn was a jew and Karl 
Marx and Mercadante and Spinoza. And the Saviour was a 
jew and his father was a jew. Your God. — 
He had no father, says Martin. That’ll do now. Drive 
ahead. — Whose God? says the citizen. — Well, his 
uncle was a jew, says he. Your God was a 
