implicit believer in the lurid story narrated (or the eggsniping 
transaction for that matter despite William Tell and the Lazarillo 
– Don Cesar de Bazan incident depicted in Maritana on 
which occasion the former’s ball passed through the latter’s hat), 
having detected a discrepancy between his name (assuming he was 
the person he represented himself to be and not sailing 
under false colours after having boxed the compass on the 
strict q. t. somewhere), and the fictitious addressee of the 
missive which made him nourish some suspicions of our friend’s 
bona fides nevertheless it reminded him in a way of 
a longcherished plan he meant to one day realise some 
Wednesday or Saturday of travelling to London via long sea 
not to say that he had ever travelled extensively to 
any great extent but he was at heart a born 
adventurer though by a trick of fate he had consistently 
remained a landlubber except you call going to Holyhead which 
was his longest. Martin Cunningham frequently said he would work 
a pass through Egan but some deuced hitch or other 
eternally cropped up with the net result that the scheme 
fell through. But even suppose it did come to planking 
down the needful and breaking Boyd’s heart it was not 
so dear, purse permitting, a few guineas at the outside, 
considering the fare to Mullingar where he figured on going 
was five and six there and back. The trip would 
benefit health on account of the bracing ozone and be 
in every way thoroughly pleasurable, especially for a chap whose 
liver was out of order, seeing the different places along 
the route, Plymouth, Falmouth, Southampton and so on, culminating in 
an instructive tour of the sights of the great metropolis, 
the spectacle of our modern Babylon where doubtless he would 
see the greatest improvement tower, abbey, wealth of Park Lane 
to renew acquaintance with. Another thing just struck him as 
a by no means bad notion was he might have 
a gaze around on the spot to see about trying 
to make arrangements about a concert tour of summer music 
embracing the most prominent pleasure resorts, Margate with mixed bathing 
and firstrate hydros and spas, Eastbourne, Scarborough, Margate and so 
on, beautiful Bournemouth, the Channel islands and similar bijou spots, 
which might prove highly remunerative. Not, of course, with a 
hole and corner scratch company or local ladies on the 
job, witness Mrs C. P. M’Coy type — lend me 
your valise and I’ll post you the ticket. No, something 
top notch, an all star Irish caste, the Tweedy-Flower grand 
opera company with its own legal consort as leading lady 
as a sort of counterblast to the Elster Grimes and 
Moody-Manners, perfectly simple matter and he was quite sanguine of 
success, providing puffs in the local papers could be managed 
by some fellow with a bit of bounce who could 
pull the indispensable wires and thus combine business with pleasure. 
But who? That was the rub. Also, without being actually 
