his little finger blotted out the sun’s disk. Must be 
the focus where the rays cross. If I had black 
glasses. Interesting. There was a lot of talk about those 
sunspots when we were in Lombard street west. Terrific explosions 
they are. There will be a total eclipse this year 
: autumn some time. Now that I come to think 
of it, that ball falls at Greenwich time. It’s the 
clock is worked by an electric wire from Dunsink. Must 
go out there some first Saturday of the month. If 
I could get an introduction to professor Joly or learn 
up something about his family. That would do to : 
man always feels complimented. Flattery where least expected. Nobleman proud 
to be descended from some king’s mistress. His foremother. Lay 
it on with a trowel. Cap in hand goes through 
the land. Not go in and blurt out what you 
know you’re not to : what’s parallax? Show this gentleman 
the door. Ah. His hand fell again to his side. 
Never know anything about it. Waste of time. Gasballs spinning 
about, crossing each other, passing. Same old dingdong always. Gas, 
then solid, then world, then cold, then dead shell drifting 
around, frozen rock like that pineapple rock. The moon. Must 
be a new moon, she said. I believe there is. 
He went on by la Maison Claire. Wait. The full 
moon was the night we were Sunday fortnight exactly there 
is a new moon. Walking down by the Tolka. Not 
bad for a Fairview moon. She was humming : The 
young May moon she’s beaming, love. He other side of 
her. Elbow, arm. He. Glowworm’s la-amp is gleaming, love. Touch. 
Fingers. Asking. Answer. Yes. Stop. Stop. If it was it 
was. Must. Mr Bloom, quick breathing, slowlier walking, passed Adam 
court. With a keep quiet relief, his eyes took note 
: this is street here middle of the day Bob 
Doran’s bottle shoulders. On his annual bend, M’Coy said. They 
drink in order to say or do something or cherchez 
la femme. Up in the Coombe with chummies and streetwalkers 
and then the rest of the year as sober as 
a judge. Yes. Thought so. Sloping into the Empire. Gone. 
Plain soda would do him good. Where Pat Kinsella had, 
his Harp theatre before Whitbred ran the Queen’s. Broth of 
a boy. Dion Boucicault business with his harvestmoon face in 
a poky bonnet. Three Purty Maids from School. How time 
flies eh? Showing long red pantaloons under his skirts. Drinkers, 
drinking, laughed spluttering, their drink against their breath. More power, 
Pat. Coarse red : fun for drunkards : guffaw and 
smoke. Take off that white hat. His parboiled eyes. Where 
is he now? Beggar somewhere. The harp that once did 
starve us all. I was happier then. Or was that 
I? Or am I now I? Twentyeight I was. She 
twentythree when we left Lombard street west something changed. Could 
never like it again after Rudy. Can’t bring back time. 
