Avon has other thoughts. Composition of place. Ignatius Loyola, make 
haste to help me! — The play begins. A player 
comes on under the shadow, made up in the castoff 
mail of a court buck, a wellset man with a 
bass voice. It is the ghost, the king, a king 
and no king, and the player is Shakespeare who has 
studied Hamlet all the years of his life which were 
not vanity in order to play the part of the 
spectre. He speaks the words to Burbage, the young player 
who stands before him beyond the rack of cerecloth, calling 
him by a name : Hamlet, I am thy father’s 
spirit bidding him list. To a son he speaks, the 
son of his soul, the prince, young Hamlet and to 
the son of his body, Hamnet Shakespeare, who has died 
in Stratford that his namesake may live for ever. Is 
it possible that that player Shakespeare, a ghost by absence, 
and in the vesture of buried Denmark, a ghost by 
death, speaking his own words to his own son’s name 
(had Hamnet Shakespeare lived he would have been prince Hamlet’s 
twin) is it possible, I want to know, or probable 
that he did not draw or foresee the logical conclusion 
of those premises : you are the dispossessed son : 
I am the murdered father : your mother is the 
guilty queen. Ann Shakespeare, born Hathaway? — But this prying 
into the family life of a great man, Russell began 
impatiently. Art thou there, truepenny? — Interesting only to the 
parish clerk. I mean, we have the plays. I mean 
when we read the poetry of King Lear what is 
it to us how the poet lived? As for living, 
our servants can do that for us, Villiers de l’Isle 
has said. Peeping and prying into greenroom gossip of the 
day, the poet’s drinking, the poet’s debts. We have King 
Lear : and it is immortal. Mr Best’s face appealed 
to, agreed. Flow over them with your waves and with 
your waters, Mananaan, Mananaan, MacLir….. How now, sirrah, that pound 
he lent you when you were hungry? Marry, I wanted 
it. Take thou this noble. Go to! You spent most 
of it in Georgina Johnson’s bed, clergyman’s daughter. Agenbite of 
inwit. Do you intend to pay it back? O, yes. 
When? Now? Well… no. When, then? I paid my way. 
I paid my way. Steady on. He’s from beyant Boyne 
water. The northeast corner. You owe it. Wait. Five months. 
Molecules all change. I am other I now. Other I 
got pound. Buzz. Buzz. But I, entelechy, form of forms, 
am I by memory because under everchanging forms. I that 
sinned and prayed and fasted. A child Conmee saved from 
pandies. I, I and I. I. A.E.I.O.U. — Do you 
mean to fly in the face of the tradition of 
three centuries? John Eglinton’s carping voice asked. Her ghost at 
least has been laid for ever. She died, for literature 
