pledge or those powders the drink habit cured in Pearson’s 
Weekly, she might now be rolling in her carriage, second 
to none. Over and over had she told herself that 
as she mused by the dying embers in a brown 
study without the lamp because she hated two lights or 
oftentimes gazing out of the window dreamily by the hour 
at the rain falling on the rusty bucket, thinking. But 
that vile decoction which has ruined so many hearths and 
homes had cast its shadow over her childhood days. Nay, 
she had even witnessed in the home circle deeds of 
violence caused by intemperance and had seen her own father, 
a prey to the fumes of intoxication, forget himself completely 
for if there was one thing of all things that 
Gerty knew it was the man who lifts his hand 
to a woman save in the way of kindness deserves 
to be branded as the lowest of the low. And 
still the voices sang in supplication to the Virgin most 
powerful, Virgin most merciful. And Gerty, wrapt in thought, scarce 
saw or heard her companions or the twins at their 
boyish gambols or the gentleman off Sandymount green that Cissy 
Caffrey called the man that was so like himself passing 
along the strand taking a short walk. You never saw 
him anyway screwed but still and for all that she 
would not like him for a father because he was 
too old or something or on account of his face 
(it was a palpable case of doctor Fell) or his 
carbuncly nose with the pimples on it and his sandy 
moustache a bit white under his nose. Poor father! With 
all his faults she loved him still when he sang 
Tell me, Mary, how to woo thee or My love 
and cottage near Rochelle and they had stewed cockles and 
lettuce with Lazenby’s salad dressing for supper and when he 
sang The moon hath raised with Mr Dignam that died 
suddenly and was buried, God have mercy on him, from 
a stroke. Her mother’s birthday that was and Charley was 
home on his holidays and Tom and Mr Dignam and 
Mrs and Patsy and Freddy Dignam and they were to 
have had a group taken. No-one would have thought the 
end was so near. Now he was laid to rest. 
And her mother said to him to let that be 
a warning to him for the rest of his days 
and he couldn’t even go to the funeral on account 
of the gout and she had to go into town 
to bring him the letters and samples from his office 
about Catesby’s cork lino, artistic standard designs, fit for a 
palace, gives tiptop wear and always bright and cheery in 
the home. A sterling good daughter was Gerty just like 
a second mother in the house, a ministering angel too 
with a little heart worth its weight in gold. And 
when her mother had those raging splitting headaches who was 
