was free, blithe, mocked at peril. She is more taking 
then. Her posies too! Mad romp that it is, she 
had pulled her fill as we reclined together. And in 
your ear, my friend, you will not think who met 
us as we left the field. Conmee himself! He was 
walking by the hedge, reading, I think a brevier book 
with, I doubt not, a witty letter in it from 
Glycera or Chloe to keep the page. The sweet creature 
turned all colours in her confusion, feigning to reprove a 
slight disorder in her dress : a slip of underwood 
clung there for the very trees adore her. When conmee 
had passed she glanced at her lovely echo in the 
little mirror she carries. But he had been kind. In 
going by he had blessed us. The gods too are 
ever kind, Lenehan said. If I had poor luck with 
Bass’s mare perhaps this draught of his may serve me 
more propensely. He was laying his hand upon a winejar 
: Malachi saw it and withheld his act, pointing to 
the stranger and to the scarlet label. Warily, Malachi whispered, 
preserve a druid silence. His soul is far away. It 
is as painful perhaps to be awakened from a vision 
as to be born. Any object, intensely regarded, may be 
a gate of access to the incorruptible eon of the 
gods. Do you not think it, Stephen? Theosophos told me 
so, Stephen answered, whom in a previous existence Egyptian priests 
initiated into the mysteries of karmic law. The lords of 
the moon, Theosophos told me, an orangefiery shipload from planet 
Alpha of the lunar chain, would not assume the etheric 
doubles and these were therefore incarnated by the rubycoloured egos 
from the second constellation. However, as a matter of fact 
though, the preposterous surmise about him being in some description 
of a doldrums or other or mesmerised which was entirely 
due to a misconception of the shallowest character, was not 
the case at all. The individual whose visual organs while 
the above was going on, were at this juncture commencing 
to exhibit symptoms of animation, was as astute if not 
astuter than any man living and anybody that conjectured the 
contrary would have found themselves pretty speedily in the wrong 
shop. During the past four minutes or thereabouts he had 
been staring hard at a certain amount of number one 
Bass bottled by Messrs Bass and Co at Burton-on-Trent which 
happened to be situated amongst a lot of others right 
opposite to where he was and which was certainly calculated 
to attract anyone’s remark on account of its scarlet appearance. 
He was simply and solely, as it subsequently transpired for 
reasons best known to himself which put quite an altogether 
different complexion on the proceedings, after the moment before’s observations 
about boyhood days and the turf, recollecting two or three 
private transactions of his own which the other two were 
as mutually innocent of as the babe unborn. Eventually, however, 
