his primrose waistcoat : — You couldn’t manage it under 
three pints, Kinch, could you? — It has waited so 
long, Stephen said listlessly, it can wait longer. — You 
pique my curiosity, Haines said aimiably. Is it some paradox? 
— Pooh! Buck Mulligan said. We have grown out of 
Wilde and paradoxes. It’s quite simple. He proves by algebra 
that Hamlet’s grandson is Shakespeare’s grandfather and that he himself 
is the ghost of his own father. — What? Haines 
said, beginning to point at Stephen. He himself? Buck Mulligan 
slung his towel stolewise round his neck and, bending in 
loose laughter, said to Stephen’s ear : — O, shade 
of Kinch the elder! Japhet in search of a father! 
— We’re always tired in the morning, Stephen said to 
Haines. And it is rather long to tell. Buck Mulligan, 
walking forward again, raised his hands. — The sacred pint 
alone can unbind the tongue of Dedalus, he said. — 
I mean to say, Haines explained to Stephen as they 
followed, this tower and these cliffs here remind me somehow 
of Elsinore. That beetles o’er his base into the sea, 
isn’t it? Buck Mulligan turned suddenly for an instant towards 
Stephen but did not speak. In the bright silent instant 
Stephen saw his own image in cheap dusty mourning between 
their gay attires. — It’s a wonderful tale, Haines said, 
bringing them to halt again. Eyes, pale as the sea 
the wind had freshened, paler, firm and prudent. The seas’ 
ruler, he gazed southward over the bay, empty save for 
the smokeplume of the mailboat, vague on the bright skyline, 
and a sail tacking by the Muglins. — I read 
a theological interpretation of it somewhere, he said bemused. The 
Father and the Son idea. The Son striving to be 
atoned with the Father. Buck Mulligan at once put on 
a blithe broadly smiling face. He looked at them, his 
wellshaped mouth open happily, his eyes, from which he had 
suddenly withdrawn all shrewd sense, blinking with mad gaiety. He 
moved a doll’s head to and fro, the brims of 
his Panama hat quivering, and began to chant in a 
quiet happy foolish voice : —I’m the queerest young fellow 
that ever you heard. My mother’s a jew, my father’s 
a bird. With Joseph the joiner I cannot agree, So 
here’s to disciples and Calvary. He held up a forefinger 
of warning. —If anyone thinks that I amn’t divine He’ll 
get no free drinks when I’m making the wine But 
have to drink water and wish it were plain That 
I make when the wine becomes water again. He tugged 
swiftly at Stephen’s ashplant in farewell and, running forward to 
a brow of the cliff, fluttered his hands at his 
sides like fins or wings of one about to rise 
in the air, and chanted : —Goodbye, now, goodbye. Write 
down all I said And tell Tom, Dick and Harry 
I rose from the dead. What’s bred in the bone 
