affected should be preserved in spirits of wine in the 
national teratological museum. dr crotthers I have examined the patient’s 
urine. It is albuminoid. Salivation is insufficient, the patellar reflex 
intermittent. dr punch costello The fetor judaicus is most perceptible. 
dr dixon (Reads a bill of health.) Professor Bloom is 
a finished example of the new womanly man. His moral 
nature is simple and lovable. Many have found him a 
dear man, a dear person. He is a rather quaint 
fellow on the whole, coy though not feebleminded in the 
medical sense. He has written a really beautiful letter, a 
poem in itself, to the court missionary of the Reformed 
Priests Protection Society which clears up everything. He is practically 
a total abstainer and I can affirm that he sleeps 
on a straw litter and eats the most Spartan food, 
cold dried grocer’s peas. He wears a hairshirt winter and 
summer and scourges himself every Saturday. He was, I understand, 
at one time a firstclass misdemeanant in Glencree reformatory. Another 
report states that he was a very posthumous child. I 
appeal for clemency in the name of the most sacred 
word our vocal organs have ever been called upon to 
speak. He is about to have a baby. (General commotion 
and compassion. Women faint. A wealthy American makes a street 
collection for Bloom. Gold and silver coins, blank cheques, banknotes, 
jewels, treasury bonds, maturing bills of exchange, I. O. U’s, 
wedding rings, watchchains, lockets, necklaces and bracelets are rapidly collected.) 
bloom O, I so want to be a mother. mrs 
thornton (In nursetender’s gown.) Embrace me tight, dear. You’ll be 
soon over it. Tight, dear. (Bloom embraces her tightly and 
bears eight male yellow and white children. They appear on 
a redcarpeted staircase adorned with expensive plants. All are handsome, 
with valuable metallic faces, wellmade, respectably dressed and wellconducted, speaking 
five modern languages fluently and interested in various arts and 
sciences. Each has his name printed in legible letters on 
his shirtfront : Nasodoro, Goldfinger, Chrysostomos, Maindorée, Silversmile, Silberselber Vifargent, 
Panargros. They are immediately appointed to positions of high public 
trust in several different countries as managing directors of banks, 
traffic managers of railways, chairmen of limited liability companies, vice 
chairmen of hotel syndicates.) a voice Bloom, are you the 
Messiah ben Joseph or ben David? bloom (Darkly.) You have 
said it. brother buzz Then perform a miracle. bantam lyons 
Prophesy who will win the Saint Leger. (Bloom walks on 
a net, covers his left eye with his left ear, 
passes through several walls, climbs Nelson’s Pillar, hangs from the 
top ledge by his eyelids, eats twelve dozen oysters (shells 
included), heals several sufferers from king’s evil, contracts his face 
so as to resemble many historical personages, Lord Beaconsfield, Lord 
Byron, Wat Tyler, Moses of Egypt, Moses Maimonides, Moses Mendelssohn, 
Henry Irving, Rip van Winkle, Kossuth, Jean Jacques Rousseau, Baron 
Leopold Rothschild, Robinson Crusoe, Sherlock Holmes, Pasteur, turns each foot 
simultaneously in different directions, bids the tide turn back, eclipses 
