at least, before she was born. — She died, Stephen 
retorted, sixtyseven years after she was born. She saw him 
into and out of the world. She took his first 
embraces. She bore his children and she laid pennies on 
his eyes to keep his eyelids closed when he lay 
on his deathbed. Mother’s deathbed. Candle. The sheeted mirror. Who 
brought me into this world lies there, bronzelidded, under few 
cheap flowers. Liliata rutilantium. I wept alone. John Eglinton looked 
in the tangled glowworm of his lamp. — The world 
believes that Shakespeare made a mistake, he said, and got 
out of it as quickly and as best he could. 
— Bosh! Stephen said rudely. A man of genius makes 
no mistakes. His errors are volitional and are the portals 
of discovery. Portals of discovery opened to let in the 
quaker librarian, softcreakfooted, bald, eared and assiduous. — A shrew, 
John Eglinton said shrewdly, is not a useful portal of 
discovery, one should imagine. What useful discovery did Socrates learn 
from Xanthippe? — Dialectic, Stephen answered : and from his 
mother how to bring thoughts into the world. What he 
learnt from his other wife Myrto (absit nomen!) Socratididion’s Epipsychidion, 
no man, not a woman, will ever know. But neither 
the midwife’s lore nor the caudlelectures saved him from the 
archons of Sinn Fein and their naggin of hemlock. — 
But Ann Hathaway? Mr Best’s quiet voice said forgetfully. Yes, 
we seem to be forgetting her as Shakespeare himself forgot 
her. His look went from brooder’s beard to carper’s skull, 
to remind, to chide them not unkindly, then to the 
baldpink lollard costard, guitless though maligned. — He had a 
good groatsworth of wit, Stephen said, and no truant memory. 
He carried a memory in his wallet as he trudged 
to Romeville whistling The girl I left behind me. If 
the earthquake did not time it we should know where 
to place poor Wat, sitting in his form, the cry 
of hounds, the studded bridle and her blue windows. That 
memory, Venus and Adonis, lay in the bedchamber of every 
light-of-love in London. Is Katharine the shrew illfavoured? Hortensio calls 
her young and beautiful. Do you think the writer of 
Antony and Cleopatra, a passionate pilgrim, had his eyes in 
the back of his head that he chose the ugliest 
doxy in all Warwickshire to lie withal. Good : he 
left her and gained the world of men. But his 
boywomen are the women of a boy. Their life, thought, 
speech are lent them by males. He chose badly? He 
was chosen, it seems to me. If others have their 
will Ann hath a way. By cock, she was to 
blame. She put the comether on him, sweet and twentysix. 
The greyeyed goddess who bends over the boy Adonis, stooping 
to conquer, as prologue to the swelling act, is a 
boldfaced Stratford wench who tumbles in a cornfield a lover 
younger than herself. And my turn? When? Come! — Ryefield, 
