yards, sprang their luff, heaved to, spread three sheets in 
the wind, put her head between wind and water, weighed 
anchor, ported her helm, ran up the jolly Roger, gave 
three times three, let the bullgine run, pushed off in 
their bumboat and put to sea to recover the main 
of America. Which was the occasion, says Mr Vincent, of 
the composing by a boatswain of that rollicking chanty : 
— Pope Peter’s but a pissabed. A man’s a man 
for a’ that. Our worthy acquaintance, Mr Malachi Mulligan, now 
appeared in the doorway as the students were finishing their 
apologue accompanied with a friend whom he had just rencountered, 
a young gentleman, his name Alec Bannon, who had late 
come to town, it being his intention to buy a 
colour or a cornetcy in the fencibles and list for 
the wars. Mr Mulligan was civil enough to express some 
relish of it all the more as it jumped with 
a project of his own for the cure of the 
very evil that had been touched on. Whereat he handed 
round to the company a set of pasteboard cards which 
he had had printed that day at Mr Quinnell’s bearing 
a legend printed in fair italics : Mr Malachi Mulligan, 
Fertiliser and Incubator, Lambay Island. His project, as he went 
on to expound, was to withdraw from the round of 
idle pleasures such as form the chief business of sir 
Fopling Popinjay and sir Milksop Quidnunc in town and to 
devote himself to the noblest task for which our bodily 
organism has been framed. Well, let us hear of it, 
good my friend, said Mr Dixon. I make no doubt 
it smacks of wenching. Come, be seated, both. ’Tis as 
cheap sitting as standing. Mr Mulligan accepted of the invitation 
and, expatiating on his design, told his hearers that he 
had been led into this thought by a consideration of 
the causes of sterility, both the inhibitory and the prohibitory, 
whether the inhibition in its turn were due to conjugal 
vexations or to a parsimony of the balance as well 
as whether the prohibition proceeded from defects congenital or from 
proclivites acquired. It grieved him plaguily, he said, to see 
the nuptial couch defrauded of its dearest pledges : and 
to reflect upon so many agreeable females with rich jointures, 
a prey for the vilest bonzes, who hide their flambeau 
under a bushel in an uncongenial cloister or lose their 
womanly bloom in the embraces of some unaccountable muskin when 
they might multiply the inlets of happiness, sacrificing the inestimable 
jewel of their sex when a hundred pretty fellows were 
at hand to caress, this, he assured them, made his 
heart weep. To curb this inconvenience (which he concluded due 
to a suppression of latent heat), having advised with certain 
counsellors of worth and inspected into this matter, he had 
resolved to purchase in fee simple for ever the freehold 
of Lambay island from its holder, lord Talbot de Malahide, 
