clot of phlegm. Filthy shells. Devil to open them too. 
Who found them out? Garbage, sewage they feed on. Fizz 
and Red bank oysters. Effect on the sexual. Aphrodis. He 
was in the Red bank this morning. Was he oyster 
old fish at table. Perhaps he young flesh in bed. 
No. June has no ar no oysters. But there are 
people like tainted game. Jugged hare. First catch your hare. 
Chinese eating eggs fifty years old, blue and green again. 
Dinner of thirty courses. Each dish harmless might mix inside. 
Idea for a poison mystery. That archduke Leopold was it? 
No. Yes, or was it Otto one of those Habsburgs? 
Or who was it used to eat the scruff off 
his own head? Cheapest lunch in town. Of course, aristocrats. 
Then the others copy to be in the fashion. Milly 
too rock oil and flour. Raw pastry I like myself. 
Half the catch of oysters they throw back in the 
sea to keep up the price. Cheap. No one would 
buy. Caviare. Do the grand. Hock in green glasses. Swell 
blowout. Lady this. Powdered bosom pearls. The élite. Crème de 
la crème. They want special dishes to pretend they’re. Hermit 
with a platter of pulse keep down the stings of 
the flesh. Know me come eat with me. Royal sturgeon. 
High sheriff, Coffey, the butcher, right to venisons of the 
forest from his ex. Send him back the half of 
a cow. Spread I saw down in the Master of 
the Rolls’ kitchen area. Whitehatted chef like a rabbi. Combustible 
duck. Curly cabbage à la duchesse de Parme. Just as 
well to write it on the bill of fare so 
you can know what you’ve eaten too many drugs spoil 
the broth. I know it myself. Dosing it with Edwards’ 
desiccated soup. Geese stuffed silly for them. Lobsters boiled alive. 
Do ptake some ptarmigan. Wouldn’t mind being a waiter in 
a swell hotel. Tips, evening dress, halfnaked ladies. May I 
tempt you to a little more filleted lemon sole, miss 
Dubedat? Yes, do bedad. And she did bedad. Huguenot name 
I expect that. A miss Dubedat lived in Killiney I 
remember. Du, de, la, French. Still it’s the same fish, 
perhaps old Micky Hanlon of Moore street ripped the guts 
out of making money, hand over first, finger in fishes’ 
gills, can’t write his name on a cheque, think he 
was painting the landscape with his mouth twisted. Moooikill A 
Aitcha Ha. Ignorant as a kish of brogues, worth fifty 
thousand pounds. Stuck on the pane two flies buzzed, stuck. 
Glowing wine on his palate lingered swallowed. Crushing in the 
winepress grapes of Burgundy. Sun’s heat it is. Seems to 
a secret touch telling me memory. Touched his sense moistened 
remembered. Hidden under wild ferns on Howth. Below us bay 
sleeping sky. No sound. The sky. The bay purple by 
the Lion’s head. Green by Drumleck. Yellowgreen towards Sutton. Fields 
of undersea, the lines faint brown in grass, buried cities, 
