cry, and a tag and bobtail of all them after, 
cockerel, jackanapes, welsher, pilldoctor, punctual Bloom at heels with a 
universal grabbing at headgear, ashplants, bilbos, Panama hats and scabbards, 
Zermatt alpenstocks and what not. A dedale of lusty youth, 
noble every student there. Nurse Callan taken aback in the 
hallway cannot stay them nor smiling surgeon coming downstairs with 
news of placentation ended, a full pound if a milligramme. 
They hark him on. The door! It is open? Ha? 
They are out tumultuously, off for a minute’s race, all 
bravely legging it, Burke’s of Denzille and Holles their ulterior 
goal. Dixon follows, giving them sharp language but raps out 
an oath, he too, and on. Bloom stays with nurse 
a thought to send a kind word to happy mother 
and nurseling up there. Doctor Diet and Doctor Quiet. Looks 
she too not other now? Ward of watching in Horne’s 
house has told its tale in that washedout pallor. Them 
all being gone, a glance of motherwit helping, he whispers 
close in going : Madam, when comes the storkbird for 
thee? The air without is impregnated with raindew moisture, life 
essence celestial, glistering on Dublin stone there under starshiny coelum. 
God’s air, the Allfather’s air, scintillant circumambient cessile air. Breathe 
it deep into thee. By heaven, Theodore Purefoy, thou hast 
done a doughty deed and no botch! Thou art, I 
vow, the remarkablest progenitor barring none in this chaffering allincluding 
most farraginous chronicle. Astounding! In her lay a Godframed Godgiven 
preformed possibility which thou hast fructified with thy modicum of 
man’s work. Cleave to her! Serve! Toil on, labour like 
a very bandog and let scholarment and all Malthusiasts go 
hang. Thou art all their daddies, Theodore. Art drooping under 
thy load, bemoiled with butcher’s bills at home and ingots 
(not thine!) in the countinghouse? Head up! For every newbegotten 
thou shalt gather thy homer of ripe wheat. See, thy 
fleece is drenched. Dost envy Darby Dullman there with his 
Joan? A canting jay and a rheumeyed curdog is all 
their progeny. Pshaw, I tell thee! He is a mule, 
a dead gasteropod, without vim or stamina, not worth a 
cracked kreutzer. Copulation without population! No, say I! Herod’s slaughter 
of the innocents were the truer name. Vegetables, forsooth, and 
sterile cohabitation! Give her beefsteaks, red, raw, bleeding! She is 
a hoary pandemonium of ills, enlarged glands, mumps, quinsy, bunions, 
hayfever, bedsores, ringworm, floating kidney, Derbyshire neck, warts, bilious attacks, 
gallstones, cold feet, varicose veins. A truce to threnes and 
trentals and jeremies and all such congenital defunctive music. Twenty 
years of it, regret them not. With thee it was 
not as with many that will and would and wait 
and never do. Thou sawest thy America, thy lifetask, and 
didst charge to cover like the transpontine bison. How saith 
Zarathusthra? Deine Kuh Truebsal melkest Du. Nun trinkst Du die 
suesse Milch des Euters. See! It displodes for thee in 
abundance. Drink, man, an udderful! Mother’s milk, Purefoy, the milk 
