you come to look into it well. Justice it means 
but it’s everybody eating everyone else. That’s what life is 
after all. How quickly he does that job. Practice makes 
perfect. Seems to see with his fingers. Mr Bloom passed 
on out of the clanking noises through the gallery on 
to the landing. Now am I going to tram it 
out all the way and then catch him out perhaps? 
Better phone him up first. Number? Same as Citron’s house. 
Twentyeight. Twentyeight double four. ONLY ONCE MORE THAT SOAP He 
went down the house staircase. Who the deuce scrawled all 
over these walls with matches? Looks as if they did 
it for a bet. Heavy greasy smell there always is 
in those works. Lukewarm glue in Thom’s next door when 
I was there. He took out his handkerchief to dab 
his nose. Citronlemon? Ah, the soap I put there. Lose 
it out of that pocket. Putting back his handkerchief he 
took out the soap and stowed it away, buttoned into 
the hip pocket of his trousers. What perfume does your 
wife use? I could go home still : tram : 
something I forgot. Just to see before dressing. No. Here. 
No. A sudden screech of laughter came from the Evening 
Telegraph office. Know who that is. What’s up? Pop in 
a minute to phone. Ned Lambert it is. He entered 
softly. ERIN, GREEN GEM OF THE SILVER SEA — The 
ghost walks, professor MacHugh murmured softly, biscuitfully to the dusty 
windowpane. Mr Dedalus, staring from the empty fireplace at Ned 
Lambert’s quizzing face, asked of it sourly : — Agonising 
Christ, wouldn’t it give you a heartburn on your arse? 
Ned Lambert, seated on the table, read on : — 
Or again, note the meanderings of some purling rill as 
it babbles on its way, fanned by gentlest zephyrs tho’ 
quarrelling with the stony obstacles, to the tumbling waters of 
Neptune’s blue domain, mid mossy banks, played on by the 
glorious sunlight or ’neath the shadows cast o’er its pensive 
bosom by the overarching leafage of the giants of the 
forest. What about that, Simon? he asked over the fringe 
of his newspaper. How’s that for high? — Changing his 
drink, Mr Dedalus said. Ned Lambert, laughing, struck the newspaper 
on his knees, repeating : — The pensive bosom and 
the overarsing leafage. O boys! O boys! — And Xenophon 
looked upon Marathon, Mr Dedalus said, looking again on the 
fireplace and to the window, and Marathon looked on the 
sea. — That will do, professor MacHugh cried from the 
window. I don’t want to hear any more of the 
stuff. He ate off the crescent of water biscuit he 
had been nibbling and, hungered, made ready to nibble the 
biscuit in his other hand. High falutin stuff. Bladderbags. Ned 
Lambert is taking a day off I see. Rather upsets 
a man’s day a funeral does. He has influence they 
say. Old Chatterton, the vice-chancellor, is his granduncle or his 
