the sublime to the ridiculous is but a step. Pyjamas, 
let us say? Or stockingette gussetted knickers, closed? Or, put 
we the case, those complicated combinations, camiknickers? (He crows derisively.) 
Keekeereekee! (Bloom surveys incertainly the three whores, then gazes at 
the veiled mauve light, hearing the everflying moth.) bloom I 
wanted then to have now concluded. Nightdress was never. Hence 
this. But tomorrow is a new day will be. Past 
was is today. What now is will then tomorrow as 
now was be past yester. virag (Prompts into his ear 
in a pig’s whisper.) Insects of the day spend their 
brief existence in reiterated coition, lured by the smell of 
the inferiorly pulchritudinous fumale possessing extendified pudendal verve in dorsal 
region. Pretty Poll! (His yellow parrotbeak gabbles nasally.) They had 
a proverb in the Carpathians in or about the year 
five thousand five hundred and fifty of our era. One 
tablespoonful of honey will attract friend Bruin more than half 
a dozen barrels of first choice malt vinegar. Bear’s buzz 
bothers bees. But of this apart. At another time we 
may resume. We were very pleased, we others. (He coughs 
and, bending his brow, rubs his nose thoughtfully with a 
scooping hand.) You shall find that these night insects follow 
the light. An illusion for remember their complex unadjustable eye. 
For all these knotty points see the seventeenth book of 
my Fundamentals of Sexology or the Love Passion which Doctor 
L. B. says is the book sensation of the year. 
Some, to example, there are again whose movements are automatic. 
Perceive. That is his appropriate sun. Nightbird nightsun nighttown. Chase 
me, Charley! Buzz! bloom Bee or bluebottle too other day 
butting shadow on wall dazed self then me wandered dazed 
down shirt good job I… virag (His face impassive, laughs 
in a rich feminine key.) Splendid! Spanish fly in his 
fly or mustard plaster on his dibble. (He gobbles gluttonously 
with turkey wattles.) Bubbly jock! Bubbly jock! Where are we? 
Open Sesame! Cometh forth! (He unrolls his parchment rapidly and 
reads, his glowworm’s nose running backwards over the letters which 
he claws.) Stay, good friend. I bring thee thy answer. 
Redbank oysters will shortly be upon us. I’m the best 
o’cook. Those succulent bivalves may help us and the truffles 
of Perigord, tubers dislodged through mister omnivorous porker, were unsurpassed 
in cases of nervous debility or viragitis. Though they stink 
yet they sting. (He wags head with cackling raillery.) Jocular. 
With my eyeglass in my ocular. bloom (Absently.) Ocularly woman’s 
bivalve case is worse. Always open sesame. The cloven sex. 
Why they fear vermin, creeping things. Yet Eve and the 
serpent contradict. Not a historical fact. Obvious analogy to my 
idea. Serpents too are gluttons for woman’s milk. Wind their 
way through miles of omnivorous forest to sucksucculent her breast 
dry. Like those bubblyjocular Roman matrons one reads of in 
Elephantuliasis. virag (His mouth projected in hard wrinkles, eyes stonily 
forlornly closed, psalms in outlandish monotone.) That the cows with 
