see his eye. Retaining the perpendicular. (He staggers a pace 
back.) bloom (Propping him.) Retain your own. stephen (Laughs emptily.) 
My centre of gravity is displaced. I have forgotten the 
trick. Let us sit down somewhere and discuss. Struggle for 
life is the law of existence but modern philirenists, notably 
the tsar and the king of England, have invented arbitration. 
(He taps his brow.) But in here it is I 
must kill the priest and the king. biddy the clap 
Did you hear what the professor said? He’s a professor 
out of the college. cunty kate I did. I heard 
that. biddy the clap He expresses himself with much marked 
refinement of phraseology. cunty kate Indeed, yes. And at the 
same time with such apposite trenchancy. private carr (Pulls himself 
free and comes forward.) What’s that you’re saying about my 
king? (Edward the Seventh appears in an archway. He wears 
a white jersey on which an image of the Sacred 
Heart is stitched, with the insignia of Garter and Thistle, 
Golden Fleece, Elephant of Denmark, Skinner’s and Probyn’s horse, Lincoln’s 
Inns’ bencher and ancient and honourable artillery company of Massachussets. 
He sucks a red jujube. He is robed as a 
grand elect perfect and sublime mason with trowel and apron, 
marked made in Germany. In his left hand he holds 
a plasterer’s bucket on which is printed : Défense d’uriner. 
A roar of welcome greets him.) edward the seventh (Slowly, 
solemnly but indistinctly.) Peace, perfect peace. For identification bucket in 
my hand. Cheerio, boys. (He turns to his subjects.) We 
have come here to witness a clean straight fight and 
we heartily wish both men the best of good luck. 
Mahak makar a back. (He shakes hands with Private Carr, 
Private Compton, Stephen, Bloom and Lynch. General applause. Edward the 
Seventh lifts the bucket graciously in acknowledgement.) private carr (To 
Stephen.) Say it again. stephen (Nervous, friendly, pulls himself up.) 
I understand your point of view, though I have no 
king myself for the moment. This is the age of 
patent medicine. A discussion is difficult down here. But this 
is the point. You die for your country, suppose. (He 
places his arm on Private Carr’s sleeve.) Not that I 
wish it for you. But I say : Let my 
country die for me. Up to the present it has 
done so. I don’t want it to die. Damn death. 
Long live life! edward the seventh (Levitates over heaps of 
slain in the garb and with the halo of Joking 
Jesus, a white jujube in his phosphorescent face.) My methods 
are new and are causing surprise. To make the blind 
see I throw dust in their eyes. stephen Kings and 
unicorns! (He falls back a pace.) Come somewhere and we’ll… 
What was that girl saying?… private compton Eh, Harry, give 
him a kick in the knackers. Stick one into Jerry. 
bloom (To the privates, softly.) He doesn’t know what he’s 
saying. Taking a little more than is good for him. 
