typewriter. Too much mystery business in it. Is he in 
love with that one, Marion? Change it and get another 
by Mary Cecil Haye. The disk shot down the groove, 
wobbled a while, ceased and ogled them : six. Miss 
Dunne clicked on the keyboard : — 16 June 1904. 
Five tallwhitehatted sandwichmen between Monypeny’s corner and the slab where 
Wolfe Tone’s statue was not, eeled themselves turning H. E. 
L. Y’S. and plodded back as they had come. Then 
she stared at the large poster of Marie Kendall, charming 
soubrette, and listlessly lolling, scribbled on the jotter sixteens and 
capital esses. Mustard hair and dauby cheeks. She’s not nicelooking, 
is she? The way she is holding up her bit 
of a skirt. Wonder will that fellow be at the 
band tonight. If I could get that dressmaker to make 
a concertina skirt like Susy Nagle’s. They kick out grand. 
Shannon and all the boatclub swells never took his eyes 
off her. Hope to goodness he won’t keep me here 
till seven. The telephone rang rudely by her ear. — 
Hello. Yes, sir. No, sir. Yes, sir. I’ll ring them 
up after five. Only those two, sir, for Belfast and 
Liverpool. All right, sir. Then I can go after six 
if you’re not back. A quarter after. Yes, sir. Twentyseven 
and six. I’ll tell him. Yes : one, seven, six. 
She scribbled three figures on an envelope. — Mr Boylan! 
Hello! That gentleman from Sport was in looking for you. 
Mr Lenehan, yes. He said he’ll be in the Ormond 
at four. No, sir. Yes, sir. I’ll ring them up 
after five. Two pink faces turned in the flare of 
the tiny torch. — Who’s that? Ned Lambert asked. Is 
that Crotty? — Ringabella and Crosshaven, a voice replied, groping 
for foothold. — Hello, Jack, is that yourself? Ned Lambert 
said, raising in salute his pliant lath among the flickering 
arches. Come on. Mind your steps there. The vesta in 
the clergyman’s uplifted hand consumed itself In a long soft 
flame and was let fall. At their feet its red 
speck died : and mouldy air closed round them. — 
How interesting! a refined accent said in the gloom. — 
Yes, sir, Ned Lambert said heartily. We are standing in 
the historic council chamber of saint Mary’s abbey where silken 
Thomas proclaimed himself a rebel in 1534. This is the 
most historic spot in all Dublin. O’Madden Burke is going 
to write something about it one of these days. The 
old bank of Ireland was over the way till the 
time of the union and the original jews’ temple was 
here too before they built their synagogue over in Adelaide 
road. You were never here before, Jack, were you? — 
No, Ned. — He rode down through Dame walk, the 
refined accent said, if my memory serves me. The mansion 
of the Kildares was in Thomas court. — That’s right, 
Ned Lambert said. That’s quite right, sir. — If you 
