Good house, however : just the end of the city 
traffic. For instance M’Auley’s down there : n. g. as 
position. Of course if they ran a tramline along the 
North Circular from the cattle market to the quays value 
would go up like a shot. Bald head over the 
blind. Cute old codger. No use canvassing him for an 
ad. Still he knows his own business best. There he 
is, sure enough, my bold Larry, leaning against the sugarbin 
in his shirtsleeves watching the aproned curate swab up with 
mop and bucket. Simon Dedalus takes him off to a 
tee with his eyes screwed up. Do you know what 
I’m going to tell you? What’s that, Mr O’Rourke? Do 
you know what? The Russians, they’d only be an eight 
o’clock breakfast for the Japanese. Stop and say a word 
: about the funeral perhaps. Sad thing about poor Dignam, 
Mr O’Rourke. Turning into Dorset street he said freshly in 
greeting through the doorway : — Good day, Mr O’Rourke. 
— Good day to you. — Lovely weather, sir. — 
’Tis all that. Where do they get the money? Coming 
up redheaded curates from the county Leitrim, rinsing empties and 
old man in the cellar. Then, lo and behold, they 
blossom out as Adam Findlaters or Dan Tallons. Then think 
of the competition. General thirst. Good puzzle would be cross 
Dublin without passing a pub. Save it they can’t. Off 
the drunks perhaps. Put down three and carry five. What 
is that? A bob here and there, dribs and drabs. 
On the wholesale orders perhaps. Doing a double shuffle with 
the town travellers. Square it with the boss and we’ll 
split the job, see? How much would that tot to 
off the porter in the month? Say ten barrels of 
stuff. Say he got ten per cent off. O more. 
Ten. Fifteen. He passed Saint Joseph’s, National school. Brats’ clamour. 
Windows open. Fresh air helps memory. Or a lilt. Ahbeesee 
defeegee kelomen opeecue rustyouvee double you. Boys are they? Yes. 
Inishturk. Inishark. Inishboffin. At their joggerfry. Mine. Slieve Bloom. He 
halted before Dlugacz’s window, staring at the hanks of sausages, 
polonies, black and white. Fifty multiplied by. The figures whitened 
in his mind unsolved : displeased, he let them fade. 
The shiny links packed with forcemeat fed his gaze and 
he breathed in tranquilly the lukewarm breath of cooked spicy 
pig’s blood. A kidney oozed bloodgouts on the willowpatterned dish 
: the last. He stood by the nextdoor girl at 
the counter. Would she buy it too, calling the items 
from a slip in her hand. Chapped : washing soda. 
And a pound and a half of Denny’s sausages. His 
eyes rested on her vigorous hips. Woods his name is. 
Wonder what he does. Wife is oldfish. New blood. No 
followers allowed. Strong pair of arms. Whacking a carpet on 
the clothesline. She does whack it, by George. The way 
her crooked skirt swings at each whack. The ferreteyed porkbutcher 
