that’s the chap sparring out to him with the green 
sash. Two bar entrance, soldiers half price. I could easy 
do a bunk on ma. Master Dignam on his left 
turned as he turned. That’s me in mourning. When is 
it? May the twentysecond. Sure, the blooming thing is all 
over. He turned to the right and on his right 
Master Dignam turned, his cap awry, his collar sticking up. 
Buttoning it down, his chin lifted, he saw the image 
of Marie Kendall, charming soubrette, beside the two puckers. One 
of them mots that do be in the packets of 
fags Stoer smokes that his old fellow welted hell out 
of him for one time he found out. Master Dignam 
got his collar down and dawdled on. The best pucker 
going for strength was Fitzsimons. One puck in the wind 
from that fellow would knock you into the middle of 
next week, man. But the best pucker for science was 
Jem Corbet before Fitzsimons knocked the stuffings out of him, 
dodging and all. In Grafton street Master Dignam saw a 
red flower in a toff’s mouth and a swell pair 
of kicks on him and he listening to what the 
drunk was telling him and grinning all the time. No 
Sandymount tram. Master Dignam walked along Nassau street, shifted the 
porksteaks to his other hand. His collar sprang up again 
and he tugged it down. The blooming stud was too 
small for the buttonhole of the shirt, blooming end to 
it. He met schoolboys with satchels. I’m not going tomorrow 
either, stay away till Monday. He met other schoolboys. Do 
they notice I’m in mourning? Uncle Barney said he’d get 
it into the paper tonight. Then they’ll all see it 
in the paper and read my name printed and pa’s 
name. His face got all grey instead of being red 
like it was and there was a fly walking over 
it up to his eye. The scrunch that was when 
they were screwing the screws into the coffin : and 
the bumps when they were bringing it downstairs. Pa was 
inside it and ma crying in the parlour and uncle 
Barney telling the men how to get it round the 
bend. A big coffin it was, and high and heavylooking. 
How was that? The last night pa was boosed he 
was standing on the landing there bawling out for his 
boots to go out to Tunney’s for to boose more 
and he looked butty and short in his shirt. Never 
see him again. Death, that is. Pa is dead. My 
father is dead. He told me to be a good 
son to ma. I couldn’t hear the other things he 
said but I saw his tongue and his teeth trying 
to say it better. Poor pa. That was Mr Dignam, 
my father. I hope he is in purgatory now because 
he went to confession to father Conroy on Saturday night. 
William Humble, earl of Dudley, and Lady Dudley, accompanied by 
