that for the money. Still, the flowers are more poetical. 
The other gets rather tiresome, never withering. Expresses nothing. Immortelles. 
A bird sat tamely perched on a poplar branch. Like 
stuffed. Like the wedding present alderman Hooper gave us. Hu! 
Not a budge out of him. Knows there are no 
catapults to let fly at him. Dead animal even sadder. 
Silly-Milly burying the little dead bird in the kitchen matchbox, 
a daisychain and bits of broken chainies on the grave. 
The Sacred Heart that is : showing it. Heart on 
his sleeve. Ought to be sideways and red it should 
be painted like a real heart. Ireland was dedicated to 
it or whatever that. Seems anything but pleased. Why this 
infliction? Would birds come then and peck like the boy 
with the basket of fruit but he said no because 
they ought to have been afraid of the boy. Apollo 
that was. How many! All these here once walked round 
Dublin. Faithful departed. As you are now so once were 
we. Besides how could you remember everybody? Eyes, walk, voice. 
Well, the voice, yes : gramophone. Have a gramophone in 
every grave or keep it in the house. After dinner 
on a Sunday. Put on poor old greatgrandfather Kraahraark! Hellohellohello 
amawfullyglad kraark awfullygladaseeragain hellohello amarawf kopthsth. Remind you of the 
voice like the photograph reminds you of the face. Otherwise 
you couldn’t remember the face after fifteen years, say. For 
instance who? For instance some fellow that died when I 
was in Wisdom Hely’s. Rtststr! A rattle of pebbles. Wait. 
Stop. He looked down intently into a stone crypt. Some 
animal. Wait. There he goes. An obese grey rat toddled 
along the side of the crypt, moving the pebbles. An 
old stager : greatgrandfather : he knows the ropes. The 
grey alive crushed itself in under the plinth, wriggled itself 
in under it. Good hidingplace for treasure. Who lives there? 
Are laid the remains of Robert Emery. Robert Emmet was 
buried here by torchlight, wasn’t he? Making his rounds. Tail 
gone now. One of those chaps would make short work 
of a fellow. Pick the bones clean no matter who 
it was. Ordinary meat for them. A corpse is meat 
gone bad. Well and what’s cheese? Corpse of milk. I 
read in that Voyages in China that the Chinese say 
a white man smells like a corpse. Cremation better. Priests 
dead against it. Devilling for the other firm. Wholesale burners 
and Dutch oven dealers. Time of the plague. Quicklime fever 
pits to eat them. Lethal chamber. Ashes to ashes. Or 
bury at sea. Where is that Parsee tower of silence? 
Eaten by birds. Earth, fire, water. Drowning they say is 
the pleasantest. See your whole life in a flash. But 
being brought back to life no. Can’t bury in the 
air however. Out of a flying machine. Wonder does the 
news go about whenever a fresh one is let down. 
Underground communication. We learned that from them. Wouldn’t be surprised. 
