sandwich, fresh clean bread, with relish of disgust, pungent mustard, 
the feety savour of green cheese. Sips of his wine 
soothed his palate. Not logwood that. Tastes fuller this weather 
with the chill off. Nice quiet bar. Nice piece of 
wood in that counter. Nicely planed. Like the way it 
curves there. — I wouldn’t do anything at all in 
that line, Davy Byrne said. It ruined many a man 
the same horses. Vintners’ sweepstake. Licensed for the sale of 
beer, wine and spirits for consumption on the premises. Heads 
I win tails you lose. — True for you, Nosey 
Flynn said. Unless you’re in the know. There’s no straight 
sport now. Lenehan gets some good ones. He’s giving Sceptre 
today. Zinfandel’s the favourite, lord Howard de Walden’s, won at 
Epsom. Morny Cannon is riding him. I could have got 
seven to one against Saint Amant a fortnight before. — 
That so? Davy Byrne said… He went towards the window 
and, taking up the petty cash book, scanned its pages. 
— I could, faith, Nosey Flynn said snuffling. That was 
a rare bit of horseflesh. Saint Frusquin was her sire. 
She won in a thunderstorm, Rothschild’s filly, with wadding in 
her ears. Blue jacket and yellow cap. Bad luck to 
big Ben Dollard and his John O’Gaunt. He put me 
off it. Ay. He drank resignedly from his tumbler, running 
his fingers down the flutes. — Ay, he said, sighing. 
Mr Bloom, champing, standing, looked upon his sigh. Nosey numskull. 
Will I tell him that horse Lenehan? He knows already. 
Better let him forget. Go and lose more. Fool and 
his money. Dewdrop coming down again. Cold nose he’d have 
kissing a woman. Still they might like. Prickly beards they 
like. Dogs’ cold noses. Old Mrs Riordan with the rumbling 
stomach’s Skye terrier in the City Arms hotel. Molly fondling 
him in her lap. O the big doggybowwowsywowsy! Wine soaked 
and softened rolled pith of bread mustard a moment mawkish 
cheese. Nice wine it is. Taste it better because I’m 
not thirsty. Bath of course does that. Just a bite 
or two. Then about six o’clock I can. Six, six. 
Time will be gone then. She… Mild fire of wine 
kindled his veins. I wanted that badly. Felt so off 
colour. His eyes unhungrily saw shelves of tins, sardines, gaudy 
lobsters’ claws. All the odd things people pick up for 
food. Out of shells, periwinkles with a pin, off trees, 
snails out of the ground the French eat, out of 
the sea with bait on a hook. Silly fish learn 
nothing in a thousand years. If you didn’t know risky 
putting anything into your mouth. Poisonous berries. Johnny Magories. Roundness 
you think good. Gaudy colour warns you off. One fellow 
told another and so on. Try it on the dog 
first. Led on by the smell or the look. Tempting 
fruit. Ice cones. Cream. Instinct. Orangegroves for instance. Need artificial 
irrigation. Bleibtreustrasse. Yes but what about oysters? Unsightly like a 
