Will you try another, citizen? says Joe. — Yes, sir, 
says he, I will. — You? says Joe. — Beholden 
to you, Joe, says I. May your shadow never grow 
less. — Repeat that dose, says Joe. Bloom was talking 
and talking with John Wyse and he quite excited with 
his dunducketymudcoloured mug on him and his old plumeyes rolling 
about. — Persecution, says he, all the history of the 
world is full of it. Perpetuating national hatred among nations. 
— But do you know what a nation means? says 
John Wyse. — Yes, says Bloom. — What is it? 
says John Wyse. — A nation? says Bloom. A nation 
is the same people living in the same place. — 
By God, then, says Ned, laughing, if that’s so I’m 
a nation for I’m living in the same place for 
the past five years. So of course everyone had a 
laugh at Bloom and says he, trying to muck out 
of it : — Or also living in different places. 
— That covers my case, says Joe. — What is 
your nation if I may ask, says the citizen. — 
Ireland, says Bloom. I was born here. Ireland. The citizen 
said nothing only cleared the spit out of his gullet 
and, gob, he spat a Red bank oyster out of 
him right in the corner. — After you with the 
push, Joe, says he, taking out his handkerchief to swab 
himself dry. — Here you are, citizen, says Joe. Take 
that in your right hand and repeat after me the 
following words. The muchtreasured and intricately embroidered ancient Irish facecloth 
attributed to Solomon of Droma and Manus Tomaltach og Mac 
Donogh, authors of the Book of Ballymote, was then carefully 
produced and called forth prolonged admiration. No need to dwell 
on the legendary beauty of the cornerpieces, the acme of 
art, wherein one can distinctly discern each of the four 
evangelists in turn presenting to each of the four masters 
his evangelical symbol a bogoak sceptre, a North American puma 
(a far nobler king of beasts than the British article, 
be it said in passing), a Kerry calf and a 
golden eagle from Carrantuohill. The scenes depicted on the emunctory 
field, showing our ancient duns and raths and cromlechs and 
grianauns and seats of learning and maledictive stones, are as 
wonderfully beautiful and the pigments as delicate as when the 
Sligo illuminators gave free rein to their artistic fantasy long 
long ago in the time of the Barmecides. Glendalough, the 
lovely lakes of Killarney, the ruins of Clonmacnois, Cong Abbey, 
Glen Inagh and the Twelve Pins, Ireland’s Eye, the Green 
Hills of Tallaght, Croagh Patrick, the brewery of Messrs Arthur 
Guinness, Son and Company (Limited), Lough Neagh’s banks, the vale 
of Ovoca, Isolde’s tower, the Mapas obelisk, Sir Patrick Dun’s 
hospital, Cape Clear, the glen of Aherlow, Lynch’s castle, the 
Scotch house, Rathdown Union Workhouse at Loughlinstown, Tullamore jail, Castleconnel 
rapids, Kilballymacshonakill, the cross at Monasterboice, Jury’s Hotel, S. Patrick’s 
