— Quite right, Martin Cunningham said, taking the list. And 
put down the five shillings too. — Without a second 
word either, Mr Power said. — Strange but true, Martin 
Cunningham added. John Wyse Nolan opened wide eyes. — I’ll 
say there is much kindness in the jew, he quoted 
elegantly. They went down Parliament street. — There’s Jimmy Henry, 
Mr Power said, just heading for Kavanagh’s. — Righto, Martin 
Cunningham said. Here goes. Outside la Maison Claire Blazes Boylan 
waylaid Jack Mooney’s brother-in-law, humpy, tight, making for the liberties. 
John Wyse Nolan fell back with Mr Power, while Martin 
Cunningham took the elbow of a dapper little man in 
a shower of hail suit who walked uncertainly with hasty 
steps past Micky Anderson’s watches. — The assistant town clerk’s 
corns are giving him some trouble, John Wyse Nolan told 
Mr Power. They followed round the corner towards James Kavanagh’s 
winerooms. The empty castle car fronted them at rest in 
Essex gate. Martin Cunningham, speaking always, showed often the list 
at which Jimmy Henry did not glance. — And long 
John Fanning is here too, John Wyse Nolan said, as 
large as life. The tall form of long John Fanning 
filled the doorway where he stood. — Good day, Mr 
Subsheriff, Martin Cunningham said, as all halted and greeted. Long 
John Fanning made no way for them. He removed his 
large Henry Clay decisively and his large fierce eyes scowled 
intelligently over all their faces. — Are the conscript fathers 
pursuing their peaceful deliberations? he said, with rich acrid utterance 
to the assistant town clerk. Hell open to christians they 
were having, Jimmy Henry said pettishly, about their damned Irish 
language. Where was the marshal, he wanted to know, to 
keep order in the council chamber. And old Barlow the 
macebearer laid up with asthma, no mace on the table, 
nothing in order, no quorum even and Hutchinson, the lord 
mayor, in Llandudno and little Lorcan Sherlock doing locum tenens 
for him. Damned Irish language, language of our forefathers. Long 
John Fanning blew a plume of smoke from his lips. 
Martin Cunningham spoke by turns, twirling the peak of his 
beard, to the assistant town clerk and the subsheriff, while 
John Wise Nolan held his peace. — What Dignam was 
that? Long John Fanning asked. Jimmy Henry made a grimace 
and lifted his left foot. — O, my corns! he 
said plaintively. Come upstairs for goodness’ sake till I sit 
down somewhere. Uff! Ooo! Mind! Testily he made room for 
himself beside Long John Fanning’s flank and passed in and 
up the stairs. — Come on up, Martin Cunningham said 
to the subsheriff. I don’t think you knew him or 
perhaps you did, though. With John Wyse Nolan Mr Power 
followed them in. — Decent little soul he was, Mr 
Power said to the stalwart back of Long John Fanning 
ascending towards Long John Fanning in the mirror. — Rather 
lowsized, Dignam of Menton’s office that was, Martin Cunningham said. 
