his belt, shouts.) I’ll wring the neck of any fucking 
bastard says a word against my bleeding fucking king. bloom 
(Shakes Cissy Caffrey’s shoulders.) Speak, you! Are you struck dumb? 
You are the link between nations and generations. Speak, woman, 
sacred life giver! cissy caffrey (Alarmed, seizes Private Carr’s sleeve.) 
Amn’t I with you? Amn’t I your girl? Cissy’s your 
girl. (She cries.) Police! stephen (Ecstatically, to Cissy Caffrey.) White 
thy fambles, red thy gan And thy quarrons dainty is. 
voices Police! distant voices Dublin’s burning! Dublin’s burning! On fire, 
on fire! (Brimstone fires spring up. Dense clouds roll past. 
Heavy Gatling guns boom. Pandemonium. Troops deploy. Gallop of hoofs. 
Artillery. Hoarse commands. Bells clang. Backers shout. Drunkards bawl Whores 
screech. Foghorns hoot. Cries of valour. Shrieks of dying. Pikes 
clash on cuirasses. Thieves rob the slain. Birds of prey, 
winging from the sea, rising from marshlands, swooping from eyries, 
hover screaming, gannets, cormorants, vultures, goshawks, climbing woodcocks, peregrines, merlins, 
blackgrouse, sea eagles, gulls, albatrosses, barnacle geese. The midnight sun 
is darkened. The earth trembles. The dead of Dublin from 
Prospect and Mount Jerome in white sheepskin overcoats and black 
goatfell cloaks arise and appear to many. A chasm opens 
with a noiseless yawn. Tom Rochford, winner in athlete’s singlet 
and breeches, arrives at the head of the national hurdle 
handicap and leaps into the void. He is followed by 
a race of runners and leapers. In wild attitudes they 
spring from the brink. Their bodies plunge. Factory lasses with 
fancy clothes toss redhot Yorkshire baraabombs. Society ladies lift their 
skirts above their heads to protect themselves. Laughing witches in 
red cutty sarks ride through the air on broomsticks. Quakerlyster 
plasters blisters. It rains dragon’s teeth. Armed heroes spring up 
from furrows. They exchange in amity the pass of knights 
of the red cross and fight duels with cavalry sabres 
: Wolfe Tome against Henry Grattan, Smith O’Brien against Daniel 
O’Connell, Michael Davitt against Isaac Butt, Justin M’Carthy against Parnell, 
Arthur Griffith against John Redmond, John O’Leary against Lear O’Johnny, 
lord Edward Fitzgerald against Lord Gerald Fitzedward, The O’Donoghue of 
the Glens against The Glens of The Donoghue. On an 
eminence, the centre of the earth, rises the field altar 
of Saint Barbara. Black candles rise from its gospel and 
epistle horns. From the high barbacans of the tower two 
shafts of light fall on the smokepalled altarstone. On the 
altarstone Mrs Mina Purefoy, goddess of unreason, lies, naked, fettered, 
a chalice resting on her swollen belly. Father Malachi O’Flynn 
in a long petticoat and reversed chasuble, his two left 
feet back to the front, celebrates camp mass. The Reverend 
Mr Hugh C Haines Love M. A. in a plain 
cassock and mortar board, his head and collar back to 
the front, holds over the celebrant’s head an open umbrella.) 
father malachi o’flynn Introibo ad altare diaboli. the reverend mr 
haines love To the devil which hath made glad my 
young days. father malachi o’flynn (Takes from the chalice and 
