said with an ally’s lunge of his umbrella : — 
Lay on, Macduff! — Chip of the old block! the 
editor cried, slapping Stephen on the shoulder. Let us go. 
Where are those blasted keys? He fumbled in his pocket, 
pulling out the crushed typesheets. — Foot and mouth. I 
know. That’ll be all right. That’ll go in. Where are 
they? That’s all night. He thrust the sheets back and 
went into the inner office. LET US HOPE J.J. O’Molloy, 
about to follow him in, said quietly to Stephen : 
— I hope you will live to see it published. 
Myles, one moment. He went into the inner office, closing 
the door behind him. — Come along, Stephen, the professor 
said. That is fine, isn’t it? It has the prophetic 
vision. Fuit Ilium! The sack of windy Troy. Kingdoms of 
this world. The masters of the Mediterranean are fellaheen today. 
The first newsboy came pattering down the stairs at their 
heels and rushed out into the street, yelling : — 
Racing special! Dublin. I have much, much to learn. They 
turned to the left along Abbey street. — I have 
a vision too, Stephen said. — Yes, the professor said, 
skipping to get into step. Crawford will follow. Another newsboy 
shot past them, yelling as he ran : — Racing 
special! DEAR DIRTY DUBLIN Dubliners. — Two Dublin vestals, Stephen 
said, elderly and pious, have lived fifty and fiftythree years 
in Fumbally’s lane. — Where is that? the professor asked. 
— Off Blackpitts. Damp night reeking of hungry dough. Against 
the wall. Face glistening tallow under her fustian shawl. Frantic 
hearts. Akasic records. Quicker, darlint! On now. Dare it. Let 
there be life. — They want to see the views 
of Dublin from the top of Nelson’s pillar. They save 
up three and in tenpence a red tin letterbox moneybox. 
They shake out the threepenny bits and a sixpence and 
coax out the pennies with the blade of a knife. 
Two and three in silver and one and seven in 
coppers. They put on their bonnets and best clothes and 
take their umbrellas for fear it may come on to 
rain. — Wise virgins, professor MacHugh said. LIFE ON THE 
RAW — They buy one and fourpenceworth of brawn and 
four slices of panloaf at the north city dining rooms 
in Marlborough street from Miss Kate Collins, proprietress… They purchase 
four and twenty ripe plums from a girl at the 
foot of Nelson’s pillar to take off the thirst of 
the brawn. They give two threepenny bits to the gentleman 
at the turnstile and begin to waddle slowly up the 
winding staircase, grunting, encouraging each other, afraid of the dark, 
panting, one asking the other have you the brawn, praising 
God and the Blessed Virgin, threatening to come down, peeping 
at the airslits. Glory be to God. They had no 
idea it was that high. Their names are Anne Kearns 
and Florence MacCabe. Anne Kearns has the lumbago for which 
