used to do on the pavement with all the coloured 
chalks and such a pity too leaving them there to 
be all blotted out, the evening and the clouds coming 
out and the Bailey light on Howth and to hear 
the music like that and the perfume of those incense 
they burned in the church like a kind of waft. 
And while she gazed her heart went pitapat. Yes, it 
was her he was looking at and there was meaning 
in his look. His eyes burned into her as though 
they would search her through and through, read her very 
soul. Wonderful eyes they were, superbly expressive, but could you 
trust them? People were so queer. She could see at 
once by his dark eyes and his pale intellectual face 
that he was a foreigner the image of the photo 
she had of Martin Harvey, the matinée idol, only for 
the moustache which she preferred because she wasn’t stagestruck like 
Winny Rippingham that wanted they two to always dress the 
same on account of a play but she could not 
see whether he had an aquiline nose or a slightly 
retroussé from where he was sitting. He was in deep 
mourning, she could see that, and the story of a 
haunting sorrow was written on his face. She would have 
given worlds to know what it was. He was looking 
up so intently, so still and he saw her kick 
the ball and perhaps he could see the bright steel 
buckles of her shoes if she swung them like that 
thoughtfully with the toes down. She was glad that something 
told her to put on the transparent stockings thinking Reggy 
Wylie might be out but that was far away. Here 
was that of which she had so often dreamed. It 
was he who mattered and there was joy on her 
face because she wanted him because she felt instinctively that 
he was like no-one else. The very heart of the 
girlwoman went out to him, her dreamhusband. because she knew 
on the instant it was him. If he had suffered, 
more sinned against than sinning, or even, even, if he 
had been himself a sinner, a wicked man, she cared 
not. Even if he was a protestant or methodist she 
could convert him easily if he truly loved her. There 
were wounds that wanted healing with heartbalm. She was a 
womanly woman not like other flighty girls, unfeminine, he had 
known, those cyclists showing off what they hadn’t got and 
she just yearned to know all, to forgive all if 
she could make him fall in love with her, make 
him forget the memory of the past. Then mayhap he 
would embrace her gently, like a real man, crushing her 
soft body to him, and love her, his ownest girlie, 
for herself alone. Refuge of sinners. Comfortress of the afflicted. 
Ora pro nobis. Well has it been said that whosoever 
prays to her with faith and constancy can never be 
