set his mind at rest and a bit flabbergasted at 
Myles Crawford’s after all managing the thing, there. While the 
other was reading it on page two Boom (to give 
him for the nonce his new misnomer) whiled away a 
few odd leisure moments in fits and starts with the 
account of the third event at Ascot on page three, 
his side-value 1,000 sovs., with 3,000 sovs. in specie added 
for entire colts and fillies. Mr F. Alexander’s Throwaway, b. 
h. by Rightaway, 5 yrs, 9 st 4 lbs, Thrale 
(W. Lane) 1. Lord Howard de Walden’s Zinfandel (M. Cannon) 
2. Mr W. Bass’s Sceptre, 3. Bettings 5 to 4 
on Zinfandel, 20 to 1 Throwaway (off). Throwaway and Zinfandel 
stood close order. It was anybody’s race then the rank 
outsider drew to the fore got long lead, beating lord 
Howard de Walden’s chestnut colt and Mr W. Bass’s bay 
filly Sceptre on a 2 1/2 mile course. Winner trained 
by Braine so that Lenehan’s version of the business was 
all pure buncombe. Secured the verdict cleverly by a length. 
1,000 sovs. with 300 in specie. Also ran J. de 
Bremond’s (French horse Bantam Lyons was anxiously inquiring after not 
in yet but expected any minute) Maximum II. Different ways 
of bringing off a coup. Lovemaking damages. Though that halfbaked 
Lyons ran off at a tangent in his impetuosity to 
get left. Of course, gambling eminently lent itself to that 
sort of thing though, as the event turned out, the 
poor fool hadn’t much reason to congratulate himself on his 
pick, the forlorn hope. Guesswork it reduced itself to eventually. 
— There was every indication they would arrive at that, 
Mr Bloom said. — Who? the other, whose hand by 
the way was hurt, said. — One morning you would 
open the paper, the cabman affirmed, and read, Return of 
Parnell. He bet them what they liked.A Dublin fusilier was 
in that shelter one night and said he saw him 
in South Africa. Pride it was killed him. He ought 
to have done away with himself or lain low for 
a time after Committee Room n° 15 until he was 
his old self again with no-one to point a fiinger 
at him. Then they would all to a man have 
gone down on their marrowbones to him to come back 
when he had recovered his senses. Dead he wasn’t. Simply 
absconded somewhere. The coffin they brought over was full of 
stones. He changed his name to De Wet, the Boer 
general. He made a mistake to fight the priests. And 
so forth and so on. All the same Bloom (properly 
so dubbed) was rather surprised at their memories for in 
nine cases out of ten it was a case of 
tarbarrels, and not singly but in their thousands, and then 
complete oblivion because it was twenty odd years. Highly unlikely, 
of course, there was even a shadow of truth in 
the stories and, even supposing, he thought a return highly 
