and postmortemity is their most proper ubi and quomodo. And 
as the ends and ultimates of all things accords in 
some mean and measure with their inceptions and originals, that 
same multiplicit concordance which leads forth growth from birth accomplishing 
by a retrogressive metamorphosis that minishing and ablation towards the 
final which is agreeable unto nature so is it with 
our subsolar being. The aged sisters draw us into life 
: we wail, batten, sport, clip, clasp, sunder, dwindle, die 
: over us dead they bend. First saved from water 
of old Nile, among bulrushes, a bed of fasciated wattles 
: at last the cavity of a mountain, an occulted 
sepulchre amid the conclamation of the hillcat and the ossifrage. 
And as no man knows the ubicity of his tumulus 
nor to what processes we shall thereby be ushered nor 
whether to Tophet or to Edenville in the like way 
is all hidden when we would backward see from what 
region of remoteness the whatness of our whoness hath fetched 
his whenceness. Thereto Punch Costello roared out mainly Etienne chanson 
but he loudly bid them lo, wisdom hath built herself 
a house, this vast majestic longstablished vault, the crystal palace 
of the Creator all in applepie order, a penny for 
him who finds the pea. Behold the mansion reared by 
dedal Jack, See the malt stored in many a refluent 
sack, In the proud cirque of Jackjohn’s bivouac. A black 
crack of noise in the street here, alack, bawled, back. 
Loud on left Thor thundered : in anger awful the 
hammerhurler. Came now the storm that hist his heart. And 
Master Lynch bade him have a care to flout and 
witwanton as the god self was angered for his hellprate 
and paganry. And he that had erst challenged to be 
so doughty waxed pale as they might all mark and 
shrank together and his pitch that was before so haught 
uplift was now of a sudden quite plucked down and 
his heart shook within the cage of his breast as 
he tasted the rumour of that storm. Then did some 
mock and some jeer and Punch Costello fell hard again 
to his yale which Master Lenehan vowed he would do 
after and he was indeed but a word and a 
blow on any the least colour. But the braggart boaster 
cried that an old Nobodaddy was in his cups it 
was muchwhat indifferent and he would not lag behind his 
lead. But this was only to dye his desperation as 
cowed he crouched in Horne’s hall. He drank indeed at 
one draught to pluck up a heart of any grace 
for it thundered long rumblingly over all the heavens so 
that Master Madden, being godly certain whiles, knocked him on 
his ribs upon that crack of doom and Master Bloom, 
at the braggart’s side spoke to him calming words to 
slumber his great fear, advertising how it was no other 
thing but a hubbub noise that he heard, the discharge 
