future determination of sex. Must we accept the view of 
Empedocles of Trinacria that the right ovary (the postmenstrual period, 
assert others) is responsible for the birth of males or 
are the too long neglected spermatozoa or nemasperms the differentiating 
factors or is it, as most embryologists incline to opine, 
such as Culpepper, Spallanzani, Blumenbach, Lusk, Hertwig, Leopold and Valenti, 
a mixture of both. This would be tantamount to a 
cooperation (one of nature’s favourite devices) between the nisus formativus 
of the nemasperm on the one hand and on the 
other a happily chosen position, succubitus felix, of the passive 
element. The other problem raised by the same inquirer is 
scarcely less vital : infant mortality. It is interesting because, 
as he pertinently remarks, we are all born in the 
same way but we all die in different ways. Mr 
M. Mulligan (Hyg. et Eug. Doc.) blames the sanitary conditions 
in which our greylunged citizens contract adenoids, pulmonary complaints etc. 
by inhaling the bacteria which lurk in dust. These factors, 
he alleges, and the revolting spectacles offered by our streets, 
hideous publicity posters, religious ministers of all denominations, mutilated soldiers 
and sailors, exposed scorbutic cardrivers, the suspened carcases of dead 
animals, paranoic bachelors and unfructified duennas — these, he said, 
were accountable for any and every fallingoff in the calibre 
of the race. Kalipedia, he prophesied, would soon be generally 
adopted and all the graces of life, genuinely good music, 
agreeable literature, light philosophy, instructive pictures, plastercast reproductions of the 
classical statues such as Venus and Apollo, artistic coloured photographs 
of prize babies, all these little attentions would enable ladies 
who were in a particular condition to pass the intervening 
months in a most enjoyable manner. Mr J. Crotthers (Disc. 
Bacc.) attributes some of these demises to abdominal trauma in 
the case of women workers subjected to heavy labours in 
the workshop and to marital discipline in the home but 
by far the vast majority to neglect, private or official, 
culminating in the exposure of newborn infants, the practice of 
criminal abortion or in the atrocious crime of infanticide. Although 
the former (we are thinking of neglect) is undoubtedly only 
too true the case he cites of nurses forgetting to 
count the sponges in the peritoneal cavity is too rare 
to be normative. In fact when one comes to look 
into it the wonder is that so many pregnancies and 
deliveries go off so well as they do, all things 
considered and in spite of our human shortcomings which often 
balk nature in her intentions. An ingenious suggestion is that 
thrown out by Mr V. Lynch (Bacc. Arith.) that both 
natality and mortality, as well as all other phenomena of 
evolution, tidal movements, lunar phases, blood temperatures, diseases in general, 
everything, in fine, in nature’s vast workshop from the extinction 
of some remote sun to the blossoming of one of 
the countless flowers which beautify our public parks is subject 
to a law of numeration as yet unascertained. Still the 
