by the ratepayers and corporators. Entertainment for man and beast.And 
says Joe : — Could you make a hole in 
another pint? — Could a swim duck? says I. — 
Same again, Terry, says Joe. Are you sure you won’t 
have anything in the way of liquid refreshment? says he. 
— Thank you, no, says Bloom. As a matter of 
fact I just wanted to meet Martin Cunningham, don’t you 
see, about this insurance of poor Dignam’s. Martin asked me 
to go to the house. You see, he, Dignam, I 
mean, didn’t serve any notice of the assignment on the 
company at the time and nominally under the act the 
mortgagee can’t recover on the policy. — Holy Wars, says 
Joe laughing, that’s a good one if old Shylock is 
landed. So the wife comes out top dog, what? — 
Well, that’s a point, says Bloom, for the wife’s admirers. 
— Whose admirers? says Joe. — The wife’s advisers, I 
mean, says Bloom. Then he starts all confused mucking it 
up about the mortgagor under the act like the lord 
chancellor giving it out on the bench and for the 
benefit of the wife and that a trust is created 
but on the other hand that Dignam owed Bridgeman the 
money and if now the wife or the widow contested 
the mortgagee’s right till he near had the head of 
me addled with his mortgagor under the act. He was 
bloody safe he wasn’t run in himself under the act 
that time as a rogue and vagabond only he had 
a friend in court. Selling bazaar tickets or what do 
you call it royal Hungarian privileged lottery. True as you 
re there. O, commend me to an israelite! Royal and 
privileged Hungarian robbery. So Bob Doran comes lurching around asking 
Bloom to tell Mrs Dignam he was sorry for her 
trouble and he was very sorry about the funeral and 
to tell her that he said and everyone who knew 
him said that there was never a truer, a finer 
than poor little Willy that’s dead to tell her. Choking 
with bloody foolery. And shaking Bloom’s hand doing the tragic 
to tell her that. Shake hands, brother. You’re a rogue 
and I’m another. — Let me, said he, so far 
presume upon our acquaintance which, however slight it may appear 
if judged by the standard of mere time, is founded, 
as I hope and believe, on a sentiment of mutual 
esteem, as to request of you this favour. But, should 
I have overstepped the limits of reserve let the sincerity 
of my feelings be the excuse for my boldness. — 
No, rejoined the other, I appreciate to the full the 
motives which actuate your conduct and I shall discharge the 
office you entrust to me consoled by the reflection that, 
though the errand be one of sorrow, this proof of 
your confidence sweetens in some measure the bitterness of the 
cup. — Then suffer me to take your hand, said 
