speck of dust on the patent leather of her boot. 
Rubbing smartly in turn each welt against her stocking calf. 
Morning after the bazaar dance when May’s band played Ponchielli’s 
dance of the hours. Explain that morning hours, noon, then 
evening coming on, then night hours. Washing her teeth. That 
was the first night. Her head dancing. Her fansticks clicking. 
Is that Boylan well off? He has money. Why? I 
noticed he had a good smell off his breath dancing. 
No use humming then. Allude to it. Strange kind of 
music that last night. The mirror was in shadow. She 
rubbed her handglass briskly on her woollen vest against her 
full wagging bub. Peering into it. Lines in her eyes. 
It wouldn’t pan out somehow. Evening hours, girls in grey 
gauze. Night hours then black with daggers and eyemasks. Poetical 
idea pink, then golden, then grey, then black. Still true 
to life also. Day, then the night. He tore away 
half the prize story sharply and wiped himself with it. 
Then he girded up his trousers, braced and buttoned himself. 
He pulled back the jerky shaky door of the jakes 
and came forth from the gloom into the air. In 
the bright light, lightened and cooled in limb, he eyed 
carefully his black trousers, the ends, the knees, the houghs 
of the knees. What time is the funeral? Better find 
out in the paper. A creak and a dark whirr 
in the air high up. The bells of George’s church. 
They tolled the hour : loud dark iron. Heigho! Heigho! 
Heigho! Heigho! Heigho! Heigho! Quarter to. There again : the 
overtone following through the air. A third. Poor Dignam! 05 
By lorries along sir John Rogerson’s quay Mr Bloom walked 
soberly, past Windmill lane, Leask’s the linseed crusher’s, the postal 
telegraph office. Could have given that address too. And past 
the sailors’ home. He turned from the morning noises of 
the quayside and walked through Lime street. By Brady’s cottages 
a boy for the skins lolled, his bucket of offal 
linked, smoking a chewed fagbutt. A smaller girl with scars 
of eczema on her forehead eyed him, listlessly holding her 
battered caskhoop. Tell him if he smokes he won’t grow. 
O let him! His life isn’t such a bed of 
roses! Waiting outside pubs to bring da home. Come home 
to ma, da. Slack hour : won’t be many there. 
He crossed Townsend street, passed the frowning face of Bethel. 
El, yes : house of : Aleph, Beth. And past 
Nichols’ the undertaker’s. At eleven it is. Time enough. Daresay 
Corny Kelleher bagged that job for O’Neill’s. Singing with his 
eyes shut. Corny. Met her once in the park. In 
the dark. What a lark. Police tout. Her name and 
address she then told with my tooraloom tooraloom tay. O, 
surely he bagged it. Bury him cheap in a whatyoumay 
call. With my tooraloom, tooraloom, tooraloom, tooraloom. In Westland row 
he halted before the window of the Belfast and Oriental 
