reliably informed, actually party to the ambush which, in point 
of fact, was the plea some legal luminary saved his 
skin on. In any case that was very ancient history 
by now and as for our friend, the pseudo Skin-the-etcetera, 
he had transparently outlived his welcome. He ought to have 
either died naturally or on the scaffold high. Like actresses, 
always farewell — positively last performance — then come up 
smiling again. Generous to a fault, of course, temperamental, no 
economising or any idea of the sort, always snapping at 
the bone for the shadow. So similarly he had a 
very shrewd suspicion that Mr Johnny Lever got rid of 
some £. s. d. in the course of his perambulations 
round the docks in the congenial atmosphere of the Old 
Ireland tavern, come back to Erin and so on. Then 
as for the others, he had heard not so long 
before the same identical lingo, as he told Stephen how 
he simply but effectually silenced the offender. — He took 
umbrage at something or other, that muchinjured but on the 
whole eventempored person declared, I let slip. He called me 
a jew, and in a heated fashion, offensively. So I, 
without deviating from plain facts in the least, told him 
his God, I mean Christ, was a jew too, and 
all his family, like me, though in reality I’m not. 
That was one for him. A soft answer turns away 
wrath. He hadn’t a word to say for himself as 
everyone saw. Am I not right? He turned a long 
you are wrong gaze on Stephen of timorous dark pride 
at the soft impeachment, with a glance also of entreaty 
for he seemed to glean in a kind of a 
way that it wasn’t all exactly… — Ex quibus, Stephen 
mumbled in a noncommittal accent, their two or four eyes 
conversing, Christus or Bloom his name is, or, after all, 
any other, secundum carnem. — Of course, Mr Bloom proceeded 
to stipulate, you must look at both sides of the 
question. It is hard to lay down any hard and 
fast rules as to right and wrong but room for 
improvement all round there certainly is though every country, they 
say, our own distressful included, has the government it deserves. 
But with a little goodwill all round. It’s all very 
fine to boast of mutual superiority but what about mutual 
equality? I resent violence or intolerance in any shape or 
form. It never reaches anything or stops anything. A revolution 
must come on the due instalments plan. It’s a patent 
absurdity on the face of it to hate people because 
they live round the corner and speak another vernacular, so 
to speak. — Memorable bloody bridge battle and seven minutes’ 
war, Stephen assented, between Skinner’s alley and Ormond market. — 
Yes, Mr Bloom thoroughly agreed, entirely endorsing the remark, that 
was overwhelmingly right and the whole world was overwhelmingly full 
of that sort of thing. — You just took the 
