groaning to have a child tugged out of her. One 
born every second somewhere. Other dying every second. Since I 
fed the birds five minutes. Three hundred kicked the bucket. 
Other three hundred born, washing the blood off, all are 
washed in the blood of the lamb, bawling maaaaaa. Cityful 
passing away, other cityful coming, passing away too : other 
coming on, passing on. Houses, lines of houses, streets, miles 
of pavements, piledup bricks, stones. Changing hands. This owner, that. 
Landlord never dies they say. Other steps into his shoes 
when he gets his notice to quit. They buy the 
place up with gold and still they have all the 
gold. Swindle in it somewhere. Piled up in cities, worn 
away age after age. Pyramids in sand. Built on bread 
and onions. Slaves Chinese wall. Babylon. Big stones left. Round 
towers. Rest rubble, sprawling suburbs, jerrybuilt, Kerwan’s mushroom houses, built 
of breeze. Shelter for the night. No one is anything. 
This is the very worst hour of the day. Vitality. 
Dull, gloomy : hate this hour. Feel as if I 
had been eaten and spewed. Provost’s house. The reverend Dr 
Salmon : tinned salmon. Well tinned in there. Wouldn’t live 
in it if they paid me. Hope they have liver 
and bacon today. Nature abhors a vacuum. The sun freed 
itself slowly and lit glints of light among the silver 
ware in Walter Sexton’s window opposite by which John Howard 
Parnell passed, unseeing. There he is : the brother. Image 
of him. Haunting face. Now that’s a coincidence. Course hundreds 
of times you think of a person and don’t meet 
him. Like a man walking in his sleep. No-one knows 
him. Must be a corporation meeting today. They say he 
never put on the city marshal’s uniform since he got 
the job. Charley Boulger used to come out on his 
high horse, cocked hat, puffed, powdered and shaved. Look at 
the woebegone walk of him. Eaten a bad egg. Poached 
eyes on ghost. I have a pain. Great man’s brother 
: his brother’s brother. He’d look nice on the city 
charger. Drop into the D. B. C. probably for his 
coffee, play chess there. His brother used men as pawns. 
Let them all go to pot. Afraid to pass a 
remark on him. Freeze them up with that eye of 
his. That’s the fascination : the name. All a bit 
touched. Mad Fanny and his other sister Mrs Dickinson driving 
about with scarlet harness. Bolt upright like surgeon M’Ardle. Still 
David Sheehy beat him for south Meath. Apply for the 
Chiltern Hundreds and retire into public life. The patriot’s banquet. 
Eating orangepeels in the park. Simon Dedalus said when they 
put him in parliament that Parnell would come back from 
the grave and lead him out of the House of 
Commons by the arm. — Of the twoheaded octopus, one 
of whose heads is the head upon which the ends 
of the world have forgotten to come while the other 
