slept. He threw an odd eye at the same time 
now and then at Stephen’s anything but immaculately attired interlocutor 
as if he had seen that nobleman somewhere or other 
though where he was not in a position to truthfully 
state nor had he the remotest idea when. Being a 
levelheaded individual who could give points to not a few 
in point of shrewd observation, he also remarked on his 
very dilapidated hat and slouchy wearing apparel generally, testifying to 
a chronic impecuniosity. Probably he was one of his hangerson 
but for the matter of that it was merely a 
question of one preying on his nextdoor neighbour all round, 
in every deep, so to put it, a deeper depth 
and for the matter of that if the man in 
the street chanced to be in the dock himself penal 
servitude, with or without the option of a fine, would 
be a very rara avis altogether. In any case he 
had a consummate amount of cool assurance intercepting people at 
that hour of the night or morning. Pretty thick that 
was certainly. The pair parted company and Stephen rejoined Mr 
Bloom, who with his practised eye, was not without perceiving 
that he had succumbed to the blandiloquence of the other 
parasite. Alluding to the encounter he said, laughingly, Stephen, that 
is : — He’s down on his luck. He asked 
me to ask you to ask somebody named Boylan, a 
billsticker, to give him a job as a sandwichman. At 
this intelligence, in which he seemingly evinced little interest, Mr 
Bloom gazed abstractedly for the space of a half a 
second or so in the direction of a bucket dredger, 
rejoicing in the farfamed name of Eblana, moored alongside Customhouse 
Quay and quite possibly out of repair, whereupon he observed 
evasively : — Everybody gets their own ration of luck, 
they say. Now you mention it his face was familiar 
to me. But leaving that for the moment, how much 
did you part with, he queried, if I am not 
too inquisitive? — Half-a-crown, Stephen responded. I daresay he needs 
it to sleep somewhere. — Needs, Mr Bloom ejaculated, professing 
not the least surprise at the intelligence, I can quite 
credit the assertion and I guarantee he invariably does. Everyone 
according to his needs and everyone according to his deeds. 
But talking about things in general, where, added he with 
a smile, will you sleep yourself? Walking to Sandycove is 
out of the question and, even supposing you did, you 
won’t get in after what occurred at Westland Row station. 
Simply fag out there for nothing. I don’t mean to 
presume to dictate to you in the slightest degree but 
why did you leave your father’s house? — To seek 
misfortune, was Stephen’s answer. — I met your respected father 
on a recent occasion, Mr Bloom diplomatically returned. Today, in 
fact, or, to be strictly accurate, on yesterday. Where does 
he live at present? I gathered in the course of 
