cents? Has he forgotten this as he forgets all benefits 
received? Or is it that from being a deluder of 
others he has become at last his own dupe as 
he is, if report belie him not, his own and 
his only enjoyer? Far be it from candour to violate 
the bedchamber of a respectable lady, the daughter of a 
gallant major, or to cast the most distant reflections upon 
her virtue but if he challenges attention there (as it 
was indeed highly his interest not to have done) then 
be it so. Unhappy woman she has been too long 
and too persistently denied her legitimate prerogative to listen to 
his objurgations with any other feeling than the derision of 
the desperate. He says this, a censor of morals, a 
very pelican in his piety, who did not scruple, oblivious 
of the ties of nature, to attempt illicit intercourse with 
a female domestic drawn from the lowest strata of society. 
Nay, had the hussy’s scouringbrush not been her tutelary angel 
it had gone with her as hard as with Hagar, 
the Egyptian! In the question of the grazing lands his 
peevish asperity is notorious and in Mr Cuffe’s hearing brought 
upon him from an indignant rancher a scathing retort couched 
in terms as straightforward as they were bucolic. It ill 
becomes him to preach that gospel. Has he not nearer 
home a seedfield that lies fallow for the want of 
a ploughshare? A habit reprehensible at puberty is second nature 
and an opprobium in middle life. If he must dispense 
his balm of Gilead in nostrums and apothegms of dubious 
taste to restore to health a generation of unfledged profligates 
let his practice consist better with the doctrines that now 
engross him. His marital breast is the repository of secrets 
which decorum is reluctant to adduce. The lewd suggestions of 
some faded beauty may console him for a consort neglected 
and debauched but this new exponent of morals and healer 
of ills is at his best an exotic tree which, 
when rooted in its native orient, throve and flourished and 
was abundant in balm but, transplanted to a clime more 
temperate, its roots have lost their quondam vigour while the 
stuff that comes away from it is stagnant, acid and 
inoperative. The news was imparted with a circumspection recalling the 
ceremonial usages of the Sublime Porte by the second female 
infirmarian to the junior medical officer in residence, who in 
his turn announced to the delegation that an heir had 
been born. When he had betaken himself to the women’s 
apartment to assist at the prescribed ceremony of the afterbirth 
in the presence of the secretary of state for domestic 
affairs and the members of the privy council, silent in 
unanimous exhaustion and approbation the delegates, chafing under the length 
and solemnity of their vigil and hoping that the joyful 
occurrence would palliate a licence which the simultaneous absence of 
abigail and officer rendered the easier broke out at once 
