drove up with Martin on it and Jack Power with 
him and a fellow named Crofter or Crofton, pensioner out 
of the collector general’s, an orangeman Blackburn does have on 
the registration and he drawing his pay or Crawford gallivanting 
around the country at the king’s expense. Our travellers reached 
the rustic hostelry and alighted from their palfreys. — Ho, 
varlet! cried he, who by his mien seemed the leader 
of the party. Saucy knave! To us! So saying he 
knocked loudly with his swordhilt upon the open lattice. Mine 
host came forth at the summons girding him with his 
tabard. — Give you good den, my masters, said he 
with an obsequious bow. — Bestir thyself, sirrah! cried he 
who had knocked. Look to our steeds. And for ourselves 
give us of your best for ifaith we need it. 
— Lackaday, good masters, said the host, my poor house 
has but a bare larder. I know not what to 
offer your lordships. — How now, fellow? cried the second 
of the party, a man of pleasant countenance, so servest 
thou the king’s messengers, Master Taptun? An instantaneous change overspread 
the landlord’s visage. — Cry you mercy, gentlemen, he said 
humbly. An you be the king’s messengers (God shield His 
Majesty!) you shall not want for aught. The king’s friends 
(God bless His Majesty!) shall not go afasting in my 
house I warrant me. — Then about! cried the traveller 
who had not spoken, a lusty trencherman by his aspect. 
Hast aught to give us? Mine host bowed again as 
he made answer : — What say you, good masters, 
to a squab pigeon pasty, some collops of venison, a 
saddle of veal, widgeon with crisp hog’s bacon, a boar’s 
head with pistachios, a bason of jolly custard, a medlar 
tansy and a flagon of old Rhenish? — Gadzooks! cried 
the last speaker. That likes me well. Pistachios! — Aha! 
cried he of the pleasant countenance. A poor house and 
a bare larder, quotha! ’Tis a merry rogue. So in 
comes Martin asking where was Bloom. — Where is he? 
says Lenehan. Defrauding widows and orphans. — Isn’t that a 
fact, says John Wyse, what I was telling the citizen 
about Bloom and the Sinn Fein? — That’s so, says 
Martin. Or so they allege. — Who made those allegations? 
says Alf. — I, says Joe. I’m the alligator. — 
And after all, says John Wyse, why can’t a jew 
love his country like the next fellow? — Why not? 
says J. J., when he’s quite sure which country it 
is. — Is he a jew or a gentile or 
a holy Roman or a swaddler or what the hell 
is he? says Ned. Or who is he? No offence, 
Crofton. — We don’t want him, says Crofter the Orangeman 
or presbyterian. — Who is Junius? says J. J. — 
He’s a perverted jew, says Martin, from a place in 
Hungary and it was he drew up all the plans 
