answered, slighting : — Ask no questions and you’ll hear 
no lies. Like lady, ladylike. Blazes Boylan’s smart tan shoes 
creaked on the barfloor where he strode. Yes, gold from 
anear by bronze from afar. Lenehan heard and knew and 
hailed him : — See the conquering hero comes. Between 
the car and window, warily walking, went Bloom, unconquered hero. 
See me he might. The seat he sat on : 
warm. Black wary hecat walked towards Richie Goulding’s legal bag, 
lifted aloft saluting. — And I from thee… — I 
heard you were round, said Blazes Boylan. He touched to 
fair Miss Kennedy a rim of his slanted straw. She 
smiled on him. But sister bronze outsmiled her, preening for 
him her richer hair, a bosom and a rose. Boylan 
bespoke potions. — What’s your cry? Glass of bitter? Glass 
of bitter, please, and a sloegin for me. Wire in 
yet? Not yet. At four he. All said four. Cowley’s 
red lugs and Adam’s apple in the door of the 
sheriff’s office. Avoid. Goulding a chance. What is he doing 
in the Ormond? Car waiting. Wait. Hello. Where off to? 
Something to eat? I too was just. In here. What, 
Ormond? Best value in Dublin. Is that so? Diningroom. Sit 
tight there. See, not be seen. I think I’ll join 
you. Come on. Richie led on. Bloom followed bag. Dinner 
fit for a prince. Miss Douce reached high to take 
a flagon, stretching her satin arm, her bust, that all 
but burst, so high. — O! O! jerked Lenehan, gasping 
at each stretch. O! But easily she seized her prey 
and led it low in triumph. — Why don’t you 
grow? asked Blazes Boylan. Shebronze, dealing from her jar thick 
syrupy liquor for his lips, looked as it flowed (flower 
in his coat : who gave him?), and syrupped with 
her voice : — Fine goods in small parcels. That 
is to say she. Neatly she poured slowsyrupy sloe. — 
Here’s fortune, Blazes said. He pitched a broad coin down. 
Coin rang. — Hold on, said Lenehan, till I… — 
Fortune, he wished, lifting his bubbled ale. — Sceptre will 
win in a canter, he said. — I plunged a 
bit, said Boylan winking aud drinking. Not on my own, 
you know. Fancy of a friend of mine. Lenehan still 
drank and grinned at his tilted ale and at Miss 
Douce’s lips that all but hummed, not shut, the oceansong 
her lips had trilled. Idolores. The eastern seas. Clock whirred. 
Miss Kennedy passed their way (flower, wonder who gave), bearing 
away teatray. Clock clacked. Miss Douce took Boylan’s coin, struck 
boldly the cashregister. It clanged. Clock clacked. Fair one of 
Egypt teased and sorted in the till and hummed and 
handed coins in change. Look to the west. A clack. 
For me. — What time is that? asked Blazes Boylan. 
Four? O’clock. Lenehan, small eyes ahunger on her humming, bust 
ahumming, tugged Blazes Boylan’s elbowsleeve. — Let’s hear the time, 
