have seen it coming these years. As sure as we 
are standing here the jew merchants are already at their 
work of destruction. Old England is dying. He stepped swiftly 
off, his eyes coming to blue life as they passed 
a broad sunbeam. He faced about and back again. — 
Dying, he said, if not dead by now. The harlot’s 
cry from street to street Shall weave old England’s winding 
sheet. His eyes open wide in vision stared sternly across 
the sunbeam in which he halted. — A merchant, Stephen 
said, is one who buys cheap and sells dear, jew 
or gentile, is he not? — They sinned against the 
light, Mr Deasy said gravely. And you can see the 
darkness in their eyes. And that is why they are 
wanderers on the earth to this day. On the steps 
of the Paris Stock Exchange the goldskinned men quoting prices 
on their gemmed fingers. Gabble of geese. They swarmed loud, 
uncouth about the temple, their heads thickplotting under maladroit silk 
hats. Not theirs : these clothes, this speech, these gestures. 
Their full slow eyes bellied the words, the gestures eager 
and unoffending, but knew the rancours massed about them and 
knew their zeal was vain. Vain patience to heap and 
hoard. Time surely would scatter all. A hoard heaped by 
the roadside : plundered and passing on. Their eyes knew 
the years of wandering and, patient, knew the dishonours of 
their flesh. — Who has not? Stephen said. — What 
do you mean? Mr Deasy asked. He came forward a 
pace and stood by the table. His underjaw fell sideways 
open uncertainly. Is this old wisdom? He waits to hear 
from me. — History, Stephen said, is a nightmare from 
which I am trying to awake. From the playfield the 
boys raised a shout. A whirring whistle : goal. What 
if that nightmare gave a you a back kick? — 
The ways of the Creator are not our ways, Mr 
Deasy said. All history moves towards one great goal, the 
manifestation of God. Stephen jerked his thumb towards the window, 
saying : — That is God. Hooray ! Ay ! 
Whrrwhee ! — What? Mr Deasy asked. — A shout 
in the street, Stephen answered, shrugging his shoulders. Mr Deasy 
looked down and held for a while the wings of 
his nose tweaked between his fingers. Looking up again he 
set them free. — I am happier than you are, 
he said. We have committed many errors and many sins. 
A woman brought sin into the world. For a woman 
who was no better than she should be, Helen, the 
runaway wife of Menelaus, ten years the Greeks made war 
on Troy. A faithless wife first brought the strangers to 
our shore here, MacMurrough’s wife and her leman O’Rourke, prince 
of Breffni. A woman too brought Parnell low. Many errors, 
many failures but not the one sin. I am a 
struggler now at the end of my days. But I 
