God loves everybody. — Well, Joe, says I, your very 
good health and song. More power, citizen. — Hurrah, there, 
says Joe. — The blessing of God and Mary and 
Patrick on you, says the citizen. And he ups with 
his pint to wet his whistle. — We know those 
canters, says he, preaching and picking your pocket What about 
sanctimonious Cromwell and his ironsides that put the women and 
children of Drogheda to the sword with the bible text 
God is love pasted round the mouth of his cannon? 
The bible! Did you read that skit in the United 
Irishman today about that Zulu chief that’s visiting England? — 
What’s that? says Joe. So the citizen takes up one 
of his paraphernalia papers and he starts reading out : 
— A delegation of the chief cotton magnates of Manchester 
was presented yesterday to His Majesty the Alaki of Abeakuta 
by Gold Stick in Waiting, Lord Walkup of Walkup on 
Eggs, to tender to His Majesty the heartfelt thanks of 
British traders for the facilities afforded them in his dominions. 
The delegation partook of luncheon at the conclusion of which 
the dusky potentate, in the course of a happy speech, 
freely translated by the British chaplain, the reverend Ananias Praisegod 
Barebones, tendered his best thanks to Massa Walkup and emphasized 
the cordial relations existing between Abeakuta and the British Empire, 
stating that he treasured as one of his dearest possessions 
an illuminated bible, the volume of the word of God 
and the secret of England’s greatness, graciously presented to him 
by the white chief woman, the great squaw Victoria, with 
a personal dedication from the august hand of the Royal 
Donor. The Alaki then drank a lovingcup of firstshot usquebaugh 
to the toast Black and White from the skull of 
his immediate predecessor in the dynasty Kakachakachak, surnamed Forty Warts, 
after which he visited the chief factory of Cottonopolis and 
signed his mark in the visitors’ book, subsequently executing an 
old Abeakutic wardance, in the course of which he swallowed 
several knives and forks, amid hilarious applause from the girl 
hands. — Widow woman, says Ned, I wouldn’t doubt her. 
Wonder did he put that bible to the same use 
as I would. — Same only more so, says Lenehan. 
And thereafter in that fruitful land the broadleaved mango flourished 
exceedingly. — Is that by Griffith? says John Wyse. — 
No, says the citizen. It’s not signed Shanganagh. It’s only 
initialled : P. — And a very good initial too, 
says Joe. — That’s how it’s worked, says the citizen. 
Trade follows the flag. — Well, says J. J., if 
they’re any worse than those Belgians in the Congo Free 
State they must be bad. Did you read that report 
by a man what’s this his name is? — Casement, 
says the citizen. He’s an Irishman. — Yes, that’s the 
man, says J. J. Raping the women and girls and 
flogging the natives on the belly to squeeze all the 
