the world (With a Scotch accent.) Wha’ll dance the keel 
row, the keel row, the keel row? (Over the passing 
drift and choking breathcoughs, Elijah’s voice, harsh as a corncrakes, 
jars on high. Perspiring in a loose lawn surplice with 
funnel sleeves he is seen, vergefaced, above a rostrum about 
which the banner of old glory is draped. He thumps 
the parapet.) elijah No yapping, if you please, in this 
booth. Jake Crane, Creole Sue, Dave Campbell, Abe Kirschner, do 
your coughing with your mouths shut. Say, I am operating 
all this trunk line. Boys, do it now. God’s time 
is 12.25. Tell mother you’ll be there. Rush your order 
and you play a slick ace. Join on right here! 
Book through to eternity junction, the nonstop run. Just one 
word more. Are you a god or a doggone clod? 
If the second advent came to Coney Island are we 
ready? Florry Christ, Stephen Christ, Zoe Christ, Bloom Christ, Kitty 
Christ, Lynch Christ, it’s up to you to sense that 
cosmic force. Have we cold feet about the cosmos? No. 
Be on the side of the angels. Be a prism. 
You have that something within, the higher self. You can 
rub shoulders with a Jesus, a Gautama, an Ingersoll. Are 
you all in this vibration? I say you are. You 
once nobble that, congregation, and a buck joyride to heaven 
becomes a back number. You got me? It’s a lifebrightener, 
sure. The hottest stuff ever was. It’s the whole pie 
with jam in. It’s just the cutest snappiest line out. 
It is immense, supersumptuous. It restores. It vibrates. I know 
and I am some vibrator. Joking apart and getting down 
to bedrock, A. J. Christ Dowie and the harmonial philosophy, 
have you got that? O. K. Seventyseven west sixtyninth street. 
Got me? That’s it. You call me up by sunphone 
any old time. Bumboosers, save your stamps. (He shouts.) Now 
then our glory song. All join heartily in the singing. 
Encore! (He sings.) Jeru… the gramophone (Drowning his voice.) Whorusalaminyourhighhohhhh… 
(The disc rasps gratingly against the needle.) the three whores 
(Covering their ears, squawk.) Ahhkkk! elijah (In rolledup shirtsleeves, black 
in the face, shouts at the top of his voice, 
his arms uplifted.) Big Brother up there, Mr President, you 
hear what I done just been saying to you. Certainly, 
I sort of believe strong in you, Mr President. I 
certainly am thinking now Miss Higgins and Miss Ricketts got 
religion way inside them. Certainly seems to me I don’t 
never see no wusser scared female than the way you 
been, Miss Florry, just now as I done seed you. 
Mr President, you come long and help me save our 
sisters dear. (He winks at his audience.) Our Mr President, 
he twig the whole lot and he ain’t saying nothing. 
kitty-kate I forgot myself. In a weak moment I erred 
and did what I did on Constitution hill. I was 
confirmed by the bishop. My mother’s sister married a Montmorency. 
