the all, the endlessnessnessness… — To me! Siopold! Consumed. Come. 
Well sung. All clapped. She ought to. Come. To me, 
to him, to her, you too, me, us. — Bravo! 
Clapclap. Goodman, Simon. Clappyclapclap. Encore! Clapclipclap. Sound as a bell. 
Bravo, Simon! Clapclopclap. Encore, enclap, said, cried, clapped all, Ben 
Dollard, Lydia Douce, George Lidwell, Pat, Mina, two gentlemen with 
two tankards, Cowley, first gent with tank and bronze Miss 
Douce and gold Miss Mina. Blazes Boylan’s smart tan shoes 
creaked on the barfloor, said before. Jingle by monuments of 
sir John Gray, Horatio onehandled Nelson, reverend father Theobald Matthew, 
jaunted as said before just now. Atrot, in heat, heatseated. 
Cloche. Sonnez la. Cloche. Sonnez la. Slower the mare went 
up the hill by the Rotunda, Rutland square. Too slow 
for Boylan, blazes Boylan, impatience Boylan, joggled the mare. An 
afterclang of Cowley’s chords closed, died on the air made 
richer. And Richie Goulding drank his Power and Leopold Bloom 
his cider drank, Lidwell his Guinness, second gentleman said they 
would partake of two tankards if she did not mind. 
Miss Kennedy smirked, disserving, coral lips, at first, at second. 
She did not mind. — Seven days in jail, Ben 
Dollard said, on bread and water. Then you’d sing, Simon, 
like a garden thrush. Lionel Simon, singer, laughed. Father Bob 
Cowley played. Mina Kennedy served. Second gentleman paid. Tom Kernan 
strutted in Lydia, admired, admired. But Bloom sang dumb. Admiring. 
Richie, admiring, descanted on that man’s glorious voice. He remembered 
one night long ago. Never forget that night. Si sang 
’Twas rank and fame : in Ned Lambert’s ’twas. Good 
God he never heard in all his life a note 
like that he never did then false one we had 
better part so clear so God he never heard since 
love lives not a clinking voice ask Lambert he can 
tell you too. Goulding, a flush struggling in his pale, 
told Mr Bloom, face of the night, Si in Ned 
Lambert’s, Dedalus house, sang ’Twas rank and fame. He, Mr 
Bloom, listened while he, Richie Goulding, told him, Mr Bloom, 
of the night he, Richie, heard him, Si Dedalus, sing 
’Twas rank and fame in his, Ned Lambert’s house. Brothers-in-law 
: relations. We never speak as we pass by. Rift 
in the lute I think. Treats him with scorn. See. 
He admires him all the more. The night Si sang. 
The human voice, two tiny silky cords. Wonderful, more than 
all the others. That voice was a lamentation. Calmer now. 
It’s in the silence you feel you hear. Vibrations. Now 
silent air. Bloom ungyved his crisscrossed hands and with slack 
fingers plucked the slender catgut thong. He drew and plucked. 
It buzz, it twanged. While Goulding talked of Barraclough’s voice 
production, while Tom Kernan, harking back in a retrospective sort 
of arrangement, talked to listening Father Cowley who played a 
voluntary, who nodded as he played. While big Ben Dollard 
talked with Simon Dedalus lighting, who nodded as he smoked, 
