and a card lay on ihe hallfloor. He stopped and 
gathered them. Mrs Marion Bloom. His quick heart slowed at 
once. Bold hand. Mrs Marion. — Poldy! Entering the bedroom 
he halfclosed his eyes and walked through warm yellow twilight 
towards her tousled head. — Who are the letters for? 
He looked at them. Mullingar. Milly. — A letter for 
me from Milly, he said carefully, and a card to 
you. And a letter for you. He laid her card 
and letter on the twill bedspread near the curve of 
her knees. — Do you want the blind up? Letting 
the blind up by gentle tugs halfway his backward eye 
saw her glance at the letter and tuck it under 
her pillow. — That do? he asked, turning. She was 
reading the card, propped on her elbow. — She got 
the things, she said. He waited till she had laid 
the card aside and curled herself back slowly with a 
snug sigh. — Hurry up with that tea, she said. 
I’m parched. — The kettle is boiling, he said. But 
he delayed to clear the chair : her striped petticoat, 
tossed soiled linen : and lifted all in an armful 
on to the foot of the bed. As he went 
down the kitchen stairs she called : — Poldy! — 
What? — Scald the teapot. On the boil sure enough 
: a plume of steam from the spout. He scalded 
and rinsed out the teapot and put in four full 
spoons of tea, tilting the kettle then to let water 
flow in. Having set it to draw, he took off 
the kettle and crushed the pan flat on the live 
coals and watched the lump of butter slide and melt. 
While he unwrapped the kidney the cat mewed hungrily against 
him. Give her too much meat she won’t mouse. Say 
they won’t eat pork. Kosher. Here. He let the bloodsmeared 
paper fall to her and dropped the kidney amid the 
sizzling butter sauce. Pepper. He sprinkled it through his fingers, 
ringwise, from the chipped eggcup. Then he slit open his 
letter, glancing down the page and over. Thanks : new 
tam : Mr Coghlan : lough Owel picnic : young 
student : Blazes Boylan’s seaside girls. The tea was drawn. 
He filled his own moustachecup, sham crown Derby, smiling. Silly 
Milly’s birthday gift. Only five she was then. No wait 
: four. I gave her the amberoid necklace she broke. 
Putting pieces of folded brown paper in the letterbox for 
her. He smiled, pouring. O, Milly Bloom, you are my 
darling. You are my looking glass from night to morning. 
I’d rather have you without a farthing Than Katey Keogh 
with her ass and garden. Poor old professor Goodwin. Dreadful 
old case. Still he was a courteous old chap. Oldfashioned 
way he used to bow Molly off the platform. And 
the little mirror in his silk hat. The night Milly 
brought it into the parlour. O, look what I found 
