chair. Would you like a bite of something? None of 
your damned lawdeedaw air here; the rich of a rasher 
fried with a herring? Sure? So much the better. We 
have nothing in the house but backache pills. All’erta ! 
He drones bars of Ferrando’s aria di sortita. The grandest 
number, Stephen, in the whole opera. Listen. His tuneful whistle 
sounds again, finely shaded, with rushes of the air, his 
fists bigdrumming on his padded knees. This wind is sweeter. 
Houses of decay, mine, his and all. You told the 
Clongowes gentry you had an uncle a judge and an 
uncle a general in the army. Come out of them, 
Stephen. Beauty is not there. Nor in the stagnant bay, 
of Marsh’s library where you read the fading prophecies of 
Joachim Abbas. For whom? The hundredheaded rabble of the cathedral 
close. A hater of his kind ran from them to 
the wood of madness, his mane foaming in the moon, 
his eyeballs stars. Houyhnhnm, horsenostrilled. The oval equine faces. Temple, 
Buck Mulligan, Foxy Campbell, Lantern jaws. Abbas father, furious dean, 
what offence laid fire to their brains? Paff ! Descende, 
calve, ut ne nimium decalveris. A garland of grey hair 
on his comminated head see him me clambering down to 
the footpace (descende), clutching a monstrance, basliskeyed. Get down, bald 
poll ! A choir gives back menace and echo, assisting 
about the altar’s horns, the snorted Latin of jackpriests moving 
burly in their albs, tonsured and oiled and gelded, fat 
with the fat of kidneys of wheat. And at the 
same instant perhaps a priest round the corner is elevating 
it. Dringdring ! And two streets off another locking it 
into a pyx. Dringadring ! And in a ladychapel another 
taking housel all to his own cheek. Dringdring ! Down, 
up, forward, back. Dan Occam thought of that, invincible doctor. 
A misty English morning the imp hypostasis tickled his brain. 
Bringing his host down and kneeling he heard twine with 
his second bell the first bell in the transept (he 
is lifting his) and, rising, heard (now I am lifting) 
their two bells (he is kneeling) twang in diphthong. Cousin 
Stephen, you will never be a saint. Isle of saints. 
You were awfully holy, weren’t you? You prayed to the 
Blessed Virgin that you might not have a red nose. 
You prayed to the devil in Serpentine avenue that the 
fubsy widow in front might lift her clothes still more 
from the wet street. O si, certo ! Sell your 
soul for that, do, dyed rags pinned round a squaw. 
More tell me, more still ! On the top of 
the Howth tram alone crying to the rain : naked 
women ! What about that, eh? What about what? what 
else were they invented for? Reading two pages apiece of 
seven books every night, eh? I was young. You bowed 
to yourself in the mirror, stepping forward to applause earnestly, 
striking face. Hurray for the Goddamned idiot ! Hray ! 
