being said which the discrepant opinions of subsequent inquirers are 
not up to the present congrued to render manifest) whereby 
maternity was so far from all accident possibility removed that 
whatever care the patient in that allhardest of woman hour 
chiefly required and not solely for the copiously opulent but 
also for her who not being sufficiently moneyed scarcely and 
often not even scarcely could subsist valiantly and for an 
inconsiderable emolument was provided. To her nothing already then and 
thenceforward was anyway able to be molestful for this chiefly 
felt all citizens except with proliferent mothers prosperity at all 
not to can be and as they had received eternity 
gods mortals generation to befit them her beholding, when the 
case was so having itself, parturient in vehicle thereward carrying 
desire immense among all one another was impelling on of 
her to be received into that domicile. O thing of 
prudent nation not merely in being seen but also even 
in being related worthy of being praised that they her 
by anticipation went seeing mother, that she by them suddenly 
to be about to be cherished had been begun she 
felt! Before born babe bliss had. Within womb won he 
worship. Whatever in that one case done commodiously done was. 
A couch by midwives attended with wholesome food reposeful cleanest 
swaddles as though forthbringing were now done and by wise 
foresight set : but to this no less of what 
drugs there is need and surgical implements which are pertaining 
to her case not omitting aspect of all very distracting 
spectacles in various latitudes by our terrestrial orb offered together 
with images, divine and human, the cogitation of which by 
sejunct females is to tumescence conducive or eases issue in 
the high sunbright wellbuilt fair home of mothers when, ostensibly 
far gone and reproductitive, it is come by her thereto 
to lie in, her term up. Some man that wayfaring 
was stood by housedoor at night’s oncoming. Of Israel’s folk 
was that man that on earth wandering far had fared. 
Stark ruth of man his errand that him lone led 
till that house. Of that house A. Horne is lord. 
Seventy beds keeps he there teeming mothers are wont that 
they lie for to thole and bring forth bairns hale 
so God’s angel to Mary quoth. Watchers twey there walk, 
white sisters in ward sleepless. Smarts they still sickness soothing 
: in twelve moons thrice an hundred. Truest bedthanes they 
twain are, for Horne holding wariest ward. In ward wary 
the watcher hearing come that man mildhearted eft rising with 
swire ywimpled to him her gate wide undid. Lo, levin 
leaping lightens in eyeblink Ireland’s westward welkin! Full she dread 
that God the Wreaker all mankind would fordo with water 
for his evil sins. Christ’s rood made she on breastbone 
and him drew that he would rathe infare under her 
thatch. That man her will wotting worthful went in Horne’s 
house. Loth to irk in Horne’s hall hat holding the 
