in left circle. His head follows. She whirls it back 
in right circle. He eyes her.) Catch. (She tosses a 
piece. With an adroit snap he catches it and bites 
it through with a crack.) kitty (Chewing.) The engineer I 
was with at the bazaar does have lovely ones. Full 
of the best liqueurs. And the viceroy was there with 
his lady. The gas we had on the Toft’s hobbyhorses. 
I’m giddy still. bloom (In Svengali’s fur overcoat, with folded 
arms and Napoleonic forelock, frowns in ventriloquial exorcism with piercing 
eagle glance towards the door. Then, rigid, with left foot 
advanced, he makes a swift pass with impelling fingers and 
gives the sign of past master, drawing his right arm 
downwards from his left shoulder.) Go, go, go, I conjure 
you, whoever you are. (A male cough and tread are 
heard passing through the mist outside. Bloom’s features relax. He 
places a hand in his waistcoat, posing calmly. Zoe offers 
him chocolate.) bloom (Solemnly.) Thanks. zoe Do as you’re bid. 
Here. (A firm heelclacking is heard on the stairs.) bloom 
(Takes the chocolate.) Aphrodisiac? But I thought it. Vanilla calms 
or? Mnemo. Confused light confuses memory. Red influences lupus. Colours 
affect women’s characters, any they have. This black makes me 
sad. Eat and be merry for tomorrow. (He eats.) Influence 
taste too, mauve. But it is so long since I. 
Seems new. Aphro. That priest. Must come. Better late than 
never. Try truffles at Andrews. (The door opens. Bella Cohen, 
a massive whoremistress enters. She is dressed in a threequarter 
ivory gown, fringed round the hem with tasselled selvedge and 
cools herself, flirting a black horn fan like Minnie Hauck 
in Carmen. On her left hand are wedding and keeper 
rings. Her eyes are deeply carboned. She has a sprouting 
moustache. Her olive face is heavy, slightly sweated and fullnosed, 
with orangetainted nostrils. She has lace pendant beryl eardrops.) bella 
My word! I’m all of a mucksweat. (She glances around 
her at the couples. Then her eyes rest on Bloom 
with hard insistence. Her lace fan winnows wind towards her 
heated face, neck and embonpoint. Her falcon eyes glitter.) the 
fan (Flirting quickly, then slowly.) Married, I see. bloom Yes… 
Partly, I have mislaid… the fan (Half opening, then closing.) 
And the missus is master. Petticoat government. bloom (Looks down 
with a sheepish grin.) That is so. the fan (Folding 
together, rests against her eardrop.) Have you forgotten me? bloom 
Nes. Yo. the fan (Folded akimbo against her waist.) Is 
me her was you dreamed before? Was then she him 
you us since knew? Am all them and the same 
now we? (Bella approaches, gently tapping with the fan.) bloom 
(Wincing.) Powerful being. In my eyes read that slumber which 
women love. the fan (Tapping.) We have met. You are 
mine. It is fate. bloom (Cowed.) Exuberant female. Enormously I 
desiderate your domination. I am exhausted, abandoned, no more young. 
I stand, so to speak, with an unposted letter bearing 
