sin he too has sinned. It is between the lines 
of his last written words, it is petrified on his 
tombstone under which her four bones are not to be 
laid. Age has not withered it. Beauty and peace have 
not done it away. It is in infinite variety everywhere 
in the world he has created, in Much Ado about 
Nothing, twice in As you like It, in The Tempest, 
in Hamlet, in Measure for Measure, and in all the 
other plays which I have not read. He laughed to 
free his mind from his mind’s bondage. Judge Eglinton summed 
up. — The truth is midway, he affirmed. He is 
the ghost and the prince. He is all in all. 
— He is, Stephen said. The boy of act one 
is the mature man of act five. All in all. 
In Cymbeline, in Othello he is bawd and cuckold. He 
acts and is acted on. Lover of an ideal or 
a perversion, like José he kills the real Carmen. His 
unremitting intellect is the hornmad Iago ceaselessly willing that the 
moor in him shall suffer. — Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Cuck Mulligan 
clucked lewdly. O word of fear! Dark dome received, reverbed. 
— And what a character is Iago! undaunted John Eglinton 
exclaimed. When all is said Dumas fils (or is it 
Dumas père?) is right. After God Shakespeare has created most. 
— Man delights him not nor woman neither, Stephen said. 
He returns after a life of absence to that spot 
of earth where he was born, where he has always 
been, man and boy, a silent witness and there, his 
journey of life ended, he plants his mulberrytree in the 
earth. Then dies. The motion is ended. Gravediggers bury Hamlet 
père and Hamlet fils. A king and a prince at 
last in death, with incidental music. And, what though murdered 
and betrayed, bewept by all frail tender hearts for, Dane 
or Dubliner, sorrow for the dead is the only husband 
from whom they refuse to be divorced. If you like 
the epilogue look long on it : prosperous Prospero, the 
good man rewarded, Lizzie, grandpa’s lump of love, and nuncle 
Richie, the bad man taken off by poetic justice to 
the place where the bad niggers go. Strong curtain. He 
found in the world without as actual what was in 
his world within as possible. Maeterlinck says : If Socrates 
leave his house today he will find the sage seated 
on his doorstep, If Judas go forth tonight it is 
to Judas his steps will tend. Every life is many 
days, day after day. We walk through ourselves, meeting robbers, 
ghosts, giants, old men, young men, wives, widows, brothers-in-love. But 
always meeting ourselves. The playwright who wrote the folio of 
this world and wrote it badly (He gave us light 
first and the sun two days later), the lord of 
things as they are whom the most Roman of catholics 
call dio boia, hangman god, is doubtless all in all 
