so Joe swore high and holy by this and by 
that he’d do the devil and all. — Because you 
see, says Bloom, for an advertisement you must have repetition. 
That’s the whole secret. — Rely on me, says Joe. 
— Swindling the peasants, says the citizen, and the poor 
of Ireland. We want no more strangers in our house. 
— O I’m sure that will be all right, Hynes, 
says Bloom. It’s just that Keyes you see. — Consider 
that done, says Joe. — Very kind of you, says 
Bloom. — The strangers, says the citizen. Our own fault. 
We let them come in. We brought them. The adulteress 
and her paramour brought the Saxon robbers here. — Decree 
nisi, says J. J. And Bloom letting on to be 
awfully deeply interested in nothing, a spider’s web in the 
corner behind the barrel, and the citizen scowling after him 
and the old dog at his feet looking up to 
know who to bite and when. — A dishonoured wife, 
says the citizen, that’s what the cause of all our 
misfortunes. — And here she is, says Alf, that was 
giggling over the Police Gazette with Terry on the counter, 
in all her warpaint. — Give us a squint at 
her, says I. And what was it only one of 
the smutty yankee pictures Terry borrows off of Corny Kelleher. 
Secrets for enlarging your private parts. Misconduct of society belle. 
Norman W. Tupper, wealthy Chicago contractor, finds pretty but faithless 
wife in lap of officer Taylor. Belle in her bloomers 
misconducting herself and her fancy man feeling for her tickles 
and Norman W. Tupper bouncing in with his peashooter just 
in time to be late after she doing the trick 
of the loop with officer Taylor. — O Jakers, Jenny, 
says Joe, how short your shirt is! — There’s hair, 
Joe, says I. Get a queer old tailend of corned 
beef off of that one, what? So anyhow in came 
John Wyse Nolan and Lenehan with him with a face 
on him as long as a late breakfast. — Well, 
says the citizen, what’s the latest from the scene of 
action? What did those tinkers in the cityhall at their 
caucus meeting decide about the Irish language? O’Nolan, clad in 
shining armour, low bending made obeisance to the puissant and 
high and mighty chief of all Erin and did him 
to wit of that which had befallen, how that the 
grave elders of the most obedient city, second of the 
realm, had met them in the tholsel, and there, after 
due prayers to the gods who dwell in ether supernal, 
had taken solemn counsel whereby they might, if so be 
it might be, bring once more into honour among mortal 
men the winged speech of the seadivided Gael. — It’s 
on the march, says the citizen.To hell with the bloody 
brutal Sassenachs and their patois. So J. J. puts in 
a word doing the toff about one story was good 
