W. C. : a press cutting of recipe for renovation 
of old tan boots : aid. ad hesive stamp, lavender, 
of the reign of Queen Victoria : a chart of 
measurements of Leopold Bloom compiled, before, during and after 2 
months of consecutive use of Sandow-Whiteley’s pulley exerciser (men’s 15/-, 
athlete’s 20/–) viz., chest 28 in and 29 1/2 in, 
biceps 9 in and 10 in, forearm 8 1/2 and 
9 in, thigh 10 in and 12 in, calf, 11 
in. and 12 in : 1 prospectus of the Wonderworker, 
the world’s greatest remedy for rectal complaints, direct from Wonderworker, 
Coventry House, South Place, London E. C., addressed to Mrs 
L. Bloom with brief accompanying note commencing : Dear Madam. 
Quote the textual terms in which the prospectus claimed advantages 
for this thaumaturgic remedy. It heals and soothes while you 
sleep, in case of trouble in breaking wind, assists nature 
in the most formidable way insuring, instant relief in discharge 
of gases, keeping parts clean and free natural action, an 
initial outlay of 7/6 making a new man of you 
and life worth living. Ladies find Wonderworker especially useful, a 
pleasant surprise when they note delightful result like a cool 
drink of fresh spring water on a sultry summer’s day. 
Recommend it to your lady and gentlemen friends, lasts a 
lifetime. Insert long round end. Wonderworker. Were there testimonials? Numerous. 
From clergyman, British naval officer, wellknown author, city man, hospital 
nurse, lady, mother of five, absentminded beggar. How did absentminded 
beggar’s concluding testimonial conclude? What a pity the government did 
not supply our men with wonderworkers during the South African 
campaign! What a relief it would have been! What object 
did Bloom add to this collection of objects? A 4th 
typewritten letter received by Henry Flower (let H. F. be 
L. B.) from Martha Clifford (find M. C.). What pleasant 
reflection accompanied this action? The reflection that, apart from the 
letter in question, his magnetic face, form and address had 
been favourably received during the course of the preceding day 
by a wife (Mrs Josephine Breen, born Josie Powell); a 
nurse, Miss Callan (Christian name unknown), a maid, Gertrude (Gerty, 
family name unknown). What possibility suggested itself? The possibility of 
exercising virile power of fascination in the most immediate future 
after an expensive repast in a private apartment in the 
company of an elegant courtesan, of corporal beauty, moderately mercenary, 
variously instructed, a lady by origin. What did the 2nd 
drawer contain? Documents : the birth certificate of Leopold Paula 
Bloom : an endowment assurance policy of £ 500 in 
the Scottish Widow’s Assurance Society intestated Millicent (Milly) Bloom, coming 
into force at 25 years as with profit policy of 
£ 430, £ 462 – 10 – 0 and £ 
500 at 60 years or death, 65 years or death 
and death, respectively, or with profit policy (paidup) of £ 
299 – 10 – 0 together with cash payment of 
£ 133 – 10 – 0, at option : a 
