von Tirconnel in Ireland. Sent his heir over to make 
the king an Austrian fieldmarshal now. Going to be trouble 
there one day. Wild geese. O yes, every time. Don’t 
you forget that! — The moot point is did he 
forget it, J.J. O’Molloy said quietly, turning a horseshoe paperweight. 
Saving princes is a thank you job. Professor MacHugh turned 
on him. — And if not? he said. — I’ll 
tell you how it was, Myles Crawford began. A Hungarian 
it was one day… LOST CAUSES NOBLE MARQUESS MENTIONED — 
We were always loyal to lost causes, the professor said. 
Success for us is the death of the intellect and 
of the imagination. We were never loyal to the successful. 
We serve them. I teach the blatant Latin language. I 
speak the tongue of a race the acme of whose 
mentality is the maxim : time is money. Material domination. 
Dominus! Lord! Where is the spirituality? Lord Jesus! Lord Salisbury. 
A sofa in a westend club. But the Greek! KYRIE 
ELEISON! A smile of light brightened his darkrimmed eyes, lengthened 
his long lips. — The Greek! he said again. Kyrios! 
Shining word! The vowels the Semite and the Saxon know 
not. Kyrie! The radiance of the intellect. I ought to 
profess Greek, the language of the mind. Kyrie eleison! The 
closetmaker and the cloacamaker will never be lords of our 
spirit. We are liege subjects of the catholic chivalry of 
Europe that foundered at Trafalgar and of the empire of 
the spirit, not an imperium, that went under with the 
Athenian fleets at Ægospotami. Yes, yes. They went under. Pyrrhus, 
misled by an oracle, made a last attempt to retrieve 
the fortunes of Greece. Loyal to a lost cause. He 
strode away from them towards the window. — They went 
forth to battle, Mr O’Madden Burke said greyly, but they 
always fell. — Boohoo! Lenehan wept with a little noise. 
Owing to a brick received in the latter half of 
the matinée. Poor, poor, poor Pyrrhus! He whispered then near 
Stephen’s ear : LENEHEN’S LIMERICK —There’s a ponderous pundit MacHugh 
Who wears goggles of ebony hue. As he mostly sees 
double To wear them why trouble? I can’t see the 
Joe Miller. Can you? In mourning for Sallust, Mulligan says. 
Whose mother is beastly dead. Myles Crawford crammed the sheets 
into a sidepocket. — That’ll be all right, he said. 
I’ll read the rest after. That’ll be all right. Lenehan 
extended his hands in protest. — But my riddle! he 
said. What opera is like a railway line? — Opera? 
Mr O’Madden Burke’s sphinx face reriddled. Lenehan announced gladly : 
— The Rose of Castille. See the wheeze? Rows of 
cast steel. Gee! He poked Mr O’Madden Burke mildly in 
the spleen. Mr O’Madden Burke fell back with grace on 
his umbrella, feigning a gasp. — Help! he sighed. I 
feel a strong weakness. Lenehan, rising to tiptoe, fanned his 
face rapidly with the rustling tissues. The professor, returning by 
