dogvans and goatvans for the delivery of early morning milk. 
A scheme for the development of Irish tourist traffic in 
and around Dublin by means of petrolpropelled riverboats, plying in 
the fluvial fairway between Island bridge and Ringsend, charabancs, narrow 
gauge local railways, and pleasure steamers for coastwise navigation [10/- 
per person per day, guide (trilingual) included]. A scheme for 
the repristination of passenger and goods traffics over Irish waterways, 
when freed from weedbeds. A scheme to connect by tramline 
the Cattle Market (North Circular road and Prussia Street) with 
the quays (Sheriff street, lower, and East Wall), parallel with 
the Link line railway laid (in conjunction with the Great 
Southern and Western railway line) between the cattle park, Liffey 
junction, and terminus of Midland Great Western railway 43 to 
45 North Wall, in proximity to the terminal stations or 
Dublin branches of Great Central Railway, Midland Railway of England, 
City of Dublin Steam Packet Company, Lancashire Yorkshire Railway Company, 
Dublin and Glasgow Steam Packet Company, Glasgow Dublin and Londonderry 
Steam Packet Company (Laird line), British and Irish Steam Packet 
Company, Dublin and Morecambe Steamers, London and North Western Railway 
Company, Dublin Port and Docks Board Landing Sheds and transit 
sheds of Palgrave, Murphy and Company, steamship owners, agents for 
steamers from Mediterranean, Spain, Portugal, France, Belgium and Holland and 
for Liverpool Underwriters’ Association, the cost of acquired rolling stock 
for animal transport and of additional mileage operated by the 
Dublin United Tramways Company, limited, to be covered by graziers’ 
fees. Positing what protasis would the contraction for such several 
schemes become a natural and necessary apodosis? Given a guarantee 
equal to the sum sought, the support, by deed of 
gift and transfer vouchers during donor’s lifetime or by bequest 
after donor’s painless extinction, of eminent financiers (Blum Pasha, Rothschild, 
Guggenheim, Hirsch, Montefiore, Morgan, Rockefeller) possessing fortunes in 6 figures, 
amassed during a successful life, and joining capital with opportunity 
the thing required was done. What eventually would render him 
independent of such wealth? The independent discovery of a goldseam 
of inexhaustible ore. For what reason did he meditate on 
schemes so difficult of realisation? It was one of his 
axioms that similar meditations or the automatic relation to himself 
of a narrative concerning himself or tranquil recollection of the 
past when practised habitually before retiring for the night alleviated 
fatigue and produced as a result sound repose and renovated 
vitality. His justifications? As a physicist he had learned that 
of the 70 years of complete human life at least 
2/7, viz., 20 years passed in sleep. As a philosopher 
he knew that at the termination of any allotted life 
only an infinitesimal part of any person’s desires has been 
realised. As a physiologist he believed in the artificial placation 
of malignant agencies chiefly operative during somnolence. What did he 
fear? The committal of homicide or suicide during sleep by 
an aberration of the light of reason, the incommensurable categorical 
intelligence situated in the cerebral convolutions. What were habitually his 
