is he? I’ll charge him. Disgrace him, I will. (She 
shouts.) Zoe! Zoe! bloom (Urgently.) And if it were your 
own son in Oxford! (Warningly.) I know. bella (Almost speechless.) 
Who are you incog? zoe (In the doorway.) There’s a 
row on. bloom What? Where? (He throws a shilling on 
the table and shouts.) That’s for the chimney. Where? I 
need mountain air. (He hurries out through the hall. The 
whores point. Florry follows, spilling water from her tilted tumbler. 
On the doorstep all the whores clustered talk volubly, pointing 
to the right where the fog has cleared off From 
the left arrives a jingling hackney car. It slows to 
in front of the house. Bloom at the halldoor perceives 
Corny Kelleher who is about to dismount from the car 
with two silent lechers. He averts his face. Bella from 
within the hall urges on her whores. They blow ickylickysticky 
yumyum kisses. Corny Kelleher replies with a ghostly lewd smile. 
The silent lechers turn to pay the jarvey. Zoe and 
Kitty still point right. Bloom, parting them swiftly, draws his 
caliph’s hood and poncho and hurries down the steps with 
sideways face. Incog Haroun al Raschid, he flits behind the 
silent lechers and hastens on by the railings with fleet 
step of a pard strewing the drag behind him, torn 
envelopes drenched in aniseed. The ashplant marks his stride. A 
pack of bloodhounds led by Hornblower of Trinity brandishing a 
dogwhip in tallyho cap, and an old pair of grey 
trousers, follows from far, picking up the scent, nearer, baying, 
panting, at fault, breaking away, throwing their tongues, biting his 
heels, leaping at his tail. He walks, runs, zigzags, gallops, 
lugs laid back. He is pelted with gravel, cabbagestumps, biscuitboxes, 
eggs, potatoes, dead codfish, womans slipperslappers. After him, freshfound, the 
hue and cry zigzag gallops in hot pursuit of follow 
my leader : 65 C 66 C night watch, John 
Henry Menton, Wisdom Hely, V. B. Dillon, Councillor Nannetti, Alexander 
Keyes, Larry O’Rourke, Joe Cuffe, Mrs O’Dowd, Pisser Burke, The 
Nameless One, Mrs Riordan, The Citizen, Garryowen, Whatdoyoucallhim, Strangeface, Fellowthatslike, 
Sawhimbefore, Chapwith, Chris Callinan, sir Charles Cameron, Benjamin Dollard, Lenehan, 
Bartell d’Arcy, Joe Hynes, red Murray, editor Brayden, T. M. 
Healy, Mr Justice Fitzgibbon, John Howard Parnell, the reverend Tinned 
Salmon, Professor Joly, Mrs Breen, Denis Breen, Theodore Purefoy, Mina 
Purefoy, the Westland Row postmistress, C. P. McCoy, friend of 
Lyons, Hoppy Holohan, man in the street, other man in 
the street, Footballboots, pugnosed driver, rich protestant lady, Davy Byrne, 
Mrs Ellen Mc Guinness, Mrs Joe Gallaher George Lidwell, Jimmy 
Henry on corns, Superintendent Laracy, Father Cowley, Crofton out of 
the Collector General’s, Dan Dawson, dental surgeon Bloom with tweezers, 
Mrs Bob Doran, Mrs Kennefick, Mrs Wyse Nolan, John Wyse 
Nolan, handsomemarriedwomanrubbedagainstwidebehindin-Clonskea tram, the bookseller of Sweets of Sin, Miss 
Dubedatandshedidbedad, Mesdames Gerald and Stanislaus Moran of Roebuck, the managing 
clerk of Drimmie’s, colonel Hayes, Mastiansky, Citron, Penrose, Aaron Figatner, 
Moses Herzog, Michael E. Geraghty, Inspector Troy, Mrs Galbraith, the 
