Conmee and laughed. — O, sir. — Well, let me 
see if you can post a letter, Father Conmee said. 
Master Brunny Lynam ran across the road and put Father 
Conmee’s letter to father provincial into the mouth of the 
bright red letterbox, Father Conmee smiled and nodded and smiled 
and walked along Mountjoy square east. Mr Denis J. Maginni, 
professor of dancing, &c., in silk hat, slate frock coat 
with silk facings, white kerchief tie, tight lavender trousers, canary 
gloves and pointed patent boots, walking with grave deportment most 
respectfully took the curbstone as he passed lady Maxwell at 
the corner of Dignam’s court. Was that not Mrs M’Guinness? 
Mrs M’Guinness, stately, silverhaired, bowed to Father Conmee from the 
farther footpath along which she sailed. And Father Conmee smiled 
and saluted. How did she do? A fine carriage she 
had. Like Mary, queen of Scots, something. And to think 
that she was a pawnbroker. Well, now! Such a… what 
should he say?… such a queenly mien. Father Conmee walked 
down Great Charles street and glanced at the shutup free 
church on his left. The reverend T. R. Greene B. 
A. will (D. V.) speak. The incumbent they called him. 
He felt it incumbent on him to say a few 
words. But one should be charitable. Invincible ignorance. They acted 
according to their lights. Father Conmee turned the corner and 
walked along the North Circular road. It was a wonder 
that there was not a tramline in such an important 
thoroughfare. Surely, there ought to be. A band of satchelled 
schoolboys crossed from Richmond street. All raised untidy caps. Father 
Conmee greeted them more than once benignly. Christian brother boys. 
Father Conmee smelled incense on his right hand as he 
walked. Saint Joseph’s church, Portland row. For aged and virtuous 
females. Father Conmee raised his hat to the Blessed Sacrament. 
Virtuous : but occasionally they were also badtempered. Near Aldborough 
house Father Conmee thought of that spendthrift nobleman. And now 
it was an office or something. Father Conmee began to 
walk along the North Strand road and was saluted by 
Mr William Gallagher who stood in the doorway of his 
shop. Father Conmee saluted Mr William Gallagher and perceived the 
odours that came from baconflitches and ample cools of butter. 
He passed Grogan’s the tobacconist against which newsboards leaned and 
told of a dreadful catastrophe in New York. In America 
those things were continually happening. Unfortunate people to die like 
that, unprepared. Still, an act of perfect contrition. Father Conmee 
went by Daniel Bergin’s publichouse against the window of which 
two unlabouring men lounged. They saluted him and were saluted. 
Father Conmee passed H. J. O’Neill’s funeral establishment where Corny 
Kelleher totted figures in the daybook while he chewed a 
blade of hay. A constable on his beat saluted Father 
Conmee and Father Conmee saluted the constable. In Youkstetter’s, the 
porkbutcher’s, Father Conmee observed pig’s puddings, white and black and 
red, lying neatly curled in tubes. Moored under the trees 
