O’er ryehigh blue. Bloom stood up. Ow. Soap feeling rather 
sticky behind. Must have sweated : music That lotion, remember. 
Well, so long. High grade. Card inside, yes. By deaf 
Pat in the doorway, straining ear, Bloom passed. At Geneva 
barrack that young man died. At Passage was his body 
laid. Dolor! O, he dolores! The voice of the mournful 
chanter called to dolorous prayer. By rose, by satiny bosom, 
by the fondling hand, by slops, by empties, by popped 
corks, greeting in going, past eyes and maidenhair, bronze and 
faint gold in deepseashadow, went Bloom, soft Bloom, I feel 
so lonely Bloom. Tap. Tap. Tap. Pray for him, prayed 
the bass of Dollard. You who hear in peace. Breathe 
a prayer, drop a tear, good men, good people. He 
was the croppy boy. Scaring eavesdropping boots croppy bootsboy Bloom 
in the Ormond hallway heard growls and roars of bravo, 
fat backslapping, their boots all treading, boots not the boots 
the boy. General chorus off for a swill to wash 
it down. Glad I avoided. — Come on, Ben, Simon 
Dedalus said. By God, you’re as good as ever you 
were. — Better, said Tomgin Kernan. Most trenchant rendition of 
that ballad, upon my soul and honour it is. — 
Lablache, said Father Cowley. Ben Dollard bulkily cachuchad towards the 
bar, mightily praisefed and all big roseate, on heavyfooted feet, 
his gouty fingers nakkering castagnettes in the air. Big Benaden 
Dollard. Big Benben. Big Benben. Rrr. And deepmoved all, Simon 
trumping compassion from foghorn nose, all laughing, they brought him 
forth, Ben Dollard, in right good cheer. — You’re looking 
rubicund, George Lidwell said. Miss Douce composed her rose to 
wait. — Ben machree, said Mr Dedalus, clapping Ben’s fat 
back shoulderblade. Fit as a fiddle, only he has a 
lot of adipose tissue concealed about his person. Rrrrrrsss. — 
Fat of death, Simon, Ben Dollard growled. Richie rift in 
the lute alone sat : Goulding, Collis, Ward. Uncertainly he 
waited. Unpaid Pat too. Tap. Tap. Tap. Tap. Miss Mina 
Kennedy brought near her lips to ear of tankard one. 
— Mr Dollard, they murmured low. — Dollard, murmured tankard. 
Tank one believed : Miss Kenn when she : that 
doll he was : she doll : the tank. He 
murmured that he knew the name. The name was familiar 
to him, that is to say. That was to say 
he had heard the name of Dollard, was it? Dollard, 
yes. Yes, her lips said more loudly, Mr Dollard. He 
sang that song lovely, murmured Mina. And The last rose 
of summer was a lovely song. Mina loved that song. 
Tankard loved the song that Mina. ’Tis the last rose 
of summer Dollard left Bloom felt wind wound round inside. 
Gassy thing that cider : binding too. Wait. Postoffice near 
Reuben J’s one and eightpence too. Get shut of it. 
Dodge round by Greek street. Wish I hadn’t promised to 
meet. Freer in air. Music. Gets on your nerves. Beerpull. 
