ree the ra the roo. Lord, I mustn’t lilt here. 
— The O’Connell circle, Mr Dedalus said about him. Mr 
Power’s soft eyes went up to the apex of the 
lofty cone. — He’s at rest, he said, in the 
middle of his people, old Dan O’. But his heart 
is buried in Rome. How many broken hearts are buried 
here, Simon! — Her grave is over there, Jack, Mr 
Dedalus said. I’Il soon be stretched beside her. Let Him 
take me whenever He likes. Breaking down, he began to 
weep to himself quietly, stumbling a little in his walk. 
Mr Power took his arm. — She’s better where she 
is, he said kindly. — I suppose so, Mr Dedalus 
said with a weak gasp. I suppose she is in 
heaven if there is a heaven. Corny Kelleher stepped aside 
from his rank and allowed the mourners to plod by. 
— Sad occasions, Mr Kernan began politely. Mr Bloom closed 
his eyes and sadly twice bowed his head. — The 
others are putting on their hats, Mr Kernan said. I 
suppose we can do so too. We are the last. 
This cemetery is a treacherous place. They covered their heads. 
— The reverend gentleman read the service too quickly, don’t 
you think? Mr Kernan said with reproof. Mr Bloom nodded 
gravely, looking in the quick bloodshot eyes. Secret eyes, secret 
searching eyes. Mason, I think : not sure. Beside him 
again. We are the last. In the same boat. Hope 
he’ll say something else. Mr Kernan added : — The 
service of the Irish church, used in Mount Jerome, is 
simpler, more impressive, I must say. Mr Bloom gave prudent 
assent. The language of course was another thing. Mr Kernan 
said with solemnity : — I am the resurrection and 
the life. That touches a man’s inmost heart. — It 
does, Mr Bloom said. Your heart perhaps but what price 
the fellow in the six feet by two with his 
toes to the daisies? No touching that. Seat of the 
affections. Broken heart. A pump after all, pumping thousands of 
gallons of blood every day. One fine day it gets 
bunged up and there you are. Lots of them lying 
around here : lungs, hearts, livers. Old rusty pumps : 
damn the thing else. The resurrection and the life. Once 
you are dead you are dead. That last day idea. 
Knocking them all up out of their graves. Come forth, 
Lazarus! And he came fifth and lost the job. Get 
up! Last day! Then every fellow mousing around for his 
liver and his lights and the rest of his traps. 
Find damn all of himself that morning. Pennyweight of powder 
in a skull. Twelve grammes one pennyweight. Troy measure. Corny 
Kelleher fell into step at their side. — Everything went 
off A I, he said. What? He looked on them 
from his drawling eye. Policeman’s shoulders. With your tooraloom tooraloom. 
— As it should be, Mr Kernan said. — What? 
