three quarts is a shilling and one and two is 
two and two, sir. Buck Mulligan sighed and having filled 
his mouth with a crust thickly buttered on both sides, 
stretched forth his legs and began to search his trouser 
pockets. — Pay up and look pleasant, Haines said to 
him smiling. Stephen filled a third cup, a spoonful of 
tea colouring faintly the thick rich milk. Buck Mulligan brought 
up a florin, twisted it round in his fingers and 
cried : — A miracle! He passed it along the 
table towards the old woman, saying : — Ask nothing 
more of me, sweet. All I can give you I 
give. Stephen laid the coin in her uneager hand. — 
We’ll owe twopence, he said. — Time enough, sir, she 
said, taking the coin. Time enough. Good morning, sir. She 
curtseyed and went out, followed by Buck Mulligan’s tender chant 
: —Heart of my heart, were it more, More would 
be laid at your feet. He turned to Stephen and 
said : — Seriously, Dedalus. I’m stony. Hurry out to 
your school kip and bring us back some money. Today 
the bards must drink and junket. Ireland expects that every 
man this day will do his duty. — That reminds 
me, Haines said, rising, that I have to visit your 
national library today. — Our swim first, Buck Mulligan said. 
He turned to Stephen and asked blandly : — Is 
this the day for your monthly wash, Kinch? Then he 
said to Haines : — The unclean bard makes a 
point of washing once a month. — All Ireland is 
washed by the gulfstream, Stephen said as he let honey 
trickle over a slice of the loaf. Haines from the 
corner where he was knotting easily a scarf about the 
loose collar of his tennis shirt spoke : — I 
intend to make a collection of your sayings if you 
will let me. Speaking to me. They wash and tub 
and scrub. Agenbite of inwit. Conscience. Yet here’s a spot. 
— That one about the cracked lookingglass of a servant 
being the symbol of Irish art is deuced good. Buck 
Mulligan kicked Stephen’s foot under the table and said with 
warmth of tone : — Wait till you hear him 
on Hamlet, Haines. — Well, I mean it, Haines said, 
still speaking to Stephen. I was just thinking of it 
when that poor old creature came in. — Would I 
make money by it? Stephen asked. Haines laughed and, as 
he took his soft grey hat from the holdfast of 
the hammock, said : — I don’t know, I’m sure. 
He strolled out to the doorway. Buck Mulligan bent across 
to Stephen and said with coarse vigour : — You 
put your hoof in it now. What did you say 
that for? — Well? Stephen said. The problem is to 
get money. From whom? From the milkwoman or from him. 
It’s a toss up, I think. — I blow him 
