from the doorway and said quietly : — That woman 
is coming up with the milk. — The blessings of 
God on you, Buck Mulligan cried, jumping up from his 
chair. Sit down. Pour out the tea there. The sugar 
is in the bag. Here, I can’t go fumbling at 
the damned eggs. He hacked through the fry on the 
dish and slapped it out on three plates, saying : 
— In nomine Patris et Filii et Spiritus Sancti. Haines 
sat down to pour out the tea. — I’m giving 
you two lumps each, he said. But, I say, Mulligan, 
you do make strong tea, don’t you? Buck Mulligan, hewing 
thick slices from the loaf, said in an old woman’s 
wheedling voice : — When I makes tea I makes 
tea, as old mother Grogan said. And when I makes 
water I makes water. — By Jove, it is tea, 
Haines said. Buck Mulligan went on hewing and wheedling : 
— So I do, Mrs Cahill, says she. Begob, ma’am, 
says Mrs Cahill, God send you don’t make them in 
the one pot. He lunged towards his messmates in turn 
a thick slice of bread, impaled on his knife. — 
That’s folk, he said very earnestly, for your book, Haines. 
Five lines of text and ten pages of notes about 
the folk and the fishgods of Dundrum. Printed by the 
weird sisters in the year of the big wind. He 
turned to Stephen and asked in a fine puzzled voice, 
lifting his brows : — Can you recall, brother, is 
mother Grogan’s tea and water pot spoken of in the 
Mabinogion or is it in the Upanishads? — I doubt 
it, said Stephen gravely. — Do you now? Buck Mulligan 
said in the same tone. Your reasons, pray? — I 
fancy, Stephen said as he ate, it did not exist 
in or out of the Mabinogion. Mother Grogan was, one 
imagines, a kinswoman of Mary Ann. Buck Mulligan’s face smiled 
with delight. — Charming, he said in a finical sweet 
voice, showing his white teeth and blinking his eyes pleasantly. 
Do you think she was? Quite charming. Then, suddenly overclouding 
all his features, he growled in a hoarsened rasping voice 
as he hewed again vigorously at the loaf : —For 
old Mary Ann She doesn’t care a damn, But, hising 
up her petticoats… The doorway was darkened by an entering 
form. — The milk, sir. — Come in, ma’am, Mulligan 
said. Kinch, get the jug. An old woman came forward 
and stood by Stephen’s elbow. — That’s a lovely morning, 
sir, she said. Glory be to God. — To whom? 
Mulligan said, glancing at her. Ah, to be sure. Stephen 
reached back and took the milkjug from the locker. The 
islanders, Mulligan said to Haines casually, speak frequently of the 
collector of prepuces. — How much, sir? asked the old 
woman. — A quart, Stephen said. He watched her pour 
into the measure and thence into the jug rich white 
