fish (cf. mousewatching cat). Again, in order to remember the 
date, combatants, issue and consequences of a famous military engagement 
she pulled a plait of her hair (cf. earwashing cat). 
Furthermore, silly Milly, she dreamed of having had an unspoken 
unremembered conversation with a horse whose name had been Joseph 
to whom (which) she had offered a tumblerful of lemonade 
which it (he) had appeared to have accepted (cf. hearthdreaming 
cat). Hence, in passivity, in economy, in the instinct of 
tradition, in unexpectedness, were differences were similar. In what way 
had he utilised gifts 1) an owl, 2) a clock), 
given as matrimonial auguries, to interest and to instruct her? 
As object lessons to explain : 1) the nature and 
habits of oviparous animals, the possibility of aerial flight, certain 
abnormalities of vision, the secular process of imbalsamation : 2) 
the principle of the pendulum, exemplified in bob, wheelgear and 
regulator, the translation in terms of human or social regulation 
of the various positions clockwise of moveable indicators on an 
unmoving dial, the exactitude of the recurrence per hour of 
an instant in each hour, when the longer and the 
shorter indicator were at the same angle of inclination, videlicet, 
5 5/11 minutes past each hour per hour in arithmetical 
progression. In what manners did she reciprocate? She remembered : 
on the 27th anniversary of his birth she presented to 
him a breakfast moustachecup of imitation crown Derby porcelain ware. 
She provided : at quarter day or thereabouts if or 
when purchases had been made by him not for her 
she showed herself attentive to his necessities, anticipating his desires. 
She admired : a natural phenomenon having been explained by 
him not for her she expressed the immediate desire to 
possess without gradual acquisition a fraction of his science, the 
moiety, the quarter, a thousandth part. What proposal did Bloom, 
diambulist, father of Milly, somnambulist, make to Stephen, noctambulist? To 
pass in repose the hours intervening between Thursday (proper) and 
Friday (normal) on an extemporised cubicle in the apartment immediately 
above the kitchen and immediately adjacent to the sleeping apartment 
of his host and hostess. What various advantages would or 
might have resulted from a prolungation of such extemporisation? For 
the guest : security of domicile and seclusion of study. 
For the host : rejuvenation of intelligence, vicarious satisfaction. For 
the hostess : disintegration of obsession, acquisition of correct Italian 
pronunciation. Why might these several provisional contingencies between a guest 
and a hostess not necessarily preclude or be precluded by 
a permanent eventuality of reconciliatory union between a schoolfellow and 
a jew’s daughter? Because the way to daughter led through 
mother, the way to mother through daughter. To what inconsequent 
polysyllabic question of his host did the guest return a 
monosyllabic negative answer? If he had known the late Mrs 
Emily Sinico, accidentally killed at Sydney Parade railway station, 14 
October 1903. What inchoate corollary statement was consequently suppressed by 
the host? A statement explanatory of his absence on the 
