And ever shall be. World without end. (He cries.) Pater! 
Free! bloom I say, look… stephen Break my spirit, will 
he? O merde alors! (He cries, his vulture talons sharpened.) 
Hola! Hillyho! (Simon Dedalus’ voice hilloes in answer, somewhat sleepy 
but ready.) simon That’s all right. (He swoops uncertainly through 
the air, wheeling, uttering cries of heartening, on strong ponderous 
buzzard wings.) Ho, boy! Are you going to win? Hoop! 
Pschatt! Stable with those halfcastes. Wouldn’t let them within the 
bawl of an ass. Head up! Keep our flag flying! 
An eagle gules volant in a field argent displayed. Ulster 
king at arms! hai hoop! (He makes the beagle’s call 
giving tongue.) Bulbul! Burblblbrurblbl! Hai, boy! (The fronds and spaces 
of the wallpaper file rapidly across country. A stout fox 
drawn from covert, brush pointed, having buried his grandmother, runs 
swift, for the open brighteyed, seeking badger earth, under the 
leaves. The pack of staghounds follows, nose to the ground, 
sniffing their quarry, beaglebaying, burblbrbling to be blooded. Ward Union 
huntsmen and huntswomen live with them, hot for a kill. 
From Six Mile Point, Flathouse, Nine Mile Stone follow the 
footpeople with knotty sticks, salmongaffs, lassos, flockmasters with stockwhips, bearbaiters 
with tomtoms, toreadors with bullswords, grey negroes waving torches. The 
crowd bawls of dicers, crown and anchor players, thimbleriggers, broadsmen. 
Crows and touts, hoarse bookies in high wizard hats clamour 
deafeningly.) the crowd Card of the races. Racing card! Ten 
to one the field! Tommy on the clay here! Tommy 
on the clay! Ten to one bar one. Ten to 
one bar one. Try your luck on spinning Jenny! Ten 
to one bar one! Sell the monkey, boys! Sell the 
monkey! I’ll give ten to one! Ten to one bar 
one! (A dark horse, riderless, bolts like a phantom past 
the winningpost, his mane moonfoaming, his eyeballs stars. The field 
follows, a bunch of bucking mounts. Skeleton horses : Sceptre, 
Maximum the Second, Zinfandel, the Duke of Westminster’s Shotover, Repulse, 
the Duke of Beaufort’s Ceylon, prix de Paris. Dwarfs ride 
them, rusty armoured, leaping, leaping in their, in their saddles. 
Last in a drizzle of rain, on a brokenwinded isabelle 
nag. Cock of the North, the favourite, honey cap, green 
jacket, orange sleeves, Garrett Deasy up, gripping the reins, a 
hockey stick at the ready. His nag, stumbling on whitegaitered 
feet, jogs along the rocky road.) the orange lodges (Jeering.) 
Get down and push, mister. Last lap! You’ll be home 
the night! ganett deary (Bolt upright, his nailscraped face plastered 
with postage stamps, brandishes his hockeystick, his blue eyes flashing 
in the prism of the chandelier as his mount lopes 
by at a schooling gallop.) Per vias rectas! (A yoke 
of buckets leopards all over him and his rearing nag, 
a torrent of mutton broth with dancing coins of carrots, 
barley, onions, turnips, potatoes.) the green lodges Soft day, sir 
John! Soft day, your honour! (Private Carr, Private Compton and 
Cissy Caffrey pass beneath the windows, singing in discord.) stephen 
