whatsoever wight hath done a deed of blood for I 
will on nowise suffer it even so saith the Lord. 
So they started talking about capital punishment and of course 
Bloom comes out with the why and the wherefore and 
all the codology of the business and the old dog 
smelling him all the time I’m told those Jewies does 
have a sort of a queer odour coming off them 
for dogs about I don’t know what all deterrent effect 
and so forth and so on. — There’s one thing 
it hasn’t a deterrent effect on, says Alf. — What’s 
that? says Joe. — The poor bugger’s tool that’s being 
hanged, says Alf. — That so? says Joe. — God’s 
truth, says Alf. I heard that from the head warder 
that was in Kilmainham when they hanged Joe Brady, the 
invincible. He told me when they cut him down after 
the drop it was standing up in their faces like 
a poker. — Ruling passion strong in death, says Joe, 
as someone said. — That can be explained by science, 
says Bloom. It’s only a natural phenomenon, don’t you see, 
because on account of the… And then he starts with 
his jawbreakers about phenomenon and science and this phenomenon and 
the other phenomenon. The distinguished scientist Herr Professor Luitpold Blumenduft 
tendered medical evidence to the effect that the instantaneous fracture 
of the cervical vertebrae and consequent scission of the spinal 
cord would, according to the best approved traditions of medical 
science, be calculated to inevitably produce in the human subject 
a violent ganglionic stimulus of the nerve centres, causing the 
pores of the corpora cavernosa to rapidly dilate in such 
a way as to instantaneously facilitate the flow of blood 
to that part of the human anatomy known as the 
penis or male organ resulting in the phenomenon which has 
been denominated by the faculty a morbid upwards and outwards 
philoprogenitive erection in articulo mortis per diminutionem capitis. So of 
course the citizen was only waiting for the wink of 
the word and he starts gassing out of him about 
the invincibles and the old guard and the men of 
sixtyseven and who fears to speak of ninetyeight and Joe 
with him about all the fellows that were hanged, drawn 
and transported for the cause by drumhead courtmartial and a 
new Ireland and new this, that and the other. Talking 
about new Ireland he ought to go and get a 
new dog so he ought. Mangy ravenous brute sniffling and 
sneezing all round the place and scratching his scabs and 
round be goes to Bob Doran that was standing Alf 
a half one sucking up for what he could get. 
So of course Bob Doran starts doing the bloody fool 
with him : — Give us the paw! Give the 
paw, doggy! Good old doggy. Give us the paw here! 
Give us the paw! Arrah! bloody end to the paw 
he’d paw and Alf trying to keep him from tumbling 
