Purgatory, the Salmon Leap, Maynooth college refectory, Curley’s hole, the 
three birthplaces of the first duke of Wellington, the rock 
of Cashel, the bog of Allen, the Henry Street Warehouse, 
Fingal’s Cave, — all these moving scenes are still there 
for us today rendered more beautiful still by the waters 
of sorrow which have passed over them and by the 
rich incrustations of time. — Shove us over the drink, 
says I. Which is which? — That’s mine, says Joe, 
as the devil said to the dead policeman. — And 
I belong to a race too, says Bloom, that is 
hated and persecuted. Also now. This very moment. This very 
instant. Gob, he near burnt his fingers with the butt 
of his old cigar. — Robbed, says he. Plundered. Insulted. 
Persecuted. Taking what belongs to us by right. At this 
very moment, says he, putting up his fist, sold by 
auction off in Morocco like slaves or cattles. — Are 
you talking about the new Jerusalem? says the citizen. — 
I’m talking about injustice, says Bloom. — Right, says John 
Wyse. Stand up to it then with force like men. 
That’s an almanac picture for you. Mark for a softnosed 
bullet. Old lardyface standing up to the business end of 
a gun. Gob, he’d adorn a sweepingbrush, so he would, 
if he only had a nurse’s apron on him. And 
then he collapses all of a sudden, twisting around all 
the opposite, as limp as a wet rag. — But 
it’s no use, says he. Force, hatred, history, all that. 
That’s not life for men and women, insult and hatred. 
And everybody knows that it’s the very opposite of that 
that is really life. — What? says Alf. — Love, 
says Bloom. I mean the opposite of hatred. I must 
go now, says he to John Wyse. Just round to 
the court a moment to see if Martin is there. 
If he comes just say I’ll be back in a 
second. Just a moment. Who’s hindering you? And off he 
pops like greased lightning. — A new apostle to the 
gentiles, says the citizen. Universal love. — Well, says John 
Wyse. Isn’t that what we’re told? Love your neighbours. — 
That chap? says the citizen. Beggar my neighbour is his 
motto. Love, Moya! He’s a nice pattern of a Romeo 
and Juliet. Love loves to love love. Nurse loves the 
new chemist. Constable 14 A loves Mary Kelly. Gerty Mac 
Dowell loves the boy that has the bicycle. M. B. 
loves a fair genteman. Li Chi Han lovey up kissy 
Cha Pu Chow. Jumbo, the elephant, loves Alice, the elephant. 
Old Mr Verschoyle with the ear trumpet loves old Mrs 
Verschoyle with the turnedin eye. The man in the brown 
macintosh loves a lady who is dead. His Majesty the 
King loves Her Majesty the Queen. Mrs Norman W. Tupper 
loves officer Taylor. You love a certain person. And this 
person loves that other person because everybody loves somebody but 
