Hello, Alf. — Hello, Jack. — Hello, Joe. — God 
save you, says the citizen. — Save you kindly, says 
J. J. What’ll it be, Ned? — Half one, says 
Ned. So J. J. ordered the drinks. — Were you 
round at the court? says Joe. — Yes, says J. 
J. He’ll square that, Ned, says he. — Hope so, 
says Ned. Now what were those two at? J. J. 
getting him off the grand jury list and the other 
give him a leg over the stile. With his name 
in Stubbs’s. Playing cards, hobnobbing with flash toffs with a 
swank glass in their eye, drinking fizz and he half 
smothered in writs and garnishee orders. Pawning his gold watch 
in Cummins of Francis street where no-one would know him 
in the private office when I was there with Pisser 
releasing his boots out of the pop. What’s your name, 
sir? Dunne, says he. Ay, and done, says I. Gob, 
ye’ll come home by weeping cross one of these days, 
I’m thinking. — Did you see that bloody lunatic Breen 
round there, says Alf. U. p. up. — Yes, says 
J. J. Looking for a private detective. — Ay, says 
Ned, and he wanted right go wrong to address the 
court only Corny Kelleher got round him telling him to 
get the handwriting examined first. — Ten thousand pounds, says 
Alf, laughing. God I’d give anything to hear him before 
a judge and jury. — Was it you did it, 
Alf? says Joe. The truth, the whole truth and nothing 
but the truth, so help you Jimmy Johnson. — Me? 
says Alf. Don’t cast your nasturtiums on my character. — 
Whatever statement you make, says Joe, will be taken down 
in evidence against you. — Of course an action would 
lie, says J. J. It implies that he is not 
compos mentis. U. p. up. — Compos your eye! says 
Alf, laughing. Do you know that he’s balmy? Look at 
his head. Do you know that some mornings he has 
to get his hat on with a shoehorn? — Yes, 
says J. J., but the truth of a libel is 
no defence to an indictment for publishing it in the 
eyes of the law. — Ha, ha, Alf, says Joe. 
— Still, says Bloom, on account of the poor woman, 
I mean his wife. — Pity about her, says the 
citizen. Or any other woman marries a half and half. 
— How half and half? says Bloom. Do you mean 
he… — Half and half I mean, says the citizen. 
A fellow that’s neither fish nor flesh. — Nor good 
red herring, says Joe. — That what’s I mean, says 
the citizen. A pishogue, if you know what that is. 
Begob I saw there was trouble coming. And Bloom explained 
he meant on account of it being cruel for the 
wife having to go round after the old stuttering fool. 
Cruelty to animals so it is to let that bloody 
