seeker stood. On her stow he ere was living with 
dear wife and lovesome daughter that then over land and 
seafloor nine year had long outwandered. Once her in townhithe 
meeting he to her bow had not doffed. Her to 
forgive now he craved with good ground of her allowed 
that that of him swiftseen face, hers, so young then 
had looked. Light swift her eyes kindled, bloom of blushes 
his word winning. As her eyes then ongot his weeds 
swart therefor sorrow she feared. Glad after she was that 
ere adread was. Her he asked if O’Hare Doctor tidings 
sent from far coast and she with grameful sigh him 
answered that O’Hare Doctor in heaven was. Sad was the 
man that word to hear that him so heavied in 
bowels ruthful. All she there told him, ruing death for 
friend so young, algate sore unwilling God’s rightwiseness to withsay. 
She said that he had a fair sweet death through 
God His goodness with masspriest to be shriven, holy housel 
and sick men’s oil to his limbs. The man then 
right earnest asked the nun of which death the dead 
man was died and the nun answered him and said 
that he was died in Mona island through bellycrab three 
year agone come Childermas and she prayed to God the 
Allruthful to have his dear soul in his undeathliness. He 
heard her sad words, in held hat sad staring. So 
stood they there both awhile in wanhope, sorrowing one with 
other. Therefore, everyman, look to that last end that is 
thy death and the dust that gripeth on every man 
that is born of woman for as he came naked 
forth from his mother’s womb so naked shall he wend 
him at the last for to go as he came. 
The man that was come into the house then spoke 
to the nursingwoman and he asked her how it fared 
with the woman that lay there in childbed. The nursingwoman 
answered him and said that that woman was in throes 
now full three days and that it would be a 
hard birth unneth to bear but that now in a 
little it would be. She said thereto that she had 
seen many births of women but never was none so 
hard as was that woman’s birth. Then she set it 
forth all to him that time was had lived nigh 
that house. The man hearkened to her words for he 
felt with wonder women’s woe in the travail that they 
have of motherhood and he wondered to look on her 
face that was a young face for any man to 
see but yet was she left after long years a 
handmaid. Nine twelve bloodflows chiding her childless. And whiles they 
spake the door of the castle was opened and there 
nighed them a mickle noise as of many that sat 
there at meat. And there came against the place as 
they stood a young learning knight yclept Dixon. And the 
