see us. Hungry man is an angry man. Working tooth 
and jaw. Don’t! O! A bone! That last pagan king 
of Ireland Cormac in the schoolpoem choked himself at Sletty 
southward of the Boyne. Wonder what he was eating. Something 
galoptious. Saint Patrick converted him to Christianity. Couldn’t swallow it 
all however. — Roast beef and cabbage. — One stew. 
Smells of men. His gorge rose. Spaton sawdust, sweetish warmish 
cigarette smoke, reek of plug, spilt beer, men’s beery piss, 
the stale of ferment. Couldn’t eat a morsel here. Fellow 
sharpening knife and fork, to eat all before him, old 
chap picking his tootles. Slight spasm, full, chewing the cud. 
Before and after. Grace after meals. Look on this picture 
then on that. Scoffing up stewgravy with sopping sippets of 
bread. Lick it off the plate, man! Get out of 
this. He gazed round the stooled and tabled eaters, tightening 
the wings of his nose. — Two stouts here. — 
One corned and cabbage. That fellow ramming a knifeful of 
cabbage down as if his life depended on it. Good 
stroke. Give me the fidgets to look. Safer to eat 
from his three hands. Tear it limb from limb. Second 
nature to him. Born with a silver knife in his 
mouth. That’s witty, I think. Or no. Silver means born 
rich. Born with a knife. But then the allusion is 
lost. An illgirt server gathered sticky clattering plates. Rock, the 
bailiff, standing at the bar blew the foamy crown from 
his tankard. Well up : it splashed yellow near his 
boot. A diner, knife and fork upright, elbows on table, 
ready for a second helping stared towards the foodlift across 
his stained square of news-paper. Other chap telling him something 
with his mouth full. Sympathetic listener. Table talk. I munched 
hum un thu Unchster Bunk un Munchday. Ha? Did you, 
faith? Mr Bloom raised two fingers doubtfully to his lips. 
His eyes said : — Not here. Don’t see him. 
Out. I hate dirty eaters. He backed towards the door. 
Get a light snack in Davy Byrne’s. Stopgap. Keep me 
going. Had a good breakfast. — Roast and mashed here. 
— Pint of stout. Every fellow for his own, tooth 
and nail. Gulp. Grub. Gulp. Gobstuff. He came out into 
clearer air and turned back towards Grafton street. Eat or 
be eaten. Kill! Kill! Suppose that communal kitchen years to 
come perhaps. All trotting down with porringers and tommycans to 
be filled. Devour contents in the street. John Howard Parnell 
example the provost of Trinity every mother’s son don’t talk 
of your provosts and provost of Trinity women and children, 
cabmen, priests, parsons, fieldmarshals, archbishops. From Ailesbury road, Clyde road, 
artisans’ dwellings, north Dublin union, lord mayor in his gingerbread 
coach, old queen in a bathchair. My plate’s empty. After 
you with our incorporated drinkingcup. Like sir Philip Crampton’s fountain. 
Rub off the microbes with your handkerchief. Next chap rubs 
on a new batch with his. Father O’Flynn would make 
