up. He urged me, stating that he felt it his 
mission in life to urge me, to defile the marriage 
bed, to commit adultery at the earliest possible opportunity. the 
honourable mrs mervyn talboys (In amazon costume, hard hat, jackboots 
cockspurred, vermilion waistcoat, fawn musketeer gauntlets with braided drums, long 
train held up and hunting crop with which she strikes 
her welt constantly.) Also me. Because he saw me on 
the polo ground of the Phœnix park at the match 
All Ireland versus the Rest of Ireland. My eyes, I 
know, shone divinely as I watched Captain Slogger Dennehy of 
the Inniskillings win the final chukkar on his darling cob 
Centaur. This plebeian Don Juan observed me from behind a 
hackney car and sent me in double envelopes an obscene 
photograph, such as are sold after dark on Paris boulevards, 
insulting to any lady. I have it still. It represents 
a partially nude señorita, frail and lovely (his wife as 
he solemnly assured me, taken by him from nature), practising 
illicit intercourse with a muscular torero, evidently a blackguard. He 
urged me to do likewise, to misbehave, to sin with 
officers of the garrison. He implored me to soil his 
letter in an unspeakable manner, to chastise him as he 
richly deserves, to bestride and ride him, to give him 
a most vicious horsewhipping. mrs bellingham Me too. mrs yelverton 
barry Me too. (Several highly respectable Dublin ladies hold up 
improper letters received from Bloom.) the honourable mrs mervyn talboys 
(Stamps her jingling spurs in a sudden paroxysm of sudden 
fury.) I will, by the God above me. I’ll scourge 
the pigeonlivered cur as long as I can stand over 
him. I’ll flay him alive. bloom (His eyes closing, quails 
expectantly.) Here? (He squirms.) Again! (He pants cringing.) I love 
the danger. the honourable mrs mervyn talboys Very much so! 
I’ll make it hot for you. I’ll make you dance 
Jack Latten for that. mrs bellingham Tan his breech well, 
the upstart! Write the stars and stripes on it! mrs 
yelverton barry Disgraceful! There’s no excuse for him! A married 
man! bloom All these people. I meant only the spanking 
idea. A warm tingling glow without effusion. Refined birching to 
stimulate the circulation. the honourable mrs mervyn talboys (Laughs derisively.) 
O, did you, my fine fellow? Well, by the living 
God, you’ll get the surprise of your life now, believe 
me, the most unmerciful hiding a man ever bargained for. 
You have lashed the dormant tigress in my nature into 
fury. mrs bellingham (Shakes her muff and quizzing-glasses vindictively.) Make 
him smart, Hanna dear. Give him ginger. Thrash the mongrel 
within an inch of his life. The cat–o’–nine-tails. Geld him. 
Vivisect him. bloom (Shuddering, shrinking, joins his hands with hangdog 
mien.) O cold! O shivery! It was your ambrosial beauty. 
Forget, forgive. Kismet. Let me off this once. (He offers 
the other cheek.) mrs yelverton barry (Severely.) Don’t do so 
on any account, Mrs Talboys! He should be soundly trounced! 
