Ow! (A sinister figure leans on plaited legs against O’Beirne’s 
wall, a visage unknown, injected with dark mercury. From under 
a wideleaved sombrero the figure regards him with evil eye.) 
bloom Bueñas noches, señorita Blanca, que calle es esta? the 
figure (Impassive, raises a signal arm.) Password. Sraid Mabbot. bloom 
Haha. Merci. Esperanto. Slan leath. (He mutters.) Gaelic league spy, 
sent by that fireeater. (He steps forward. A sackshouldered ragman 
bars his path. He steps left, ragsackman left.) bloom I 
beg. (He swerves, sidles, stepaside, slips past and on.) bloom 
Keep to the right, right, right. If there is a 
fingerpost planted by the Touring Club at Stepaside who procured 
that public boon? I who lost my way and contributed 
to the columns of the Irish Cyclist the letter headed, 
In darkset Stepaside. Keep, keep, keep to the right. Rags 
and bones, at midnight. A fence more likely. First place 
murderer makes for. Wash off his sins of the world. 
(Jacky Caffrey, hunted by Tommy Caffrey, runs full tilt against 
Bloom.) bloom O! (Shocked, on weak hams, he halts. Tommy 
and Jacky vanish there, there. Bloom pats with parcelled hands 
watch, fobpocket, bookpocket, pursepoke, sweets of sin, potato soap.) bloom 
Beware of pickpockets. Old thieves dodge. Collide. Then snatch your 
purse. (The retriever approches sniffling, nose to the ground. A 
sprawled form sneezes. A stooped bearded figure appears garbed in 
the long caftan of an elder in Zion and a 
smoking cap with magenta tassels. Horned spectacles hang down at 
the wings of the nose. Yellow poison streaks are on 
the drawn face.) rudolph Second halfcrown waste money today. I 
told you not go with drunken goy ever. So. You 
catch no money. bloom (Hides the crubeen and trotter behind 
his back and, crestfallen, feels warm and cold feetmeat.) Ja, 
ich weiss, papachi. rudolph What you making down this place? 
Have you no soul? (With feeble vulture talons he feels 
the silent face of Bloom.) Are you not my son 
Leopold, the grand son of Leopold? Are you not my 
dear son Leopold who left the house of his father 
and left the god of his fathers Abraham and Jacob? 
bloom (With precaution.) I suppose so, father. Mosenthal. All that’s 
left of him. rudolph (Severely.) One night they bring you 
home drunk as dog after spend your good money. What 
you call them running chaps? bloom (In youth’s smart blue 
Oxford suit with white vestslips, narrowshouldered, in brown Alpine hat, 
wearing gent’s sterling silver waterbury keyless watch and double curb 
Albert with seal attached, one side of him coated with 
stiffening mud.) Harriers, father. Only that once. rudolph Once! Mud 
head to foot. Cut your hand open. Lockjaw. They make 
you kaput, Leopoldleben. You watch them chaps. bloom (Weakly.) They 
challenged me to a sprint. It was muddy. I slipped. 
rudolph (With contempt.) Goim nachez. Nice spectacles for your poor 
mother! bloom Mamma! ellen bloom (In pantomime dame’s stringed mobcap, 
crinoline and bustle, widow Twankey’s blouse with muttonleg sleeves buttoned 
