he. The goodness of your heart, I feel sure, will 
dictate to you better than my inadequate words the expressions 
which are most suitable to convey an emotion whose poignancy, 
were I to give vent to my feelings, would deprive 
me even of speech. And off with him and out 
trying to walk straight. Boosed at five o’clock. Night he 
was near being lagged only Paddy Leonard knew the bobby, 
L, I4 A. Blind to the world up in a 
shebeen in Bride street after closing time, fornicating with two 
shawls and a bully on guard, drinking porter out of 
teacups. And calling himself a Frenchy for the shawls, Joseph 
Manuo, and talking against the catholic religion and he serving 
mass in Adam and Eve’s when he was young with 
his eyes shut who wrote the new testament and the 
old testament and hugging and snugging. And the two shawls 
killed with the laughing, picking his pockets the bloody fool 
and he spilling the porter all over the bed and 
the two shawls screeching laughing at one another. How is 
your testament? Have you got an old testament? Only Paddy 
was passing there, I tell you what. Then see him 
of a Sunday with his little concubine of a wife, 
and she wagging her tail up the aisle of the 
chapel, with her patent boots on her, no less, and 
her violets, nice as pie, doing the little lady. Jack 
Mooney’s sister. And the old prostitute of a mother procuring 
rooms to street couples. Gob, Jack made him toe the 
line. Told him if he didn’t patch up the pot, 
Jesus, he’d kick the shite out of him. So Terry 
brought the three pints. — Here, says Joe, doing the 
honours. Here, citizen. — Slan leat, says he. — Fortune, 
Joe, says I. Good health, citizen. Gob, he had his 
mouth half way down the tumbler already. Want a small 
fortune to keep him in drinks. — Who is the 
long fellow running for the mayoralty, Alf? says Joe. — 
Friend of yours, says Alf. — Nannan? says Joe. The 
mimber? — I won’t mention any names, says Alf. — 
I thought so, says Joe. I saw him up at 
that meeting now with William Field, M. P., the cattle 
traders. — Hairy Iopas, says the citizen, that exploded volcano, 
the darling of all countries and the idol of his 
own. So Joe starts telling the citizen about the foot 
and mouth disease and the cattle traders and taking action 
in the matter and the citizen sending them all to 
the rightabout and Bloom coming out with his sheepdip for 
the scab and a hoose drench for coughing calves and 
the guaranteed remedy for timber tongue. Because he was up 
one time in a knacker’s yard. Walking about with his 
book and pencil here’s my head and my heels are 
coming till Joe Cuffe gave him the order of the 
boot for giving lip to a grazier. Mister Knowall. Teach 
