is uninhabited. No soul will live there. The spider pitches 
her web in the solitude. The nocturnal rat peers from 
his hole. A curse is on it. It is haunted. 
Murderer’s ground. What is the age of the soul of 
man? As she hath the virtue of the chameleon to 
change her hue at every new approach, to be gay 
with the merry and mournful with the downcast, so too 
is her age changeable as her mood. No longer is 
Leopold, as he sits there, ruminating, chewing the cud of 
reminiscence, that staid agent of publicity and holder of a 
modest substance in the funds. He is young Leopold, as 
in a retrospective arrangement, a mirror within a mirror (hey, 
presto!), he beholdeth himself. That young figure of then is 
seen, precociously manly, walking on a nipping morning from the 
old house in Clambrassil street to the high school, his 
booksatchel on him bandolierwise, and in it a goodly hunk 
of wheaten loaf, a mother’s thought. Or it is the 
same figure, a year or so gone over, in his 
first hard hat (ah, that was a day!), already on 
the road, a fullfledged traveller for the family firm, equipped 
with an orderbook, a scented handkerchief (not for show only), 
his case of bright trinketware (alas, a thing now of 
the past!), and a quiverful of compliant smiles for this 
or that halfwon housewife reckoning it out upon her fingertips 
or for a budding virgin shyly acknowledging (but the heart? 
tell me!) his studied baisemoins. The scent, the smile but 
more than these, the dark eyes and oleaginous address brought 
home at duskfall many a commission to the head of 
the firm seated with Jacob’s pipe after like labours in 
the paternal ingle (a meal of noodles, you may be 
sure, is aheating), reading through round horned spectacles some paper 
from the Europe of a month before. But hey, presto, 
the mirror is breathed on and the young knighterrant recedes, 
shrivels, to a tiny speck within the mist. Now he 
is himself paternal and these about him might be his 
sons. Who can say? The wise father knows his own 
child. He thinks of a drizzling night in Hatch street, 
hard by the bonded stores there, the first. Together (she 
is a poor waif, a child of shame, yours and 
mine and of all for a bare shilling and her 
luckpenny), together they hear the heavy tread of the watch 
as two raincaped shadows pass the new royal university. Bridie! 
Bridie Kelly! He will never forget the name, ever remember 
the night, first night, the bridenight. They are entwined in 
nethermost darkness, the willer with the willed, and in an 
instant (fiat!) light shall flood the world. Did heart leap 
to heart? Nay, fair reader. In a breath ’twas done 
but — hold! Back! It must not be! In terror 
the poor girl flees away through the murk. She is 
the bride of darkness, a daughter of night. She dare 
