his brown habit trailing its tether over rattling pebbles. After 
him toddles an obese grandfather rat on fungus turtle paws 
under a grey carapace. Dignam’s voice, muffled, is heard baying 
under ground : Dignam’s dead and gone below. Tom Rochford, 
robinredbreasted, in cap and breeches, jumps from his twocolumned machine.) 
tom rochford (A hand to his breastbone, bows.) Reuben J. 
A florin I find him. (He fixes the manhole with 
a resolute stare.) My turn now on. Follow me up 
to Carlow. (He executes a daredevil salmon leap in the 
air and is engulfed in the coalhole. Two discs on 
the columns wobble eyes of nought. All recedes. Bloom plodges 
forward again. He stands before a lighted house, listening. The 
kisses, winging from their bowers, fly about him, twittering, warbling, 
cooing.) the kisses (Warbling.) Leo! (Twittering.) Icky licky micky sticky 
for Leo! (Cooing.) Coo coocoo! Yummyumm Womwom! (Warbling.) Big comebig! 
Pirouette! Leopopold! (Twittering.) Leeolee! (Warbling.) O Leo! (They rustle, flutter 
upon his garments, alight, bright giddy flecks, silvery sequins.) bloom 
A man’s touch. Sad music. Church music. Perhaps here. (Zoe 
Higgins, a young whore in a sapphire slip, closed with 
three bronze buckles, a slim black velvet fillet round her 
throat, nods, trips down the steps and accosts him.) zoe 
Are you looking for someone? He’s inside with his friend. 
bloom Is this Mrs Mack’s? zoe No, eightyone. Mrs Cohen’s. 
You might go farther and fare worse. Mother Slipperslapper. (Familiarly.) 
She’s on the job herself tonight with the vet, her 
tipster, that gives her all the winners and pays for 
her son in Oxford. Working overtime but her luck’s turned 
today. (Suspiciously.) You’re not his father, are you? bloom Not 
I! zoe You both in black. Has little mousey any 
tickles tonight? (His skin, alert, feels her fingertips approach. A 
hand slides over his left thigh.) zoe How’s the nuts? 
bloom Off side. Curiously they are on the right. Heavier 
I suppose. One in a million my tailor, Mesias, says. 
zoe (In sudden alarm.) You’ve a hard chancre. bloom Not 
likely. zoe I feel it. (Her hand slides into his 
left trouser pocket and brings out a hard black shrivelled 
potato. She regards it and Bloom with dumb moist lips.) 
bloom A talisman. Heirloom. zoe For Zoe? For keeps? For 
being so nice, eh? (She puts the potato greedily into 
a pocket, then links his arm, cuddling him with supple 
warmth. He smiles uneasily. Slowly, note by note, oriental music 
is played. He gazes in the tawny crystal of her 
eyes, ringed with kohol. His smile softens.) zoe You’ll know 
me the next time. bloom (Forlornly.) I never loved a 
dear gazelle but it was sure to… (Gazelles are leaping, 
feeding on the mountains. Near are lakes. Round their shores 
file shadows black of cedargroves. Aroma rises, a strong hairgrowth 
of resin. It burns, the orient, a sky of sapphire, 
cleft by the bronze flight of eagles. Under it lies 
the womancity, nude, white, still, cool, in luxury. A fountain 
