in hand. Then little chits of girls, height of a 
shilling in coppers, with little hubbies. As God made them 
He matched them. Sometimes children turn out well enough. Twice 
nought makes one. Or old rich chap of seventy and 
blushing bride. Marry in May and repent in December. This 
wet is very unpleasant. Stuck. Well the foreskin is not 
back. Better detach. Ow! Other hand a sixfooter with a 
wifey up to his watchpocket. Long and the short of 
it. Big he and little she. Very strange about my 
watch. Wristwatches are always going wrong. Wonder is there any 
magnetic influence between the person because that was about the 
time he. Yes, I suppose at once. Cat’s away the 
mice will play. I remember looking in Pill lane. Also 
that now is magnetism. Back of everything magnetism. Earth for 
instance pulling this and being pulled. That causes movement. And 
time? Well that’s the time the movement takes. Then if 
one thing stopped the whole ghesabo would stop bit by 
bit. Because it’s all arranged. Magnetic needle tells you what’s 
going on in the sun, the stars. Little piece of 
steel iron. When you hold out the fork. Come. Come. 
Tip. Woman and man that is. Fork and steel. Molly, 
he. Dress up and look and suggest and let you 
see and see more and defy you if you’re a 
man to see that and, like a sneeze coming, legs, 
look, look and if you have any guts in you. 
Tip. Have to let fly. Wonder how is she feeling 
in that region. Shame all put on before third person. 
More put out about a hole in her stocking. Molly, 
her underjaw stuck out, head back, about the farmer in 
the ridingboots and spurs at the horse show. And when 
the painters were in Lombard street west. Fine voice that 
fellow had. How Giuglini began. Smell that I did, like 
flowers. It was too. Violets. Came from the turpentine probably 
in the paint. Make their own use of everything. Same 
time doing it scraped her slipper on the floor so 
they wouldn’t hear. But lots of them can’t kick the 
beam, I think. Keep that thing up for hours. Kind 
of a general all round over me and half down 
my back. Wait. Hm. Hm. Yes. That’s her perfume. Why 
she waved her hand. I leave you this to think 
of me when I’m far away on the pillow. What 
is it? Heliotrope? No, Hyacinth? Hm. Roses, I think. She’d 
like scent of that kind. Sweet and cheap : soon 
sour. Why Molly likes opoponax. Suits her with a little 
jessamine mixed. Her high notes and her low notes. At 
the dance night she met him, dance of the hours. 
Heat brought it out. She was wearing her black and 
it had the perfume of the time before. Good conductor, 
is it? Or bad? Light too. Suppose there’s some connection. 
For instance if you go into a cellar where it’s 
