Fleshpots of Egypt. He walked cheerfully towards the mosque of 
the baths. Remind you of a mosque, redbaked bricks, the 
minarets. College sports today I see. He eyed the horseshoe 
poster over the gate of college park : cyclist doubled 
up like a cod in a pot. Damn bad ad. 
Now if they had made it round like a wheel. 
Then the spokes : sports, sports, sports : and the 
hub big : college. Something to catch the eye. There’s 
Hornblower standing at the porter’s lodge. Keep him on hands 
: might take a turn in there on the nod. 
How do you do, Mr Hornblower? How do you do, 
sir? Heavenly weather really. If life was always like that. 
Cricket weather. Sit around under sunshades. Over after over. Out. 
They can’t play it here. Duck for six wickets. Still 
Captain Buller broke a window in the Kildare street club 
with a slog to square leg. Donnybrook fair more in 
their line. And the skulls we were acracking when M’Carthy 
took the floor. Heatwave. Won’t last. Always passing, the stream 
of life, which in the stream of life we trace 
is dearer than them all. Enjoy a bath now : 
clean trough of water, cool enamel, the gentle tepid stream. 
This is my body. He foresaw his pale body reclined 
in it at full, naked, in a womb of warmth, 
oiled by scented melting soap, softly laved. He saw his 
trunk and limbs riprippled over and sustained, buoyed lightly upward, 
lemonyellow : his navel, bud of flesh : and saw 
the dark tangled curls of his bush floating, floating hair 
of the stream around the limp father of thousands, a 
languid floating flower. 06 Martin Cunningham, first, poked his silkhatted 
head into the creaking carriage and, entering deftly, seated himself. 
Mr Power stepped in after him, curving his height with 
care. — Come on, Simon. — After you, Mr Bloom 
said. Mr Dedalus covered himself quickly and got in, saying 
: — Yes, yes. — Are we all here now? 
Martin Cunningham asked. Come along, Bloom. Mr Bloom entered and 
sat in the vacant place. He pulled the door to 
after him and slammed it tight till it shut tight. 
He passed an arm through the armstrap and looked seriously 
from the open carriage window at the lowered blinds of 
the avenue. One dragged aside : an old woman peeping. 
Nose whiteflattened against the pane. Thanking her stars she was 
passed over. Extraordinary the interest they take in a corpse. 
Glad to see us go we give them such trouble 
coming. Job seems to suit them. Huggermugger in corners. Slop 
about in slipperslappers for fear he’d wake. Then getting it 
ready. Laying it out. Molly and Mrs Fleming making the 
bed. Pull it more to your side. Our windingsheet. Never 
know who will touch you dead. Wash and shampoo. I 
believe they clip the nails and the hair. Keep a 
bit in an envelope. Grow all the same after. Unclean 
