artillery of heaven had lent its supernatural pomp to the 
already gruesome spectacle. A torrential rain poured down from the 
floodgates of the angry heavens upon the bared heads of 
the assembled multitude which numbered at the lowest computation five 
hundred thousand persons. A posse of Dublin Metropolitan police superintended 
by the Chief Commissioner in person maintained order in the 
vast throng for whom the York Street brass and reed 
band whiled away the intervening time by admirably rendering on 
their blackdraped instruments the matchless melody endeared to us from 
the cradle by Speranza’s plaintive muse. Special quick excursion trains 
and upholstered charabancs had been provided for the comfort of 
our country cousins of whom there were large contingents. Considerable 
amusement was caused by the favourite Dublin streetsingers L-n-h-n and 
M-ll-g-n who sang The Night before Larry was stretched in 
their usual mirthprovoking fashion. Our two inimitable drolls did a 
roaring trade with their broadsheets among lovers of the comedy 
element and nobody who has a corner in his heart 
for real Irish fun without vulgarity will grudge them their 
hardearned pennies. The children of the Male and Female Foundling 
Hospital who thronged the windows overlooking the scene were delighted 
with this unexpected addition to the day’s entertainment and a 
word of praise is due to the Little Sisters of 
the Poor for their excellent idea of affording the poor 
fatherless and motherless children a genuinely instructive treat. The viceregal 
houseparty which included many wellknown ladies was chaperoned by Their 
Excellencies to the most favourable positions on the grand stand 
while the picturesque foreign delegation known as the Friends of 
the Emerald Isle was accommodated on a tribune directly opposite. 
The delegation, present in full force, consisted of Commendatore Bacibaci 
Beninobenone (the semiparalysed doyen of the party who had to 
be assisted to his seat by the aid of a 
powerful steam crane), Monsieur Pierrepaul Petitépatant, the Grandjoker Vladinmire Pokethankertscheff, 
the Archjoker Leopold Rudolph von Schwanzenbad-Hodenthaler, Countess Marha Virága Kisászony 
Putrápesthi, Hiram. Y. Bomboost, Count Athanatos Karamelopulos, Ali Baba Backsheesh 
Rahat Lokum Effendi, Señor Hidalgo Caballero Don Pecadillo y Palabras 
y Paternoster de la Malora de la Malaria, Hokopoko Harakiri, 
Hi Hung Chang, Olaf Kobberkeddelsen, Mynheer Trik van Trumps, Pan 
Poleaxe Paddyrisky, Goosepond Prhklstr Kratchinabritchisitch, Herr Hurhausdirektorpresident Hans Chuechli-Steuerli, Nationalgymnasium-museumsanatoriumand-suspensoriumsordinary-privatdocentgeneralhistoryspecial-professordoctor 
Kriegfried Ueberallgemein. All the delegates without exception expressed themselves in 
the strongest possible heterogeneous terms concerning the nameless barbarity which 
they had been called upon to witness. An animated altercation 
(in which all took part) ensued among F. O. T. 
E. I. as to whether the eighth or the ninth 
of March was the correct date of the birth of 
Ireland’s patron saint. In the course of the argument cannonballs, 
scimitars, boomerangs, blunderbusses, stinkpots, meatchoppers, umbrellas, catapults, knuckledusters, sandbags, lumps 
of pig iron were resorted to and blows were freely 
exchanged. The baby policeman, Constable MacFadden, summoned by special courier 
from Booterstown, quickly restored order and with lightning promptitude proposed 
the seventeenth of the month as a solution equally honourable 
