not bear the sunnygolden babe of day. No, Leopold! Name 
and memory solace thee not. That youthful illusion of thy 
strength was taken from thee and in vain. No son 
of thy loins is by thee. There is none now 
to be for Leopold, what Leopold was for Rudolph. The 
voices blend and fuse in clouded silence : silence that 
is the infinite of space : and swiftly, silently the 
soul is wafted over regions of cycles of generations that 
have lived. A region where grey twilight ever descends, never 
falls on wide sagegreen pasturefields, shedding her dusk, scattering a 
perennial dew of stars. She follows her mother with ungainly 
steps, a mare leading her fillyfoal. Twilight phantoms are they 
yet moulded in prophetic grace of structure, slim shapely haunches, 
a supple tendonous neck, the meek apprehensive skull. They fade, 
sad phantoms : all is gone. Agendath is a waste 
land, a home of screechowls and the sandblind upupa. Netaim, 
the golden, is no more. And on the highway of 
the clouds they come, muttering thunder of rebellion, the ghosts 
of beasts. Huuh! Hark! Huuh! Parallax stalks behind and goads 
them, the lancinating lightnings of whose brow are scorpions. Elk 
and yak, the bulls of Bashan and of Babylon, mammoth 
and mastodon, they come trooping to the sunken sea, Lacus 
Mortis. Ominous, revengeful zodiacal host! They moan, passing upon the 
clouds, horned and capricorned, the trumpeted with the tusked, the 
lionmaned the giantantlered, snouter and crawler, rodent, ruminant and pachyderm, 
all their moving moaning multitude, murderers of the sun. Onward 
to the dead sea they tramp to drink, unslaked and 
with horrible gulpings, the salt somnolent inexhaustible flood. And the 
equine portent grows again, magnified in the deserted heavens, nay 
to heaven’s own magnitude till it looms, vast, over the 
house of Virgo. And, lo, wonder of metempsychosis, it is 
she, the everlasting bride, harbinger of the daystar, the bride, 
ever virgin. It is she, Martha, thou lost one, Millicent, 
the young, the dear, the radiant. How serene does she 
now arise, a queen among the Pleiades, in the penultimate 
antelucan hour, shod in sandals of bright gold, coifed with 
a veil of what do you call it gossamer! It 
floats, it flows about her starborn flesh and loose it 
streams emerald, sapphire, mauve and heliotrope, sustained on currents of 
cold interstellar wind, winding, coiling, simply swirling, writhing in the 
skies a mysterious writing till after a myriad metamorphoses of 
symbol, it blazes, Alpha, a ruby and triangled sign upon 
the forehead of Taurus. Francis was reminding Stephen of years 
before when they had been at school together in Conmee’s 
time. He asked about Glaucon, Alcibiades, Pisistratus. Where were they 
now? Neither knew. You have spoken of the past and 
its phantoms, Stephen said. Why think of them? If I 
call them into life across the waters of Lethe will 
not the poor ghosts troop to my call? Who supposes 
it? I, Bous Stephanoumenos, bullockbefriending bard, am lord and giver 
