vegetable matter on her skull. What ho, she bumps! The 
ugly duckling of the party, longcasted and deep in keel. 
bloom (Regretfully.) When you come out without your gun. virag 
We can do you all brands, mlld, medium and strong. 
Pay your money, take your choice. How happy caould you 
be with either… bloom With?… virag (His tongue upcurling.) Lyum! 
Look. Her beam is broad. Sbe is coated with quite 
a considerable layer of fat. Obviously mammal in weight of 
bosom you remark that she has in front well to 
the fore two protuberances of very respectable dimensions, inclined to 
fall in the noonday soupplate, while on her rere lower 
down are two additional protuberances, suggestive of potent rectum and 
tumescent for palpation which leave nothing to be desired save 
compactness. Such fleshy parts are the product of careful nurture. 
When coopfattened their livers reach an elephantine size. Pellets of 
new bread with fennygreek and gumbenjamin swamped down by potions 
of green tea endow them during their brief existence with 
natural pincushions of quite colossal blubber. That suits your book, 
eh? Fleshhotpots of Egypt to hanker after. Wallow in it. 
Lycopodium. (His throat twitches.) Slapbang! There he goes again. bloom 
The stye I dislike. virag (Arches his eyebrows.) Contact with 
a goldring, they say. Argumentum ad feminam, as we said 
in old Rome and ancient Greece in the consulship of 
Diplodocus and Ichthyosaurus. For the rest Eve’s sovereign remedy. Not 
for sale. Hire only. Huguenot. (He twitches.) It is a 
funny sound. (He coughs encouragingly.) But possibly it is only 
a wart. I presume you shall have remembered what I 
will have taught you on that head? Wheatenmeal with honey 
and nutmeg. bloom (Reflecting.) Wheatenmeal with lycopodium and syllabax. This 
searching ordeal. It has been an unusually fatiguing day, a 
chapter of accidents. Wait. I mean, wartsblood spreads warts, you 
said… virag (Severely, his nose hardhumped, his side eye winking.) 
Stop twirling your thumbs and have a good old thunk. 
See, you have forgotten. Exercise your mnemotechnic. La causa è 
santa. Tara. Tara. (Aside.) He will surely remember. bloom Rosemary 
also did I understand you to say or will power 
over parasitic tissues. Then nay no I have an inkling. 
The touch of a deadhand cures. Mnemo? virag (Excitedly.) I 
say so. I say so. E’en so. Technic. (He taps 
his parchment roll energetically.) This book tells you how to 
act with all descriptive particulars. Consult index for agitated fear 
of aconite, melancholy of muriatic, priapic pulsatilla. Virag is going 
to talk about amputation. Our old friend caustic. They must 
be starved. Snip off with horsehair under the denned neck. 
But, to change the venue to the Bulgar and the 
Basque, have you made up your mind whether you like 
or dislike women in male habiliments. (With a dry snigger.) 
You intended to devote an entire year to the study 
of the religious problem and the summer months of 1882 
to square the circle and win that million. Pomegranate! From 
