canal, he said. Gasworks. Whooping cough they say it cures. 
Good job Milly never got it. Poor children! Doubles them 
up black and blue in convulsions. Shame really. Got off 
lightly with illness compared. Only measles. Flaxseed tea. Scarlatina, influenza 
epidemics. Canvassing for death. Don’t miss this chance. Dogs’ home 
over there. Poor old Athos! Be good to Athos, Leopold, 
is my last wish. Thy will be done. We obey 
them in the grave. A dying scrawl. He took it 
to heart, pined away. Quiet brute. Old men’s dogs usually 
are. A raindrop spat on his hat. He drew back 
and saw an instant of shower spray dots over the 
grey flags. Apart. Curious. Like through a colander. I thought 
it would. My boots were creaking I remember now. — 
The weather is changing, he said quietly. — A pity 
it did not keep up fine, Martin Cunningham said. — 
Wanted for the country, Mr Power said. There’s the sun 
again coming out. Mr Dedalus, peering through his glasses towards 
the veiled sun, hurled a mute curse at the sky. 
— It’s as uncertain as a child’s bottom, he said. 
— We’re off again. The carriage turned again its stiff 
wheels and their trunks swayed gently. Martin Cunningham twirled more 
quickly the peak of his beard. — Tom Kernan was 
immense last night, he said. And Paddy Leonard taking him 
off to his face. — O draw him out, Martin, 
Mr Power said eagerly. Wait till you hear him, Simon, 
on Ben Dollard’s singing of The Croppy Boy. — Immense, 
Martin Cunningham said pompously. His singing of that simple ballad, 
Martin, is the most trenchant rendering I ever heard in 
the whole course of my experience. — Trenchant, Mr Power 
said laughing. He’s dead nuts on that. And the retrospective 
arrangement. — Did you read Dan Dawson’s speech? Martin Cunningham 
asked. — I did not then, Mr Dedalus said. Where 
is it? — In the paper this morning. Mr Bloom 
took the paper from his inside pocket. That book I 
must change for her. — No, no, Mr Dedalus said 
quickly. Later on, please. Mr Bloom’s glance travelled down the 
edge of the paper, scanning the deaths. Callan, Coleman, Dignam, 
Fawcett, Lowry, Naumann, Peake, what Peake is that? is it 
the chap was in Crosbie and Alleyne’s? no, Sexton, Urbright. 
Inked characters fast fading on the frayed breaking paper. Thanks 
to the Little Flower. Sadly missed. To the inexpressible grief 
of his. Aged 88 after a long and tedious illness. 
Month’s mind Quinlan. On whose soul Sweet Jesus have mercy. 
It is now a month since dear Henry fled To 
his home up above in the sky While his family 
weeps and mourns his loss Hoping some day to meet 
him on high. I tore up the envelope? Yes. Where 
did I put her letter after I read it in 
the bath? He patted his waistcoat pocket. There all right. 
Dear Henry fled. Before my patience are exhausted. National school. 
