jew. Christ was a jew like me. Gob, the citizen 
made a plunge back into the shop. — By Jesus, 
says he, I’ll brain that bloody jewman for using the 
holy name. By Jesus, I’ll crucify him so I will. 
Give us that biscuitbox here. — Stop! stop! says Joe. 
A large and appreciative gathering of friends and acquaintances from 
the metropolis and greater Dublin assembled in their thousands to 
bid farewell to Nagyaságos uram Lipóti Virag, late of Messrs 
Alexander Thom’s, printers to His Majesty, on the occasion of 
his departure for the distant clime of Százharminczbrojúgulyás-Dugulás (Meadow of 
Murmuring Waters). The ceremony which went off with great éclat 
was characterised by the most affecting cordiality. An illuminated scroll 
of ancient Irish vellum, the work of Irish artists, was 
presented to the distinguished phenomenologist on behalf on a large 
section of the community and was accompanied by the gift 
of a silver casket, tastefully executed in the style of 
ancient Celtic ornament, a work which reflects every credit on 
the makers, Messrs Jacob agus Jacob. The departing guest was 
the recipient of a hearty ovation, many of those who 
were present being visibly moved when the select orchestra of 
Irish pipes struck up the wellknown strains of Come Back 
to Erin, followed immediately by Rakóczsy’s March. Tarbarrels and bonfires 
were lighted along the coastline of the four seas on 
the summits of the Hill of Howth, Three Rock Mountain, 
Sugarloaf, Bray Head, the mountains of Mourne, the Galtees, the 
Ox and Donegal and Sperrin peaks, the Nagles and the 
Bograghs, the Connemara hills, the reeks of M’Gillicuddy, Slieve Aughty, 
Slieve Bernagh and Slieve Bloom. Amid cheers that rent the 
welkin, responded to by answering cheers from a big muster 
of henchmen on the distant Cambrian and Caledonian hills, the 
mastodontic pleasureship slowly moved away saluted by a final floral 
tribute from the representatives of the fair sex who were 
present in large numbers while, as it proceeded down the 
river, escorted by a flotilla of barges, the flags of 
the Ballast office and Custom House were dipped in salute 
as were also those of the electrical power station at 
the Pigeonhouse. Visszontlátásra, kedvés barátom! Visszontlátásra! Gone but not forgotten. 
Gob, the devil wouldn’t stop him till he got hold 
of the bloody tin anyhow and out with him and 
little Alf hanging on to his elbow and he shouting 
like a stuck pig, as good as any bloody play, 
in the Queen’s royal theatre. — Where is he till 
I murder him? And Ned and J. G. paralysed with 
the laughing. — Bloody wars, says I, I’ll be in 
for the last gospel. But as luck would have it 
the jarvey got the nag’s head round the other way 
and off with him. — Hold on, citizen, says Joe. 
Stop! Begob he drew his hand and made a swipe 
and let fly. Mercy of God the sun was in 
his eyes or he’d have left him for dead. Gob, 
