said. One can see him, a model schoolboy with his 
diploma under his arm. He laughed again at the now 
smiling bearded face. Formless spiritual. Father, Word and Holy Breath. 
Allfather, the heavenly man. Hiesos Kristos, magician of the beautiful, 
the Logos who suffers in us at every moment. This 
verily is that. I am the fire upon the altar. 
I am the sacrificial butter. Dunlop, Judge, the noblest Roman 
of them all, A. E., Arval, the Name Ineffable, in 
heaven hight, K. H., their master, whose identity is no 
secret to adepts. Brothers of the great white lodge always 
watching to see if they can help. The Christ with 
the bridesister, moisture of light, born of en ensouled virgin, 
repentant sophia, departed to the plane of buddhi. The life 
esoteric is not for ordinary person. O. P. must work 
off bad karma first. Mrs Cooper Oakley once glimpsed our 
very illustrious sister H. P. B’s elemental. O, fie! Out 
on’t! Pfuiteufel! You naughtn’t to look, missus, so you naughtn’t 
when a lady’s ashowing of her elemental. Mr Best entered, 
tall, young, mild, light. He bore in his hand with 
grace a notebook, new, large, clean, bright. — That model 
schoolboy, Stephen said, would find Hamlet’s musings about the afterlife 
of his princely soul, the improbable, insignificant and undramatic monologue, 
as shallow as Plato’s. John Eglinton, frowning, said, waxing wroth 
: — Upon my word it makes my blood boil 
to hear anyone compare Aristotle with Plato. — Which of 
the two, Stephen asked, would have banished me from his 
commonwealth? Unsheathe your dagger definitions. Horseness is the whatness of 
allhorse. Streams of tendency and eons they worship. God : 
noise in the street : very peripatetic. Space : what 
you damn well have to see. Through spaces smaller than 
red globules of man’s blood they creepycrawl after Blake’s buttocks 
into eternity of which this vegetable world is but a 
shadow. Hold to the now, the here, through which all 
future plunges to the past. Mr Best came forward, amiable, 
towards his colleague. — Haines is gone, he said. — 
Is he? — I was showing him Jubainville’s book. He’s 
quite enthusiastic, don’t you know, about Hyde’s Lovesongs of Connacht. 
I couldn’t bring him in to hear the discussion. He’s 
gone to Gill’s to buy it. Bound thee forth, my 
booklet, quick To greet the callous public. Writ, I ween, 
′twas not my wish In lean unlovely English. — The 
peatsmoke is going to his head, John Eglinton opined. We 
feel in England. Penitent thief. Gone. I smoked his baccy. 
Green twinkling stone. An emerald set in the ring of 
the sea. — People do not know how dangerous lovesongs 
can be, the auric egg of Russell warned occultly. The 
movements which work revolutions in the world are born out 
of the dreams and visions in a peasant’s heart on 
the hillside. For them the earth is not an exploitable 
ground but the living mother. The rarefied air of the 
