cannot fail me to fly And Olivet’s breezy… Goodbye, now, 
goodbye. He capered before them down towards the fortyfoot hole, 
fluttering his winglike hands, leaping nimbly, Mercury’s hat quivering in 
the fresh wind that bore back to them his brief 
birdlike cries. Haines, who had been laughing guardedly, walked on 
beside Stephen and said : — We oughtn’t to laugh, 
I suppose. He’s rather blasphemous. I’m not a believer myself, 
that is to say. Still his gaiety takes the harm 
out of it somehow, doesn’t it? What did he call 
it? Joseph the Joiner? — The ballad of Joking Jesus, 
Stephen answered. — O, Haines said, you have heard it 
before? — Three times a day, after meals, Stephen said 
drily. — You’re not a believer, are you? Haines asked. 
I mean, a believer in the narrow sense of the 
word. Creation from nothing and miracles and a personal God. 
— There’s only one sense of the word, it seems 
to me, Stephen said. Haines stopped to take out a 
smooth silver case in which twinkled a green stone. He 
sprang it open with his thumb and offered it. — 
Thank you, Stephen said, taking a cigarette. Haines helped himself 
and snapped the case to. He put it back in 
his sidepocket and took from his waistcoatpocket a nickel tinderbox, 
sprang it open too, and, having lit his cigarette, held 
the flaming spunk towards Stephen in the shell of his 
hands. — Yes, of course, he said, as they went 
on again. Either you believe or you don’t, isn’t it? 
Personally I couldn’t stomach that idea of a personal God. 
You don’t stand for that, I suppose? — You behold 
in me, Stephen said with grim displeasure, a horrible example 
of free thought. He walked on, waiting to be spoken 
to, trailing his ashplant by his side. Its ferrule followed 
lightly on the path, squealing at his heels. My familiar, 
after me, calling Steeeeeeeeeeeephen. A wavering line along the path. 
They will walk on it tonight, coming here in the 
dark. He wants that key. It is mine, I paid 
the rent. Now I eat his salt bread. Give him 
the key too. All. He will ask for it. That 
was in his eyes. — After all, Haines began… Stephen 
turned and saw that the cold gaze which had measured 
him was not all unkind. — After all, I should 
think you are able to free yourself. You are your 
own master, it seems to me. — I am the 
servant of two masters, Stephen said, an English and an 
Italian. — Italian? Haines said. A crazy queen, old and 
jealous. Kneel down before me. — And a third, Stephen 
said, there is who wants me for odd jobs. — 
Italian? Haines said again. What do you mean? — The 
imperial British state, Stephen answered, his colour rising, and the 
holy Roman catholic and apostolic church. Haines detached from his 
underlip some fibres of tobacco before he spoke. — I 
