decent than galloping two abreast? — Well, there’s something in 
that, Mr Dedalus granted. — And, Martin Cunningham said, we 
wouldn’t have scenes like that when the hearse capsized round 
Dunphy’s and upset the coffin on to the road. — 
That was terrible, Mr Power’s shocked face said, and the 
corpse fell about the road. Terrible! — First round Dunphy’s, 
Mr Dedalus said, nodding. Gordon Bennett cup. — Praises be 
to God! Martin Cunningham said piously. Bom! Upset. A coffin 
bumped out on to the road. Burst open. Paddy Dignam 
shot out and rolling over stiff in the dust in 
a brown habit too large for him. Red face : 
grey now. Mouth fallen open. Asking what’s up now. Quite 
right to close it. Looks horrid open. Then the insides 
decompose quickly. Much better to close up all the orifices. 
Yes, also. With wax. The sphincter loose. Seal up all. 
— Dunphy’s, Mr Power announced as the carriage turned right. 
Dunphy’s corner. Mourning coaches drawn up drowning their grief. A 
panse by the wayside. Tiptop position for a pub. Expect 
we’ll pull up here on the way back to drink 
his health. Pass round the consolation. Elixir of life. But 
suppose now it did happen. Would he bleed if a 
nail say cut him in the knocking about? He would 
and he wouldn’t, I suppose. Depends on where. The circulation 
stops. Still some might ooze out of an artery. It 
would be better to bury them in red : a 
dark red. In silence they drove along Phibsborough road. An 
empty hearse trotted by, coming from the cemetery : looks 
relieved. Crossguns bridge : the royal canal. Water rushed roaring 
through the sluices. A man stood on his dropping barge 
between clamps of turf. On the towpath by the lock 
a slacktethered horse. Aboard of the Bugabu. Their eyes watched 
him. On the slow weedy waterway he had floated on 
his raft coastward over Ireland drawn by a haulage rope 
past beds of reeds, over slime, mudchoked bottles, carrion dogs. 
Athlone, Mullingar, Moyvalley, I could make a walking tour to 
see Milly by the canal. Or cycle down. Hire some 
old crock, safety. Wren had one the other day at 
the auction but a lady’s. Developing waterways. James M’Cann’s hobby 
to row me o’er the ferry. Cheaper transit. By easy 
stages. Houseboats. Camping out. Also hearses. To heaven by water. 
Perhaps I will without writing. Come as a surprise, Leixlip, 
Clonsilla. Dropping down, lock by lock to Dublin. With turf 
from the midland bogs. Salute. He lifted his brown strawhat, 
saluting Paddy Dignam. They drove on. past Brian Boroimhe house. 
Near it now. — I wonder how is our friend 
Fogarty getting on, Mr Power said. — Better ask Tom 
Kernan, Mr Dedalus said. — How is that? Martin Cunningham 
said. Left him weeping I suppose. — Though lost to 
sight, Mr Dedalus said, to memory dear. The carriage steered 
left for Finglas road. The stonecutter’s yard on the right. 
