said. — Go on then, Talbot. — And the history, 
sir? — After, Stephen said. Go on, Talbot. A swarthy 
boy opened a book and propped it nimbly under the 
breastwork of his satchel. He recited jerks of verse with 
odd glances at the text : — Weep no more, 
woful shepherd, weep no more For Lycidas, your sorrow, is 
not dead, Sunk though he be beneath the watery floor… 
It must be a movement then, an actuality of the 
possible as possible. Aristotle’s phrase formed itself within the gabbled 
verses and floated out into the studious silence of the 
library of Saint Genevieve where he had read, sheltered from 
the sin of Paris, night by night. By his elbow 
a delicate Siamese conned a handbook of strategy. Fed and 
feeding brains about me : under glowlamps, impaled, with faintly 
beating feelers : and in my mind’s darkness a sloth 
of the underworld, reluctant, shy of brightness, shifting her dragon 
scaly folds. Thought is the thought of thought. Tranquil brightness. 
The soul is in a manner all that is : 
the soul is the form of forms. Tranquillity sudden, vast, 
candescent : form of forms. Talbot repeated : —Through the 
dear might of Him that walked the waves, Through the 
dear might… — Turn over, Stephen said quietly. I don’t 
see anything. — What, sir? Talbot asked simply, bending forward. 
His hand turned the page over. He leaned back and 
went on again having just remembered. Of him that walked 
the waves. Here also over these craven hearts his shadow 
lies and on the scoffer’s heart and lips and on 
mine. It lies upon their eager faces who offered him 
a coin of the tribute. To Caesar what is Caesar’s, 
to God what is God’s. A long look from dark 
eyes, a riddling sentence to be woven and woven on 
the church’s looms. Ay. Riddle me, riddle me, randy ro. 
My father gave me seeds to sow. Talbot slid his 
closed book into his satchel. — Have I heard all? 
Stephen asked. — Yes, sir. Hockey at ten, sir. — 
Half day, sir. Thursday. — Who can answer a riddle? 
Stephen asked. They bundled their books away, pencils clacking, pages 
rustling. Crowding together they strapped and buckled their satchels, all 
gabbling gaily : — A riddle, sir? Ask me, sir. 
— O, ask me, sir. — A hard one, sir. 
— This is the riddle, Stephen said : The cock 
crew The sky was blue : The bells in heaven 
Were striking eleven. ’Tis time for this poor soul To 
go to heaven. What is that? — What, sir? — 
Again, sir. We didn’t hear. Their eyes grew bigger as 
the lines were repeated. After a silence Cochrane said : 
— What is it, sir? We give it up. Stephen, 
his throat itching, answered : — The fox burying his 
grandmother under a hollybush. He stood up and gave a 
shout of nervous laughter to which their cries echoed dismay. 
