the flame, twirling it slowly, showing the brown tufts of 
her armpits. Lynch with his poker lifts boldly a side 
of her slip. Bare from her garters up her flesh 
appears under the sapphire a nixie’s green. She puffs calmly 
at her cigarette.) Can you see the beauty spot of 
my behind? lynch I’m not looking. zoe (Makes sheep’s eyes.) 
No? You wouldn’t do a less thing. Would you suck 
a lemon? (Squinting in mock shame she glances with sidelong 
meaning at Bloom then twists round towards him, pulling her 
slip free of the poker. Blue fluid again flows over 
her flesh. Bloom stands, smiling desirously, twirling his thumbs. Kitty 
Ricketts licks her middle finger with her spittle and gazing 
in the mirror, smooths both eyebrows. Lipoti Virag, basilicogrammate, chutes 
rapidly down through the chimneyflue and struts two steps to 
the left on gawky pink stilts. He is sausaged into 
several overcoats and wears a brown macintosh under which he 
holds a roll of parchment. In his left eye flashes 
the monocle of Cashel Boyle O’Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell. On 
his head is perched an Egyptian pshent. Two quills project 
over his ears.) virag (Heels together, bows.) My name is 
Virag Lipoti, of Szombathely. (He coughs thoughtfully, drily.) Promiscuous nakedness 
is much in evidence hereabouts, eh? Inadvertently her backview revealed 
the fact that she is not wearing those rather intimate 
garments of which you are a particular devotee. The injection 
mark on the thigh I hope you perceived? Good. bloom 
Granpapachi. But… virag Number two on the other hand, she 
of the cherry rouge and coiffeuse white, whose hair owes 
not a little to our tribal elixir of gopherwood is 
in walking costume and tightly staysed by her sit, I 
should opine. Backbone in front, so to say. Correct me 
but I always understood that the act so performed by 
skittish humans with glimpses of lingerie appealed to you in 
virtue of its exhibitionististicicity. In a word. Hippogriff. Am I 
right? bloom She is rather lean. virag (Not unpleasantly.) Absolutely! 
Well observed and those pannier pockets of the skirt and 
slightly pegtop effect are devised to suggest bunchiness of hip. 
A new purchase at some monster sale for which a 
gull has been mulcted. Meretricious finery to deceive the eye. 
Observe the attention to details of dustspecks. Never put on 
you tomorrow what you can wear today Parallax! (With a 
nervous twitch of his head.) Did you hear my brain 
go snap? Pollysyllabax! bloom (An elbow resting in a hand, 
a forefinger against his cheek.) She seems sad. virag (Cynically, 
his weasel teeth bared yellow, draws down his left eye 
with a finger and barks hoarsely.) Hoax! Beware of the 
flapper and bogus mournful. Lily of the alley. All possess 
bachelor’s button discovered by Rualdus Colombus. Tumble her. Columble her. 
Chameleon. (More genially.) Well then, permit me to draw your 
attention to item number three. There is plenty of her 
visible to the naked eye. Observe the mass of oxygenated 
