accordance with his, her and their natured natures, of dissimilar 
similarity. As not as calamitous as a cataclysmic annihilation of 
the planet in consequence of collision with a dark sun. 
As less reprehensible than theft, highway robbery, cruelty to children 
and animals, obtaining money under false pretences, forgery, embezzlement, misappropriation 
of public money, betrayal of public trust, malingering, mayhem, corruption 
of minors, criminal libel, blackmail, contempt of court, arson, treason, 
felony, mutiny on the high seas, trespass, burglary, jailbreaking, practice 
of unnatural vice, desertion from armed forces in the field, 
perjury, poaching, usury, intelligence with the king’s enemies, impersonation, criminal 
assault, manslaughter, wilful and premeditated murder. As not more abnormal 
than all other altered processes of adaptation to altered conditions 
of existence, resulting in a reciprocal equilibrium between the bodily 
organism and its attendant circumstances, foods, beverages, acquired habits, indulged 
inclinations, significant disease. As more than inevitable, irreparable. Why more 
abnegation than jealousy, less envy than equanimity? From outrage (matrimony) 
to outrage (adultery) there arose nought but outrage (copulation) yet 
the matrimonial violator of the matrimonially violated had not been 
outraged by the adulterous violator of the adulterously violated. What 
retribution, if any? Assassination, never, as two wrongs did not 
make one right. Duel by combat, no. Divorce, not now. 
Exposure by mechanical artifice (automatic bed) or individual testimony (concealed 
ocular witness), not yet. Suit for damages by legal influence 
or simulation of assault with evidence of injuries sustained (selfinflicted), 
not impossibly. If any, positively, connivance, introduction of emulation (material, 
a prosperous rival agency of publicity : moral, a successful 
rival agent of intimacy), depreciation, alienation, humiliation, separation protecting the 
one separated from the other, protecting separator from both. By 
what reflections did he, a conscious reactor against the void 
incertitude, justify to himself his sentiments? The preordained frangibility of 
the hymen, the presupposed intangibility of the thing in itself 
: the incongruity and disproportion between the selfprolonging tension of 
the thing proposed to be done and the selfabbreviating relaxation 
of the thing done : the fallaciously inferred debility of 
the female, the muscularity of the male : the variations 
of ethical codes : the natural grammatical transition by inversion 
involving no alteration of sense of an aorist preterite proposition 
(parsed as masculine subject, monosyllabic onomatopœic transitive verb with direct 
feminine object) from the active voice into its correlative aorist 
preterite proposition (parsed as feminine subject, auxiliary verb and quasimonosyllabic 
onomatopœic past participle with complementary masculine agent) in the passive 
voice : the continued product of seminators by generation : 
the continual production of semen by distillation : the futility 
of triumph or protest or vindication : the inanity of 
extolled virtue : the lethargy of nescient matter : the 
apathy of the stars. In what final satisfaction did these 
antagonistic sentiments and reflections reduced to their simplest forms, converge? 
Satisfaction at the ubiquity in eastern and western terrestrial hemispheres, 
in all habitable lands and islands explored or unexplored (the 
land of the midnight sun, the islands of the blessed, 
