red rubber they can out of them. — I know 
where he’s gone, says Lenehan, cracking his fingers. — Who? 
says I. — Bloom, says he, the courthouse is a 
blind. He had a few bob on Throwaway and he’s 
gone to gather in the shekels. — Is it that 
whiteyed kaffir? says the citizen, that never backed a horse 
in anger in his life. — That’s where he’s gone, 
says Lenehan. I met Bantam Lyons going to back that 
horse only I put him off it and he told 
me Bloom gave him the tip. Bet you what you 
like he has a hundred shillings to five on. He’s 
the only man in Dublin has it. A dark horse. 
— He’s a bloody dark horse himself, says Joe. — 
Mind, Joe, says I. Show us the entrance out. — 
There you are, says Terry. Goodbye Ireland I’m going to 
Gort. So I just went round to the back of 
the yard to pumpship and begob (hundred shillings to five) 
while I was letting off my (Throwaway twenty to) letting 
off my load gob says I to myself I knew 
he was uneasy in his (two pints off of Joe 
and one in Slattery’s off) in his mind to get 
off the mark to (hundred shillings is five quid) and 
when they were in the (dark horse) Pisser Burke was 
telling me card party and letting on the child was 
sick (gob, must have done about a gallon) flabbyarse of 
a wife speaking down the tube she’s better or she’s 
(ow!) all a plan so he could vamoose with the 
pool if he won or (Jesus, full up I was) 
trading without a licence (ow!) Ireland my nation says he 
(hoik! phthook!) never be up to those bloody (there’s the 
last of it) Jerusalem (ah!) cuckoos. So anyhow when I 
got back they were at it dingdong, John Wyse saying 
it was Bloom gave the idea for Sinn Fein to 
Griffith to put in his paper all kinds of jerrymandering, 
packed juries and swindling the taxes off of the Government 
and appointing consuls all over the world to walk about 
selling Irish industries. Robbing Peter to pay Paul. Gob, that 
puts the bloody kybosh on it if old sloppy eyes 
is mucking up the show. Give us a bloody chance. 
God save Ireland from the likes of that bloody mouseabout. 
Mr Bloom with his argol bargol. And his old fellow 
before him perpetrating frauds, old Methusalem Bloom, the robbing bagman, 
that poisoned himself with the prussic acid after he swamping 
the country with his baubles and his penny diamonds. Loans 
by post on easy terms. Any amount of money advanced 
on note of hand. Distance no object. No security. Gob 
he’s like Lanty MacHale’s goat that’d go a piece of 
the road with every one. — Well, it’s a fact, 
says John Wyse. And there’s the man now that’ll tell 
you about it, Martin Cunningham. Sure enough the castle car 
