or more miles and furlongs won by an outsider at 
odds of 50 to 1 at 3 hr. 8 m. 
p. m. at Ascot (Greenwich time) the message being received 
and available for betting purposes in Dublin at 2.59 p. 
m. (Dunsink time). The unexpected discovery of an object of 
great monetary value (precious stone, valuable adhesive or unpressed posrage 
stamps (7 shilling, mauve, imperforate, Hamburg, 1866 : 4 pence, 
rose, blue paper perforate, Great Britain, 1855 : 1 franc, 
stone, official, rouletted, diagonal surcharge, Luxembourg, 1878, antique dynastical ring, 
unique relic) in unusual repositories or by unusual means : 
from the air (dropped by an eagle in flight), by 
fire (amid the carbonised remains of an incendiated edifice), in 
the sea (amid flotsam, jetsam, lagan and derelict), on earth 
(in the gizzard of a commestible fowl). A Spanish prisoner’s 
donation of a distant treasure of valuables or specie or 
bullion lodged with a solvent banking corporation ioo years previously 
at 5 % compound interest of the collective worth of 
£ 5.000.000 stg (five million pounds sterling). A contract with 
an inconsiderate contractee for the delivery of 32 consignments of 
some given commodity in consideration of cash payment on delivery 
at the initial rate of 1/4 d. to be increased 
constantly in the geometrical progression of 2 (1/4, 1/2, 1 
d., 2 d., 4 d., 8 d., 1 s. 4 
d., 2 s. 8 d. to 32 terms). A prepared 
scheme based on a study of the laws of probability 
to break the bank at Monte Carlo. A solution of 
the secular problem of the quadrature of the circle, government 
premium £ 1.000.000 sterling. Was vast wealth acquirable through industrial 
channels? The reclamation of dunams of waste arenary soil, proposed 
in the prospectus of Agendath Netaim, Bleibtreustrasse, Berlin, W. 15 
by the cultivation of orange plantations and melonfields and reafforestation. 
The utilisation of waste paper, fells of sewer rodents, human 
excrement possessing chemical properties, in view of the vast production 
of the first, vast number of the second and immense 
quantity of the third, every normal human being of average 
vitality and appetite producing annually, cancelling byproducts of water, a 
sum total of 80 lbs. (mixed animal and vegetable diet), 
to be multiplied by 4.386.035 the total population of Ireland 
according to the census returns of 1901. Were there schemes 
of wider scope? A scheme to be formulated and submitted 
for approval to the harbour commissioners for the exploitation of 
white coal (hydraulic power), obtained by hydroelectric plant at peak 
of tide at Dublin bar or at head of water 
at Poulaphouca or Powerscourt or catchment basins of main streams 
for the economic production of 500.000 W. H. P. of 
electricity. A scheme to enclose the peninsular delta of the 
North Bull at Dollymount and erect on the space of 
the foreland, used for golf links and rifle ranges, an 
asphalted esplanade with casinos, booths, shooting galleries, hotels, boardinghouses, readingrooms, 
establishments for mixed bathing. A scheme for the use of 
