married to a man like that, she cried. With his 
bit of beard! Douce gave full vent to a splendid 
yell, a full yell of full woman, delight, joy, indignation. 
— Married to the greasy nose! she yelled. Shrill, with 
deep laughter, after bronze in gold, they urged each each 
to peal after peal, ringing in changes, bronzegold goldbronze, shrilldeep, 
to laughter after laughter : And then laughed more. Greasy 
I knows. Exhausted, breathless their shaken heads they laid, braided 
and pinnacled by glossycombed, against the counterledge. All flushed (O!), 
panting, sweating (O!), all breathless. Married to Bloom, to greaseaseabloom. 
— O saints above! Miss Douce said, sighed above her 
jumping rose. I wished I hadn’t laughed so much. I 
feel all wet. — O, Miss Douce! Miss Kennedy protested. 
You horrid thing! And flushed yet more (you horrid!), more 
goldenly. By Cantwell’s offices roved Greaseabloom, by Ceppi’s virgins, bright 
of their oils. Nannetti’s father hawked those things about, wheedling 
at doors as I. Religion pays. Must see him about 
Keyes’s par. Eat first. I want. Not yet. At four, 
she said. Time ever passing. Clockhands turning. On. Where eat? 
The Clarence, Dolphin. On. For Raoul. Eat. If I net 
five guineas with those ads. The violet silk petticoats. Not 
yet. The sweets of sin. Flushed less, still less, goldenly 
paled. Into their bar strolled Mr Dedalus. Chips, picking chips 
off one of his rocky thumbnails. Chips. He strolled. — 
O welcome back, Miss Douce. He held her hand. Enjoyed 
her holidays? — Tiptop. He hoped she had nice weather 
in Rostrevor. — Gorgeous, she said. Look at the holy 
show I am. Lying out on the strand all day. 
Bronze whiteness. — That was exceedingly naughty of you, Mr 
Dedalus told her and pressed her hand indulgently. Tempting poor 
simple males. Miss Douce of satin douced her arm away. 
— O go away, she said. You’re very simple, I 
don’t think. He was. — Well now, I am, he 
mused. I looked so simple in the cradle they christened 
me simple Simon. — You must have been a doaty, 
Miss Douce made answer. And what did the doctor order 
today? — Well now, he mused, whatever you say yourself. 
I think I’ll trouble you for some fresh water and 
a half glass of whisky. Jingle. — With the greatest 
alacrity, Miss Douce agreed. With grace of alacrity towards the 
mirror gilt Cantrell and Cochrane’s she turned herself. With grace 
she tapped a measure of gold whisky from her crystal 
keg. Forth from the skirt of his coat Mr Dedalus 
brought pouch and pipe. Alacrity she served. He blew through 
the flue two husky fifenotes. — By Jove, he mused. 
I often wanted to see the Mourne mountains. Must be 
a great tonic in the air down there. But a 
long threatening comes at last, they say. Yes, yes. Yes. 
He fingered shreds of hair, her maidenhair, her mermaid’s, into 
the bowl. Chips. Shreds. Musing. Mute. None not said nothing. 
