character. The tear is bloody near your eye. Talking through 
his bloody hat. Fitter for him to go home to 
the little sleepwalking bitch he married, Mooney, the bumbailiff’s daughter, 
Mother kept a kip in Hardwicke street that used to 
be stravaging about the landings Bantam Lyons told me that 
was stopping there at two in the morning without a 
stitch on her, exposing her person, open to all comers, 
fair field and no favour. — The noblest, the truest, 
says he. And he’s gone, poor little Willy, poor little 
Paddy Dignam. And mournful and with a heavy heart he 
bewept the extinction of that beam of heaven. Old Garryowen 
started growling again at Bloom that was skeezing round the 
door. — Come in, come on, he won’t eat you, 
says the citizen. So Bloom slopes in with his cod’s 
eye on the dog and he asks Terry was Martin 
Cunningham there. — O, Christ M’Keown, says Joe, reading one 
of the letters. Listen to this, will you? And he 
starts reading out one. 7, Hunter Street, Liverpool. To the 
High Sheriff of Dublin, Dublin. Honoured sir i beg to 
offer my services in the abovementioned painful case i hanged 
Joe Gann in Bootle jail on the 12 of February 
1900 and i hanged… — Show us, Joe, says I. 
— … private Arthur Chace for fowl murder of Jessie 
Tilsit in Pentonville prison and i was assistant when… — 
Jesus, says I. — … Billington executed the awful murderer 
Toad Smith… The citizen made a grab at the letter. 
— Hold hard, says Joe, i have a special nack 
of putting the noose once in he can’t get out 
hoping to be favoured i remain, honoured sir, my terms 
is five ginnees. H. Rumbold, Master Barber. — And a 
barbarous bloody barbarian he is too, says the citizen. — 
And the dirty scrawl of the wretch, says Joe. Here, 
says he, take them to hell out of my sight, 
Alf. Hello, Bloom, says he, what will you have? So 
they started arguing about the point, Bloom saying he wouldn’t 
and couldn’t and excuse him no offence and all to 
that and then he said well he’d just take a 
cigar. Gob, he’s a prudent member and no mistake. — 
Give us one of your prime stinkers, Terry, says Joe. 
And Alf was telling us there was one chap sent 
in a mourning card with a black border round it. 
— There all barbers, says he, from the black country 
that would hang their own fathers for five quid down 
and travelling expenses. And he was telling us there’s two 
fellows waiting below to pull his heels down when he 
gets the drop and choke him properly and then they 
chop up the rope after and sell the bits for 
a few bob a skull. In the dark land they 
bide, the vengeful knights of the razor. Their deadly coil 
they grasp : yea, and therein they lead to Erebus 
