loincloth. Buck Mulligan made way for him to scramble past 
and, glancing at Haines and Stephen, crossed himself piously with 
his thumbnail at brow and breastbone. — Seymour’s back in 
town, the young man said, grasping again his spur of 
rock. Chucked medicine and going in for the army. — 
Ah, go to God, Buck Mulligan said. — Going over 
next week to stew. You know that red Carlisle girl, 
Lily? — Yes. — Spooning with him last night on 
the pier. The father is rotto with money. — Is 
she up the pole? — Better ask Seymour that. — 
Seymour a bleeding officer, Buck Mulligan said. He nodded to 
himself as he drew off his trousers and stood up, 
saying tritely : — Redheaded women buck like goats. He 
broke off in alarm, feeling his side under his flapping 
shirt. — My twelfth rib is gone, he cried. I’m 
the Uebermensch. Toothless Kinch and I, the supermen. He struggled 
out of his shirt and flung it behind him to 
where his clothes lay. — Are you going in here, 
Malachi? — Yes. Make room in the bed. The young 
man shoved himself backward through the water and reached the 
middle of the creek in two long clean strokes. Haines 
sat down on a stone, smoking. — Are you not 
coming in, Buck Mulligan asked. — Later on, Haines said. 
Not on my breakfast. Stephen turned away. — I’m going, 
Mulligan, he said. — Give us that key, Kinch, Buck 
Mulligan said, to keep my chemise flat. Stephen handed him 
the key. Buck Mulligan laid it across his heaped clothes. 
— And twopence, he said, for a pint. Throw it 
there. Stephen threw two pennies on the soft heap. Dressing, 
undressing. Buck Mulligan erect, with joined hands before him, said 
solemnly : — He who stealeth from the poor lendeth 
to the Lord. Thus spake Zarathustra. His plump body plunged. 
— We’ll see you again, Haines said, turning as Stephen 
walked up the path and smiling at wild Irish. Horn 
of a bull, hoof of a horse, smile of a 
Saxon. — The Ship, Buck Mulligan cried. Half twelve. — 
Good, Stephen said. He walked along the upwardcurving path. Liliata 
rutilantium. Turma circumdet. Jubilantium te virginum The priest’s grey nimbus 
in a niche where he dressed discreetly. I will not 
sleep here tonight. Home also I cannot go. A voice, 
sweettoned and sustained, called to him from the sea. Turning 
the curve he waved his hand. It called again. A 
sleek brown head, a seal’s, far out on the water, 
round. Usurper. 02 — You, Cochrane, what city sent for 
him? — Tarentum, sir. — Very good. Well? — There 
was a battle, sir. — Very good. Where? The boy’s 
blank face asked the blank window. Fabled by the daughters 
of memory. And yet it was in some way if 
not as memory fabled it. A phrase, then, of impatience, 
thud of Blake’s wings of excess. I hear the ruin 
