against the mantelshelf, had propped his head on his hand 
suddenly stretched forth an arm amply. — Begone! he said. 
The world is before you. — Back in no time, 
Mr Bloom said, hurrying out. J.J. O’Molloy took the tissues 
from Lenehan’s hand and read them, blowing them apart gently, 
without comment. — He’ll get that advertisement, the professor said, 
staring through his blackrimmed spectacles over the crossblind. Look at 
the young scamps after him. — Show! Where? Lenehan cried, 
running to the window. A STREET CORTÈGE Both smiled over 
the crossblind at the file of capering newsboys in Mr 
Bloom’s wake, the last zigzagging white on the breeze a 
mocking kite, a tail of white bowknots. — Look at 
the young guttersnipe behind him hue and cry, Lenehan said, 
and you’ll kick. O, my rib risible! Taking off his 
flat spaugs and the walk. Small nines. Steal upon larks. 
He began to mazurka in swift caricature across the floor 
on sliding feet past the fireplace to J.J. O’Molloy who 
placed the tissues in his receiving hands. — What’s that? 
Myles Crawford said with a start. Where are the other 
two gone? — Who? the professor said, turning. They’re gone 
round to the Oval for a drink. Paddy Hooper is 
there with Jack Hall. Came over last night. — Come 
on then, Myles Crawford said. Where’s my hat? He walked 
jerkily into the office behind, parting the vent of his 
jacket, jingling his keys in his back pocket. They jingled 
then in the air and against the wood as he 
locked his desk drawer. — He’s pretty well on, professor 
MacHugh said in a low voice. — Seems to be, 
J.J. O’Molloy said, taking out a cigarette case in murmuring 
meditation, but it is not always as it seems. Who 
has the most matches? THE CALUMET OF PEACE He offered 
a cigarette to the professor and took one himself. Lenehan 
promptly struck a match for them and lit their cigarettes 
in turn. J.J. O’Molloy opened his case again and offered 
it. — Thanky vous, Lenehan said, helping himself. The editor 
came from the inner office, a straw hat awry on 
his brow. He declaimed in song, pointing sternly at professor 
MacHugh : ’Twas rank and fame that tempted thee, ’Twas 
empire charmed thy heart. The professor grinned, locking his long 
lips. — Eh? You bloody old Roman empire? Myles Crawford 
said. He took a cigarette from the open case. Lenehan, 
lighting it for him with quick grace, said : — 
Silence for my brandnew riddle! — Imperium romanum, J.J. O’Molloy 
said gently. It sounds nobler than British or Brixton. The 
word reminds one somehow of fat in the fire. Myles 
Crawford blew his first puff violently towards the ceiling. — 
That’s it, he said. We are the fat. You and 
I are the fat in the fire. We haven’t got 
the chance of a snowball in hell. THE GRANDEUR THAT 
WAS ROME — Wait a moment, professor MacHugh said, raising 
