did Bloom contemplate in rotation these objects? With strain, elevating 
a candlestick : with pain, feeling on his right temple 
a contused tumescence : with attention, focusing his gaze on 
a large dull passive and slender bright active : with 
solicitation, bending and downturning the upturned rugfringe : with amusement, 
remembering Dr Malachi Mulligan’s scheme of colour containing the gradation 
of green : with pleasure, repeating the words and antecedent 
act and perceiving through various channels of internal sensibility the 
consequent and concomitant tepid pleasant diffusion of gradual discolouration. His 
next proceeding? From an open box on the majolicatopped table 
he extracted a black diminutive cone, one inch in height, 
placed it on its circular base on a small tin 
plate, placed his candlestick on the right corner of the 
mantelpiece, produced from his waistcoat a folded page of prospectus 
(illustrated) entitled Agendath Netaim, unfolded the same, examined it superficially, 
rolled it into a thin cylinder, ignited it in the 
candleflame, applied it when ignited to the apex of the 
cone till the latter reached the stage of rutilance, placed 
the cylinder in the basin of the candlestick disposing its 
unconsumed part in such a manner as to facilitate total 
combustion. What followed this operation? That truncated conical crater summit 
of the diminutive volcano emitted a vertical and serpentine fume 
redolent of aromatic oriental incense. What homothetic objects, other than 
the candlestick, stood on the mantelpiece? A timepiece of striated 
Connemara marble, stopped at the hour of 4.46 a. m. 
on the 21 March 1896, matrimonial gift of Matthew Dillon 
: a dwarf tree of glacial arborescence under at ransparent 
bellshade, matrimonial gift of Luke and Caroline Doyle : an 
embalmed owl, matrimonial gift of Alderman John Hooper. What interchanges 
of looks took place between these three objects and Bloom? 
In the mirror of the giltbordered pierglass the undecorated back 
of the dwarf tree regarded the upright back of the 
embalmed owl. Before the mirror the matrimonial gift of Alderman 
John Hooper with a clear melancholy wise bright motionless compassionate 
gaze regarded Bloom while Bloom with obscure tranquil profound motionless 
compassionated gaze regarded the matrimonial gift of Luke and Caroline 
Doyle. What composite asymmetrical image in the mirror then attracted 
his attention? The image of a solitary (ipsorelative) mutable (aliorelative) 
man. Why solitary (ipsorelative)? Brothers and sisters had he none. 
Yet that man’s father was his grandfather’s son. Why mutable 
(aliorelative)? From infancy to maturity he had resembled his maternal 
procreatrix. From maturity to senility he would increasingly resemble his 
paternal creator. What final visual impression was communicated to him 
by the mirror? The optical reflection of several inverted volumes 
improperly arranged and not in the order of their common 
letters with scintillating titles on the two bookshelves opposite. Catalogue 
these books. Thom’s Dublin Post Office Directory, 1886. Denis Florence 
M’Carthy’s Poetical Works (copper beechleaf bookmark at p. 5). Shakespeare’s 
Works (dark crimson morocco, goldtooled). The Useful Ready Reckoner (brown 
cloth). The Secret History of the Court of Charles II 
