precisely wrote them, like Hamlet and Bacon, as you who 
know your Shakespeare infinitely better than I, of course I 
needn’t tell you. Can’t you drink that coffee, by the 
way? Let me stir it and take a piece of 
that bun. It’s like one of our skipper’s bricks disguised. 
Still, no one can give what he hasn’t got. Try 
a bit. — Couldn’t, Stephen contrived to get out, his 
mentlal organs for the moment refusing to dictate further. Faultfinding 
being a proverbially bad hat, Mr Bloom thought well to 
stir, or try to, the clotted sugar from the bottom 
and reflected with something approaching acrimony on the Coffee Palace 
and its temperance (and lucrative) work. To be sure it 
was a legitimate object and beyond yea or nay did 
a world of good. Shelters such as the present one 
they were in run on teetotal lines for vagrants at 
night, concerts, dramatic evenings, and useful lectures (admittance free) by 
qualified men for the lower orders. On the other hand, 
he had a distinct and painful recollection they paid his 
wife, Madam Marion Tweedy who had been prominently associated with 
it at one time, a very modest remuneration indeed for 
her pianoplaying. The idea he was strongly inclined to believe, 
was to do good and net a profit, there being 
no competition to speak of. Sulphate of copper poison, S 
O4 or something in some dried peas he remembered reading 
of in a cheap eatinghouse somewhere but he couldn’t remember 
when it was or where. Anyhow, inspection, medical inspection, of 
all eatables, seemed to him more than ever necessary which 
possibly accounted for the vogue of Dr Tibble’s Vi-Cocoa on 
account of the medical analysis involved. — Have a shot 
at it now, he ventured to say of the coffee 
after being stirred. Thus prevailed on to at any rate 
taste it, Stephen lifted the heavy mug from the brown 
puddle — it clopped out of it when taken up 
— by the handle and took a sip of the 
offending beverage. — Still, it’s solid food, his good genius 
urged, I’m a stickler for solid food, his one and 
only reason being not gormandising in the least but regular 
meals as the sine qua non for any kind of 
proper work, mental or manual. You ought to eat more 
solid food. You would feel a different man. — Liquids 
I can eat, Stephen said. But oblige me by taking 
away that knife. I can’t look at the point of 
it. It reminds me of Roman history. Mr Bloom promptly 
did as suggested and removed the incriminated article, a blunt 
hornhandled ordinary knife with nothing particularly Roman or antique about 
it to the lay eye, observing that the point was 
the least conspicuous point about it. — Our mutual friend’s 
stories are like himself, Mr Bloom, apropos of knives, remarked 
to his confidante sotto voce. Do you think they are 
genuine? He could spin those yarns for hours on end 
