poor fellow. Not twenty I’m sure he was. — Is 
that a fact? Mr Dedalus said. He drank and strayed 
away. — So sad to look at his face, Miss 
Douce condoled. God’s curse on bitch’s bastard. Tink to her 
pity cried a diner’s bell. To the door of the 
diningroom came bald Pat, came bothered Pat, came Pat, waiter 
of Ormond. Lager for diner. Lager without alacrity she served. 
With patience Lenehan waited for Boylan with impatience, for jingle 
jaunty blazes boy. Upholding the lid he (who?) gazed in 
the coffin (coffin?) at the oblique triple (piano!) wires. He 
pressed (the same who pressed indulgently her hand), soft pedalling 
a triple of keys to see the thicknesses of felt 
advancing, to hear the muffled hammerfall in action. Two sheets 
cream vellum paper on reserve two envelopes when I was 
in Wisdom Hely’s wise Bloom in Daly’s Henry Flower bought. 
Are you not happy in your home? Flower to console 
me and a pin cuts lo. Means something, language of 
flow. Was it a daisy? Innocence that is. Respectable girl 
meet after mass. Tanks awfully muchly. Wise Bloom eyed on 
the door a poster, a swaying mermaid smoking mid nice 
waves. Smoke mermaids, coolest whiff of all. Hair streaming : 
lovelorn. For some man. For Raoul. He eyed and saw 
afar on Essex bridge a gay hat riding on a 
jauntingcar. It is. Third time. Coincidence. Jingling on supple rubbers 
it jaunted from the bridge to Ormond quay. Follow. Risk 
it. Go quick. At four. Near now. Out. — Two 
pence, sir, the shopgirl dared to say. — Aha… I 
was forgetting… Excuse… — And four. At four she. Winsomely 
she on Bloohimwhom smiled. Bloo smi qui go. Ternoon. Think 
you’re the only pebble on the beach? Does that to 
all. For men. In drowsy silence gold bent on her 
page. From the saloon a call came, long in dying. 
That was a tuningfork the tuner had that he forgot 
that he now struck. A call again. That he now 
poised that it now throbbed. You hear? It throbbed, pure, 
purer, softly and softlier, its buzzing prongs. Longer in dying 
call. Pat paid for diner’s popcorked bottle : and over 
tumbler tray and popcorked bottle ere he went he whispered, 
bald and bothered, with Miss Douce. — The bright stars 
fade… A voiceless song sang from within, singing : — 
… the morn is breaking. A duodene of birdnotes chirruped 
bright treble answer under sensitive hands. Brightly the keys, all 
twinkling, linked, all harpsichording, called to a voice to sing 
the strain of dewy morn, of youth, of love’s leavetaking, 
life’s, love’s morn. — The dewdrops pearl… Lenehan’s lips over 
the counter lisped a low whistle of decoy. — But 
look this way, he said, rose of Castile. Jingle jaunted 
by the curb and stopped. She rose and closed her 
reading, rose of Castille. Fretted forlorn, dreamily rose. — Did 
she fall or was she pushed? he asked her. She 
