: our cities are hives of humanity and our galleys, 
tireme and quadrireme, laden with all manner merchandise furrow the 
waters of the known globe. You have but emerged from 
primitive conditions : we have a literature, a priesthood, an 
agelong history and a polity. Nile. Child, man, effigy. By 
the Nilebank the babemaries kneel, cradle of bulrushes : a 
man supple in combat : stonehorned, stonebearded, heart of stone. 
— You pray to a local and obscure idol : 
our temples, majestic and mysterious, are the abodes of Isis 
and Osiris, of Horus and Ammon Ra. Yours serfdom, awe 
and humbleness : ours thunder and the seas. Israel is 
weak and few are her children : Egypt is an 
host and terrible are her arms. Vagrants and daylabourers are 
you called : the world trembles at our name. A 
dumb belch of hunger cleft his speech. He lifted his 
voice above it boldly : — But, ladies and gentlemen, 
had the youthful Moses listened to and accepted that view 
of life, had he bowed his head and bowed his 
will and bowed his spirit before that arrogant admonition he 
would never have brought the chosen people out of their 
house of bondage nor followed the pillar of the cloud 
by day. He would never have spoken with the Eternal 
amid lightnings on Sinai’s mountaintop nor ever have come down 
with the light of inspiration shining in his countenance and 
bearing in his arms the tables of the law, graven 
in the language of the outlaw. He ceased and looked 
at them, enjoying silence. OMINOUS — FOR HIM! J.J. O’Molloy 
said not without regret : — And yet he died 
without having entered the land of promise. — A-sudden-at-the-moment-though-from-lingering-illness-often-previously-expectorated-demise, Lenehan 
said. And with a great future behind him. The troop 
of bare feet was heard rushing along the hallway and 
pattering up the staircase. — That is oratory, the professor 
said, uncontradicted. Gone with the wind. Hosts at Mullaghmast and 
Tara of the kings. Miles of ears of porches. The 
tribune’s words howled and scattered to the four winds. A 
people sheltered within his voice. Dead noise. Akasic records of 
all that ever anywhere wherever was. Love and laud him 
: me no more. I have money. — Gentlemen, Stephen 
said. As the next motion on the agenda paper may 
I suggest that the house do now adjourn? — You 
take my breath away. It is not perchance a French 
compliment? Mr O’Madden Burke asked. ’Tis the hour, methinks, when 
the winejug, metaphorically speaking, is most grateful in Ye ancient 
hostelry. — That it be and hereby is resolutely resolved. 
All who are in favour say ay, Lenehan announced. The 
contrary no. I declare it carried. To which particular boosing 
shed…? My casting vote is : Mooney’s! He led the 
way, admonishing : — We will sternly refuse to partake 
of strong waters, will we not? Yes, we will not. 
By no manner of means. Mr O’Madden Burke, following close, 
