in stern reality than the Gumley aforesaid, now practically on 
the parish rates, given the temporary job by Pat Tobin 
in all human probability, from dictates of humanity, knowing him 
before — shifted about and shuffled in his box before 
composing his limbs again in the arms of Morpheus. A 
truly amazing piece of hard times in its most virulent 
form on a fellow most respectably connected and familiarised with 
decent home comforts all his life who came in for 
a cool £ 100 a year at one time which 
of course the doublebarrelled ass proceeded to make general ducks 
and drakes of. And there he was at the end 
of his tether after having often painted the town tolerably 
pink, without a beggarly stiver. He drank, needless to be 
told, and it pointed only once more a moral when 
he might quite easily be in a large way of 
business if — a big if, however — he had 
contrived to cure himself of his particular partiality. All, meantime, 
were loudly lamenting the falling off in Irish shipping, coastwise 
and foreign as well, which was all part and parcel 
of the same thing. A Palgrave Murphy boat was put 
off the ways at Alexandra Basin, the only launch that 
year. Right enough the harbours were there only no ships 
ever called. There were wrecks and wrecks, the keeper said, 
who was evidently au fait. What he wanted to ascertain 
was why that ship ran bang against the only rock 
in Galway Bay when the Galway Harbour scheme was mooted 
by a Mr Worthington or some name like that, eh? 
Ask her captain, he advised them, how much palmoil the 
British Government gave him for that day’s work. Captain John 
Lever of the Lever line. — Am I right, skipper? 
he queried of the sailor now returning after his private 
potation and the rest of his exertions. That worthy, picking 
up the scent of the fagend of the song or 
words, growled in wouldbe music, but with great vim, some 
kind of chanty or other in seconds or thirds. Mr 
Bloom’s sharp ears heard him then expectorate the plug probably 
(which it was), so that he must have lodged it 
for the time being in his fist while he did 
the drinking and making water jobs and found it a 
bit sour after the liquid fire in question. Anyhow in 
he rolled after his successful libation — cum — potation, 
introducing an atmosphere of drink into the soirée, boisterously trolling, 
like a veritable son of a seacook : —The biscuits 
was as hard as brass, And the beef as salt 
as Lot’s wife’s arse. O Johnny Lever! Johnny Lever, O! 
After which effusion the redoubtable specimen duly arrived on the 
scene and, regaining his seat, he sank rather than sat 
heavily on the form provided. Skin-the-Goat, assuming he was he, 
evidently with an axe to grind, was airing his grievances 
in a forcible-feeble philippic anent the natural resources of Ireland, 
