off her sabletrimmed wrap, displaying her queenly shoulders and heaving 
embonpoint. An imperceptible smile played round her perfect lips as 
she turned to him calmly. Mr Bloom read again : 
The beautiful woman. Warmth showered gently over him, cowing his 
flesh. Flesh yielded amid rumpled clothes. Whites of eyes swooning 
up. His nostrils arched themselves for prey. Melting breast ointments 
(for him! For Raoul!). Armpits’ oniony sweat. Fishgluey slime (her 
heaving embonpoint!). Feel! Press! Crished! Sulphur dung of lions! Young! 
Young! An elderly female, no more young, left the building 
of the courts of chancery, king’s bench, exchequer and common 
pleas having heard in the lord chancellor’s court the case 
in lunacy of Potterton, in the admiralty division the summons, 
exparte motion, of the owners of the Lady Cairns versus 
the owners of the barque Mona, in the court of 
appeal reservation of judgment in the case of Harvey versus 
the Ocean Accident and Guarantee Corporation. Phlegmy coughs shook the 
air of the bookshop, bulging out the dingy curtains. The 
shopman’s uncombed grey head came out and his unshaven reddened 
face, coughing. He raked his throat rudely, spat phlegm on 
the floor. He put his boot on what he had 
spat, wiping his sole along it and bent, showing a 
rawskinned crown, scantily haired. Mr Bloom beheld it. Mastering his 
troubled breath, he said : — I’ll take this one. 
The shopman lifted eyes bleared with old rheum. — Sweets 
of Sin, he said, tapping on it. That’s a good 
one. The lacquey by the door of Dillon’s auctionrooms shook 
his handbell twice again and viewed himself in the chalked 
mirror of the cabinet. Dilly Dedalus, listening by the curbstone, 
heard the beats of the bell, the cries of the 
auctioneer within. Four and nine. Those lovely curtains. Five shillings. 
Cosy curtains. Selling new at two guineas. Any advance on 
five shillings? Going for five shillings. The lacquey lifted his 
handbell and shook it : — Barang! Bang of the 
lastlap bell spurred the halfmile wheelmen to their sprint. J. 
A. Jackson, W. E. Wylie, A. Munro and H. T. 
Gahan, their stretched necks wagging, negotiated the curve by the 
College Library. Mr Dedalus, tugging a long moustache, came round 
from Williams’s row. He halted near his daughter. — It’s 
time for you, she said. — Stand up straight for 
the love of the Lord Jesus, Mr Dedalus said. Are 
you trying to imitate your uncle John the cornetplayer, head 
upon shoulders? Melancholy God! Dilly shrugged her shoulders. Mr Dedalus 
placed his hands on them and held them back. — 
Stand up straight, girl, he said. You’ll get curvature of 
the spine. Do you know what you look like? He 
let his head sink suddenly down and forward, hunching his 
shoulders and dropping his underjaw. — Give it up, father, 
Dilly said. All the people are looking at you. Mr 
Dedalus drew himself upright and tugged again at his moustache. 
— Did you get any money? Dilly asked. — Where 
