shaven cheek over his right shoulder. — God, isn’t he 
dreadful? he said frankly. A ponderous Saxon. He thinks you’re 
not a gentleman. God, these bloody English. Bursting with money 
and indigestion. Because he comes from Oxford. You know, Dedalus, 
you have the real Oxford manner. He can’t make you 
out. O, my name for you is the best : 
Kinch, the knifeblade. He shaved warily over his chin. — 
He was raving all night about a black panther, Stephen 
said. Where is his guncase? — A woful lunatic, Mulligan 
said. Were you in a funk? — I was, Stephen 
said with energy and growing fear. Out here in the 
dark with a man I don’t know raving and moaning 
to himself about shooting a black panther. You saved men 
from drowning. I’m not a hero, however. If he stays 
on here I am off. Buck Mulligan frowned at the 
lather on his razorblade. He hopped down from his perch 
and began to search his trouser pockets hastily. — Scutter, 
he cried thickly. He came over to the gunrest and, 
thrusting a hand into Stephen’s upper pocket, said : — 
Lend us a loan of your noserag to wipe my 
razor. Stephen suffered him to pull out and hold up 
on show by its corner a dirty crumpled handkerchief. Buck 
Mulligan wiped the razorblade neatly. Then, gazing over the handkerchief, 
he said : — The bard’s noserag. A new art 
colour for our Irish poets : snotgreen. You can almost 
taste it, can’t you? He mounted to the parapet again 
and gazed out over Dublin bay, his fair oakpale hair 
stirring slightly. — God, he said quietly. Isn’t the sea 
what Algy calls it : a great sweet mother? The 
snotgreen sea. The scrotumtightening sea. Epi oinopa ponton. Ah, Dedalus, 
the Greeks. I must teach you. You must read them 
in the original. Thalatta ! Thalatta ! She is our 
great sweet mother. Come and look. Stephen stood up and 
went over to the parapet. Leaning on it he looked 
down on the water and on the mailboat clearing the 
harbour mouth of Kingstown. — Our mighty mother, Buck Mulligan 
said. He turned abruptly his great searching eyes from the 
sea to Stephen’s face. — The aunt thinks you killed 
your mother, he said. That’s why she won’t let me 
have anything to do with you. — Someone killed her, 
Stephen said gloomily. — You could have knelt down, damn 
it, Kinch, when your dying mother asked you, Buck Mulligan 
said. I’m hyperborean as much as you. But to think 
of your mother begging you with her last breath to 
kneel down and pray for her. And you refused. There 
is something sinister in you… He broke off and lathered 
again lightly his farther cheek. A tolerant smile curled his 
lips. — But a lovely mummer, he murmured to himself. 
Kinch, the loveliest mummer of them all. He shaved evenly 
and with care, in silence, seriously. Stephen, an elbow rested 
