vessels when replenished to that beneficent institution. Quite an excellent 
repast consisting of rashers and eggs, fried steak and onions, 
done to a nicety, delicious hot breakfast rolls and invigorating 
tea had been considerately provided by the authorities for the 
consumption of the central figure of the tragedy who was 
in capital spirits when prepared for death and evinced the 
keenest interest in the proceedings from beginning to end but 
he, with an abnegation rare in these our times, rose 
nobly to the occasion and expressed the dying wish (immediately 
acceded to) that the meal should be divided in aliquot 
parts among the members of the sick and indigent roomkeepers’ 
association as a token of his regard and esteem. The 
nec and non plus ultra of emotion were reached when 
the blushing bride elect burst her way through the serried 
ranks of the bystanders and flung herself upon the muscular 
bosom of him who was about to be launched into 
eternity for her sake. The hero folded her willowy form 
in a loving embrace murmuring fondly Sheila, my own. Encouraged 
by this use of her christian name she kissed passionately 
all the various suitable areas of his person which the 
decencies of prison garb permitted her ardour to reach. She 
swore to him as they mingled the salt streams of 
their tears that she would cherish his memory, that she 
would never forget her hero boy who went to his 
death with a song on his lips as if he 
were but going to a hurling match in Clonturk park. 
She brought back to his recollection the happy days of 
blissful childhood together on the banks of Anna Liffey when 
they had indulged in the innocent pastimes of the young 
and, oblivious of the dreadful present, they both laughed heartily, 
all the spectators, including the venerable pastor, joining in the 
general merriment. That monster audience simply rocked with delight. But 
anon they were overcome with grief and clasped their hands 
for the last time. A fresh torrent of tears burst 
from their lachrymal ducts and the vast concourse of people, 
touched to the inmost core, broke into heartrending sobs, not 
the least affected being the aged prebendary himself. Big strong 
men, officers of the peace and genial giants of the 
royal Irish constabulary, were making frank use of their handkerchiefs 
and it is safe to say that there was not 
a dry eye in that record assemblage. A most romantic 
incident occurred when a handsome young Oxford graduate, noted for 
his chivalry towards the fair sex, stepped forward and, presenting 
his visiting card, bankbook and genealogical tree solicited the hand 
of the hapless young lady, requesting her to name the 
day, and was accepted on the spot. Every lady in 
the audience was presented with a tasteful souvenir of the 
occasion in the shape of a skull and crossbones brooch, 
a timely and generous act which evoked a fresh outburst 
of emotion : and when the gallant young Oxonian (the 
