innuendo put upon him in so barefaced a fashion at 
the gathering of the clans in Barney Kiernan’s so that 
he, though often considerably misunderstood and the least pugnacious of 
mortals, be it repeated, departed from his customary habit to 
give him (metaphorically) one in the gizzard though so far 
as politics themselves were concerned, he was only too conscious 
of the casualties invariably resulting from propaganda and displays of 
mutual animosity and the misery and suffering it entailed as 
a foregone conclusion on fine young fellows, chiefly, destruction of 
the fittest, in a word. Anyhow, upon weighing the pros 
and cons, getting on for one as it was, it 
was high time to be retiring for the night. The 
crux was it was a bit risky to bring him 
home as eventualities might possibly ensue (somebody having a temper 
of her own sometimes) and spoil the hash altogether as 
on the night he misguidedly brought home a dog (breed 
unknown) with a lame paw, not that the cases were 
either identical or the reverse, though he had hurt his 
hand too, to Ontario Terrace, as he very distinctly remembered, 
having been there, so to speak. On the other hand 
it was altogether far and away too late for the 
Sandymount or Sandycove suggestion so that he was in some 
perplexity as to which of the two alternatives… Everything pointed 
to the fact that it behoved him to avail himself 
to the full of the opportunity, all things considered. His 
initial impression was that he was a bit standoffish or 
not over effusive but it grew on him someway. For 
one thing he mightn’t what you call jump at the 
idea, if approached, and what mostly worried him was he 
didn’t know how to lead up to it or word 
it exactly, supposing he did entertain the proposal, as it 
would afford him very great personal pleasure if he would 
allow him to help to pu coin in his way 
or some wardrobe, if found suitable. At all events he 
wound up by concluding, eschewing for the nonce hidebound precedent, 
a cup of Epps’s cocoa and a shakedown for the 
night plus the use of a rug or two and 
overcoat doubled into a pillow. At least he would be 
in safe hands and as warm as a toast on 
a trivet. He failed top erceive any very vast amount 
of harm in that always with the proviso no rumpus 
of any sort was kicked up. A move had to 
be made because that merry old soul, the grasswidower in 
question, who appeared to be glued to the spot, didn’t 
appear in any particular hurry to wend his way home 
to his dearly beloved Queenstown and it was highly likely 
some sponger’s bawdyhouse of retired beauties off Sheriff street lower 
would be the best clue to that equivocal character’s whereabouts 
for a few days to come, alternately racking their feelings 
(the mermaids’) with sixchamber revolver anecdotes verging on the tropical 
