de Dieu! Entweder transsubstantiality oder consubstantiality but in no case 
subsubstantiality. And all cried out upon It for a very 
scurvy word. A pregnancy without joy, he said, a birth 
without pangs, a body without blemish, a belly without bigness. 
Let the lewd with faith and fervour worship. With will 
will we withstand, withsay. Hereupon Punch Costello dinged with his 
fist upon the board and would sing a bawdy catch 
Staboo Stabella about a wench that was put in pod 
of a jolly swashbuckler in Almany which he did now 
attack : The first three months she was not well, 
Staboo, when here nurse Quigley from the door angerly bid 
them hist ye should shame you nor was it not 
meet as she remembered them being her mind was to 
have all orderly against lord Andrew came for because she 
was jealous that not gasteful turmoil might shorten the honour 
of her guard. It was an ancient and a sad 
matron of a sedate look and christian walking, in habit 
dun beseeming her megrims and wrinkled visage, nor did her 
hortative want of it effect for incontinently Punch Costello was 
of them all embraided and they reclaimed the churl with 
civil rudeness some and with menace of blandishments others whiles 
all chode with him, a murrain seize the dolt, what 
a devil he would be at, thou chuff, thou puny, 
thou got in the peasestraw thou losel, thou chitterling, thou 
spawn of a rebel, thou dykedropt, thou abortion thou, to 
shut up his drunken drool out of that like a 
curse of God ape, the good sir Leopold that had 
for his cognisance the flower of quiet, margerain gentle, advising 
also the time’s occasion as most sacred and most worthy 
to be most sacred. In Horne’s house rest should reign. 
To be short this passage was scarce by when Master 
Dixon of Mary in Eccles, goodly grinning, asked young Stephen 
what was the reason why he had not cided to 
take friar’s vows and he answered him obedience in the 
womb, chastity in the tomb but involuntary poverty all his 
days. Master Lenehan at this made return that he had 
heard of those nefarious deeds and how, as he heard 
hereof counted, he had besmirched the lily virtue of a 
confiding female which was corruption of minors and they all 
intershowed it too, waxing merry and toasting to his fathership. 
But he said very entirely it was clean contrary to 
their suppose for he was the eternal son and ever 
virgin. Thereat mirth grew in them the more and they 
rehearsed to him his curious rite of wedlock for the 
disrobing and deflowering of spouses, as the priests use in 
Madagascar island, she to be in guise of white and 
saffron, her groom in white and grain, with burning of 
nard and tapers, on a bridebed while clerks sung kyries 
and the anthem Ut novetur sexus omnis corporis mysterium till 
she was there unmaided. He gave them then a much 
