girls. So I landed them up on Behan’s car and 
down to nighttown. bloom I was just going home by 
Gardiner street when I happened to… corny kelleher (Laughs.) Sure 
they wanted me to join in with the mots. No, 
by God, says I. Not for old stagers like myself 
and yourself. (He laughs again and leers with lacklustre eye.) 
Thanks be to God we have it in the house 
what, eh, do you follow me? Hah! hah! hah! bloom 
(Tries to laugh.) He, he, he! Yes. Matter of fact 
I was just visiting an old friend of mine there, 
Virag, you don’t know him (poor fellow he’s laid up 
for the past week) and we had a liquor together 
and I was just making my way home… (The horse 
neighs.) the horse Hohohohohohoh! Hohohohome! corny kelleher Sure it was 
Behan, our jarvey there, that told me after we left 
the two commercials in Mrs Cohen’s and I told him 
to pull up and got off to see. (He laughs.) 
Sober hearsedrivers a specialty. Will I give him a lift 
home? Where does he hang out? Somewhere in Cabra, what? 
bloom No, in Sandycove, I believe, from what he let 
drop. (Stephen, prone, breathes to the stars. Corny Kelleher, asquint, 
drawls at the horse. Bloom in gloom, looms down.) corny 
kelleher (Scratches his nape.) Sandycove! (He bends down and calls 
to Stephen.) Eh! (He calls again.) Eh! He’s covered with 
shavings anyhow. Take care they didn’t lift anything off him. 
bloom No, no, no. I have his money and his 
hat here and stick. corny kelleher Ah well, he’ll get 
over it. No bones broken. Well, I’ll shove along. (He 
laughs.) I’ve a rendezvous in the morning. Burying the dead. 
Safe home! the horse (Neighs.) Hohohohohome. bloom Good night. I’ll 
just wait and take him along in a few… (Corny 
Kelleher returns to the outside car and mounts it. The 
horse harness jingles.) corny kelleher (From the car, standing.) Night. 
bloom Night. (The jarvey chucks the reins and raises his 
whip encouragingly. The car and horse back slowly, awkwardly and 
turn. Corny Kelleher on the sideseat sways his head to 
and fro in sign of mirth at Blooms plight. The 
jarvey joins in the mute pantomimic merriment nodding from the 
farther seat. Bloom shakes his head in mute mirthful reply. 
With thumb and palm Corny Kelleher reassures that the two 
bobbies will allow the sleep to continue for what else 
is to be done. With a slow nod Bloom conveys 
his gratitude as that is exactly what Stephen needs. The 
car jingles tooraloom round the corner of the tooraloom lane. 
Corny Kelleher again reassuralooms with his hand. Bloom with his 
hand assuralooms Corny Kelleher that he is reassuraloomtay. The tinkling 
hoofs and jingling harness grow fainter with their tooralooloo looloo 
lay. Bloom, holding in his hand Stephens hat festooned with 
shavings and ashplant, stands irresolute. Then he bends to him 
and shakes him by the shoulder.) bloom Eh! Ho! (There 
