in all of us, ostler and butcher, and would be 
bawd and cuckold too but that in the economy of 
heaven, foretold by Hamlet, there are no more marriages, glorified 
man, an androgynous angel, being a wife unto himself. — 
Eureka! Buck Mulligan cried. Eureka! Suddenly happied he jumped up 
and reached in a stride John Eglinton’s desk. — May 
I? he said. The Lord has spoken to Malachi. He 
began to scribble on a slip of paper. Take some 
slips from the counter going out. — Those who are 
married, Mr Best, douce, herald, said, all save one, shall 
live. The rest shall keep as they are. He laughed, 
unmarried, at Eglinton Johannes, of arts a bachelor. Unwed, unfancied, 
ware of wiles, they fingerponder nightly each his variorum edition 
of The Taming of the Shrew. — You are a 
delusion, said roundly John Eglinton to Stephen. You have brought 
us all this way to show us a French triangle. 
Do you believe your own theory? — No, Stephen said 
promptly. — Are you going to write it? Mr Best 
asked. You ought to make it a dialogue, don’t you 
know, like the Platonic dialogues Wilde wrote. John Eclection doubly 
smiled. — Well, in that case, he said, I don’t 
see why you should expect payment for it since you 
don’t believe it yourself. Dowden believes there is some mystery 
in Hamlet but will say no more. Herr Bleibtreu, the 
man Piper met in Berlin, who is working up that 
Rutland theory, believes that the secret is hidden in the 
Stratford monument. He is going to visit the present duke, 
Piper says, and prove to him that his ancestor wrote 
the plays. It will come as a surprise to his 
grace. But he believes his theory. I believe, O Lord, 
help my unbelief. That is, help me to believe or 
help me to unbelieve? Who helps to believe? Egomen. Who 
to unbelieve? Other chap. — You are the only contributor 
to Dana who asks for pieces of silver. Then I 
don’t know about the next number. Fred Ryan wants space 
for an article on economics. Fraidrine. Two pieces of silver 
he lent me. Tide you over. Economics. — For a 
guinea, Stephen said, you can publish this interview. Buck Mulligan 
stood up from his laughing scribbling, laughing : and then 
gravely said, honeying malice : — I called upon the 
bard Kinch at his summer residence in upper Mecklenburgh street 
and found him deep in the study of the Summa 
contra Gentiles in the company of two gonorrheal ladies, Fresh 
Nelly and Rosalie, the coalquay whore. He broke away. — 
Come, Kinch. Come, wandering Ængus of the birds. Come, Kinch, 
you have eaten all we left. Ay, I will serve 
you your orts and offals. Stephen rose. Life is many 
days. This will end. — We shall see you tonight, 
John Eglinton said. Notre ami Moore says Malachi Mulligan must 
be there. Buck Mulligan flaunted his slip and panama. — 
