the stairhead seaward where he gazed. Inshore and farther out 
the mirror of water whitened, spurned by lightshod hurrying feet. 
White breast of the dim sea. The twining stresses, two 
by two. A hand plucking the harpstrings merging their twining 
chords. Wavewhite wedded words shimmering on the dim tide. A 
cloud began to cover the sun slowly, shadowing the bay 
in deeper green. It lay behind him, a bowl of 
bitter waters. Fergus’ song : I sang it above in 
the house, holding down the long dark chords. Her door 
was open : she wanted to hear my music. Silent 
with awe and pity I went to her bedside. She 
was crying in her wretched bed. For those words, Stephen 
: love’s bitter mystery. Where now? Her secrets : old 
feather fans, tassled dancecards, powdered with musk, a gaud of 
amber beads in her locked drawer. A birdcage hung in 
the sunny window of her house when she was a 
girl. She heard old Royce sing in the pantomine of 
Turko the terrible and laughed with others when he sang 
: I am the boy That can enjoy Invisibility. Phantasmal 
mirth, folded away : muskperfumed. And no more turn aside 
and brood Folded away in the memory of nature with 
her toys. Memories beset his brooding brain. Her glass of 
water from the kitchen tap when she had approached the 
sacrament. A cored apple, filled with brown sugar, roasting for 
her at the hob on a dark autumn evening. Her 
shapely fingernails reddened by the blood of squashed lice from 
the children’s shirts. In a dream, silently, she had come 
to him, her wasted body within its loose graveclothes giving 
off an odour of wax and rosewood, her breath bent 
over him with mute secret words, a faint odour of 
wetted ashes. Her glazing eyes, staring out of death, to 
shake and bend my soul. On me alone. The ghostcandle 
to light her agony. Ghostly light on the tortured face. 
Her hoarse loud breath rattling in horror, while all prayed 
on their knees. Her eyes on me to strike me 
down. Liliata rutilantium te confessorum turma circumdet : iubilantium te 
virginum chorus excipiat. Ghoul! Chewer of corpses! No mother. Let 
me be and let me live. — Kinch ahoy ! 
Buck Mulligan’s voice sang from within the tower. It came 
nearer up the staircase, calling again. Stephen, still trembling at 
his soul’s cry, heard warm running sunlight and in the 
air behind him friendly words. — Dedalus, come down, like 
a good mosey. Breakfast is ready. Haines is apologising for 
waking us last night. It’s all right. — I’m coming, 
Stephen said, turning. — Do, for Jesus’ sake, Buck Mulligan 
said. For my sake and for all our sakes. His 
head disappeared and reappeared. — I told him your symbol 
of Irish art. He says it’s very clever. Touch him 
for a quid, will you? A guinea, I mean. — 
I get paid this morning, Stephen said. — The school 
