wife drove by in her noddy. Let me see. Is 
he buried in saint Michan’s? Or no, there was a 
midnight burial in Glasnevin. Corpse brought in through a secret 
door in the wall. Dignam is there now. Went out 
in a puff. Well, well. Better turn down here. Make 
a detour. Mr Kernan turned and walked down the slope 
of Watling street by the corner of Guinness’s visitors’ waitingroom. 
Outside the Dublin Distillers Company’s stores an outside car without 
fare or jarvey stood, the reins knotted to the wheel. 
Damn dangerous thing. Some Tipperary bosthoon endangering the lives of 
the citizens. Runaway horse. Denis Breen with his tomes, weary 
of having waited an hour in John Henry Menton’s office, 
led his wife over O’Connell bridge, bound for the office 
of Messrs Collis and Ward. Mr Kernan approached Island street. 
Times of the troubles. Must ask Ned Lambert to lend 
me those reminiscences of sir Jonah Barrington. When you look 
back on it all now in a kind of retrospective 
arrangement. Gaming at Daly’s. No cardsharping then. One of those 
fellows got his hand nailed to the table by a 
dagger. Somewhere here Lord Edward Fitzgerald escaped from major Sirr. 
Stables behind Moira house. Damn good gin that was. Fine 
dashing young nobleman. Good stock, of course. That ruffian, that 
sham squire, with his violet gloves, gave him away. Course 
they were on the wrong side. They rose in dark 
and evil days. Fine poem that is : Ingram. They 
were gentlemen. Ben Dollard does sing that ballad touchingly. Masterly 
rendition. At the siege of Ross did my father fall. 
A cavalcade in easy trot along Pembroke quay passed, outriders 
leaping, leaping in their, in their saddles. Frockcoats. Cream sunshades. 
Mr Kernan hurried forward, blowing pursily. His Excellency! Too bad! 
Just missed that by a hair. Damn it! What a 
pity! Stephen Dedalus watched through the webbed window the lapidary’s 
fingers prove a timedulled chain. Dust webbed the window and 
the showtrays. Dust darkened the toiling fingers with their vulture 
nails. Dust slept on dull coils of bronze and silver, 
lozenges of cinnabar, on rubies, leprous and winedark stones. Born 
all in the dark wormy earth, cold specks of fire, 
evil lights shining in the darkness. Where fallen archangels flung 
the stars of their brows. Muddy swinesnouts, hands, root and 
root, gripe and wrest them. She dances in a foul 
gloom where gum burns with garlic. A sailorman, rustbearded, sips 
from a beaker rum and eyes her. A long and 
seafed silent rut. She dances, capers, wagging her sowish haunches 
and her hips, on her gross belly flapping a ruby 
egg. Old Russell with a smeared shammy rag burnished again 
his gem, turned it and held it at the point 
of his Moses’ beard. Grandfather ape gloating on a stolen 
hoard. And you who wrest old images from the burial 
earth! The brainsick words of sophists : Antisthenes. A lore 
of drugs. Orient and immortal wheat standing from everlasting to 
