both their eyes met and, as soon as it began 
to dawn on him that the other was endeavouring to 
help himself to the thing, he involontarily determined to help 
him himself and so he accordingly took hold of the 
mediumsized glass recipient which contained the fluid sought after and 
made a capacious hole in it by pouring a lot 
of it out with, also at the same time however, 
however, a considerable degree of attentiveness in order not to 
upset any of the beer that was in it about 
the place. The debate which ensued was in its scope 
and progress an epitome of the course of life. Neither 
place nor council was lacking in dignity. The debaters were 
the keenest in the land, the theme they were engaged 
on the loftiest and most vital. The high hall of 
Horne’s house had never beheld an assembly so representative and 
so varied nor had the old rafters of that establishment 
ever listened to a language so encyclopaedic. A gallant scene 
in truth it made. Crotthers was there at the foot 
of the table in his striking Highland garb, his face 
glowing from the briny airs of the Mull of Galloway. 
There too, opposite to him was Lynch whose countenance bore 
already the stigmata of early depravity and premature wisdom. Next 
the Scotchman was the place assigned to Costello, the eccentric, 
while at his side was seated in stolid repose the 
squat form of Madden. The chair of the resident indeed 
stood vacant before the hearth but on either flank of 
it the figure of Bannon in explorer’s kit of tweed 
shorts and salted cowhide brogues contrasted sharply with the primrose 
elegance and and townbred manners of Malachi Roland St John 
Mulligan. Lastly at the head of the board was the 
young poet who found a refuge from his labours of 
pedagogy and metaphysical inquisition in the convivial atmosphere of Socratic 
discussion, while to right and left of him were accommodated 
the flippant prognosticator, fresh from the hippodrome, and that vigilant 
wanderer, soiled by the dust of travel and combat and 
stained by the mire of an indelible dishonour, but from 
whose steadfast and constant heart no lure or peril or 
threat or degradation could ever efface the image of that 
voluptuous loveliness which the inspired pencil of Lafayette has limned 
for ages yet to come. It had better be stated 
here and now at the outset that the perverted transcendentalism 
to which Mr S. Dedalus’ (Div. Scep.) contentions would appear 
to prove him pretty badly addicted runs directly counter to 
accepted scientific methods. Science, it cannot be too often repeated, 
deals with tangible phenomena. The man of science like the 
man in the street has to face hardheaded facts that 
cannot be blinked and explain them as best he can. 
There may be, it is true, some questions which science 
cannot answer — at present — such as the first 
problem submitted by Mr L. Bloom (Pubb. Canv.) regarding the 
