fully intended doing) at the rate of one guinea per 
column, My Experiences, let us say, in a Cabman’s Shelter. 
The pink edition, extra sporting, of the Telegraph, tell a 
graphic lie, lay, as luck would have it, beside his 
elbow and as he was just puzzling again, far from 
satisfied, over a country belonging to him and the preceding 
rebus the vessel came from Bridgwater and the postcard was 
addressed to A. Boudin, find the captain’s age, his eyes 
went aimlessly over the respective captions which came under his 
special province, the allembracing give us this day our daily 
press. First he got a bit of a start but 
it turned out to be only something about somebody named 
H. du Boyes, agent for typewriters or something like that. 
Great battle Tokio. Lovemaking in Irish £ 200 damages. Gordon 
Bennett. Emigration swindle. Letter from His Grace William +. Ascot 
Throwaway recalls Derby of ’92 when Captain Marshall’s dark horse, 
Sir Hugo, captured the blue ribband at long odds. New-York 
disaster, thousand lives lost. Foot and Mouth. Funeral of the 
late Mr Patrick Dignam. So to change the subject he 
read about Dignam, R. I. P., which, he reflected, was 
anything but a gay sendoff. — This morning (Hynes put 
in, of course), the remains of the late Mr Patrick 
Dignam were removed from his residence, n° 9 Newbridge Avenue, 
Sandymount, for interment in Glasnevin. The deceased gentleman was a 
most popular and genial personality in city life and his 
demise, after a brief illness, came as great shock to 
citizens of all classes by whom he is deeply regretted. 
The obsequies, at which many friends of the deceased were 
present, were carried out (certainly Hynes wrote it with a 
nudge from Corny) by Messrs. H. J. O’Neill & Son, 
164 North Strand road. The mourners included : Patk. Dignam 
(son), Bernard Corrigan (brother-in-law), John Henry Menton, solr., Martin Cunningham, 
John Power eatondph 1/8 ador dorador douradora (must be where 
he called Monks the dayfather about Keyes’s ad) Thomas Kernan, 
Simon Dedalus, B. A., Edward J. Lambert, Cornelius Kelleher, Joseph 
M C. Hynes, L. Bloom, C. P. M’Coy, — M’Intosh, 
and several others. Nettled not a little by L. Boom 
(as it incorrectly stated) and the line of bitched type, 
but tickled to death simultaneously by C. P. M’Coy and 
Stephen Dedalus, B. A., who were conspicuous, needless to say, 
by their total absence (to say nothing of M’Intosh), L. 
Boom pointed it out to his companion B. A., engaged 
in stifling another yawn, half nervousness, not forgetting the usual 
crop of nonsensical howlers of misprints. — Is that first 
epistle to the Hebrews, he asked, as soon as his 
bottom jaw would let him, in? Text : open thy 
mouth and put thy foot in it. — It is, 
really, Mr Bloom said (though first he fancied he alluded 
to the archbishop till he added about foot and mouth 
with which there could be no possible connection) overjoyed to 
