he said. The bag of Goulding, Colles, Ward led Bloom 
by ryebloom flowered tables. Aimless he chose with agitated aim, 
bald Pat attending, a table near the door. Be near. 
At four. Has he forgotten? Perhaps a trick. Not come 
: whet appetite. I couldn’t do. Wait, wait. Pat, waiter, 
waited. Sparkling bronze azure eyed Blazure’s skyblue bow and eyes. 
— Go on, pressed Lenehan. There’s no-one. He never heard. 
— … to Flora’s lips did hie. High, a high 
note, pealed in the treble, clear. Bronzedouce, communing with her 
rose that sank and rose, sought Blazes Boylan’s flower and 
eyes. — Please, please. He pleaded over returning phrases of 
avowal. — I could not leave thee… — Afterwits, Miss 
Douce promised coyly. — No, now, urged Lenehan. Sonnez la 
cloche! O do! There’s no-one. She looked. Quick. Miss Kenn 
out of earshot. Sudden bent. Two kindling faces watched her 
bend. Quavering the chords strayed from the air, found it 
again, lost chord, and lost and found it faltering. — 
Go on! Do! Sonnez! Bending, she nipped a peak of 
skirt above her knee. Delayed. Taunted them still, bending, suspending, 
with wilful eyes. — Sonnez! Smack. She let free sudden 
in rebound her nipped elastic garter smackwarm against her smackable 
a woman’s warmhosed thigh. — La cloche! cried gleeful Lenehan. 
Trained by owner. No sawdust there. She smilesmirked supercilious (wept! 
aren’t men?), but, lightward gliding, mild she smiled on Boylan. 
— You’re the essence of vulgarity, she in gliding said. 
Boylan, eyed, eyed. Tossed to fat lips his chalice, drankoff 
his tiny, chalice, sucking the last fat violet syrupy drops. 
He spellbound eyes went after her gliding head as it 
went down the bar by mirrors, gilded arch for ginger 
ale, hock and claret glasses shimmering, a spiky shell, where 
it concerted, mirrored, bronze with sunnier bronze. Yes, bronze from 
anearby. — … Sweetheart, goodbye! — I’m off, said Boylan 
with impatience. He slid his chalice brisk away, grasped his 
change. — Wait a shake, begged Lenehan, drinking quickly. I 
wanted to tell you. Tom Rochford… — Come on to 
blazes, said Blazes Boylan, going. Lenehan gulped to go. — 
Got the horn or what? he said. Wait. I’m coming. 
He followed the hasty creaking shoes but stood by nimbly 
by the threshold, saluting forms, a bulky with a slender. 
— How do you do Mr Dollard? — Eh? How 
do? How do? Ben Dollard’s vague bass answered, turning an 
instant from Father Cowley’s woe. He won’t give you any 
trouble, Bob. Alf Bergan will speak to the long fellow. 
We’ll put a barleystraw in that Judas Iscariot’s ear this 
time. Sighing, Mr Dedalus came through the saloon, a finger 
soothing an eyelid. — Hoho, we will, Ben Dollard yodled 
jollily. Come on, Simon, give us a ditty. We heard 
the piano. Bald Pat, bothered waiter, waited for drink orders, 
Power for Richie. And Bloom? Let me see. Not make 
him walk twice. His corns. Four now. How warm this 
