of the Ring. Hello. Illustration. Fierce Italian with carriagewhip. Must 
be Ruby pride of the on the floor naked. Sheet 
kindly lent. The monster Maffei desisted and flung his victim 
from him with an oath. Cruelty behind it all. Doped 
animals. Trapeze at Hengler’s. Had to look the other way. 
Mob gaping. Break your neck and we’ll break our sides. 
Families of them. Bone them young so they metempsychosis. That 
we live after death. Our souls. That a man’s soul 
after he dies. Dignam’s soul… — Did you finish it? 
he asked. — Yes, she said. There’s nothing smutty in 
it. Is she in love with the first fellow all 
the time? — Never read it. Do you want another? 
— Yes. Get another of Paul de Kock’s. Nice name 
he has. She poured more tea into her cup, watching 
its flow sideways. Must get that Capel street library book 
renewed or they’ll write to Kearney, my garantor. Reincarnation : 
that’s the word. — Some people believe, he said, that 
we go on living in another body after death, that 
we lived before. They call it reincarnation. That we all 
lived before on the earth thousands of years ago or 
some other planet. They say we have forgotten it. Some 
say they remember their past lives. The sluggish cream wound 
curdling spirals through her tea. Better remind her of the 
word : metempsychosis. An example would be better. An example? 
The Bath of the Nymph over the bed. Given away 
with the Easter number of Photo Bits : Splendid masterpiece 
in art colours. Tea before you put milk in. Not 
unlike her with her hair down : slimmer. Three and 
six I gave for the frame. She said it would 
look nice over the bed. Naked nymphs : Greece : 
and for instance all the people that lived then. He 
turned the pages back. — Metempsychosis, he said, is what 
the ancient Greeks called it. They used to believe you 
could be changed into an animal or a tree, for 
instance. What they called nymphs, for example. Her spoon ceased 
to stir up the sugar. She gazed straight before her, 
inhaling through her arched nostrils. — There’s a smell of 
burn, she said. Did you leave anything on the fire? 
— The kidney! he cried suddenly. He fitted the book 
roughly into his inner pocket and, stubbing his toes against 
the broken commode, hurried out towards the smell, stepping hastily 
down the stairs with a flurried stork’s legs. Pungent smoke 
shot up in an angry jet from a side of 
the pan. By prodding a prong of the fork under 
the kidney he detached it and turned it turtle on 
its back. Only a little burned. He tossed it off 
the pan on to a plate and let the scanty 
brown gravy trickle over it. Cup of tea now. He 
sat down, cut and buttered a slice of the loaf. 
He shore away the burnt flesh and flung it to 
