John Conmee S.J., the reverend T. Salmon, D.D., provost of 
Trinity college, Dr Alexander J. Dowie. At the bar, English 
or Irish : exemplars, Seymour Bushe, K. C., Rufus Isaacs, 
K. C. On the stage, modern or Shakespearean : exemplars 
Charles Wyndham, high comedian, Osmond Tearle († 1901), exponent of 
Shakespeare. Did the host encourage his guest to chant in 
a modulated voice a strange legend on an allied theme? 
Reassuringly, their place where none could hear them talk being 
secluded, reassured, the decocted beverages, allowing for subsolid residual sediment 
of a mechianacal mixture, water plus sugar plus cream plus 
cocoa, having been consumed. Recite the first (major) part of 
this chanted legend? Little Harry Hughes and his schoolfellows all 
Went out for to play ball. And the very first 
ball little Harry Hughes played He drove it ow’er the 
je’s garden wall. And the very second ball little Harry 
Hughes played He broke the jew’s windows all. How did 
the son of Rudolph receive this first part? With unmixed 
feeling. Smiling, a jew, he heard with pleasure and saw 
the unbroken kitchen window. Recite the second part (minor) of 
the legend. Then out there came the jew’s daughter And 
she all dressed in green. « Come back, come back, 
you pretty little boy, And play your ball again. » 
« I can’t come back and I won’t come back 
Without my schoolfellows all. For if my master he did 
hear He’d make it a sorry ball. » She took 
him by the lilywhite hand And led him along the 
hall Until she led him to a room Where none 
could hear him call. She took a penknife out of 
her pocket And cut off his little head And now 
he’ll play his ball no more For he lies among 
the dead. How did the father of Millicent receive this 
second part? With mixed feelings. Unsmiling, he heard and saw 
with wonder a jew’s daughter, all dressed in green. Condense 
Stephen’s commentary. One of all, the least of all, is 
the victim predestined. Once by inadvertence, twice by design he 
challenges his destiny. It comes when he is abandoned and 
challenges him reluctant and, as an apparition of hope and 
youth, holds him unresisting. It leads him to a strange 
habitation, to a secret infidel apartment, and there, implacable, immolates 
him, consenting. Why was the host (victim predestined) sad? He 
wished that a tale of a deed should be told 
of a deed not by him should by him not 
be told. Why was the host (reluctant, unresisting) still? In 
accordance with the law of the conservation of energy. Why 
was the host (secret infidel) silent? He weighed the possible 
evidences for and against ritual murder : the incitation of 
the hierarchy, the superstition of the populace, the propagation of 
rumour in continued fraction of veridicity, the envy of opulence, 
the influence of retaliation, the sporadic reappearance of atavistic delinquency, 
the mitigating circumstances of fanaticism, hypnotic suggestion and somnambulism. From 
