atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and 
tidal estuaries and arms of sea : its solidity in 
glaciers, icebergs, icefloes : its docility in working hydraulic millwheels, 
turbines, dynamos, electric power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills : its 
utility in canals, rivers, ifnavigable, floating and graving docks : 
its potentiality derivable from harnessed tides or watercourses falling from 
level to level : its submarine fauna and flora (anacoustic, 
photophobe) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the globe 
: its ubiquity as constituting 90 % of the human 
body : the noxiousness of its effluvia in lacustrine marshes, 
pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waning moon. 
Having set the halffilled kettle on the now burning coals, 
why did he return to the stillflowing tap? To wash 
his soiled hands with a partially consumed tablet of Barrington’s 
lemonflavoured soap, to which paper still adhered (bought thirteen hours 
previously for fourpence and still unpaid for), in fresh cold 
neverchanging everchanging water and dry them, face and hands, in 
a long redbordered holland cloth passed over a wooden revolving 
roller. What reason did Stephen give for declining Bloom’s offer? 
That he was hydrophobe, hating partial contact by immersion or 
total by submersion in cold water (his last bath having 
taken place in the month of October of the preceding 
year), disliking the aqueous substances of glass and crystal, distrusting 
aquacities of thought and language. What impeded Bloom from giving 
Stephen counsels of hygiene and prophylactic to which should be 
added suggestions concerning a preliminary wetting of the head and 
contraction of the muscles with rapid splashing of the face 
and neck and thoracic and epigastric region in case of 
sea or river bathing, the parts of the human anatomy 
most sensitive to cold being the nape, stomach, and thenar 
or sole of foot? The incompatibility of aquacity with the 
erratic originality of genius. What additional didactic counsels did he 
similarly repress? Dietary : concerning the respective percentage of protein 
and caloric energy in bacon, salt ling and butter, the 
absence of the former in the lastnamed and the abundance 
of the latter in the firstnamed. Which seemed to the 
host to be the predominant qualities of his guest? Confidence 
in himself, an equal and opposite power of abandonment and 
recuperation. What concomitant phenomenon took place in the vessel of 
liquid by the agency of fire? The phenomenon of ebullition. 
Fanned by a constant updraught of ventilation between the kitchen 
and the chimneyflue, ignition was communicated from the faggots of 
precombustible fuel to polyhedral masses of bituminous coal, containing in 
compressed mineral form the foliated fossilised decidua of primeval forests 
which had in turn derived their vegetative existence from the 
sun, primal source of heat (radiant), transmitted through omnipresent luminiferous 
diathermanous ether. Heat (convected), a mode of motion developed by 
such combustion, was constantly and increasingly conveyed from the course 
of calorification to the liquid contained in the vessel, being 
radiated through the uneven unpolished dark surface of the metal 
