wood. All gnawed through. They could invent a handsome bier 
with a kind of panel sliding let it down that 
way. Ay but they might object to be buried out 
of another fellow’s. They’re so particular. Lay me in my 
native earth. Bit of clay from the holy land. Only 
a mother and deadborn child ever buried in the one 
coffin. I see what it means. I see. To protect 
him as long as possible even in the earth. The 
Irishman’s house is his coffin. Enbalming in catacombs, mummies, the 
same idea. Mr Bloom stood far back, his hat in 
his hand, counting the bared heads. Twelve. I’m thirteen. No. 
The chap in the macintosh is thirteen. Death’s number. Where 
the deuce did he pop out of? He wasn’t in 
the chapel, that I’ll swear. Silly superstition that about thirteen. 
Nice soft tweed Ned Lambert has in that suit. Tinge 
of purple. I had one like that when we lived 
in Lombard street west. Dressy fellow he was once. Used 
to change three suits in the day. Must get that 
grey suit of mine turned by Mesias. Hello. It’s dyed. 
His wife I forgot he’s not married or his landlady 
ought to have picked out those threads for him. The 
coffin dived out of sight, eased down by the men 
straddled on the gravetrestles. They struggled up and out : 
and all uncovered. Twenty. Pause. If we were all suddenly 
somebody else. Far away a donkey brayed. Rain. No such 
ass. Never see a dead one, they say. Shame of 
death. They hide. Also poor papa went away. Gentle sweet 
air blew round the bared heads in a whisper. Whisper. 
The boy by the gravehead held his wreath with both 
hands staring quietly in the black open space. Mr Bloom 
moved behind the portly kindly caretaker. Well cut frockcoat. Weighing 
them up perhaps to see which will go next. Well 
it is a long rest. Feel no more. It’s the 
moment you feel. Must be damned unpleasant. Can’t believe it 
at first. Mistake must be : someone else. Try the 
house opposite. Wait, I wanted to. I haven’t yet. Then 
darkened deathchamber. Light they want. Whispering around you. Would you 
like to see a priest? Then rambling and wandering. Delirium 
all you hid all your life. The death struggle. His 
sleep is not natural. Press his lower eyelid. Watching is 
his nose pointed is his jaw sinking are the soles 
of his feet yellow. Pull the pillow away and finish 
it off on the floor since he’s doomed. Devil in 
that picture of sinner’s death showing him a woman. Dying 
to embrace her in his shirt. Last act of Lucia. 
Shall I nevermore behold thee? Bam! expires. Gone at last. 
People talk about you a bit : forget you. Don’t 
forget to pray for him. Remember him in your prayers. 
Even Parnell. Ivy day dying out. Then they follow : 
dropping into a hole one after the other. We are 
