plain straightforward question why a child of normally healthy parents 
and seemingly a healthy child and properly looked after succumbs 
unaccountably in early childhood (though other children of the same 
marriage do not) must certainly in the poet’s words, give 
us pause. Nature, we may rest assured, has her own 
good and cogent reasons for whatever she does and in 
all probability such deaths are due to some law of 
anticipation by which organisms in which morbous germs have taken 
up their residence (modern science has conclusively shown that only 
the plasmic substance can be said to be immortal) tend 
to disappear at an increasingly earlier stage of development, an 
arrangement, which, though productive of pain to some of our 
feelings (notably the maternal) is nevertheless, some of us think, 
in the long run beneficial to the race in general 
in securing thereby the survival of the fittest. Mr S. 
Dedalus’ (Div. Scep.) remark (or should it be called an 
interruption?) that an omnivorous being which can masticate, deglute, digest 
and apparently pass through the ordinary channel with pluterperfect imperturbability 
such multifarious aliments as cancrenous femoules emaciated by parturition, corpulent 
professional gentlemen, not to speak of jaundiced politicians and chlorotic 
nuns might possibly find gastric relief in an innocent collation 
of staggering bob, reveals as nought else could and in 
a very unsavoury light the tendency above alluded to. For 
the enlightenment of those who are not so intimately acquainted 
with the minutiae of the municipal abattoir as this morbidminded 
esthete and embryo philosopher who for all his overweening bumptiousness 
in things scientific can scarcely distinguish an acid from an 
alkali prides himself on being, it should perhaps be stated 
that staggering bob in the vile parlance of our lower 
class licensed victuallers signifies the cookable and eatable flesh of 
a calf newly dropped from its mother. In a recent 
public controversy with Mr L. Bloom (Pubb. Canv.) which took 
place in the commons’ hall of the National Maternity Hospital, 
29, 30 and 31 Holles street, of which, as is 
well known, Dr A. Horne (Lic. in Mdw., F. K. 
Q. C. P. I.) is the able and popular master, 
he is reported by eyewitnesses as having stated that once 
a woman has let the cat into the bag (an 
esthetic allusion, presumably, to one of the most complicated and 
marvellous of all nature’s processes, the act of sexual congress) 
she must let it out again or give it life, 
as he phrased it, to save her own. At the 
risk of her own was the telling rejoinder of his 
interlocutor none the less effective for the moderate and measured 
tone in which it was delivered. Meanwhile the skill and 
patience of the physician had brought about a happy accouchement. 
It had been a weary weary while both for patient 
and doctor. All that surgical skill could do was done 
and the brave woman had manfully helped. She had. She 
had fought the good fight and now she was very 
