of Sin (produced by Bloom and so manipulated that its 
front cover came in contact with the surface of the 
table) with a pencil (supplied by Stephen) Stephen wrote the 
Irish characters for gee, eh, dee, em, simple and modified, 
and Bloom in turn wrote the Hebrew characters ghimel, aleph, 
daleth and (in the absence of mem) a substituted goph, 
explaining their arithmetical values as ordinal and cardinal numbers, videlicet 
3, 1, 4 and 100. Was the knowledge possessed by 
both of each of these languages, the extinct and the 
revived, theoretical or practical? Theoretical, being confined to certain grammatical 
rules of accidence and syntax and practically excluding vocabulary. What 
points of contact existed between these languages and between the 
peoples who spoke them? The presence of guttural sounds, diacritic 
aspirations, epenthetic and servile letters in both languages : their 
antiquity, both having taught on the plain of Shinar 242 
years after the deluge in the seminary instituted by Fenius 
Farsaigh, descendant of Noah, progenitor of Israel, and ascendant of 
Heber and Heremon, progenitors of Ireland : their archeological, genealogical, 
hagiographical, exegetical, homilectic, toponomastic, historical and religious literatures comprising the 
works of rabbis and culdees, Torah, Talmud (Mischna and Ghemara) 
Massor, Pentateuch, Book of the Dun Cow, Book of Ballymote, 
Garland of Howth, Book of Kells : their dispersal, persecution, 
survival and revival : the isolation of their synagogical and 
ecclesiastical rites in ghetto (S. Mary’s Abbey) and masshouse (Adam 
and Eve’s tavern) : the proscription of their national costumes 
in penal laws and jewish dress acts : the restoration 
in Chanan David of Zion and the possibility of Irish 
political autonomy or devolution. What anthem did Bloom chant partially 
in anticipation of that multiple, ethnically irreducible consummation? Kolod balejwaw 
pnimah Nefesch, jehudi, homijah. Why was the chant arrested at 
the conclusion of this first distich? In consequence of defective 
mnemotechnic. How did the chanter compensate for this deficiency? By 
a periphrastic version of the general text. In what common 
study did their mutual reflections merge? The increasing simplification traceable 
from the Egyptian epigraphic hieroglyphs to the Greek and Roman 
alphabets and the anticipation of modern stenography and telegraphic code 
in the cuneiform inscriptions (Semitic) and the virgular quinquecostate ogham 
writing (Celtic). Did the guest comply with his host’s request? 
Doubly, by appending his signature in Irish and Roman characters. 
What was Stephen’s auditive sensation? He heard in a profound 
ancient male unfamiliar melody the accumulation of the past. What 
was Bloom’s visual sensation? He saw in a quick young 
male familiar form the predestination of a future. What were 
Stephen’s and Bloom’s quasisimultaneous volitional quasisensations of concealed identities? Visually, 
Stephen’s : The traditional figure of hypostasis, depicted by Johannes 
Damascenus, Lentulus Romanus and Epiphanius Monachus as leucodermic, sesquipedalian with 
winedark hair. Auditively, Bloom’s : The Traditionnal accent af the 
ecstasy of catastrophe. What future careers had been possible for 
Bloom in the past and with what exemplars? In the 
church, Roman, Anglican, or Nonconformist : exemplars, the very reverend 
