of him? A seventh gravedigger came beside Mr Bloom to 
take up an idle spade. — O, excuse me! He 
stepped aside nimbly. Clay, brown, damp, began to be seen 
in the hole. It rose. Nearly over. A mound of 
damp clods rose more, rose, and the gravediggers rested their 
spades. All uncovered again for a few instants. The boy 
propped his wreath against a corner : the brother-in-law his 
on a lump. The gravediggers put on their caps and 
carried their earthy spades towards the barrow. Then knocked the 
blades lightly on the turf : clean. One bent to 
pluck from the haft a long tuft of grass. One, 
leaving his mates, walked slowly on with shouldered weapon, its 
blade blueglancing. Silently at the gravehead another coiled the coffinband. 
His navelcord. The brother-in-law, turning away, placed something in his 
free hand. Thanks in silence. Sorry, sir : trouble. Headshake. 
I know that. For yourselves just. The mourners moved away 
slowly, without aim, by devious paths, staying awhile to read 
a name on a tomb. — Let us go round 
by the chief’s grave, Hynes said. We have time. — 
Let us, Mr Power said. They turned to the right, 
following their slow thoughts. With awe Mr Power’s blank voice 
spoke : — Some say he is not in that 
grave at all. That the coffin was filled with stones. 
That one day he will come again. Hynes shook his 
head. — Parnell will never come again, he said. He’s 
there, all that was mortal of him. Peace to his 
ashes. Mr Bloom walked unheeded along his grove by saddened 
angels, crosses, broken pillars family vaults, stone hopes praying with 
upcast eyes, old Ireland’s hearts and hands. More sensible to 
spend the money on some charity for the living. Pray 
for the repose of the soul of. Does anybody really? 
Plant him and have done with him. Like down a 
coalshoot. Then lump them together to save time. All souls’ 
day. Twentyseventh I’ll be at his grave. Ten shillings for 
the gardener. He keeps it free of weeds. Old man 
himself. Bent down double with his shears clipping. Near death’s 
door. Who passed away. Who departed this life. As if 
they did it of their own accord. Got the shove, 
all of them. Who kicked the bucket. More interesting if 
they told you what they were. So and so, wheelwright. 
I travelled for cork lino. I paid five shillings in 
the pound. Or a woman’s with her saucepan. I cooked 
good Irish stew. Eulogy in a country churchyard it ought 
to be that poem of whose is it Wordsworth or 
Thomas Campbell. Entered into rest the protestants put it. Old 
Dr Murren’s. The great physician called him home. Well it’s 
God’s acre for them. Nice country residence. Newly plastered and 
painted. Ideal spot to have a quiet smoke and read 
the Church Times. Marriage ads they never try to beautify. 
Rusty wreaths hung on knobs, garlands of bronzefoil. Better value 
