a city in Canada, Quebec. She understood little of political 
complications, internal, or balance of power, external. In calculating the 
addenda of bills she frequently had recourse to digital aid. 
After completion of laconic epistolary compositions she abandoned the implement 
of calligraphy in the encaustic pigment exposed to the corrosive 
action of copperas, green vitriol and nutgall. Unusual polysyllables of 
foreign origin she interpreted phonetically or by false analogy or 
by both : metempsychosis (met him pike hoses), alias (a 
mendacious person mentioned in sacred Scripture). What compensated in the 
false balance of her intelligence for these and such deficiencies 
of judgment regarding persons, places and things? The false apparent 
parallelism of all perpendicular arms of all balances, proved true 
by construction. The counterbalance of her proficiency of judgment regarding 
one person, proved true by experiment. How had he attempted 
to remedy this state of comparative ignorance? Variously. By leaving 
in a conspicuous place a certain book open at a 
certain page : by assuming in her, when alluding explanatorily, 
latent knowledge : by open ridicule in her presence of 
some absent other’s ignorant lapse. With what success had he 
attempted direct instruction? She followed not all, a part of 
the whole, gave attention with interest, comprehended with surprise, with 
care repeated, with greater difficulty remembered, forgot with ease, with 
misgiving reremembered, rerepeated with error. What system had proved more 
effective? Indirect suggestion implicating self-interest. Example? She disliked umbrella with 
rain, he liked woman with umbrella, she disliked new hat 
with rain, he liked woman with new hat, he bought 
new hat with rain, she carried umbrella with new hat. 
Accepting the analogy implied in his guest’s parable which examples 
of postexilic eminence did he adduce? Three seekers of the 
pure truth, Moses of Egypt, Moses Maimonides, author of More 
Nebukim (Guide of the Perplexed) and Moses Mendelssohn of such 
eminence that from Moses (of Egypt) to Moses (Mendelssohn) there 
arose none like Moses (Maimonides). What statement was made, under 
correction, by Bloom concerning a fourth seeker of pure truth, 
by name Aristotle, mentioned, with permission, by Stephen? That the 
seeker mentioned had been a pupil of a rabbinical philosopher, 
name uncertain. Were other anapocryphal illustrious sons of the law 
and children of a selected or rejected race mentioned? Felix 
Bartholdy Mendelssohn (composer), Baruch Spinoza (philosopher), Mendoza (pugilist), Ferdinand Lassalle 
(reformer, duellist). What fragments of verse from the ancient Hebrew 
and ancient Irish languages were cited with modulations of voice 
and translation of texts by guest to host and by 
host to guest? By Stephen : suil, suil, suil arun, 
suil go siocair agus suil go cuin (walk, walk, walk 
your way, walk in safety, walk with care). By Bloom 
: Kifeloch, harimon rakatejch m’baad l’zamatejch (thy temple amid thy 
hair is as a slice of pomegranate). How was a 
glyphic comparison of the phonic symbols of both languages made 
in substantiation of the oral comparison? On the penultimate blank 
page of a book entituled of inferior literary style, Sweets 
