Or a monk. lynch He is. A cardinal’s son. stephen 
Cardinal sin. Monks of the screw. (His Eminence, Simon Stephen 
Cardinal Dedalus, Primate of all Ireland, appears in the doorway, 
dressed in red soutane, sandals and socks. Seven dwarf simian 
acolytes, also in red, cardinal sins, uphold his train, peeping 
under it. He wears a battered silk hat sideways on 
his head. His thumbs are stuck in his armpits and 
his palms outspread. Round his neck hangs a rosary of 
corks ending on his breast in a corkscrew cross. Releasing 
his thumbs, he invokes grace from on high with large 
wave gestures and proclaims with bloated pomp.) the cardinal Conservio 
lies captured He lies in the lowest dungeon With manacles 
and chains around his limbs Weighing upwards of three tons. 
(He looks at all for a moment, his right eye 
closed tight, his left cheek puffed out. Then, unable to 
repress his merriment, he rocks to and fro, arms akimbo, 
and sings with broad rollicking humour.) O, the poor little 
fellow Hi-hi-hi-hi-his legs they were yellow He was plump, fat 
and heavy and brisk as a snake But some bloody 
savage To graize his white cabbage He murdered Nell Flaherty’s 
duckloving drake. (A multitude of midges swarms over his robe. 
He scratches himself with crossed arms at his ribs, grimacing, 
and exclaims.) I’m suffering the agony of the damned. By 
the hoky fiddle, thanks be to Jesus those funny little 
chaps are not unanimous. If they were they’d walk me 
off the face of the bloody globe. (His head aslant, 
he blesses curtly with fore and middle fingers, imparts the 
Easter kiss and doubleshuffles off comically, swaying his hat from 
side to side, shrinking quickly to the size of his 
trainbearers. The dwarf acolytes, giggling, peeping, nudging, ogling, Easter-kissing, zigzag 
behind him. His voice is heard mellow from afar, merciful, 
male, melodious.) Shall carry my heart to thee, Shall carry 
my heart to thee, And the breath of the balmy 
night Shall carry my heart to thee. (The trick doorhandle 
turns.) the doorhandle Theeee. zoe The devil is in that 
door. (A male form passes down the creaking staircase and 
is heard taking the waterproof and hat from the rack. 
Bloom starts forward involuntarily and, half closing the door as 
he passes, takes the chocolate from his pocket and offers 
it nervously to Zoe.) zoe (Sniffs his hair briskly.) Hum. 
Thank your mother for the rabbits. I’m very fond of 
what I like. bloom (Hearing a male voice in talk 
with the whores on the doorstep, pricks his ears.) If 
it were he? After? Or because not? Or the double 
event? zoe (Tears open the silverfoil.) Fingers was made before 
forks. (She breaks off and nibbles a piece, gives a 
piece to Kitty Ricketts and then turns kittenishly to Lynch.) 
No objection to French lozenges? (He nods. She taunts him.) 
Have it now or wait till you get it? (He 
opens his mouth, his head cocked. She whirls the prize 
