you call it? Myles Crawford asked. Where did they get 
the plums? VIRGILIAN, SAYS PEDAGOGUE. SOPHOMORE PLUMPS FOR OLD MAN 
MOSES — Call it, wait, the professor said, opening his 
long lips wide to reflect. Call it, let me see. 
Call it : deus nobis hæc otia fecit. — No, 
Stephen said, I call it A Pisgah Sight of Palestine 
or The Parable of the Plums. — I see, the 
professor said. He laughed richly. — I see, he said 
again with new pleasure. Moses and the promised land. We 
gave him that idea, he added to J. J. O’Molloy. 
HORATIO IS CYNOSURE THIS FAIR JUNE DAY J. J. O’Molloy 
sent a weary sidelong glance towards the statue and held 
his peace. — I see, the professor said. He halted 
on sir John Gray’s pavement island and peered aloft at 
Nelson through the meshes of his wry smile. DIMINISHED DIGITS 
PROVE TOO TITILLATING FOR FRISKY FRUMPS. ANNE WIMBLES, FLO WANGLES 
— YET CAN YOU BLAME THEM? — Onehandled adulterer, he 
said grimly. That tickles me I must say. — Tickled 
the old ones too, Myles Crawford said, if the God 
Almighty’s truth was known. 08 Pineapple rock, lemon platt, butter 
scotch. a sugarsticky girl shovelling scoopfuls of creams for a 
christian brother. Some school treat. Bad for their tummies. Lozenge 
and comfit manufacturer to His Majesty the King. God. Save. 
Our. Sitting on his throne, sucking red jujubes white. A 
sombre Y.M.C.A. young man, watchful among the warm sweet fumes 
of Graham Lemon’s, placed a throwaway in a hand of 
Mr Bloom. Heart to heart talks. Bloo… Me? No. Blood 
of the Lamb. His slow feet walked him riverward, reading. 
Are you saved? All are washed in the blood of 
the lamb. God wants blood victim. Birth, hymen, martyr, war, 
foundation of a building, sacrifice, kidney burntoffering, druids’ altars. Elijah 
is coming. Dr John Alexander Dowie, restorer of the church 
in Zion, is coming. Is coming! Is coming!! Is coming!!! 
All heartily welcome. Paying game. Torry and Alexander last year. 
Polygamy. His wife will put the stopper on that. Where 
was that ad some Birmingham firm the luminous crucifix? Our 
Saviour. Wake up in the dead of night and see 
him on the wall, hanging. Pepper’s ghost idea. Iron nails 
ran in. Phosphorus it must be done with. If you 
leave a bit of codfish for instance. I could see 
the bluey silver over it. Night I went down to 
the pantry in the kitchen. Don’t like all the smells 
in it waiting to rush out. What was it she 
wanted? The Malaga raisins. Thinking of Spain. Before Rudy was 
born. The phosphorescence, that bluey greeny. Very good for the 
brain. From Butler’s monument house corner he glanced along Bachelor’s 
walk. Dedalus’ daughter there still outside Dillon’s auctionrooms. Must be 
selling off some old furniture. Knew her eyes at once 
from the father. Lobbing about waiting for him. Home always 
breaks up when the mother goes. Fifteen children he had. 
