words out of my mouth, he said. A hocuspocus of 
conflicting evidence that candidly you couldn’t remotely… All those wretched 
quarrels, in his humble opinion, stirring up bad blood — 
bump of combativeness or gland of some kind, erroneously supposed 
to be about a punctilio of honour and a flag 
— were very largely a question of the money question 
which was at the back of everything, greed and jealousy, 
people never knowing when to stop. — They accuse — 
remarked he audibly. He turned away from the others, who 
probably… and spoke nearer to, so as the others… in 
case they… — Jews, he softly imparted in an aside 
in Stephen’s ear, are accused of ruining. Not a vestige 
of truth in it, I can safely say. History, — 
would you be surprised to learn? — proves up to 
the hilt Spain decayed when the Inquisition hounded the jews 
out and England prospered when Cromwell, an uncommonly able ruffian, 
who, in other respects has much to answer for, imported 
them. Why? Because they are practical and are proved to 
be so. I don’t want to indulge in any… because 
you know the standard works on the subject, and then, 
orthodox as you are… But in the economic, not touching 
religion, domain, the priest spells poverty. Spain again, you saw 
in the war, compared with goahead America. Turks, it’s in 
the dogma. Because if they didn’t believe they’d go straight 
to heaven when they die they’d try to live better 
— at least, so I think. That’s the juggle on 
which the p. p.’s raise the wind on false pretences. 
I’m, he resumed, with dramatic force, as good an Irishman 
as that rude person I told you about at the 
outset and I want to see everyone, concluded he, all 
creeds and classes pro rata having a comfortable tidysized income, 
in no niggard fashion either, something in the neighbourhood of 
£ 300 per annum That’s the vital issue at stake 
and it’s feasible and would be provocative of friendlier intercourse 
between man and man. At least that’s my idea for 
what it’s worth. I call that patriotism. Ubi patria, as 
we learned a small smattering of in our classical day 
in Alma Mater, vita beni. Where you can live well, 
the sense is, if you work. Over his untasteable apology 
for a cup of coffee, listening to this synopsis of 
things in general, Stephen stared at nothing in particular. He 
could hear, of course, all kinds of words changing colour 
like those crabs about Ringsend in the morning, burrowing quickly 
into all colours of different sorts of the same sand 
where they had a home somewhere beneath or seemed to. 
Then he looked up and saw the eyes that said 
or didn’t say the words the voice he heard said 
— if you work. — Count me out, he managed 
to remark, meaning to work. The eyes were surprised at 
this observation, because as he, the person who owned them 
