How do you do, Mr Crimmins? First rate, sir. I 
was afraid you might be up in your other establishment 
in Pimlico. How are things going? Just keeping alive. Lovely 
weather we are having. Yes, indeed. Good for the country. 
Those farmers are always grumbling. I’ll just take a thimbleful 
of your best gin, Mr Crimmins. A small gin, sir. 
Yes, sir. Terrible affair that General Slocum explosion. Terrible, terrible! 
A thousand casualties. And heartrending scenes. Men trampling down women 
and children. Most brutal thing. What do they say was 
the cause? Spontaneous combustion : most scandalous revelation. Not a 
single lifeboat would float and the firehose all burst. What 
I can’t understand is how the inspectors ever allowed a 
boat like that… Now you are talking straight, Mr Crimmins. 
You know why? Palmoil. Is that a fact? Without a 
doubt. Well now, look at that. And America they say 
is the land of the free. I thought we were 
bad here. I smiled at him. America, I said, quietly, 
just like that. What is it? The sweepings of every 
country including our own. Isn’t that true? That’s a fact. 
Graft, my dear sir. Well, of course, where there’s money 
going there’s always someone to pick it up. Saw him 
looking at my frockcoat. Dress does it. Nothing like a 
dressy appearance. Bowls them over. — Hello, Simon, Father Cowley 
said. How are things? — Hello, Bob, old man, Mr 
Dedalus answered, stopping. Mr Kernan halted and preened himself before 
the sloping mirror of Peter Kennedy, hairdresser. Stylish coat, beyond 
a doubt. Scott of Dawson street. Well worth the half 
sovereign I gave Neary for it. Never built under three 
guineas. Fits me down to the ground. Some Kildare street 
club toff had it probably. John Mulligan, the manager of 
the Hibernian bank, gave me a very sharp eye yesterday 
on Carlisle bridge as if he remembered me. Aham! Must 
dress the character for those fellows. Knight of the road. 
Gentleman. And now, Mr Crimmins, may we have the honour 
of your custom again, sir. The cup that cheers but 
not inebriates, as the old saying has it. North wall 
and sir John Rogerson’s quay, with hulls and anchorchains, sailing 
westward, sailed by a skiff, a crumpled throwaway, rocked on 
the ferrywash, Elijah is coming. Mr Kernan glanced in farewell 
at his image. High colour, of course. Grizzled moustache. Returned 
Indian officer. Bravely he bore his stumpy body forward on 
spatted feet, squaring his shoulders. Is that Lambert’s brother over 
the way, Sam? What? Yes. He’s as like it as 
damn it. No. The windscreen of that motorcar in the 
sun there. Just a flash like that. Damn like him. 
Aham! Hot spirit of juniper juice warmed his vitals and 
his breath. Good drop of gin, that was. His frocktails 
winked in bright sunshine to his fat strut. Down there 
Emmet was hanged, drawn and quartered. Greasy black rope. Dogs 
licking the blood off the street when the lord lieutenant’s 
