store of knowledge. Amid the general vacant hilarity of the 
assembly a bell rang and while all were conjecturing what 
might be the cause Miss Callan entered and, having spoken 
a few words in a low tone to young Mr 
Dixon, retired with a profound bow to the company. The 
presence even for a moment among a party of debauchees 
of a woman endued with every quality of modesty and 
not less severe than beautiful refrained the humorous sallies even 
of the most licentious but her departure was the signal 
for an outbreak of ribaldry. Strike me silly, said Costello, 
a low fellow who was fuddled. A monstrous fine bit 
of cowflesh! I’ll be sworn she has rendezvoused you. What, 
you dog? Have you a way with them? Gad’s bud. 
Immensely so, said Mr Lynch. The bedside manner it is 
that they use in the Mater hospice. Demme, does not 
Doctor O’Gargle chuck the nuns there under the chin? As 
I look to be saved I had it from my 
Kitty who has been wardmaid there any time these seven 
months. Lawksamercy, doctor, cried the young blood in the primrose 
vest, feigning a womanish simper and immodest squirmings of his 
body, how you do tease a body! Drat the man! 
Bless me, I’m all of a wibblywobbly. Why, you’re as 
bad as dear little Father Cantekissem that you are! May 
this pot of four half choke me, cried Costello, if 
she ain’t in the family way. I knows a lady 
what’s got a white swelling quick as I claps eyes 
on her. The young surgeon, however, rose and begged the 
company to excuse his retreat as the nurse had just 
then informed him that he was needed in the ward. 
Merciful providence had been pleased to put a period to 
the sufferings of the lady who was enceinte which she 
had borne with a laudable fortitude and she had given 
birth to a bouncing boy. I want patience, said he, 
with those who without wit to enliven or learning to 
instruct, revile an ennobling profession which, saving the reverence due 
to the Deity, is the greatest power for happiness upon 
the earth. I am positive when I say that if 
need were I could produce a cloud of witnesses to 
the excellence of her noble exercitations which, so far from 
being a byword, should be a glorious incentive in the 
human breast. I cannot away with them. What? Malign such 
an one, the amiable Miss Callan, who is the lustre 
of her own sex and the astonishment of ours and 
at an instant the most momentous that can befall a 
puny child of clay? Perish the thought! I shudder to 
think of the future of a race where the seeds 
of such malice have been sown and where no right 
reverence is rendered to mother and maid in house of 
Horne. Having delivered himself of this rebuke he saluted those 
present on the by and repaired to the door. A 
