positive, it struck him a great field was to be 
opened up in the line of opening up new routes 
to keep pace with the times apropos of the Fishguard-Rosslare 
route which, it was mooted, was once more on the 
tapis in the circumlocution departments with the usual quantity of 
red tape and dillydallying of effete fogeydom and dunderheads generally. 
A great opportunity there certainly was for push and enterprise 
to meet the travelling needs of the public at large, 
the average man, i. e. Brown, Robinson and Co. It 
was a subject of regret and absurd as well on 
the face of it and no small blame to our 
vaunted society that the man in the street, when the 
system really needed toning up, for a matter of a 
couple of paltry pounds, was debarred from seeing more of 
the world they lived in instead of being always cooped 
up since my old stickin-the-mud took me for a wife. 
After all, hang it, they had their eleven and more 
humdrum months of it and merited a radical change of 
venue after the grind of city life in the summertime, 
for choice, when Dame Nature is at her spectacular best, 
constituting nothing short of a new lease of life. There 
were equally excellent opportunities for vacationists in the home island, 
delightful sylvan spots for rejuvenation, offering a plethora of attractions 
as well as a bracing tonic for the system in 
and around Dublin and its picturesque environs, even, Poulaphouca, to 
which there was a steam tram, but also farther away 
from the madding crowd, in Wicklow, rightly termed the garden 
of Ireland, an ideal neighbourhood for elderly wheelmen, so long 
as it didn’t come down, and in the wilds of 
Donegal where, if report spoke true, the coup d’œil was 
exceedingly grand, though the lastnamed locality was not easily getatable 
so that the influx of visitors was not as yet 
all that it might be considering the signal benefits to 
be derived from it, while Howth with its historic associations 
and otherwise, Silken Thomas, Grace O’Malley, George IV, rhododendrons several 
hundred feet above sealevel was a favourite haunt with all 
sorts and conditions of men, especially in the spring when 
young men’s fancy, though it had its own toll of 
deaths by falling off the cliffs by design or accidentally, 
usually, by the way, on their left leg, it being 
only about three quarters of an hour’s run from the 
pillar. Because of course uptodate tourist travelling was as yet 
merely in its infancy, so to speak, and the accommodation 
left much to be desired. Interesting to fathom, it seemed 
to him, from a motive of curiosity pure and simple, 
was whether it was the traffic that created the route 
or viceversa or the two sides in fact. He turned 
back the other side of the card picture and passed 
it along to Stephen. — I seen a Chinese one 
time, related the doughty narrator, that had little pills like 
