we all went together to Fairyhouse races, was it? mrs 
breen (In smart Saxe tailormade, white velours hat and spider 
veil.) Leopardstown. bloom I mean, Leopardstown. And Molly won seven 
shillings on a three year old named Nevertell and coming 
home along by Foxrock in that old fiveseater shanderadan of 
a waggonette you were in your heyday then and you 
had on that new hat of white velours with a 
surround of molefur that Mrs Hayes advised you to buy 
because it was marked down to nineteen and eleven, a 
bit of wire and an old rag of velveteen, and 
I’ll lay you what you like she did it on 
purpose… mrs breen She did, of course, the cat! Don’t 
tell me! Nice adviser! bloom Because it didn’t suit you 
one quarter as well as the other ducky little tammy 
toque with the bird of paradise wing in it that 
I admired on you and you honestly looked just too 
fetching in it though it was a pity to kill 
it, you cruel creature, little mite of a thing with 
a heart the size of a fullstop. mrs breen (Squeezes 
his arm, simpers.) Naughty cruel I was. bloom (Low, secretly, 
ever more rapidly.) And Molly was eating a sandwich of 
spiced beef out of Mrs Joe Gallaher’s lunch basket. Frankly, 
though she had her advisers or admirers, I never cared 
much for her style. She was… mrs breen Too… bloom 
Yes. And Molly was laughing because Rogers and Maggot O’Reilly 
were mimicking a cock as we passed a farmhouse and 
Marcus Tertius Moses, the tea merchant, drove past us in 
a gig with his daughter, Dancer Moses was her name, 
and the poodle in her lap bridled up and you 
asked me if I ever heard or read or knew 
or came across… mrs breen (Eagerly.) Yes, yes, yes, yes, 
yes, yes, yes. (She fades from his side. Followed by 
the whining dog he walks on towards hellsgates. In an 
archway a standing woman, bent forward, her feet apart, pisses 
cowily. Outside a shuttered pub a bunch of loiterers listen 
to a tale which their broken snouted gaffer rasps out 
with raucous humour. An armless pair of them flop wrestling, 
growling, in maimed sodden playfight.) the gaffer (Crouches, his voice 
twisted in his snout.) And when Cairns came down from 
the scaffolding in Beaver Street what was he after doing 
it into only into the bucket of porter that was 
there waiting on the shavings for Derwan’s plasterers. the loiterers 
(Guffaw with cleft palates.) O jays! (Their paintspeckled hats wag. 
Spattered with size and lime of their lodges they frisk 
limblessly about him.) bloom Coincidence too. They think it funny. 
Anything but that. Broad daylight. Trying to walk. Lucky no 
woman. the loiterers Jays, that’s a good one. Glauber salts. 
O jays, into the men’s porter. (Bloom passes. Cheap whores, 
singly, coupled, shawled, dishevelled, call from lanes, doors, corners.) the 
whores Are you going far, queer fellow? How’s your middle 
