tongue lolling out.) Influence of his surroundings. Give and have 
done with it. Provided nobody. (Calling encouraging words he shambles 
back with a furtive poacher’s tread, dogged by the setter 
into a dark stalestunk corner. He unrolls one parcel and 
goes to dump the crubeen softly but holds back and 
feels the trotter.) Sizeable for threepence. But then I have 
it in my left hand. Calls for more effort. Why? 
Smaller from want of use. O, let it slide. Two 
and six. (With regret he lets unrolled crubeen and trotter 
slide. The mastiff mauls the bundle clumsily and gluts himself 
with growling greed, crunching the bones. Two raincaped watch approach, 
silent, vigilant. They murmur together.) the watch Bloom. Of Bloom. 
For Bloom. Bloom. (Each lays a hand on Blooms shoulder.) 
first watch Caught in the act. Commit no nuisance. bloom 
(Stammers.) I am doing good to others. (A covey of 
gulls, storm petrels, rises hungrily from Liffey slime with Banbury 
cakes in their beaks.) the gulls Kaw kave kankury kake. 
bloom The friend of man. Trained by kindness. (He points. 
Bob Doran, toppling from a high barstool, sways over the 
munching spaniel.) bob doran Towser. Give us the paw. Give 
the paw. (The bulldog growls, his scruff standing, a gobbet 
of pig’s knuckle between his molars through which rabid scumspittle 
dribbles. Bob Doran falls silently into an area.) second watch 
Prevention of cruelty to animals. bloom (Enthusiastically.) A noble work! 
I scolded that tramdriver on Harold’s cross bridge for illusing 
the poor horse with his harness scab. Bad French I 
got for my pains. Of course it was frosty and 
the last tram. All tales of circus life are highly 
demoralising. (Signor Maffei, passion pale, in liontamer’s costume with diamond 
studs in his shirtfront steps forward, holding a circus paper 
hoop, a curling carriagewhip and a revolver with which he 
covers the gorging boarhound. signor maffei (With a sinister smile.) 
Ladies and gentlemen, my educated greyhound. It was I broke 
in the bucking broncho Ajax with my patent spiked saddle 
for carnivores. Lash under the belly with a knotted thong. 
Block tackle and a strangling pully will bring your lion 
to heel, no matter how fractious, even Leo ferox there, 
the Libyan maneater. A redhot crowbar and some liniment rubbing 
on the burning part produced Fritz of Amsterdam, the thinking 
hyena. (He glares.) I possess the Indian sign. The glint 
of my eye does it with these breastsparklers. (With a 
bewitching smile.) I now introduce Mademoiselle Ruby, the pride of 
the ring. first watch Come. Name and address. bloom I 
have forgotten for the moment. Ah, yes! (He takes off 
his high grade hat, saluting.) Dr Bloom, Leopold, dental surgeon. 
You have heard of von Bloom Pasha. Umpteen millions. Donnerwetter! 
Owns half Austria. Egypt. Cousin. first watch Proof. (A card 
falls from inside the leather headband of Bloom’s hat.) bloom 
(In red fez, cadi’s dress coat with broad green sash, 
wearing a false badge of the Legion of Honour, picks 
