Finish. You can’t. stephen (With an effort.) Interval which. Is 
the greatest possible elipse. Consistent with. The ultimate return. The 
octave. Which. the cap Which? (Outside the gramophone begins to 
blare The Holy City.) stephen (Abruptly.) What went forth to 
the ends of the world to traverse not itself. God, 
the sun, Shakespeare, a commercial traveller, having itself traversed in 
reality itself, becomes that self. Wait a moment. Wait a 
second. Damn that fellow’s noise in the street. Self which 
it itself was ineluctably preconditioned to become. Ecco! lynch (With 
a mocking whinny of laughter grins at Bloom and Zoe 
Higgins.) What a learned speech, eh? zoe (Briskly.) God help 
your head, he knows more than you have forgotten. (With 
obese stupidity Florry Talbot regards Stephen.) florry They say the 
last day is coming this summer. kitty No! zoe (Explodes 
in laughter.) Great unjust God! florry (Offended.) Well, it was 
in the papers about Antichrist. O, my foot’s tickling. (Ragged 
barefoot newsboys, jogging a wagtail kite, patter past, yelling.) the 
newsboys Stop press edition. Result of the rockinghorse races. Sea 
serpent in the royal canal. Safe arrival of Antichrist. (Stephen 
turns and sees Bloom.) stephen A time, times and half 
a time. (Reuben J. Antichrist, wandering jew, a clutching hand 
open on his spine, stumps forward. Across his loins is 
slung a pilgrim’s wallet from which protrude promissory notes and 
dishonoured bills. Aloft over his shoulder he bears a long 
boatpole from the hook of which the sodden huddled mass 
of his only son, saved from Liffey waters hangs from 
the slack of its breeches. A hobgoblin in the image 
of Punch Costello, hipshot, crookbacked, hydrocephalic, prognathic with receding forehead 
and Ally Sloper nose tumbles in somersaults through the gathering 
darkness.) all What? the hobgoblin (His jaws chattering, capers to 
and fro, goggling his eyes, squeaking, kangaroohopping, with outstretched clutching 
arms then all at once thrusts his lipless face through 
the fork of his thighs.) Il vient! C’est moi! L’homme 
qui rit! L’homme primigène! (He whirls round and round with 
dervish howls.) Sieurs et dames, faites vos jeux! (He crouches 
juggling. Tiny roulette planets fly from his hands.) Les jeux 
sont faits! (The planets rush together, uttering crepitant cracks.) Rien 
n’va plus. (The planets, buoyant balloons, sail swollen up and 
away. He springs off into vacuum.) florry (Sinking into torpor, 
crosses herself secretly.) The end of the world! (A female 
tepid effluvium leaks out from her. Nebulous obscurity occupies space. 
Through the drifting fog without the gramophone blares over coughs 
and feetshuffling.) the gramophone Jerusalem! Open your gates and sing 
Hosanna… (A rocket rushes up the sky and bursts. A 
white star falls from it, proclaiming the consummation of all 
things and second coming of Elijah. Along an infinite invisible 
tightrope taut from zenith to nadir the End of the 
World, a twoheaded octopus in gillie’s kilts, busby and tartan 
filibegs, whirls through the murk, head over heels, in the 
fob of the Three Legs of Man.) the end of 
