I never broach the subject, Davy Byrne said humanely, if 
I see a gentleman is in trouble that way. It 
only brings it up fresh in their minds. — It’s 
not the wife anyhow, Nosey Flynn said. I met him 
the day before yesterday and he coming out of that 
Irish farm dairy John Wyse Nolan’s wife has in Henry 
street with a jar of cream in his hand taking 
it home to his better half. She’s well nourished, I 
tell you. Plovers on toast. — And is he doing 
for the Freeman? Davy Byrne said. Nosey Flynn pursed his 
lips. — He doesn’t buy cream on the ads he 
picks up. You can make bacon of that. — How 
so? Davy Byrne asked, coming from his book. Nosey Flynn 
made swift passes in the air with juggling fingers. He 
winked. — He’s in the craft, he said. — Do 
you tell me so? Davy Byrne said. — Very much 
so, Nosey Flynn said. Ancient free and accepted order. Light, 
life and love, by God. They give him a leg 
up. I was told that by a, well, I won’t 
say who. — Is that a fact? — O, it’s 
a fine order, Nosey Flynn said. They stick to you 
when you’re down. I know a fellow was trying to 
get into it, but they’re as close as damn it. 
By God they did right to keep the women out 
of it. Davy Byrne smiledyawnednodded all in one : — 
Iiiiiichaaaaaaach! — There was one woman, Nosey Flynn said, hid 
herself in a clock to find out what they do 
be doing. But be damned but they smelt her out 
and swore her in on the spot a master mason. 
That was one of the Saint Legers of Doneraile. Davy 
Byrne, sated after his yawn, said with tearwashed eyes : 
— And is that a fact? Decent quiet man he 
is. I often saw him in here and I never 
once saw him, you know, over the line. — God 
Almighty couldn’t make him drunk, Nosey Flynn said firmly. Slips 
off when the fun gets too hot. Didn’t you see 
him look at his watch? Ah, you weren’t there. If 
you ask him to have a drink first thing he 
does he outs with the watch to see what he 
ought to imbibe. Declare to God he does. — There 
are some like that, Davy Byrne said. He’s a safe 
man, I’d say. — He’s not too bad, Nosey Flynn 
said, snuffling it up. He has been known to put 
his hand down too to help a fellow. Give the 
devil his due. O, Bloom has his good points. But 
there’s one thing he’ll never do. His hand scrawled a 
dry pen signature beside his grog. — I know, Davy 
Byrne said. — Nothing in black and white, Nosey Flynn 
said. Paddy Leonard and Bantam Lyons came In. Tom Rochford 
followed, a plaining hand on his claret waistcoat. — Day, 
