M. R. I. A., B. L., Mus. Doc., P. L. 
G., F. T. C. D., F. R. U. I., F. 
R. C. P. I. and F. R. C. S. I. 
You never saw the like of it in all your 
born puff. Gob, if he got that lottery ticket on 
the side of his poll he’d remember the gold cup, 
he would so, but begob the citizen would have been 
lagged for assault and battery and Joe for aiding and 
abetting. The jarvey saved his life by furious driving as 
sure as God made Moses. What? O, Jesus, he did. 
And he let a volley of oaths after him. — 
Did I kill him, says he, or what? And he 
shouting to the bloody dog : — After him, Garry! 
After him, boy! And the last we saw was the 
bloody car rounding the corner and old sheepface on it 
gesticulating and the bloody mongrel after it with his lugs 
back for all he was bloody well worth to tear 
him limb from limb. Hundred to five! Jesus, he took 
the value of it out of him, I promise you. 
When, lo, there came about them all a great brightness 
and they beheld the chariot wherein He stood ascend to 
heaven. And they beheld Him in the chariot, clothed upon 
in the glory of the brightness, having raiment as of 
the sun, fair as the moon and terrible that for 
awe they durst not look upon Him. And there came 
a voice out of heaven, calling : Elijah! Elijah! And 
He answered with a main cry : Abba! Adonai! And 
they beheld Him even Him, ben Bloom Elijah, amid clouds 
of angels ascend to the glory of the brightness at 
an angle of fortyfive degrees over Donohoe’s in Little Green 
Street like a shot off a shovel. 13 The summer 
evening had begun to fold the world in its mysterious 
embrace. Far away in the west the sun was setting 
and the last glow of all too fleeting day lingered 
lovingly on sea and strand, on the proud promontory of 
dear old Howth guarding as ever the waters of the 
bay, on the weedgrown rocks along Sandymount shore and, last 
but not least, on the quiet church whence there streamed 
forth at times upon the stillness the voice of prayer 
to her who is in her pure radiance a beacon 
ever to the stormtossed heart of man, Mary, star of 
the sea. The three girl friends were seated on the 
rocks, enjoying the evening scene and the air which was 
fresh but not too chilly. Many a time and oft 
were they wont to come there to that favourite nook 
to have a cosy chat beside the sparkling waves and 
discuss matters feminine, Cissy Caffrey and Edy Boardman with the 
baby in the pushcar and Tommy and Jacky Caffrey, two 
little curlyheaded boys, dressed in sailor suits with caps to 
match and the name H. M. S. Belleisle printed on 
