hands and told the whitelivered Saxons there would soon be 
as few Irish in Ireland as redskins in America. Even 
the Grand Turk sent us his piastres. But the Sassenach 
tried to starve the nation at home while the land 
was full of crops that the British hyenas bought and 
sold in Rio de Janeiro. Ay, they drove out the 
peasants in hordes. Twenty thousand of them died in the 
coffinships. But those that came to the land of the 
free remember the land of bondage. And they will come 
again and with a vengeance, no cravens, the sons of 
Granuaile, the champions of Kathleen ni Houlihan. — Perfectly true, 
says Bloom. But my point was… — We are a 
long time waiting for that day, citizen, says Ned. Since 
the poor old woman told us that the French were 
on the sea and landed at Killala. — Ay, says 
John Wyse. We fought for the royal Stuarts that reneged 
us against the Williamites and they betrayed us. Remember Limerick 
and the broken treatystone. We gave our best blood to 
France and Spain, the wild geese. Fontenoy, eh? And Sarsfield 
and O’Donnell, duke of Tetuan in Spain, and Ulysses Browne 
of Camus that was fieldmarshal to Maria Teresa. But what 
did we ever get for it? — The French! says 
the citizen. Set of dancing masters? Do you know what 
it is? They were never worth a roasted fart to 
Ireland. Aren’t they trying to make an Entente cordiale now 
at Tay Pay’s dinnerparty with perfidious Albion? Firebrands of Europe 
and they always were? — Conspuez les Français, says Lenehan, 
nobbling his beer. — And as for the Prooshians and 
the Hanoverians, says Joe, haven’t we had enough of those 
sausageeating bastards on the throne from George the elector down 
to the German lad and the flatulent old bitch that’s 
dead? Jesus, I had to laugh at the way he 
came out with that about the old one with the 
winkers on her blind drunk in her royal palace every 
night of God, old Vic, with her jorum of mountain 
dew and her coachman carting her up body and bones 
to roll into bed and she pulling him by the 
whiskers and singing him old bits of songs about Ehren 
on the Rhine and come where the boose is cheaper. 
— Well! says J. J. We have Edward the peacemaker 
now. — Tell that to a fool, says the citizen. 
There’s a bloody sight more pox than pax about that 
boyo. Edward Guelph-Wettin! — And what do you think, says 
Joe, of the holy boys, the priests and bishops of 
Ireland doing up his room in Maynooth in his Satanic 
Majesty’s racing colours and sticking up pictures of all the 
horses his jockeys rode. The earl of Dublin, no less. 
— They ought to have stuck up all the women 
he rode himself, says little Alf. And says J. J. 
: — Considerations of space influenced their lordship’s decision. — 
