way of the files, swept his hand across Stephen’s and 
Mr O’Madden Burke’s loose ties. — Paris, past and present, 
he said. You look like communards. — Like fellows who 
had blown up the Bastille, J.J. O’Molloy said in quiet 
mockery. Or was it you shot the lord lieutenant of 
Finland between you? You look as though you had done 
the deed. General Bobrikoff. OMNIUM GATHERUM — We were only 
thinking about it, Stephen said. — All the talents, Myles 
Crawford said. Law, the classics… — The turf, Lenehan put 
in. — Literature, the press. — If Bloom were here, 
the professor said. The gentle art of advertisement. — And 
Madam Bloom, Mr O’Madden Burke added. The vocal muse. Dublin’s 
prime favourite. Lenehan gave a loud cough. — Ahem! he 
said very softly. O, for a fresh of breath air! 
I caught a coldin the park. The gate was open. 
« YOU CAN DO IT! » The editor laid a 
nervous hand on Stephen’s shoulder. — I want you to 
write something for me, he said. Something with a bite 
in it. You can do it. I see it in 
your face. In the lexicon of youth… See it in 
your face. See it in your eye. Lazy idle little 
schemer. — Foot and mouth disease! the editor cried in 
scornful invective. Great nationalist meeting in Borris-in-Ossory. All balls! Bulldosing 
the public! Give them something with a bite in it. 
Put us all into it, damn its soul. Father, Son 
and Holy Ghost and Jakes M’ Carthy. — We can 
all supply metanl pabulum, Mr O’Madden Burke said. Stephen raised 
his eyes to the bold unheeding stare. — He wants 
you for the pressgang, J.J. O’Molloy said. THE GREAT GALLAHER 
— You can do it, Myles Crawford repeated, clenching his 
hand in emphasis. Wait a minute. We’ll paralyse Europe as 
Ignatius Gallaher used to say when he was on the 
shaughraun, doing billiardmarking in the Clarence. Gallaher, that was a 
pressman for you. That was a pen. You know how 
he made his mark? I’ll tell you. That was the 
smartest piece of journalism ever known. That was in eightyone, 
sixth of May, time of the invincibles, murder in the 
Phoenix park, before you were born, I suppose. I’ll show 
you. He pushed past them to the files. — Look 
at here, he said, turning. The New York World cabled 
for a special. Remember that time? Professor MacHugh nodded. — 
New York World, the editor said, excitedly pushing back his 
straw hat, Where it took place. Tim Kelly, or Kavanagh 
I mean, Joe Brady and the rest of them. Where 
Skin-the-goat drove the car. Whole route, see? — Skin-the-goat, Mr 
O’Madden Burke said. Fitzharris. He has that cabman’s shelter, they 
say, down there at Butt bridge. Holohan told me. You 
know Holohan? — Hop and carry one, is it? Myles 
Crawford said. — And poor Gumley is down there too, 
so he told me, minding stones for the corporation. A 
