It was a working plumber was my ruination when I 
was pure. zoe-fanny I let him larrup it into me 
for the fun of it. florry-teresa It was in consequence 
of a portwine beverage on top of Hennessy’s three stars. 
I was guilty with Whelan when he slipped into the 
bed. stephen In the beginning was the word, in the 
end the world without end. Blessed be the eight beatitudes. 
(The beatitudes, Dixon, Madden, Crotthers, Costello, Lenehan, Bannon, Mulligan and 
Lynch in white surgical students’ gowns, four abreast, goosestepping, tramp 
fast past in noisy marching.) the beatitudes (Incoherently.) Beer beef 
battledog buybull businum barnum buggerum bishop. lyster (In quakergrey kneebreeches 
and broadbrimmed hat, says discreetly.) He is our friend. I 
need not mention names. Seek thou the light. (He corantos 
by. Best enters in hairdresser attire, shinily laundered, his locks 
in curlpapers. He leads John Eglinton who wears a mandarin’s 
kimono of Nankeen yellow, lizardlettered, and a high pagoda hat.) 
best (Smiling, lifts the hat and displays a shaven poll 
from the crown of which bristles a pigtail toupee tied 
with an orange topknot.) I was just beautifying him, don’t 
you know. A thing of beauty, don’t you know. Yeats 
says, or I mean, Keats says. john eglington (Produces a 
greencapped dark lantern and flashes it towards a corner; with 
carping accent.) Esthetics and cosmetics are for the boudoir. I 
am out for truth. Plain truth for a plain man. 
Tanderagee wants the facts and means to get them. (In 
the cone of the searchlight behind the coalscuttle, ollave, holyeyed, 
the bearded figure of Mananann Mac Lir broods, chin on 
knees. He rises slowly. A cold seawind blows from his 
druid mantle. About his head writhe eels and elvers. He 
is encrusted with weeds and shells. His right hand holds 
a bicycle pump. His left hand grasps a huge crayfish 
by its two talons.) mhananann mac lir (With a voice 
of waves.) Aum! Hek! Wal! Ak! Lub! Mor! Ma! White 
yoghin of the Gods. Occult pimander of Hermes Trismegistos. (With 
a voice of whistling seawind.) Punarjanam patsypunjaub! I won’t have 
my leg pulled. It has been said by one : 
beware the left, the cult of Shakti. (With a cry 
of stormbirds.) Shakti, Shiva! Dark hidden Father! (He smites with 
his bicycle pump the crayfish in his left hand. On 
its cooperative dial glow the twelve signs of the zodiac. 
He wails with the vehemence of the ocean.) Aum! Baum! 
Pyjaum! I am the light of the homestead, I am 
the dreamery creamery butter. (A skeleton judashand strangles the light. 
The green light wanes to mauve. The gasjet wails whistling.) 
the gasjet Pooah! Pfuiiiiii! (Zoe runs to the chandelier and, 
crooking her leg, adjusts the mantle.) zoe Who has a 
fag as I’m here? lynch (Tossing a cigarette on to 
the table.) Here. zoe (Her head perched aside in mock 
pride.) Is that the way to hand the pot to 
a lady? (She stretches up to light the cigarette over 
