by some reminiscences but he failed to do so, simply 
letting spurt a jet of spew into the sawdust, and 
shook his head with a sort of lazy scorn. — 
What year would that be about? Mr Bloom interpolated. Can 
you recall the boats? Our soi-disant sailor munched heavily awhile, 
hungrily, before answering. — I’m tired of all them rocks 
in the sea, he said, and boats and ships. Salt 
junk all the time. Tired, seemingly, he ceased. His questioner, 
perceiving that he was not likely to get a great 
deal of change out of such a wily old customer, 
fell to woolgathering on the enormous dimensions of the water 
about the globe. Suffice it to say that, as a 
casual glance at the map revealed, it covered fully three 
fourths of it and he fully realised accordingly what it 
meant, to rule the waves. On more than one occasion 
— a dozen at the lowest — near the North 
Bull at Dollymount he had remarked a superannuated old salt, 
evidently derelict, seated habitually near the not particularly redolent sea 
on the wall, staring quite obviously at it and it 
at him, dreaming of fresh woods and pastures new as 
someone somewhere sings. And it left him wondering why. Possibly 
he had tried to find out the secret for himself, 
floundering up and down the antipodes and all that sort 
of thing and over and under — well, not exactly 
under — tempting the fates. And the odds were twenty 
to nil there was really no secret about it at 
all. Nevertheless, without going into the minutiae of the business, 
the eloquent fact remained that the sea was there in 
all its glory and in the natural course of things 
somebody or other had to sail on it and fly 
in the face of providence though it merely went to 
show how people usually contrived to load that sortof onus 
on to the other fellow like the hell idea and 
the lottery and insurance, which were run on identically the 
same lines so that for that very reason, if no 
other, lifeboat Sunday was a very laudable institution to which 
the public at large, no matter where living, inland or 
seaside, as the case might be, having it brought home 
to them like that, should extend its gratitude also to 
the harbourmasters and coastguard service who had to man the 
rigging and push off and out amid the elements, whatever 
the season, when duty called Ireland expects that every man 
and so on, and sometimes had a terrible time of 
it in the wintertime not forgetting the Irish lights, Kish 
and others, liable to capsize at any moment rounding which 
he once with his daughter had experienced some remarkably choppy, 
not to say stormy, weather. — There was a fellow 
sailed with me in the Rover, the old seadog, himself 
a rover, proceeded. Went ashore and took up a soft 
job as gentleman’s valet at six quid a month. Them 
