very happy. Those who have passed on, who have gone 
before, are happy too as they gaze down and smile 
upon the touching scene. Reverently look at her as she 
reclines there with the motherlight in her eyes, that longing 
hunger for baby fingers (a pretty sight it is to 
see), in the first bloom of her new motherhood, breathing 
a silent prayer of thanksgiving to One above, the Universal 
Husband. And as her loving eyes behold her babe she 
wishes only one blessing more, to have her dear Doady 
there with her to share her joy, to lay in 
his arms that mite of God’s clay, the fruit of 
their lawful embraces. He is older now (you and I 
may whisper it) and a trifle stooped in the shoulders 
yet in the whirligig of years a grave dignity has 
come to the conscientious second accountant of the Ulster bank, 
College Green branch. O Doady, loved one of old, faithful 
lifemate now, it may never be again, that faroff time 
of the roses! With the old shake of her pretty 
head she recalls those days. God, how beautiful now across 
the mist of years! But their children are grouped in 
her imagination about the bedside, hers and his, Charley, Mary 
Alice, Frederick Albert (if he had lived), Mamy, Budgy (Victoria 
Frances), Tom, Violet Constance Louisa, darling little Bobsy (called after 
our famous hero of the South African war, lord Bobs 
of Waterford and Candahar) and now this last pledge of 
their union, a Purefoy if ever there was one, with 
the true Purefoy nose. Young hopeful will be christened Mortimer 
Edward after the influential third cousin of Mr Purefoy in 
the Treasury Remembrancer’s office, Dublin Castle. And so time wags 
on : but father Cronion has dealt lightly here. No, 
let no sigh break from that bosom, dear gentle Mina. 
And Doady, knock the ashes from your pipe, the seasoned 
briar you still fancy when the curfew rings for you 
(may it be the distant day!) and dout the light 
whereby you read in the Sacred Book for the oil 
too has run low and so with a tranquil heart 
to bed, to rest. He knows and will call in 
His own good time. You too have fought the good 
fight and played loyally your man’s part. Sir, to you 
my hand. Well done, thou good and faithful servant! There 
are sins or (let us call them as the world 
calls them) evil memories which are hidden away by man 
in the darkest places of the heart but they abide 
there and wait. He may suffer their memory to grow 
dim, let them be as though they had not been 
and all but persuade himself that they were not or 
at least were otherwise. Yet a chance word will call 
them forth suddenly and they will rise up to confront 
him in the most various circumstances, a vision or a 
dream, or while timbrel and harp soothe his senses or 
