a nailstudded bludgeon are stuck in his belt. He rubs 
grimly his grappling hands, knobbed with knuckledusters.) rumbold (To the 
recorder with sinister familiarity.) Hanging Harry, your Majesty, the Mersey 
terror. Five guineas a jugular. Neck or nothing. (The bells 
of George’s church toll slowly, loud dark iron.) the bells 
Heigho! Heigho! bloom (Desperately.) Wait. Stop. Gulls. Good heart. I 
saw. Innocence. Girl in the monkeyhouse. Zoo. Lewd chimpanzees. (Breathlessly.) 
Pelvic basin. Her artless blush unmanned me. (Overcome with emotion.) 
I left the precincts. (He turns to a figure in 
the crowd, appealing.) Hynes, may I speak to you? You 
know me. That three shillings you can keep. If you 
want a little more… hynes (Coldly.) You are a perfect 
stranger. second watch (Points to the corner.) The bomb is 
here. first watch Infernal machine with a time fuse. bloom 
No, no. Pig’s feet. I was at a funeral. first 
watch (Draws his truncheon.) Liar! (The beagle lift his snout, 
showing the grey scorbutic face of Paddy Dignam. He has 
gnawed all. He exhales a putrid carcasefed breath. He grows 
to human size and shape. His dachshund coat becomes a 
brown mortuary habit. His green eyeflashes bloodshot. Half of one 
ear, all the nose and both thumbs are ghouleaten.) paddy 
dignam (In a hollow voice.) It is true. it was 
my funeral. Doctor Finucane pronounced life extinct when I succumbed 
to the disease from natural causes. (He lifts his mutilated 
ashen face moonwards and bays lugubriously.) bloom (In triumph.) You 
hear? paddy dignam Bloom, I am Paddy Dignam’s spirit. List, 
list, O list! bloom The voice is the voice of 
Esau. second watch (Blesses himself.) How is that possible? first 
watch It is not in the penny catechism. paddy dignam 
By metempsychosis. Spooks. a voice O rocks. paddy dignam (Earnestly.) 
Once I was in the employ of Mr J. H. 
Menton, solicitor, commissioner for oaths and affidavits, of 27 Bachelor’s 
Walk. Now I am defunct, the wall of the heart 
hypertrophied. Hard lines. The poor wife was awfully cut up. 
Dow is she bearing it? Keep her off that bottle 
of sherry. (He looks round him.) A lamp. I must 
satisfy an animal need. That buttermilk didn’t agree with me. 
(The portly figure of John O’Connell, caretaker stands forth, holding 
a bunch of keys tied with crape. Beside him stands 
Father Coffey, chaplain, toadbellied, wrynecked, in a surplice and bandanna 
nightcap, holding sleepily a staff of twisted poppies.) father coffey 
(Yawns, then chants with a hoarse croak.) Namine. Jacobs Vobiscuits. 
Amen. john o’connell (Foghorns stormily through his megaphone.) Dignam, Patrick 
T, deceased. paddy dignam (With pricked up ears, winces.) Overtones. 
(He wriggles forward, places an ear to the ground.) My 
master’s voice! john o’connell Burial docket letter number U. P. 
Eightyfive thousand. Field seventeen. House of Keys, Plot, one hundred 
and one. (Paddy Dignam listens with visible effort, thinking, his 
tail stiffpointed, his ears cocked.) paddy dignam Pray for the 
repose of his soul. (He worms down through a coalhole, 
