out about you, Buck Mulligan said, and then you come 
along with your lousy leer and your gloomy jesuit jibes. 
— I see little hope, Stephen said, from her or 
from him. Buck Mulligan sighed tragically and laid his hand 
on Stephen’s arm. — From me, Kinch, he said. In 
a suddenly changed tone he added : — To tell 
you the God’s truth I think you’re right. Damn all 
else they are good for. Why don’t you play them 
as I do? To hell with them all. Let us 
get out of the kip. He stood up, gravely ungirdled 
and disrobed himself of his gown, saying resignedly : — 
Mulligan is stripped of his garments. He emptied his pockets 
on to the table. — There’s your snotrag, he said. 
And putting on his stiff collar and rebellious tie, he 
spoke to them, chiding them, and to his dangling watchchain. 
His hands plunged and rummaged in his trunk while he 
called for a clean handkerchief. Agenbite of inwit. God, we’ll 
simply have to dress the character. I want puce gloves 
and green boots. Contradiction. Do I contradict myself? Very well 
then, I contradict myself. Mercurial Malachi. A limp black missile 
flew out of his talking hands. — And there’s your 
Latin quarter hat, he said. Stephen picked it up and 
put it on : Haines called to them from the 
doorway : — Are you coming, you fellows? — I’m 
ready, Buck Mulligan answered, going towards the door. Come out, 
Kinch. You have eaten all we left, I suppose. Resigned 
he passed out with grave words and gait, saying, wellnigh 
with sorrow : — And going forth he met Butterly. 
Stephen, taking his ashplant from its leaningplace, followed them out 
and, as they went down the ladder, pulled to the 
slow iron door and locked it. He put the huge 
key in his inner pocket. At the foot of the 
ladder Buck Mulligan asked : — Did you bring the 
key? — I have it, Stephen said, preceding them. He 
walked on. Behind him he heard Buck Mulligan club with 
his heavy bathtowel the leader shoots of ferns or grasses. 
— Down, sir. How dare you, sir? Haines asked : 
— Do you pay rent for this tower? — Twelve 
quid, Buck Mulligan said. — To the secretary of state 
for war, Stephen added over his shoulder. They halted while 
Haines surveyed the tower and said at last : — 
Rather bleak in wintertime, I should say. Martello you call 
it? — Billy Pitt had them built, Buck Mulligan said, 
when the French were on the sea. But ours is 
the omphalos. — What is your idea of Hamlet? Haines 
asked Stephen. — No, no, Buck Mulligan shouted in pain. 
I’m not equal to Thomas Aquinas and the fiftyfive reasons 
he has made to prop it up. Wait till I 
have a few pints in me first. He turned to 
Stephen, saying as he pulled down neatly the peaks of 
