better, best. The quaker librarian springhalted near. — I should 
like to know, he said, which brother you… I understand 
you to suggest there was misconduct with one of the 
brothers… But perhaps I am anticipating? He caught himself in 
the act : looked at all : refrained. An attendant 
from the doorway called : — Mr Lyster! Father Dineen 
wants… — O! Father Dineen! Directly. Swiftly rectly creaking rectly 
rectly he was rectly gone. John Eglinton touched the foil. 
— Come, he said. Let us hear what you have 
to say of Richard and Edmund. You kept them for 
the last, didn’t you? — In asking you to remember 
those two noble kinsmen nuncle Richie and nuncle Edmund, Stephen 
answered, I feel I am asking too much perhaps. A 
brother is as easily forgotten as an umbrella. Lapwing. Where 
is your brother? Apothecaries’ hall. My whetstone. Him, then Cranly, 
Mulligan : now these. Speech, speech. But act. Act speech. 
They mock to try you. Act. Be acted on. Lapwing. 
I am tired of my voice, the voice of Esau. 
My kingdom for a drink. On. — You will say 
those names were already in the chronicles from which he 
took the stuff of his plays. Why did he take 
them rather than others? Richard, a whoreson crookback, misbegotten, makes 
love to a widowed Ann (what’s in a name?), woos 
and wins her, a whoreson merry widow. Richard the conqueror, 
third brother, came after William the conquered. The other four 
acts of that play hang limply from that first. Of 
all his kings Richard is the only king unshielded by 
Shakespeare’s reverence, the angel of the world. Why is the 
underplot of King Lear in which Edmund figures lifted out 
of Sidney’s Arcadia and spatchcocked on to a Celtic legend 
older than history? — That was Will’s way, John Eglinton 
defended. We should not now combine a Norse saga with 
an excerpt from a novel by George Meredith. Que voulez-vous? 
Moore would say. He puts Bohemia on the seacoast and 
makes Ulysses quote Aristotle. — Why? Stephen answered himself. Because 
the theme of the false or the usurping or the 
adulterous brother or all three in one is to Shakespeare, 
what the poor is not, always with him. The note 
of banishment, banishment from the heart, banishment from home, sounds 
uninterruptedly from The Two Gentlemen of Verona onward till Prospero 
breaks his staff, buries it certain fathoms in the earth 
and drowns his book. It doubles itself in the middle 
of his life, reflects itself in another, repeats itself, protasis, 
epitasis, catastasis, catastrophe. It repeats itself again when he is 
near the grave, when his married daughter Susan, chip of 
the old block, is accused of adultery. But it was 
the original sin that darkened his understanding, weakened his will 
and left in him a strong inclination to evil. The 
words are those of my lords bishops of Maynooth–an original 
sin and, like original sin, committed by another in whose 
