stout shield of oxengut and, third, that they might take 
no hurt neither from Offspring that was that wicked devil 
by virtue of this same shield which was named Killchild. 
So were they all in their blind fancy, Mr Cavil 
and Mr Sometimes Godly, Mr Ape Swillale, Mr False Franklin, 
Mr Dainty Dixon, Young Boasthard and Mr Cautious Calmer. Wherein, 
O wretched company, were ye all deceived for that was 
the voice of the god that was in a very 
grievous rage that he would presently lift his arm and 
spill their souls for their abuses and their spillings done 
by them contrariwise to his word which forth to bring 
brenningly biddeth. So Thursday sixteenth June Patk. Dignam laid in 
clay of an apoplexy and after hard drought, please God, 
rained, a bargeman coming in by water a fifty mile 
or thereabout with turf saying the seed won’t sprout, fields 
athirst, very sadcoloured and stunk mightily, the quags and tofts 
too. Hard to breathe and all the young quicks clean 
consumed without sprinkle this long while back as no man 
remembered to be without. The rosy buds all gone brown 
and spread out blobs and on the hills nought but 
dry flags and faggots that would catch at first fire. 
All the world saying, for aught they knew, the big 
wind of last February a year that did havoc the 
land so pitifully a small thing beside this barrenness. But 
by and by, as said, this evening after sundown, the 
wind sitting in the west, biggish swollen clouds to be 
seen as the night increased and the weatherwise poring up 
at them and some sheet lightnings at first and after, 
past ten of the clock, one great stroke with a 
long thunder and in a brace of shakes all scamper 
pellmell within door for the smoking shower, the men making 
shelter for their straws with a clout or kerchief, womenfolk 
skipping off with kirtles catched up soon as the pour 
came. In Ely place, Baggot street, Duke’s lawn, thence through 
Merrion green up to Holles street a swash of water 
running that was before bonedry and not one chair or 
coach or fiacre seen about but no more crack after 
that first. Over against the Rt. Hon. Mr Justice Fitzgibbon’s 
door (that is to sit with Mr Healy the lawyer 
upon the college lands) Mal. Mulligan a gentleman’s gentleman that 
had but come from Mr Moore’s the writer’s (that was 
a papish but is now, folk say, a good Williamite) 
chanced against Alec. Bannon in a cut bob (which are 
now in with dance cloaks of Kendal green) that was 
new got to town from Mullingar with the stage where 
his coz and Mal M’s brother will stay a month 
yet till Saint Swithin and asks what in the earth 
he does there, he bound home and he to Andrew 
Horne’s being stayed for to crush a cup of wine, 
so he said, but would tell him of a skittish 
