Mongolian extraction and irresponsible for his actions. Not all there, 
in fact. bloom (Barefoot, pigeonbreasted, in lascar’s vest and trousers, 
apologetic toes turned in, opens his tiny mole’s eyes and 
looks about him dazedly, passing a slow hand across his 
forehead. Then he hitches his belt sailor fashion and with 
a shrug of oriental obeisance salutes the court, pointing one 
thumb heavenward.) Him makee velly muchee fine night. (He begins 
to lilt simply.) Li li poo lil chile. Blingee pigfoot 
evly night. Payee two shilly… (He is howled down.) j. 
j. o’molloy (Hotly to the populace.) This is a lonehand 
fight. By Hades, I will not have any client of 
mine gagged and badgered in this fashion by a pack 
of curs and laughing hyenas. The Mosaic code has superseded 
the law of the jungle. I say it and I 
say it emphatically without wishing for one moment to defeat 
the ends of justice, accused, was not accessory before the 
act and prosecutrix has not been tampered with. The young 
person was treated by defendant as if she were his 
very own daughter. (Bloom takes J. J. O’Molloy’s hand and 
raises it to his lips.) I shall call rebutting evidence 
to prove up to the hilt that the hidden hand 
is again at its old game. When in doubt persecute 
Bloom. My client, an innately bashful man, would be the 
last man in the world to do anything ungentlemanly which 
injured modesty could object to or cast a stone at 
a girl who took the wrong turning when some dastard, 
responsible for her condition, had worked his own sweet will 
on her. He wants to go straight. I regard him 
as the whitest man I know. He is down on 
his luck at present owing to the mortgaging of his 
extensive property at Agendath Netaim in faraway Asia Minor, slides 
of which will now be shown. (To Bloom.) I suggest 
that you will do the handsome thing. bloom A penny 
in the pound. (The mirage of the lake of Kinnereth 
with blurred cattle cropping in silver haze is projected ou 
the wall. Moses Dlugacz, ferreteyed albino, in blue dungarees, stands 
up in the gallery, holding in each hand an orange 
citron and a pork kidney.) dlugacz (Hoarsely.) Bleibtreustrasse, Berlin, W, 
13. (J. J. O’Molloy steps on to a low plinth 
and holds the lapel of his coat with solemnity. His 
face lengthens, grows pale and bearded, with sunken eyes, the 
blotches of phthisis and hectic cheekbones of John F. Taylor. 
He applies his handkerchief to his mouth and scrutinises the 
galloping tide of rosepink blood.) j. j. o’molloy (Almost voicelessly.) 
Excuse me, I am suffering from a severe chill, have 
recently come from a sickbed. A few wellchosen words. (He 
assumes the avine head, foxy moustache and proboscidal eloquence of 
Seymour Bushe.) When the angel’s book comes to be opened 
if aught that the pensive bosom has inaugurated of soultransfigured 
and of soultransfiguring deserves to live I say accord the 
