swank and his bit of money she could just chuck 
him aside as if he was so much filth and 
never again would she cast as much as a second 
thought on him and tear his silly postcard into a 
dozen pieces. And it ever after he dared to presume 
she could give him one look of measured scorn that 
would make him shrivel up on the spot. Miss puny 
little Edy’s countenance fell to no slight extent and Gerty 
could see by her looking as black as thunder that 
she was simply in a towering rage though she hid 
it, the little kinnatt, because that shaft had struck home 
for her petty jealousy and they both knew that she 
was something aloof, apart in another sphere, that she was 
not of them and there was somebody else too that 
knew it and saw it so they could put that 
in their pipe and smoke it. Edy straightened up baby 
Boardman to get ready to go and Cissy tucked in 
the ball and the spades and buckets and it was 
high time too because the sandman was on his way 
for Master Boardman junior and Cissy told him too that 
Billy Winks was coming and that baby was to go 
deedaw and baby looked just too ducky, laughing up out 
of his gleeful eyes, and Cissy poked him like that 
out of fun in his wee fat tummy and baby, 
without as much as by your leave, sent up his 
compliments on to his brandnew dribbling bib. O my! Puddeny 
pie! protested Ciss. He has his bib destroyed. The slight 
contretemps claimed her attention but in two twos she set 
that little matter to rights. Gerty stifled a smothered exclamation 
and gave a nervous cough and Edy asked what and 
she was just going to tell her to catch it 
while it was flying but she was ever ladylike in 
her deportment so she simply passed it off with consummate 
tact by saying that that was the benediction because just 
then the bell rang out from the steeple over the 
quiet seashore because Canon O’Hanlon was up on the altar 
with the veil that Father Conroy put round him round 
his shoulders giving the benediction with the blessed Sacrament in 
his hands. How moving the scene there in the gathering 
twilight, the last glimpse of Erin, the touching chime of 
those evening bells and at the same time a bat 
flew forth from the ivied belfry through the dusk, hither, 
thither, with a tiny lost cry. And she could see 
far away the lights of the lighthouses so picturesque she 
would have loved to do with a box of paints 
because it was easier than to make a man and 
soon the lamplighter would be going his rounds past the 
presbyterian church grounds and along by shady Tritonville avenue where 
the couples walked and lighting the lamp near her window 
where Reggy Wylie used to turn his freewheel like she 
