Alf, chucking out the rhino. Talking about hanging. I’ll show 
you something you never saw. Hangmen’s letters. Look at here. 
So he took a bundle of wisps of letters and 
envelopes out of his pocket. — Are you codding? says 
I. — Honest injun, says Alf. Read them. So Joe 
took up the letters. — Who are you laughing at? 
says Bob Doran. So I saw there was going to 
be bit of a dust. Bob’s a queer chap when 
the porter’s up in him so says I just to 
make talk : — How’s Willy Murray those times, Alf? 
— I don’t know, says Alf. I saw him just 
now in Capel Street with Paddy Dignam. Only I was 
running after that… — You what? says Joe, throwing down 
the letters. With who? — With Dignam, says Alf. — 
Is it Paddy? says Joe. — Yes, says Alf. Why? 
— Don’t you know he’s dead? says Joe. — Paddy 
Dignam dead? says Alf. — Ay, says Joe. — Sure 
I’m after seeing him not five minutes ago, says Alf, 
as plain as a pikestaff. — Who’s dead? says Bob 
Doran. — You saw his ghost then, says Joe, God 
between us and harm. — What? says Alf. Good Christ, 
only five… What?… and Willie Murray with him, the two 
of them there near whatdoyoucallhim’s… What? Dignam dead? — What 
about Dignam? says Bob Doran. Who’s talking about…? — Dead! 
says Alf. He is no more dead than you are. 
— Maybe so, says Joe. They took the liberty of 
burying him this morning anyhow. — Paddy? says Alf. — 
Ay, says Joe. He paid the debt of nature, God 
be merciful to him. — Good Christ! says Alf. Begob 
he was what you might call flabbergasted. In the darkness 
spirit hands were felt to flutter and when prayer by 
tantras had been directed to the proper quarter a faint 
but increasing luminosity of ruby light became gradually visible, the 
apparition of the etheric double being particularly lifelike owing to 
the discharge of jivic rays from the crown of the 
head and face. Communication was effected through the pituitary body 
and also by means of the orangefiery and scarlet rays 
emanating from the sacral region and solar plexus. Questioned by 
his earthname as to his whereabouts in the heavenworld he 
stated that he was now on the path of pralaya 
or return but was still submitted to trial at the 
hands of certain bloodthirsty entities on the lower astral levels. 
In reply to a question as to his first sensations 
in the great divide beyond he stated that previously he 
had seen as in a glass darkly but that those 
who had passed over had summit possibilities of atmic development 
opened up to them. Interrogated as to whether life there 
resembled our experience in the flesh he stated that he 
had heard from more favoured beings now in the spirit 
that their abodes were equipped with every modern home comfort 
