Denis Breen in skimpy frockcoat and blue canvas shoes shuffled 
out of Harrison’s, hugging two heavy tomes to his ribs. 
Blown in from the bay. Like old times. He suffered 
her to overtake him without surprise and thrust his dull 
grey beard towards her, his loose jaw wagging as he 
spoke earnestly. Meshuggah. Off his chump. Mr Bloom walked on 
again easily, seeing ahead of him in sunlight the tight 
skullpiece, the dangling stick, umbrella, dustcoat. Going the two days. 
Watch him! Out he goes again. One way of getting 
on in the world. And that other old mosey lunatic 
in those duds. Hard time she must have with him. 
U.P. : up. I’ll take my oath that’s Alf Bergan 
or Richie Goulding. Wrote it for a lark in the 
Scotch house, I bet anything. Round to Menton’s office. His 
oyster eyes staring at the postcard. Be a feast for 
the gods. He passed the Irish Times. There might be 
other answers lying there. Like to answer them all. Good 
system for criminals. Code. At their lunch now. Clerk with 
the glasses there doesn’t know me. O, leave them there 
to simmer. Enough bother wading through fortyfour of them. Wanted 
smart lady typist to aid gentleman in literary work. I 
called you naughty darling because I do not like that 
other world. Please tell me what is the meaning. Please 
tell me what perfume does your wife. Tell me who 
made the world. The way they spring those questions on 
you. And the other one Lizzie Twigg. My literary efforts 
have had the good fortune to meet with the approval 
of the eminent poet A. E. (Mr Geo Russell). No 
time to do her hair drinking sloppy tea with a 
book of poetry. Best paper by long chalks for a 
small ad. Got the provinces now. Cook and general, exc 
cuisine, housemaid kept. Wanted live man for spirit counter. Resp. 
girl (R. C.) wishes to hear of post in fruit 
or pork shop. James Carlisle made that. Six and a 
half percent dividend. Made a big deal on Coates’s shares. 
Ca’canny. Cunning old Scotch hunks. All the toady news. Our 
gracious and popular vicereine. Bought the Irish Field now. Lady 
Mountcashel has quite recovered after her confinement and rode out 
with the Ward Union staghounds at the enlargement yesterday at 
Rathoath. Uneatable fox. Pothunters too. Fear injects juices make it 
tender enough for them. Riding astride. Sit her horse like 
a man. Weightcarrying huntress. No sidesaddle or pillion for her, 
not for Joe. First to the meet and in at 
the death. Strong as a brood mare some of those 
horsey women. Swagger around livery stables. Toss off a glass 
of brandy neat while you’d say knife. That one at 
the Grosvenor this morning. Up with her on the car 
: wishwish. Stonewall or fivebarred gate put her mount to 
it. Think that pugnosed driver did it out of spite. 
Who is this she was like? O yes? Mrs Miriam 
