of grief and misery in my arms, who left the 
house of his father and left the God of his 
father. Every word is so deep, Leopold. Poor papa! Poor 
man! I’m glad. I didn’t go into the room to 
look at his face. That day! O dear! O dear! 
Ffoo! Well, perhaps it was the best for him. Mr 
Bloom went round the corner and passed the drooping nags 
of the hazard. No use thinking of it any more. 
Nosebag time. Wish I hadn’t met that M’Coy fellow. He 
came nearer and heard a crunching of gilded oats, the 
gently champing teeth. Their full buck eyes regarded him as 
he went by, amid the sweet oaten reek of horsepiss. 
Their Eldorado. Poor jugginses! Damn all they know or care 
about anything with their long noses stuck in nosebags. Too 
full for words. Still they get their feed all right 
and their doss. Gelded too : a stump of black 
guttapercha wagging limp between their haunches. Might be happy all 
the same that way. Good poor brutes they look. Still 
their neigh can be very irritating. He drew the letter 
from his pocket and folded it into the newspaper he 
carried. Might just walk into her here. The lane is 
safer. He passed the cabman’s shelter. Curious the life of 
drifting cabbies, all weathers, all places, time or setdown, no 
will of their own. Voglio e non. Like to give 
them an odd cigarette. Sociable. Shout a few flying syllables 
as they pass. He hummed : Là ci darem la 
mano La la lala la la. He turned into Cumberland 
street and, going on some paces, halted in the lee 
of the station wall. No-one. Meade’s timberyard. Piled balks. Ruins 
and tenements. With careful tread he passed over a hopscotch 
court with its forgotten pickeystone. Not a sinner. Near the 
timberyard a squatted child at marbles, alone, shooting the taw 
with a cunnythumb. A wise tabby, a blinking sphinx, watched 
from her warm sill. Pity to disturb them. Mohammed cut 
a piece out of his mantel not to wake her. 
Open it. And once I played marbles when I went 
to that old dame’s school. She liked mignonette. Mrs Ellis’s. 
And Mr? He opened the letter within the newspaper. A 
flower. I think it’s a. A yellow flower with flattened 
petals. Not annoyed then? What does she say? Dear Henry, 
I got your last letter to me and thank you 
very much for it. I am sorry you did not 
like my last letter. Why did you enclose the stamps? 
I am awfully angry with you. I do wish I 
could punish you for that. I called you naughty boy 
because I do not like that other world. Please tell 
me what is the real meaning of that word. Are 
you not happy in your home you poor little naughty 
boy? I do wish I could do something for you. 
Please tell me what you think of poor me. I 
