Davy… Stephen In his trinity of black Wills, the villain 
shakebags, Iago, Richard Crookback, Edmund in King Lear, two bear 
the wicked uncles’ names. Nay, that last play was written 
or being written while his brother Edmund lay dying in 
Southwark. Best I hope Edmund is going to catch it. 
I don’t want Richard, my name… (Laughter.) Quakerlyster (A tempo.) 
But he that filches from me my good name… Stephen 
(Stringendo.) He has hidden his own name, a fair name, 
William, in the plays, a super here, a clown there, 
as a painter of old Italy set his face in 
a dark corner of his canvas. He has revealed it 
in the sonnets where there is Will in overplus. Like 
John O’Gaunt his name is dear to him, as dear 
as the coat of arms he toadied for, on a 
bend sable a spear or steeled argent, honorificabilitudinitatibus, dearer than 
his glory of greatest shakescene in the country. What’s in 
a name? That is what we ask ourselves in childhood 
when we write the name that we are told is 
ours. A star, a daystar, a firedrake rose at his 
birth. It shone by day in the heavens alone, brighter 
than Venus in the night, and by night it shone 
over delta in Cassiopeia, the recumbent constellation which is the 
signature of his initial among the stars. His eyes watched 
it, lowlying on the horizon, eastward of the bear, as 
he walked by the slumberous summer fields at midnight, returning 
from Shottery and from her arms. Both satisfied. I too. 
Don’t tell them he was nine years old when it 
was quenched. And from her arms. Wait to be wooed 
and won. Ay, meacock. Who will woo you? Read the 
skies. Autontimerumenos. Bous Stephanoumenos. Where’s your configuration? Stephen, Stephen, cut 
the bread even. S. D. : sua donna. Già : 
di lui. Gelindo risolve di non amar. S. D. — 
What is that, Mr Dedalus? the quaker librarian asked. Was 
it a celestial phenomenon? — A star by night, Stephen 
said, a pillar of the cloud by day. What more’s 
to speak? Stephen looked on his hat, his stick, his 
boots. Stephanos, my crown. My sword. His boots are spoiling 
the shape of my feet. Buy a pair. Holes in 
my socks. Handkerchief too. — You make good use of 
the name, John Eglinton allowed. Your own name is strange 
enough. I suppose it explains your fantastical humour. Me, Magee 
and Mulligan. Fabulous artificer, the hawklike man. You flew. Whereto? 
Newhaven-Dieppe, steerage passenger. Paris and back. Lapwing. Icarus. Pater, ait. 
Seabedabbled, fallen, weltering. Lapwing you are. Lapwing he. Mr Best’s 
eagerquietly lifted his book to say : — That’s very 
interesting because that brother motive, don’t you know, we find 
also in the old Irish myths. Just what you say. 
The three brothers Shakespeare. In Grimm too, don’t you know, 
the fairytales. The third brother that marries the sleeping beauty 
and wins the best prize. Best of Best brothers. Good, 
