human form, female, hers, the imprint of a human form, 
male, not his, some crumbs, some flakes of potted meat, 
recooked, which he removed. If he had smiled why would 
he have smiled? To reflect that each one who enters 
imagines himself to be the first to enter whereas he 
is always the last term of a preceding series even 
if the first term of a succeeding one, each imagining 
himself to be first, last, only and alone whereas, he 
is neither first nor last nor only nor alone in 
a series originating in and repeated to infinity. What preceding 
series? Assuming Mulvey to be the first term of his 
series, Penrose, Bartell d’Arcy, professor Goodwin, Julius Mastiansky, John Henry 
Menton, Father Bernard Corrigan, a farmer at the Royal Dublin 
Society’s Horse Show, Maggot O’Reilly, Matthew Dillon, Valentine Blake Dillon 
(Lord Mayor of Dublin), Christopher Callinan, Lenehan, an Italian organgrinder, 
an unknown gentleman in the Gaiety Theatre, Benjamin Dollard, Simon 
Dedalus, Andrew (Pisser) Burke, Joseph Cuffe, Wisdom Hely, Alderman John 
Hooper, Dr Francis Brady, Father Sebastian of Mount Argus, a 
bootblack at the General Post Office, Hugh E. (Blazes) Boylan 
and so each and so on to no last term. 
What were his reflections concerning the last member of this 
series and late occupant of the bed? Reflections on his 
vigour (a bounder), corporal proportion (a billsticker), commercial ability (a 
bester), impressionability (a boaster). Why for the observer impressionability in 
addition to vigour, corporal proportion and commercial ability? Because he 
had observed with augmenting frequency in the preceding members of 
the same series the same concupiscence, inflammably transmitted first with 
alarm, then with understanding, then with desire, finally with fatigue, 
with alternating symptoms of epicene comprehension and apprehension. With what 
antagonistic sentiments were his subsequent reflections affected? Envy, jealousy, abnegation, 
equanimity. Envy? Of a bodily and mental male organism specially 
adapted for the superincumbent posture of energetic human copulation and 
energetic piston and cylinder movement necessary for the complete satisfaction 
of a constant but not acute concupiscence resident in a 
bodily and mental female organism, passive but not obtuse. Jealousy? 
Because a nature full and volatile in its free state, 
was alternately the agent and reagent of attraction. Because attraction 
between agents and reagents at all instants varied, with inverse 
proportion of increase and decrease, with incessant circular extension and 
radial reentrance. Because the controlled contemplation of the fluctuation of 
attraction produced, if desired, a fluctuation of pleasure. Abnegation? In 
virtue of a) acquaintance initiated in September 1903 in the 
establishment of George Mesias, merchant tailor and outfitter, 5 Eden 
Quay, b) hospitality extended and received in kind, reciprocated and 
reappropriated in person, c) comparative youth subject to impulses of 
ambition and magnanimity, colleagual altruism and amorous egoism, d) extraracial 
attraction, intraracial inhibition, supraracial prerogative, e) an imminent provincial musical 
tour, common current expenses, net proceeds divided. Equanimity? As natural 
as any and every natural act of a nature expressed 
or understood executed in natured nature by natural creatures in 
