No-one saw : tell no-one. Books you were going to 
write with letters for titles. Have you read his F? 
O yes, but I prefer Q. Yes, but W is 
wonderful. O yes, W. Remember your epiphanies on green oval 
leaves, deeeply deep, copies to be sent if you died 
to all the great libraries of the world, including Alexandria? 
Someone was to read them there after a few thousand 
years, a mahamanvantara. Pico della Mirandola like. Ay, very like 
a whale. When one reads these strange pages of one 
long gone one feels that one is at one with 
one who once… The grainy sand had gone from under 
his feet. His boots trod again a damp crackling mast, 
razorshells, squeaking pebbles, that on the unnumbered pebbles beats, wood 
sieved by the shipworm, lost Armada. Unwholesome sandflats waited to 
suck his treading soles, breathing upward sewage breath. He coasted 
them, walking warily. A porterbottle stood up, stogged to its 
waist, in the cakey sand dough. A sentinel : isle 
of dreadful thirst. Broken hoops on the shore; at the 
land a maze of dark cunning nets; farther away chalkscrawled 
backdoors and on the higher beach a dryingline with two 
crucified shirts. Ringsend : wigwams of brown steersmen and master 
mariners. Human shells. He halted. I have passed the way 
to aunt Sara’s. Am I not going there? Seems not. 
No-one about. He turned northeast and crossed the firmer sand 
towards the Pigeonhouse. — Qui vous a mis dans cette 
fichue position? — C’est le pigeon, Joseph. Patrice, home on 
furlough, lapped warm milk with me in the bar MacMahon. 
Son of the wild goose, Kevin Egan of Paris. My 
father’s a bird, he lapped the sweet lait chaud with 
pink young tongue, plump bunny’s face. Lap, lapin. He hopes 
to win in the gros lots. About the nature of 
women he read in Michelet. But he must send me 
La Vie de Jésus by M. Léo Taxil. Lent it 
to his friend. — C’est tordant, vous savez. Moi je 
suis socialiste. Je ne crois pas en l’existence de Dieu. 
Faut pas le dire à mon père. — Il croit? 
— Mon père, oui. Schluss. He laps. My Latin quarter 
hat. God, we simply must dress the character. I want 
puce gloves. You were a student, weren’t you? Of what 
in the other devil’s name? Paysayenn. P. C. N., you 
know : physiques, chimiques et naturelles. Aha. Eating your groatsworth 
of mou en civet, fleshpots of Egypt, elbowed by belching 
cabmen. Just say in the most natural tone : when 
I was in Paris, boul’ Mich’, I used to. Yes, 
used to carry punched tickets to prove an alibi if 
they arrested you for murder somewhere. Justice. On the night 
of the seventeenth of February 1904 the prisoner was seen 
by two witnesses. Other fellow did it : other me. 
Hat, tie, overcoat, nose. Lui, c’est moi. You seem to 
have enjoyed yourself. Proudly walking. Whom were you trying to 
