ring from afar, and heard steelhoofs ringhoof ringsteel. — Am 
I awfully sunburnt? Miss Bronze unbloused her neck. — No, 
said Miss Kennedy. It gets brown after. Did you try 
the borax with the cherry laurel water? Miss Douce halfstood 
to see her skin askance in the barmirror gildedlettered where 
hock and claret glasses shimmered and in their midst a 
shell. — And leave it to my hands, she said. 
— Try it with the glycerine, Miss Kennedy advised. Bidding 
her neck and hands adieu Miss Douce — Those things 
only bring out a rash, replied, reseated. I asked that 
old fogey in Boyd’s for something for my skin. Miss 
Kennedy, pouring now fulldrawn tea, grimaced and prayed : — 
O, don’t remind me of him for mercy’sake! — But 
wait till I tell you, Miss Douce entreated. Sweet tea 
Miss Kennedy having poured with milk plugged both two ears 
with little fingers. — No, don’t, she cried. — I 
won’t listen, she cried. But Bloom? Miss Douce grunted in 
snuffy fogey’s tone : — For your what? says he. 
Miss Kennedy unplugged her ears to hear, to speak : 
but said, but prayed again : — Don’t let me 
think of him or I’ll expire. The hideous old wretch! 
That night in the Antient Concert Rooms. She sipped distastefully 
her brew, hot tea, a sip, sipped sweet tea. — 
Here he was, Miss Douce said, cocking her bronze head 
three quarters, ruffling her nosewings. Hufa! Hufa! Shrill shriek of 
laughter sprang from Miss Kennedy’s throat. Miss Douce huffed and 
snorted down her nostrils that quivered imperthnthn like a shout 
in quest. — O! shrieking, Miss Kennedy cried. Will you 
ever forget bis goggle eye? Miss Douce chimed in in 
deep bronze laughter, shouting : — And your other eye! 
Bloowhose dark eye read Aaron Figatner’s name. Why do I 
always think Figather? Gathering figs I think. And Prosper Loré’s 
huguenot name. By Bassi’s blessed virgins Bloom’s dark eyes went 
by. Bluerobed, white under, come to me. God they believe 
she is : or goddess. Those today. I could not 
see. That fellow spoke. A student. After with Dedalus’son. He 
might be Mulligan. All comely virgins. That brings those rakes 
of fellows in : her white. By went his eyes. 
The sweets of sin. Sweet are the sweets. Of sin. 
In a giggling peal young goldbronze voices blended, Douce with 
Kennedy your other eye. They threw young heads back, bronze 
gigglegold, to let freefly their laughter, screaming, your other, signals 
to each Other, high piercing notes. Ah, panting, sighing. Sighing, 
ah, fordone their mirth died down. Miss Kennedy lipped her 
cup again, raised, drank a sip and gigglegiggled. Miss Douce, 
bending again over the teatray, ruffled again her nose and 
rolled droll fattened eyes. Again Kennygiggles, stooping her fair pinnacles 
of hair, stooping, her tortoise napecomb showed, spluttered out of 
her mouth her tea, choking in tea and laughter, coughing 
with choking, crying : — O greasy eyes! Imagine being 
