black is. Course nerves a bit. Refracts (is it?) heat. 
Let me see. Cider. Yes, bottle of cider. — What’s 
that? Mr Dedalus said. I was only vamping, man. — 
Come on, come on, Ben Dollard called. Begone, dull care. 
Come, Bob. He ambled Dollard, bulky slops, before them (hold 
that fellow with the : hold him now) into the 
saloon. He plumped him Dollard on the stool. His gouty 
paws plumped chords. Plumped stopped abrupt. Bald Pat in the 
doorway met tealess gold returning. Bothered he wanted Power and 
cider. Bronze by the window watched, bronze from afar. Jingle 
a tinkle jaunted. Bloom heard a jing, a little sound. 
He’s off. Light sob of breath Bloom sighed on the 
silent bluehued flowers. Jingling. He’s gone. Jingle. Hear. — Love 
and war, Ben, Mr Dedalus said. God be with old 
times. Miss Douce’s brave eyes, unregarded, turned from the crossblind, 
smitten by sunlight. Gone. Pensive (who knows?), smitten (the smiting 
light), she lowered the dropblind with a sliding cord. She 
drew down pensive (why did he go so quick when 
I?) about her bronze, over the bar where bald stood 
by sister gold, inexquisite contrast, contrast inexquisite nonexquisite, slow cool 
dim seagreen sliding depth of shadow, eau de Nil. — 
Poor old Goodwin was the pianist that night, Father Cowley 
reminded them. There was a slight difference of opinion between 
himself and the Collard grand. There was. — A symposium 
all his own, Mr Dedalus said. The devil wouldn’t stop 
him. He was a crotchety old fellow in the primary 
stage of drink. — God, do you remember? Ben bulky 
Dollard said, turning from the punished keyboard. And by Japers 
I had no wedding garment. They laughed all three. He 
had no wed. All trio laughed. No wedding garment. — 
Our friend Bloom turned in handy that night, Mr Dedalus 
said. Where’s my pipe by the way? He wandered back 
to the bar to the lost chord pipe. Bald Pat 
carried two diners’ drinks, Richie and Poldy. And Father Cowley 
laughed again. — I saved the situation, Ben, I think. 
— You did, averred Ben Dollard. I remember those tight 
trousers too. That was a brilliant idea, Bob. Father Cowley 
blushed to his brilliant purply lobes. He saved the situa. 
Tight trou. Brilliant ide. — I knew he was on 
the rocks, he said. The wife was playing the piano 
in the coffee palace on Saturdays for a yery trifling 
consideration and who was it gave me the wheeze she 
was doing the other business? Do you remember? We had 
to search all Holles street to find them till the 
chap in Keogh’s gave us the number. Remember? Ben remembered, 
his broad visage wondering. — By God she had some 
luxurious operacloaks and things there. Mr Dedalus wandered back, pipe 
in hand. — Merrion square style. Balldresses, by God, and 
court dresses. He wouldn’t take any money either. What? Any 
God’s quantity of cocked hats and boleros and trunkhose. What? 
