much, Mr Russell, Stephen said, rising. If you will be 
so kind as to give the letter to Mr Norman… 
— O, yes. If he considers it important it will 
go in. We have so much correspondence. — I understand, 
Stephen said. Thanks. Good ild you. The pigs’ paper. Bullockbefriending. 
Synge has promised me an article for Dana too. Are 
we going to be read? I feel we are. The 
Gaelic league wants something in Irish. I hope you will 
come round tonight. Bring Starkey. Stephen sat down. The quaker 
librarian came from the leavetakers. Blushing his mask said : 
— Mr Dedalus, your views are most illuminating. He creaked 
to and fro, tiptoing up nearer heaven by the altitude 
of a chopine, and, covered by the noise of outgoing, 
said low : — Is it your view, then, that 
she was not faithful to the poet? Alarmed face asks 
me. Why did he come? Courtesy or an inward light? 
— Where there is a reconciliation, Stephen said, there must 
have been first a sundering. — Yes. Christfox in leather 
trews, hiding, a runaway in blighted treeforks from hue and 
cry. Knowing no vixen, walking lonely in the chase. Women 
he won to him, tender people, a whore of Babylon, 
ladies of justices, bully tapsters’ wives. Fox and geese. And 
in New place a slack dishonoured body that once was 
comely, once as sweet, as fresh as cinnamon, now her 
leaves falling, all, bare, frighted of the narrow grave and 
unforgiven. — Yes. So you think… The door closed behind 
the outgoer. Rest suddenly possessed the discreet vaulted cell, rest 
of warm and brooding air. A vestal’s lamp. Here he 
ponders things that were not : what Caesar would have 
lived to do had he believed the soothsayer : what 
might have been : possibilities of the possible as possible 
: things not known : what name Achilles bore when 
he lived among women. Coffined thoughts around me, in mummycases, 
embalmed in spice of words. Thoth, god of libraries, a 
birdgod, moonycrowned. And I heard the voice of that Egyptian 
highpriest. In painted chambers loaded with tilebooks. They are still. 
Once quick in the brains of men. Still : but 
an itch of death is in them, to tell me 
in my ear a maudlin tale, urge me to wreak 
their will. — Certainly, John Eglinton mused, of all great 
men he is the most enigmatic. We know nothing but 
that he lived and suffered. Not even so much. Others 
abide our question. A shadow hangs over all the rest. 
— But Hamlet is so personal, isn’t it? Mr Best 
pleaded. I mean, a kind of private paper, don’t you 
know, of his private life. I mean I don’t care 
a button, don’t you know, who is killed or who 
is guilty… He rested an innocent book on the edge 
of the desk, smiling his defiance. His private papers in 
the original. Ta an bad ar an tir. Taim imo 
