are his trousers I’ve on me and he gave me 
an oilskin and that jackknife. I’m game for that job, 
shaving and brushup. I hate roaming about. There’s my son 
now, Danny, run off to sea and his mother got 
him took in a draper’s in Cork where he could 
be drawing easy money. — What age is he? queried 
one hearer who, by the way, seen from the side, 
bore a distant resemblance to Henry Campbell, the townclerk, away 
from the carking cares of office, unwashed, of course, and 
in a seedy getup and a strong suspicion of nosepaint 
about the nasal appendage. — Why, the sailor answered with 
a slow puzzled utterance. My son Danny? He’d be about 
eighteen now, way I figure it. The Skibbereen father hereupon 
tore open his grey or unclean anyhow shirt with his 
two hands and scratched away at his chest on which 
was to be seen an image tattooed in blue Chinese 
ink, intended to represent an anchor. — There was lice 
in that bunk in Bridgwater, he remarked. Sure as nuts. 
I must get a wash tomorrow or next day. It’s 
them black lads I objects to. I hate those buggers. 
Sucks your blood dry, they does. Seeing they were all 
looking at his chest, he accommodatingly dragged his shirt more 
open so that, on top of the timehonoured symbol of 
the mariner’s hope and rest, they had a full view 
of the figure 16 and a young man’s sideface looking 
frowningly rather. — Tattoo, the exhibitor explained. That was done 
when we were lying becalmed off Odessa in the Black 
Sea under Captain Dalton. Fellow the name of Antonio done 
that. There he is himself, a Greek. — Did it 
hurt much doing it? one asked the sailor. That worthy, 
however, was busily engaged in collecting round the someway in 
his. Squeezing or… — See here, he said, showing Antonio. 
There he is, cursing the mate. And there he is 
now, he added. The same fellow, pulling the skin with 
his fingers, some special knack evidently, and he laughing at 
a yarn. And in point of fact the young man 
named Antonio’s livid face did actually look like forced smiling 
and the curious effect excited the unreserved admiration of everybody, 
including Skin-the-Goat who this time stretched over. — Ay, ay, 
sighed the sailor, looking down on his manly chest. He’s 
gone too. Ate by sharks after. Ay, ay. He let 
go of the skin so that the profile resumed the 
normal expression of before. — Neat bit of work, longshoreman 
one said. — And what’s the number for? loafer number 
two queried. — Eaten alive? a third asked the sailor. 
— Ay, ay, sighed again the latter personage, more cheerily 
this time, with some sort of a half smile, for 
a brief duration only, in the direction of the questioner 
about the number. A Greek he was. And then he 
added, with rather gallowsbird humour, considering his alleged end : 
