she rubs on Lourdes water given her by a lady 
who got a bottleful from a passionist father. Florence MacCabe 
takes a crubeen and a bottle of double X for 
supper every Saturday. — Antithesis, the professor said, nodding twice. 
Vestal virgins. I can see them. What’s keeping our friend? 
He turned. A bevy of scampering newsboys rushed down the 
steps, scampering in all directions, yelling, their white papers fluttering. 
Hard after them Myles Crawford appeared on the steps, his 
hat aureoling his scarlet face, talking with J.J. O’Molloy. — 
Come along, the professor cried, waving his arm. He set 
off again to walk by Stephen’s side. RETURN OF BLOOM 
— Yes, he said. I see them. Mr Bloom, breathless, 
caught in a whirl of wild newsboys near the offices 
of the Irish Catholic and Dublin Penny Journal, called : 
— Mr Crawford! A moment! — Telegraph! Racing spécial! — 
What is it? Myles Crawford said, falling back a pace. 
A newsboy cried in Mr Bloom’s face : — Terrible 
tragedy in Rathmines! A child bit by a bellows! INTERVIEW 
WITH THE EDITOR — Just this ad, Mr Bloom said, 
pushing through towards the steps, puffing, and taking the cutting 
from his pocket. I spoke with Mr Keyes just now. 
He’ll give a renewal for two months, he says. After 
he’ll see. But he wants a par to call attention 
in the Telegraph too, the Saturday pink. And he wants 
it if it’s not too late I told councillor Nannetti 
from the Kilkenny People. I can have access to it 
in the national library. House of keys, don’t you see? 
His name is Keyes. It’s a play on the name. 
But he practically promised he’d give the renewal. But he 
wants just a little puff. What will I tell him, 
Mr Crawford? K. M. A. — Will you tell him 
he can kiss my arse? Myles Crawford said, throwing out 
his arm for emphasis. Tell him that straight from the 
stable. A bit nervy. Look out for squalls. All off 
for a drink. Arm in arm. Lenehan’s yachting cap on 
the cadge beyond. Usual blarney. Wonder is that young Dedalus 
the moving spirit. Has a good pair of boots on 
him today. Last time I saw him he had his 
heels on view. Been walking in muck somewhere. Careless chap. 
What was he doing in Irishtown? — Well, Mr Bloom 
said, his eyes returning, if I can get the design 
I suppose it’s worth a short par. He’d give the 
ad I think. I’ll tell him… K. M. R. I. 
A. — He can kiss my royal Irish arse, Myles 
Crawford cried loudly over his shoulder. Any time he likes, 
tell him. While Mr Bloom stood weighing the point and 
about to smile he strode on jerkily. RAISING THE WIND 
— Nulla bona, Jack, he said, raising his hand to 
his chin. I’m up to here. I’ve been through the 
hoop myself. I was looking for a fellow to back 
