time I asked her. I have sinned : or no 
: I have suffered, it is. And the other one? 
Iron nails ran in. Meet one Sunday after the rosary. 
Do not deny my request. Turn up with a veil 
and black bag. Dusk and the light behind her. She 
might be here with a ribbon round her neck and 
do the other thing all the same on the sly. 
Their character. That fellow that turned queen’s evidence on the 
invincibles he used to receive the, Carey was his name, 
the communion every morning. This very church. Peter Carey. No, 
Peter Claver I am thinking of. Denis Carey. And just 
imagine that. Wife and six children at home. And plotting 
that murder all the time. Those crawthumpers, now that’s a 
good name for them, there’s always something shiftylooking about them. 
They’re not straight men of business either. O no she’s 
not here : the flower : no, no. By the 
way did I tear up that envelope? Yes : under 
the bridge. The priest was rinsing out the chalice : 
then he tossed off the dregs smartly. Wine. Makes it 
more aristocratic than for example if he drank what they 
are used to Guinness’s porter or some temperance beverage Wheatley’s 
Dublin hop bitters or Cantrell and Cochrane’s ginger ale (aromatic). 
Doesn’t give them any of it : show wine : 
only the other. Cold comfort. Pious fraud but quite right 
: otherwise they’d have one old booser worse than another 
coming along, cadging for a drink. Queer the whole atmosphere 
of the. Quite right. Perfectly right that is. Mr Bloom 
looked back towards the choir. Not going to be any 
music. Pity. Who has the organ here I wonder? Old 
Glynn he knew how to make that instrument talk, the 
vibrato : fifty pounds a year they say he had 
in Gardiner street. Molly was in fine voice that day, 
the Stabat Mater of Rossini. Father Bernard Vaughan’s sermon first. 
Christ or Pilate? Christ, but don’t keep us all night 
over it. Music they wanted. Footdrill stopped. Could hear a 
pin drop. I told her to pitch her voice against 
that corner. I could feel the thrill in the air, 
the full, the people looking up : Quis est homo! 
Some of that old sacred music is splendid. Mercadante : 
seven last words. Mozart’s twelfth mass : the Gloria in 
that. Those old popes were keen on music, on art 
and statues and pictures of all kinds. Palestrina for example 
too. They had a gay old time while it lasted. 
Healthy too chanting, regular hours, then brew liqueurs. Benedictine. Green 
Chartreuse. Still, having eunuchs in their choir that was coming 
it a bit thick. What kind of voice is it? 
Must be curious to hear after their own strong basses. 
Connoisseurs. Suppose they wouldn’t feel anything after. Kind of a 
placid. No worry. Fall into flesh don’t they? Gluttons, tall, 
long legs. Who knows? Eunuch. One way out of it. 
