Milly served me that cutlet with a sprig of parsley. 
Take one Spanish onion. God made food, the devil the 
cooks. Devilled crab. — Wife well? — Quite well, thanks… 
A cheese sandwich, then. Gorgonzola, have you? — Yes, sir. 
Nosey Flynn sipped his grog. — Doing any singing those 
times? Look at his mouth. Could whistle in his own 
ear. Flap ears to match. Music. Knows as much about 
it as my coachman. Still better tell him. Does no 
harm. Free ad. — She’s engaged for a big tour 
end of this month. You may have heard perhaps. — 
No. O, that’s the style. Who’s getting it up? The 
curate served. — How much is that? — Seven d., 
sir… Thank you, sir. Mr Bloom cut his sandwich into 
slender strips. Mr MacTrigger. Easier than the dreamy creamy stuff. 
His five hundred wives. Had the time of their lives. 
— Mustard, sir? — Thank you. He studded under each 
lifted strip yellow blobs. Their lives. I have it. It 
grew bigger and bigger and bigger. — Getting it up? 
he said. Well, it’s like a company idea, you see. 
Part shares and part profits. — Ay, now I remember, 
Nosey Flynn said, putting his hand in his pocket to 
scratch his groin. Who is this was telling me? Isn’t 
Blazes Boylan mixed up in it? A warm shock of 
air heat of mustard hauched on Mr Bloom’s heart. He 
raised his eyes and met the stare of a bilious 
clock. Two. Pub clock five minutes fast. Time going on. 
Hands moving. Two. Not yet. His midriff yearned then upward, 
sank within him, yearned more longly, longingly. Wine. He smellsipped 
the cordial juice and, bidding his throat strongly to speed 
it, set his wineglass delicately down. — Yes, he said. 
He’s the organiser in point of fact. No fear. No 
brains. Nosey Flynn snuffled and scratched. Flea having a good 
square meal. — He had a good slice of luck, 
Jack Mooney was telling me, over that boxing match Myler 
Keogh won again that soldier in the Portobello barracks. By 
God, he had the little kipper down in the county 
Carlow he was telling me… Hope that dewdrop doesn’t come 
down into his glass. No, snuffled it up. — For 
near a month, man, before it came off. Sucking duck 
eggs by God till further orders. Keep him off the 
boose, see? O, by God, Blazes is a hairy chap. 
Davy Byrne came forward from the hindbar in tuckstitched shirt 
sleeves, cleaning his lips with two wipes of his napkin. 
Herring’s blush. Whose smile upon each feature plays with such 
and such replete. Too much fat on the parsnips. — 
And here’s himself and pepper on him, Nosey Flynn said. 
Can you give us a good one for the Gold 
cup? — I’m off that, Mr Flynn, Davy Byrne answered. 
I never put anything on a horse. — You’re right 
there, Nosey Flynn said. Mr Bloom ate his strips of 
