Hurray! (They cheer.) bloom (Hobbledehoy, warmgloved, mammamufflered, stunned with spent 
snowballs, struggles to rise.) Again! I feel sixteen! What a 
lark! Let’s ring all the bells in Montague Street. (He 
cheers feebly.) Hurray for the High School! the echo Fool! 
the yews (Rustling.) She is right, our sister. Whisper. (Whispered 
kisses are heard in all the wood. Faces of hamadryads 
peep out from the boles and among the leaves and 
break blossoming into bloom.) Who profaned our silent shade? the 
nymph (Coyly through parting fingers.) There! In the open air? 
the yews (Sweeping downward.) Sister, yes. And on our virgin 
sward. the waterfall Poulaphouca Poulaphouca Phoucaphouca Phoucaphouca. the nymph (With 
wide fingers.) O! Infamy! bloom I was precocious. Youth. The 
fauns. I sacrificed to the god of the forest. The 
flowers that bloom in the spring. It was pairing time. 
Capillary attraction is a natural phenomenon. Lotty Clarke, flaxenhaired, I 
saw at her night toilette trough illclosed curtains, with poor 
papa’s operaglasses. The wanton ate grass wildly. She rolled downhill 
at Rialto Bridge to tempt me with her flow of 
animal spirits. She climbed their crooked tree and I… A 
saint couldn’t resist it. The demon possessed me. Besides, who 
saw? (Staggering Bob, a white polled calf, thrusts a ruminating 
head with humid nostrils through the foliage.) staggering bob Me. 
Me see. bloom Simply satisfying a need. (With pathos.) No 
girl would when I went girling. Too ugly. They wouldn’t 
play… (High on Ben Howth through rhododendrons a nannygoat passes, 
plumpuddered, buttytailed, dropping currants.) the nannygoat (Bleats.) Megegaggegg! Nannannanny! bloom 
(Hatless, flushed, covered with burrs of thistledown and gorsepine.) Regularly 
engaged. Circumstances alter cases. (He gazes intently downwards on the 
water.) Thirtytwo head over heels per second. Press nightmare. Giddy 
Elijah. Fall from cliff. Sad end of government printer’s clerk. 
(Through silversilent summer air the dummy of Bloom, rolled in 
a mummy, rolls roteatingly from the Lion’s Head cliff into 
the purple Waiting waters.) the dummymummy Bbbbblllllbbbbblblobschbg! (Far out in 
the bay between Bailey and Kish lights the Erin’s King 
sails, sending a broadening plume of coalsmoke from her funnel 
towards the land.) councillor nannetti (Alone on deck, in dark 
alpaca, yellow kitefaced, his hand in his waistcoat, opening, declaims.) 
When my country takes her place among the nations of 
the earth, then, and not till then let my epitaph 
be written. I have… bloom Done. Prff! the nymph (Loftily.) 
We immortals, as you saw today, have not such a 
place and no hair there either. We are stonecold and 
pure. We eat electric light. (She arches her body in 
lascivious crispation, placing her forefinger in her mouth.) Spoke to 
me. Heard from behind. How then could you…? bloom (Pacing 
the heather abjectly.) O, I have been a perfect pig. 
Enemas too I have administered. One third of a pint 
of quassia, to which add a tablespoonful of rocksalt. Up 
the fundament. With Hamilton Long’s syringe, the ladies’ friend. the 
nymph In my presence. The powderpuff. (She blushes and makes 
