marion Ti trema un poco il cuore? (In disdain she 
saunters away, plump as a pampered pouter pigeon, humming the 
duet from Don Giovanni.) bloom Are you sure about that 
Voglio? I mean the pronunciati… (He follows, followed by the 
sniffing terrier. The elderly bawd seizes his sleeve, the bristles 
of her chinmole glittering.) the bawd Ten shillings a maidenhead. 
Fresh thing was never touched. Fifteen. There’s no-one in it 
only her old father that’s dead drunk. (She points. In 
the gap of her dark den furtive, rainbedraggled Bridie Kelly 
stands.) bridie Hatch street. Any good in your mind? (With 
a squeak she flaps her bat shawl and runs. A 
burly rough pursues with booted strides. He stumbles on the 
steps, recovers, plunges into gloom. Weak squeaks of laughter are 
heard, weaker.) the bawd (Her wolfeyes shining.) He’s getting his 
pleasure. You won’t get a virgin in the flash houses. 
Ten shillings. Don’t be all night before the polis in 
plain clothes sees us. Sixtyseven is a bitch. (Leering, Gerty 
Mac Dowell limps forward. She draws from behind, ogling, and 
shows coyly her bloodied clout.) gerty With all my worldly 
goods I thee and thou. (She murmurs.) You did that. 
I hate you. bloom I? When? You’re dreaming. I never 
saw you. the bawd Leave the gentleman alone, you cheat. 
Writing the gentleman false letters. Streetwalking and soliciting. Better for 
your mother take the strap to you at the bedpost, 
hussy like you. gerty (To Bloom.) When you saw all 
the secrets of my bottom drawer. (She paws his sleeve, 
slobbering.) Dirty married man! I love you for doing that 
to me. (She slides away crookedly. Mrs Breen in man’s 
frieze overcoat with loose bellows pockets, stands in the causeway, 
her roguish eyes wideopen, smiling in all her herbivorous buckteeth.) 
mrs breen Mr… bloom (Coughs gravely.) Madam, when we last 
had this pleasure by letter dated the sixteenth instant… mrs 
breen Mr Bloom! You down here in the haunts of 
sin! I caught you nicely! Scamp! bloom (Hurriedly.) Not so 
loud my name. Whatever do you think me? Don’t give 
me away. Walls have hears. How do you do? It’s 
ages since I. You’re looking splendid. Absolutely it. Seasonable weather 
we are having this time of year. Black refracts heat. 
Short cut home here. Interesting quarter. Rescue of fallen women 
Magdalen asylum. I am the secretary… mrs breen (Holds up 
a finger.) Now don’t tell a big fib! I know 
somebody won’t like that. O just wait till I see 
Molly! (Slily.) Account for yourself this very sminute or woe 
betide you! bloom (Looks behind.) She often said she’d like 
to visit. Slumming. The exotic, you see. Negro servants too 
in livery if she had money. Othello black brute. Eugene 
Stratton. Even the bones and cornerman at the Livermore christies. 
Bohee brothers. Sweep for that matter. (Tom and Sam Bohee, 
coloured coons in white duck suits, scarlet socks, upstarched Sambo 
chokers and lace scarlet asters in their buttonholes leap out. 
