conversation that he had moved. — I believe he is 
in Dublin somewhere, Stephen answered unconcernedly. Why? — A gifted 
man, Mr Bloom said of Mr Dedalus senior, in more 
respects than one and a born raconteur if ever there 
was one. He takes great pride, quite legitimately, out of 
you. You could go back, perhaps, he hazarded, still thinking 
of the very unpleasant scene at Westland Row terminus when 
it was perfectly evident that the other two, Mulligan, that 
is, and that English tourist friend of his, who eventually 
euchred their third companion, were patently trying,as if the whole 
bally stationbelonged to them, to give Stephen the slip in 
the confusion. There was no response forthcoming to the suggestion, 
however, such as it was, Stephen’s mind’s eye being too 
busily engaged in repicturing his family hearth the last time 
he saw it, with his sister Dilly sitting by the 
ingle, her hair hanging down, waiting for some weak Trinidad 
shell cocoa that was in the sootcoated kettle to be 
done so that she and he could drink it with 
the oatmeal water for milk after the Friday herrings they 
had eaten at two a penny, with an egg apiece 
for Maggy, Boody and Katey, the cat meanwhile under the 
mangle devouring a mess of eggshells and charred fish heads 
and bones on a square of brown paper in accordance 
with the third precept of the church to fast and 
abstain on the days commanded, it being quarter tense or, 
if not, ember days or something like that. — No, 
Mr Bloom repeated again, I wouldn’t personally repose much trust 
in that boon companion of yours who contributes the humorous 
element, Dr Mulligan, as a guide, philosopher, and friend, if 
I were in your shoes. He knows which side his 
bread is buttered on through in all probability he never 
realised what it is to be without regular meals. Of 
course you didn’t notice as much as I did but 
it wouldn’t occasion me the least surprise to learn that 
a pinch of tobacco or some narcotic was put in 
your drink for some ulterior object. He understood, however, from 
all he heard, that Dr Mulligan was a versatile allround 
man, by no means confined to medicine only, who was 
rapidly coming to the fore in his line and, if 
the report was verified, bade fair to enjoy a flourishing 
practice in the not too distant future as a tony 
medical practitioner drawing a handsome fee for his services in 
addition to which professional status his rescue of that man 
from certain drowning by artificial respiration and what they call 
first aid at Skerries, or Malahide was it? was, he 
was bound to admit, an exceedingly plucky deed which he 
could not too highly praise, so that frankly he was 
utterly at a loss to fathom what earthly reason could 
be at the back of it except he put it 
down to sheer cussedness or jealousy, pure and simple. — 
