clean ladies’ kid gloves. Dirty cleans. Ashes too. Reclaim the 
whole place. Grow peas in that corner there. Lettuce. Always 
have fresh greens then. Still gardens have their drawbacks. That 
bee or bluebottle here Whitmonday. He walked on. Where is 
my hat, by the way? Must have put it back 
on the peg. Or hanging up on the floor. Funny, 
I don’t remember that. Hallstand too full. Four umbrellas, her 
raincloak. Picking up the letters. Drago’s shopbell ringing. Queer I 
was just thinking that moment. Brown brilliantined hair over his 
collar. Just had a wash and brushup. Wonder have I 
time for a bath this morning. Tara street. Chap in 
the paybox there got away James Stephens they say. O’Brien. 
Deep voice that fellow Dlugacz has. Agenda what is it? 
Now, my miss. Enthusiast. He kicked open the crazy door 
of the jakes. Better be careful not to get these 
trousers dirty for the funeral. He went in, bowing his 
head under the low lintel. Leaving the door ajar, amid 
the stench of mouldy limewash and stale cobwebs he undid 
his braces. Before sitting down he peered through a chink 
up at the nextdoor window. The king was in his 
counting house. Nobody. Asquat on the cuckstool he folded out 
his paper turning its pages over on his bared knees. 
Something new and easy. No great hurry. Keep it a 
bit. Our prize titbit. Matcham’s Masterstroke. Written by Mr Philip 
Beaufoy, Playgoers’ club, London. Payment at the rate of one 
guinea a column has been made to the writer. Three 
and a half. Three pounds three. Three pounds thirteen and 
six. Quietly he read, restraining himself, the first column and, 
yielding but resisting, began the second. Midway, his last resistance 
yielding, he allowed his bowels to ease themselves quietly as 
he read, reading still patiently that slight constipation of yesterday 
quite gone. Hope it’s not too big bring on piles 
again. No, just right. So. Ah! Costive one tabloid of 
cascara sagrada. Life might be so. It did not move 
or touch him but it was something quick and neat. 
Print anything now. Silly season. He read on, seated calm 
above his own rising smell. Neat certainly. Matcham often thinks 
of the masterstroke by which he won the laughing Witch 
Who now. Begins and ends morally. Hand in hand. Smart. 
He glanced back through what he had read and, while 
feeling his water flow quietly, he envied kindly Mr Beaufoy 
who had written it and received payment of three pounds 
thirteen and six. Might manage a sketch. By Mr and 
Mrs L. M. Bloom. Invent a story for some proverb 
which? Time I used to try jotting down on my 
cuff what she said dressing. Dislike dressing together. Nicked myself 
shaving. Biting her nether lip, hooking the placket of her 
skirt. Timing her. 9.15. Did Roberts pay you yet? 9.20. 
What had Gretta Conroy on? 9.23. What possessed me to 
buy this comb? 9.24. I’m swelled after that cabbage. A 
