You bore me away, framed me in oak and tinsel, 
set me above your marriage couch. Unseen, one summer eve, 
you kissed me in four places. And with loving pencil 
you shaded my eyes, my bosom and my shame. bloom 
(Humbly kisses her long hair.) Your classic curves, beautiful immortal. 
I was glad to look on you, to praise you, 
a thing of beauty, almost to pray. the nymph During 
dark nights I heard your praise. bloom (Quickly.) Yes, yes. 
You mean that I… Sleep reveals the worst side of 
everyone, children perhaps excepted. I know I fell out of 
my bed or rather was pushed Steel wine is said 
to cure snoring. For the rest there is that English 
invention, pamphlet of which I received some days ago, incorrectly 
addressed. It claims to afford a noiseless inoffensive vent. (He 
sighs.) ’Twas ever thus. Frailty, thy name is marriage. the 
nymph (Her fingers in her ears.) And words. They are 
not in my dictionary. bloom You understood them? the yews 
Ssh. the nymph (Covers her face with her hand.) What 
have I not seen in that chamber? What must my 
eyes look down on? bloom (Apologetically.) I know. Soiled personal 
linen, wrong side up with care. The quoits are loose. 
From Gibraltar by long sea, long ago. the nymph (Bends 
her head.) Worse! Worse! bloom (Reflects precautiously.) That antiquated commode. 
It wasn’t her weight. She scaled just eleven stone nine. 
She put on nine pounds after weaning. It was a 
crack and want of glue. Eh? And that absurd orangekeyed 
utensil which has only one handle. (The sound of a 
waterfall is heard in bright cascade.) the waterfall Poulaphouca Poulaphouca 
Poulaphouca Poulaphouca. the yews (Mingling their boughs.) Listen. Whisper. She 
is right, our sister. We grew by Poulaphouca waterfall. We 
gave shade on languorous summer days. john wyse nolan (In 
the background, in Irish National Forester’s uniform, doffs his plumed 
hat.) Prosper! Give shade on languorous days, trees of Ireland! 
the yews (Murmuring.) Who came to Poulaphouca with the high 
school excursion? Who left his nutquesting classmates to seek our 
shade? bloom (Pigeonbreasted, bottleshouldered, padded, in nondescript juvenile grey and 
black striped suit, too small for him, white tennis shoes, 
bordered stockings with turnover tops, and a red school cap 
with badge.) I was in my tens, a growing boy. 
A little then sufficed, a jolting car, the mingling odours 
of the ladies’ cloakroom and lavatory, the throng penned tight 
on the old Royal stairs for they love crushes, instincts 
of the herd, and the dark sexsmelling theatre unbridles vice. 
Even a pricelist of their hosiery. And then the heat. 
There were sunspots that summer. End of school. And tipsycake. 
Halcyon days. (Halcyon Days, high school boys in blue and 
white football jerseys and shorts, Master Donald Turnbull, Master Abraham 
Chatterton, Master Owen Goldberg, Master Jack Meredith, Master Percy Apjohn, 
stand in a clearing of the trees and shout to 
Master Leopold Bloom.) the halcyon days Mackerel! Live us again. 
