Dandrade that sold me her old wraps and black underclothes 
in the Shelbourne hotel. Divorced Spanish American. Didn’t take a 
feather out of her my handling them. As if I 
was her clotheshorse. Saw her in the viceregal party when 
Stubbs the park ranger got me in with Whelan of 
the Express. Scavenging what the quality left. High tea. Mayonnaise 
I poured on the plums thinking it was custard. Her 
ears ought to have tingled for a few weeks after. 
Want to be a bull for her. Born courtesan. No 
nursery work for her, thanks. Poor Mrs Purefoy! Methodist husband. 
Method in his madness. Saffron bun and milk and soda 
lunch in the educational dairy. Eating with a stopwatch, thirtytwo 
chews to the minute. Still his muttonchop whiskers grew. Supposed 
to be well connected. Theodore’s cousin in Dublin Castle. One 
tony relative in every family. Hardy annuals he presents her 
with. Saw him out at the Three Jolly Topers marching 
along bareheaded and his eldest boy carrying one in a 
marketnet. The squallers. Poor thing! Then having to give the 
breast year after year all hours of the night. Selfish 
those t.t’s are. Dog in the manger. Only one lump 
of sugar in my tea, if you please. He stood 
at Fleet street crossing. Luncheon interval a sixpenny at Rowe’s? 
Must look up that ad in the national library. An 
eightpenny in the Burton. Better. On my way. He walked 
on past Bolton’s Westmoreland house. Tea. Tea. Tea. I forgot 
to tap Tom Kernan. Sss.Dth, dth, dth! Three days imagine 
groaning on a bed with a vinegared handkerchief round her 
forehead, her belly swollen out! Phew! Dreadful simply! Child’s head 
too big : forceps. Doubled up inside her trying to 
butt its way out blindly, groping for the way out. 
Kill me that would. Lucky Molly got over hers lightly. 
They ought to invent something to stop that. Life with 
hard labour. Twilightsleep idea : queen Victoria was given that. 
Nine she had. A good layer. Old woman that lived 
in a shoe she had so many children. Suppose he 
was consumptive. Time someone thought about it instead of gassing 
about the what was it the pensive bosom of the 
silver effulgence. Flapdoodle to feed fools on. They could easily 
have big establishments. Whole thing quite painless out of all 
the taxes give every child born five quid at compound 
interest up to twentyone, five per cent is a hundred 
shillings and five tiresome pounds, multiply by twenty decimal system, 
encourage people to put by money save hundred and ten 
and a bit twentyone years want to work it out 
on paper come to a tidy sum, more than you 
think. Not stillborn of course. They are not even registered. 
Trouble for nothing. Funny sight two of them together, their 
bellies out. Molly and Mrs Moisel. Mothers’ meeting. Phthisis retires 
for the time being, then returns. How flat they look 
after all of a sudden! Peaceful eyes. Weight off their 
