which was In old Madrid, a ballad, pretty in its 
way, which was then all the vogue. Her (the lady’s) 
eyes, dark, large, looked at Stephen, about to smile about 
something to be admired, Lafayette of Westmoreland street, Dublin’s premier 
photographic artist, being responsible for the esthetic execution. — Mrs 
Bloom, my wife the prima donna, Madam Marion Tweedy, Bloom 
indicated. Taken a few years since. In or about ’96. 
Very like her then. Beside the young man he looked 
also at the photo of the lady now his legal 
wife who, he intimated, was the accomplished daughter of Major 
Brian Tweedy and displayed at an early age remarkable proficiency 
as a singer having even made her bow to the 
public when her years numbered barely sweet sixteen. As for 
the face, it was a speaking likeness in expression but 
it did not do justice to her figure, which came 
in for a lot of notice usually and which did 
not come out to the best advantage in that getup 
She could without difficulty, he said, have posed for the 
ensemble, not to dwell on certain opulent curves of the… 
He dwelt, being a bit of an artist in his 
spare time, on the female form in general developmentally because, 
as it so happened, no later than that afternoon, he 
had seen those Grecian statues, perfectly developed as works of 
art, in the National Museum. Marble could give the original, 
shoulders, back, all the symmetry. All the rest, yes, Puritanism. 
It does though, St Joseph’s sovereign… whereas no photo could, 
because it simply wasn’t art, in a word. The spirit 
moving him, he would much have liked to follow Jack 
Tar’s good example and leave the likeness there for a 
very few minutes to speak for itself on the plea 
he… so that the other could drink in the beauty 
for himself, her stage presence being, frankly, a treat in 
itself which the camera could not at all do justice 
to. But it was scarcely professional etiquette so, though it 
was a warm pleasant sort of a night now yet 
wonderfully cool for the season considering, for sunshine after storm… 
And he did feel a kind of need there and 
then to follow suit like a kind of inward voice 
and satisfy a possible need by moving a motion. Nevertheless, 
he sat tight, just viewing the slightly soiled photo creased 
by opulent curves, none the worse for wear, however, and 
looked away thoughtfully with the intention of not further increasing 
the other’s possible embarrassment while gauging her symmetry of heaving 
embonpoint. In fact, the slight soiling was only an added 
charm, like the case of linen slightly soiled, good as 
new, much better, in fact, with the starch out. Suppose 
she was gone when he?… I looked for the lamp 
which she told me came into his mind but merely 
as a passing fancy of his because he then recollected 
the morning littered bed etcetera and the book about Ruby 
