finds. Hhhn : burst sideways. — Non intres in judicium 
cum servo tuo, Domine. Makes them feel more important to 
be prayed over in Latin. Requiem mass. Crape weepers. Black 
edged notepaper. Your name on the altarlist. Chilly place this. 
Want to feed well, sitting in there all the morning 
in the gloom kicking his heels waiting for the next 
please. Eyes of a toad too. What swells him up 
that way? Molly gets swelled after cabbage. Air of the 
place maybe. Looks full of up bad gas. Must be 
an infernal lot of bad gas round the place. Butchers 
for instance : they get like raw beefsteaks. Who was 
telling me? Mervyn Brown. Down in the vaults of saint 
Werburgh’s lovely old organ hundred and fifty they have to 
bore a hole in the coffins sometimes to let out 
the bad gas and burn it. Out it rushes : 
blue. One whiff of that and you’re a goner. My 
kneecap is hurting me. Ow. That’s better. The priest took 
a stick with a knob at the end of it 
out of the boy’s bucket and shook it over the 
coffin. Then he walked to the other end and shook 
it again. Then he came back and put it back 
in the bucket. As you were before you rested. It’s 
all written down : he has to do it. — 
Et ne nos inducas in tentationem. The server piped the 
answers in the treble. I often thought it would be 
better to have boy servants. Up to fifteen or so. 
After that of course… Holy water that was, I expect. 
Shaking sleep out of it. He must be fed up 
with that job, shaking that thing over all the corpses 
they trot up. What harm if he could see what 
he was shaking it over. Every mortal day a fresh 
batch : middleaged men, old women, children, women dead in 
childbirth, men with beards, baldheaded business men, consumptive girls with 
little sparrow’s breasts. All the year round he prayed the 
same thing over them all and shook water on top 
of them : sleep. On Dignam now. — In paradisum. 
Said he was going to paradise or is in paradise. 
Says that over everybody. Tiresome kind of a job. But 
he has to say something. The priest closed his book 
and went off, followed by the server. Corny Kelleher opened 
the sidedoors and the gravediggers came in, hoisted the coffin 
again, carried it out and shoved it on their cart. 
Corny Kelleher gave one wreath to the boy and one 
to the brother-in-law. All followed them out of the sidedoors 
into the mild grey air. Mr Bloom came last, folding 
his paper again into his pocket. He gazed gravely at 
the ground till the coffincart wheeled off to the left. 
The metal wheels ground the gravel with a sharp grating 
cry and the pack of blunt boots followed the barrow 
along a lane of sepulchres. The ree the ra the 
