day, on coronation day, O, Won’t We have a merry 
time, Drinking whisky, beer and wine! private carr Here. What 
are you saying about my king? stephen (Throws up his 
hands.) O, this is too monotonous! Nothing. He wants my 
money and my life, though want must be his master, 
for some brutish empire of his. Money I haven’t. (He 
searches his pockets vaguely.) Gave it to someone. private carr 
Who wants your bleeding money? stephen (Tries to move off.) 
Will some one tell me where I am least likely 
to meet these necessary evils? Ça se voit aussi à 
Paris. Not that I… But by Saint Patrick!… (The women’s 
heads coalesce. Old Gummy Granny in sugarloaf hat appears seated 
on a toadstool, the deathflower of the potato blight on 
her breast.) stephen Aha! I know you, gammer! Hamlet, revenge! 
The old sow that eats her farrow! old gummy granny 
(Rocking to and fro.) Ireland’s sweetheart, the king of Spain’s 
daughter, alanna. Strangers im my house, bad manners to them! 
(She keens with banshee woe.) Ochone! Ochone! Silk of the 
kine! (She wails.) You met with poor old Ireland and 
how does she stand? stephen How do I stand you? 
The hat trick! Where’s the third person of the Blessed 
Trinity? Soggarth Aroon? The reverend Carrion Crow. cissy caffrey (Shrill.) 
Stop them from fighting! a rough Our men retreated. private 
carr (Tugging at his belt.) I’ll wring the neck of 
any bugger says a word against my fucking king. bloom 
(Terrified.) He said nothing. Not a word. A pure misunderstanding. 
the citizen Erin go hragh! (Major Tweedy and the Citizen 
exhibit to each other medals, decorations, trophies of war, wounds. 
Both salute with fierce hostility.) private compton Go it, Harry. 
Do him one in the eye. He’s a proboer. stephen 
Did I? When? bloom (To the redcoats.) We fought for 
you in South Africa, Irish missile troops. Isn’t that history? 
Royal Dublin Fusiliers. Honoured by our monarch. the navvy (Staggering 
past.) O, yes. O, God, yes! O, make the kwawr 
a krowawr! O! Bo! (Casqued halberdiers in armour thrust forward 
a pentice of gutted spear points. Major Tweedy, moustached like 
Turko the terrible, in bearskin cap with hackle plume and 
accoutrements, with epaulette, gilt chevrons and sabretache, his breast bright 
with medals, toes the line. He gives the pilgrim warrior’s 
sign of the knights templars.) major tweedy (Growls gruffly.) Rorke’s 
Drift! Up, guards, and at them! Mahal shalal hashbaz. private 
carr I’ll do him in. private compton (Waves the crowd 
back.) Fair play, here. Make a bleeding butcher’s shop of 
the bugger. (Massed bands blare Garryowen and God save the 
king.) cissy caffrey They’re going to fight. For me! cunty 
kate The brave and the fair. biddy the clap Methinks 
yon sable knight will joust it with the best. cunty 
kate (Blushing deeply.) Nay, Madam. The gules doublet and merry 
Saint George for me! stephen The harlot’s cry from street 
to street Shall weave old Ireland’s windingsheet. private carr (Loosening 
