waiting, waiting with little white hands stretched out, with blue 
appealing eyes. Heart of mine! She would follow her dream 
of love, the dictates of her heart that told her 
he was her all in all, the only man in 
all the world for her for love was the master 
guide. Nothing else mattered. Come what might she would be 
wild, untrammelled, free. Canon O’Hanlon put the Blessed Sacrament back 
into the tabernacle and the choir sang Laudate Dominum omnes 
gentes and then he locked the tabernacle door because the 
benediction was over and Father Conroy handed him his hat 
to put on and crosscat Edy asked wasn’t she coming 
but Jacky Caffrey called out : — O, look, Cissy! 
And they all looked was it sheet lightning but Tommy 
saw it too over the trees beside the church, blue 
and then green and purple. — It’s fireworks, Cissy Caffrey 
said. And they all ran down the strand to see 
over the houses and the church, helterskelter, Edy with the 
pushcar with baby Boardman in it and Cissy holding Tommy 
and Jacky by the hand so they wouldn’t fall running. 
— Come on, Gerty, Cissy called. It’s the bazaar fireworks. 
But Gerty was adamant. She had no intention of being 
at their beck and call. If they could run like 
rossies she could sit so she said she could see 
from where she was. The eyes that were fastened upon 
her set her pulses tingling. She looked at him a 
moment, meeting his glance, and a light broke in upon 
her. Whitehot passion was in that face, passion silent as 
the grave and it had made her his. At last 
they were left alone without the others to pry and 
pass remarks and she knew he could be trusted to 
the death, steadfast, a sterling man, a man of inflexible 
honour to his fingertips. His hands and face were working 
and a tremour went over her. She leaned back far 
to look up where the fireworks were and she caught 
her knee in her hands so as not to fall 
back looking up and there was no-one to see only 
him and her when she revealed all her graceful beautifully 
shaped legs like that, supply soft and delicately rounded, and 
she seemed to hear the panting of his heart, his 
hoarse breathing, because she knew about the passion of men 
like that, hotblooded, because Bertha Supple told her once in 
dead secret and made her swear she’d never about the 
gentleman lodger that was staying with them out of the 
Congested Districts Board that had pictures cut out of papers 
of those skirtdancers and highkickers and she said he used 
to do something not very nice that you could imagine 
sometimes in the bed. But this was altogether different from 
a thing like that because there was all the difference 
because she could almost feel him draw her face to 
his and the first quick hot touch of his handsome 
