the usual everyday farewell, my gallant captain kind of an 
individual in the light dragoons, the 18th hussars to be 
accurate), and inflammable doubtless (the fallen leader, that is not 
the other) in his own peculiar way which she of 
course, woman, quickly perceived as highly likely to carve his 
way to fame, which he almost bid fair to do 
till the priests and ministers of the gospel as a 
whole, his erstwhile staunch adherents and his beloved evicted tenants 
for whom he had done yeoman service in the rural 
parts of the country by taking up the cudgels on 
their behalf in a way that exceeded their most sanguine 
expectations, very effectually cooked his matrimonial goose, thereby heaping coals 
of fire on his head-much in the same way as 
the fabled ass’s kick. Looking back now in a retrospective 
kind of arrangement, all seemed a kind of dream. And 
the coming back was the worst thing you ever did 
because it went without saying you would feel out of 
place as things always moved with the times. Why, as 
he reflected, Irishtown Strand, a locality he had not been 
in for quite a number of years, looked different somehow 
since, as it happened, he went to reside on the 
north side. North or south however, it was just the 
wellknown case of hot passion, pure and simple, upsetting the 
applecart with a vengeance and just bore out the very 
thing he was saying, as she also was Spanish or 
half so, types that wouldn’t do things by halves, passionate 
abandon of the south, casting every shred of decency to 
the winds. — Just bears out what I was saying, 
he, with glowing bosom said to Stephen. And, if I 
don’t greatly mistake, she was Spanish too. — The king 
of Spain’s daughter, Stephen answered, adding something or other rather 
muddled about farewell and adieu to you Spanish onions and 
the first land called the Deadman and from Ramhead to 
Scilly was so and so many… — Was she? Bloom 
ejaculated surprised, though not astonished by any means. I never 
heard that rumour before. Possible, especially there it was, as 
she lived there. So, Spain. Carefully avoiding a book in 
his pocket Sweets of, which reminded him by the by 
of that Capel street library book out of date, he 
took out his pocketbook and, turning over the various contents 
rapidly, finally he… — Do you consider, by the by, 
he said, thoughtfully selecting a faded photo which he laid 
on the table, that a Spanish type? Stephen, obviously addressed, 
looked down on the photo showing a large sized lady, 
with her fleshy charms on evidence in an open fashion, 
as she was in the full bloom of womanhood, In 
evening dress cut ostentatiously low for the occasion to give 
a liberal display of bosom, with more than vision of 
breasts, her full lips parted, and some perfect teeth, standing 
near, ostensibly with gravity, a piano, on the rest of 
