both. For Tommy and Jacky Caffrey were twins, scarce four 
years old and very noisy and spoiled twins sometimes but 
for all that darling little fellows with bright merry faces 
and endearing ways about them. They were dabbling in the 
sand with their spades and buckets, building castles as children 
do, or playing with their big coloured ball, happy as 
the day was long. And Edy Boardman was rocking the 
chubby baby to and fro in the pushcar while that 
young gentleman fairly chuckled with delight. He was but eleven 
months and nine days old and, though still a tiny 
toddler, was just beginning to lisp his first babyish words. 
Cissy Caffrey bent over him to tease his fat little 
plucks and the dainty dimple in his chin. — Now, 
baby, Cissy Caffrey said. Say out big, big. I want 
a drink of water. And baby prattled after her : 
— A jink a jink a jawbo. Cissy Caffrey cuddled 
the wee chap for she was awfully fond of children, 
so patient with little sufferers and Tommy Caffrey could never 
be got to take his castor oil unless it was 
Cissy Caffrey that held his nose and promised him the 
scatty heel of the loaf of brown bread with golden 
syrup on. What a persuasive power that girl had! But 
to be sure baby was as good as gold, a 
perfect little dote in his new fancy bib. None of 
your spoilt beauties, Flora Mac Flimsy sort, was Cissy Caffrey. 
A truerhearted lass never drew the breath of life, always 
with a laugh in her gipsylike eyes and a frolicsome 
word on her cherryripe red lips, a girl lovable in 
the extreme. And Edy Boardman laughed too at the quaint 
language of little brother. But just then there was a 
slight altercation between Master Tommy and Master Jacky. Boys will 
be boys and our two twins were no exception to 
this golden rule. The apple of discord was a certain 
castle of sand which Master Jacky had built and Master 
Tommy would have it right go wrong that it was 
to be architecturally improved by a frontdoor like the Martello 
tower had. But if Master Tommy was headstrong Master Jacky 
was selfwilled too and, true to the maxim that every 
little Irishman’s house is his castle, he fell upon his 
hated rival and to such purpose that the wouldbe assailant 
came to grief and (alas to relate!) the coveted castle 
too. Needless to say the cries of discomfited Master Tommy 
drew the attention of the girl friends. — Come here, 
Tommy, his sister called imperatively, at once! And you, Jacky, 
for shame to throw poor Tommy in the dirty sand. 
Wait till I catch you for that. His eyes misty 
with unshed tears Master Tommy came at her call for 
their big sister’s word was law with the twins. And 
in a sad plight he was after his misadventure. His 
little man-o’-war top and unmentionables were full of sand but 
