Queens lay with prize bulls. Remember Pasiphae for whose lust 
my grandoldgrossfather made the first confessionbox. Forget not Madam Grissel 
Steevens nor the suine scions of the house of Lambert. 
And Noah was drunk with wine. And his ark was 
open. bella None of that here. Come to the wrong 
shop. lynch Let him alone. He’s back from Paris. zoe 
(Runs to Stephen and links him.) O go on! Give 
us some parleyvoo. (Stephen claps hat on head and leaps 
over to the fireplace, where he stands with shrugged shoulders, 
finny hands outspread, a painted smile on his face.) lynch 
(Pommelling on the sofa.) Rmm Rmm Rmm Rrrrrrmmmmm. stephen (Gobbles, 
with marionette jerks.) Thousand places of entertainment to expenses your 
evenings with lovely ladies saling gloves and other things perhaps 
her heart beerchops perfect fashionable house very eccentric where lots 
cocottes beautiful dressed much about princesses like are dancing cancan 
and walking there parisian clowneries extra foolish for bachelors foreigns 
the same if talking a poor english how much smart 
they are on things love and sensations voluptuous. Misters very 
selects for is pleasure must to visit heaven and hell 
show with mortuary candles and they tears silver which occur 
every night. Perfectly shocking terrific of religion’s things mockery seen 
in universal world. All chic womans which arrive full of 
modesty then disrobe and squeal loud to see vampire man 
debauch nun very fresh young with dessous troublants. (He clacks 
his tongue loudly.) Ho, la la! Ce pif qu’il a! 
lynch Vive le vampire! the whores Bravo! Parleyvoo! stephen (Grimacing 
with head back, laughs loudly, clapping himself) Great success of 
laughing. Angels much prostitutes like and holy apostles big damn 
ruffians. Demimondaines nicely handsome sparkling of diamonds very amiable costumed. 
Or do you are fond better what belongs they moderns 
pleasure turpitude of old mans? (He points about him with 
grotesque gestures which Lynch and the whores reply to.) Caoutchouc 
statue woman reversible or lifesize tompeeptoms virgins nudities very lesbic 
the kiss five ten times. Enter gentlemen to see in 
mirrors every positions trapezes all that machine there besides also 
if desire act awfully bestial butcher’s boy pollutes in warm 
veal liver or omlette on the belly pièce de Shakespeare. 
bella (Clapping her belly sinks back on the sofa with 
a shout of laughter.) An omelette on the… Ho! ho! 
ho! ho!… Omelette on the… stephen (Mincingly.) I love you, 
Sir darling. Speak you englishman tongue for double entente cordiale. 
O yes, mon loup. How much cost? Waterloo. Watercloset. (He 
ceases suddenly and holds up a forefinger.) bella (Laughing.) Omelette… 
the whores (Laughing.) Encore! Encore! stephen Mark me. I dreamt 
of a watermelon. zoe Go abroad and love a foreign 
lady. lynch Across the world for a wife. florry Dreams 
go by contraries. stephen (Extending his arms.) It was here. 
Street of harlots. In Serpentine Avenue Beelzebub showed me her, 
a fubsy widow. Where’s the red carpet spread? bloom (Approaching 
Stephen.) Look… stephen No, I flew. My foes beneath me. 
