gouty fingers nakkering. Big Benaben. Big Benben. Last rose Castile 
of summer left bloom I feel so sad alone. Pwee! 
Little wind piped wee. True men. Lid Ker Cow De 
and Doll. Ay, ay. Like you men. Will lift your 
tschink with tschunk. Fff! Oo! Where bronze from anear? Where 
gold from afar? Where hoofs? Rrrpr. Kraa. Kraandl. Then, not 
till then. My eppripfftaph. Be pfrwritt. Done. Begin! Bronze by 
gold, Miss Douce’s head by Miss Kennedy’s head, over the 
crossblind of the Ormond bar heard the viceregal hoofs go 
by, ringing steel. — Is that her? asked Miss Kennedy. 
Miss Douce said yes, sitting with his ex, pearl grey 
and eau de Nil. — Exquisite contrast, Miss Kennedy said. 
When all agog Miss Douce said eagerly : — Look 
at the fellow in the tall silk. — Who? Where? 
gold asked more eagerly. — In the second carriage, Miss 
Douce’s wet lips said, laughing in the sun. He’s looking. 
Mind till I see. She darted, bronze, to the backmost 
corner, flattening her face against the pane in a halo 
of hurried breath. Her wet lips tittered : — He’s 
killed looking back. She laughed : — O wept! Aren’t 
men frightful idiots? With sadness. Miss Kennedy sauntered sadly from 
bright light, twining a loose hair behind an ear. Sauntering 
sadly, gold no more, she twisted twined a hair. Sadly 
she twined in sauntering gold hair behind a curving ear. 
— It’s them has the fine times, sadly then she 
said. A man. Bloowho went by by Moulang’s pipes, bearing 
in his breast the sweets of sin, by Wine’s antiques 
in memory bearing sweet sinful words, by Carroll’s dusky battered 
plate, for Raoul. The boots to them, them in the 
bar, them barmaids came. For them unheeding him he banged 
on the counter his tray of chattering china. And — 
There’s your teas, he said. Miss Kennedy with manners transposed 
the teatray down to an upturned lithia crate, safe from 
eyes, low. — What is it? loud boots unmannerly asked. 
— Find out, Miss Douce retorted, leaving her spyingpoint. — 
Your beau, is it? A haughty bronze replied : — 
I’ll complain to Mrs de Massey on you if I 
hear any more of your impertinent insolence. — Imperthnthn thnthnthn, 
bootsnout sniffed rudely, as he retreated as she threatened as 
he had come. Bloom. On her flower frowning Miss Douce 
said : — Most aggravating that young brat is. If 
he doesn’t conduct himself I’ll wring his ear for him 
a yard long. Ladylike in exquisite contrast. — Take no 
notice, Miss Kennedy rejoined. She poured in a teacup tea, 
then back in the teapot tea. They cowered under their 
reef of counter, waiting on footstools, crates upturned, waiting for 
their teas to draw. They pawed their blouses, both of 
black satin, two and nine a yard, waiting for their 
teas to draw, and two and seven. Yes, bronze from 
anear, by gold from afar, heard steel from anear, hoofs 
