prisoner at the bar the sacred benefit of the doubt. 
(A paper with something written on it is handed into 
court.) bloom (In court dress.) Can give best references. Messrs 
Callan, Coleman. Mr Wisdom Hely J. P. My old chief 
Joe Cuffe. Mr V. B. Dillon, ex-lord mayor of Dublin. 
I have moved in the charmed circle of the highest… 
Queens of Dublin Society. (Carelessly.) I was just chatting this 
afternoon at the viceregal lodge to my old pals, sir 
Robert and lady Ball, astronomer royal, at the levee. Sir 
Bob, I said… mrs yelverton barry (In lowcorsaged opal balldress 
and elbowlength ivory gloves, wearing a sabletrimmed brick quilted dolman, 
a comb of brilliants and panache of osprey in her 
hair.) Arrest him, constable. He wrote me an anonymous letter 
in prentice backhand when my husband was in the North 
Riding of Tipperary on the Munster circuit, signed James Lovebirch. 
He said that he had seen from the gods my 
peerless globes as I sat in a box of the 
Theatre Royal at a command performance of La Cigale. I 
deeply inflamed him, he said. He made improper overtures to 
me to misconduct myself at half past four p.m. on 
the following Thursday, Dunsink time. He offered to send me 
through the post a work of fiction by Monsieur Paul 
de Kock, entitled The Girl with the Three Pairs of 
Stays. mrs bellingham (In cap and seal coney mantle, wrapped 
up to the nose, steps out of her brougham and 
scans through tortoiseshell quizzing-glasses which she takes from inside her 
huge opossum muff.) Also to me. Yes, I believe it 
is the same objectionable person. Because he closed my carriage 
door outside sir Thornley Stoker’s one sleety day during the 
cold snap of February ninetythree when even the grid of 
the wastepipe and ballstop in my bath cistern were frozen. 
Subsequently he enclosed a bloom of edelweiss culled on the 
heights, as he said, in my honour. I had it 
examined by a botanical expert and elicited the information that 
it was a blossom of the homegrown potato plant purloined 
from a forcingcase of the model farm. mrs yelverton barry 
Shame on him! (A crowd of sluts and ragamuffins surges 
forward.) the sluts and ragamuffins (Screaming.) Stop thief! Hurrah there, 
Bluebeard! Three cheers for Ikey Mo! second watch (Produces handcuffs.) 
Here are the darbies. mrs bellingham He addressed me in 
several handwritings with fulsome compliments as a Venus in furs 
and alleged profound pity for my frostbound coachman Palmer while 
in the same breath he expressed himself as envious of 
his earflaps and ffeecy sheepskins and of his fortunate proximity 
to my person, when standing behind my chair wearing my 
livery and the armorial bearings of the Bellingham escutcheon garnished 
sable, a buck’s head couped or. He lauded almost extravagantly 
my nether extremities, my swelling calves in silk hose drawn 
up to the limit, and eulogised glowingly my other hidden 
treasures in priceless lace which, he said, he could conjure 
