traveller Leopold was couth to him sithen it had happed 
that they had had ado each with other in the 
house of misericord where this learning knight lay by cause 
the traveller Leopold came there to be healed for he 
was sore wounded in his breast by a spear wherewith 
a horrible and dreadful dragon was smitten him for which 
he did do make a salve of volatile salt and 
chrism as much as he might suffice. And he said 
now that he should go into that castle for to 
make merry with them that were there. And the traveller 
Leopold said that he should go otherwhither for he was 
a man of cautels and a subtle. Also the lady 
was of his avis and reproved the learning knight though 
she trowed well that the traveller had said thing that 
was false for his subtility. But the learning knight would 
not hear say nay nor do her mandement ne have 
him in aught contrarious to his list and he said 
how it was a marvellous castle. And the traveller Leopold 
went into the castle for to rest him for a 
space being sore of limb after many marches environing in 
divers lands and sometimes venery. And in the castle was 
set a board that was of the birchwood of Finlandy 
and it was upheld by four dwarfmen of that country 
but they durst not move more for enchantment. And on 
this board were frightful swords and knives that are made 
in a great cavern by swinking demons out of white 
flames that they fix in the horns of buffalos and 
stags that there abound marvellously. And there were vessels that 
are wrought by magic of Mahound out of seasand and 
theair by a warlock with his breath that he blares 
into them like to bubbles. And full fair cheer and 
rich was on the board that no wight could devise 
a fuller ne richer. And there was a vat of 
silver that was moved by craft to open in the 
which lay strange fishes withouten heads though misbelieving men nie 
that this be possible thing without they see it natheless 
they are so. And these fishes lie in an oily 
water brought there from Portugal land because of the fatness 
that therein is like to the juices of the olive 
press. And also it was marvel to see in that 
castle how by magic they make a compost out of 
fecund wheat kidneys out of Chaldee that by aid of 
certain angry spirits that they do into it swells up 
wondrously like to a vast moutain. And they teach the 
serpents there to entwine themselves up on long sticks out 
of the ground and of the scales of these serpents 
they brew out a brewage like to mead. And the 
learning knight let pour for childe Leopold a draught and 
halp thereto the while all they that were there drank 
every each. And childe Leopold did up his beaver for 
