subject), a necessary evil, were not licensed and medically inspected 
by the proper authorities, a thing he could truthfully state 
he, as a paterfamilias, was a stalwart advocate of from 
the very first start. Whoever embarked on a policy of 
that sort, he said, and ventilated the matter thoroughly would 
confer a lasting boon on everybody concerned. — You, as 
a good catholic, he observed, talking of body and soul, 
believe in the soul. Or do you mean the intelligence, 
the brainpower as such, as distinct from any outside object, 
the table, let us say, that cup? I believe in 
that myself because it has been explained by competent men 
as the convolutions of the grey matter. Otherwise we would 
never have such inventions as X rays, for instance. Do 
you? Thus cornered, Stephen had to make a superhuman effort 
of memory to try and concentrate and remember before he 
could say : — They tell me on the best 
authority it is a simple substance and therefore incorruptible. It 
would be immortal, I understand, but for the possibility of 
its annihilation by its First Cause, Who, from all I 
can hear, is quite capable of adding that to the 
number of His other practical jokes, corruptio per se and 
corruptio per accidens both being excluded by court etiquette. Mr 
Bloom thoroughly acquiesced in the general gist of this though 
the mystical finesse involved was a bit out of his 
sublunary depth still he felt bound to enter a demurrer 
on the head of simple, promptly rejoining : — Simple? 
I shouldn’t think that is the proper word. Of course, 
I grant you, to concede a point, you do knock 
across a simple soul once in a blue moon. But 
what I am anxious to arrive at is it is 
one thing for instance to invent those rays Röngten did, 
or the telescope like Edison, though I believe it was 
before his time, Galileo was the man I mean. The 
same applies to the laws, for example, of a farreaching 
natural phenomenon such as electricity but it’s a horse of 
quite another colour to say you believe in the existence 
of a supernatural God. — O, that, Stephen expostulated, has 
been proved conclusively by several of the best known passages 
in Holy Writ, apart from circumstantial evidence. On this knotty 
point, however, the views of the pair, poles apart as 
they were, both in schooling and everything else, with the 
marked difference in their respective ages, clashed. — Has been? 
the more experienced of the two objected, sticking to his 
original point. I’m not so sure about that. That’s a 
matter of every man’s opinion and, without dragging in the 
sectarian side of the business, I beg to differ with 
you in toto there. My belief is, to tell you 
the candid truth, that those bits were genuine forgeries all 
of them put in by monks most probably or it’s 
the big question of our national poet over again, who 
