— Three cheers for De Wet! — We’ll hang Joe 
Chamberlain on a sourapple tree. Silly billies : mob of 
young cubs yelling their guts out. Vinegar hill. The Butter 
exchange band. Few years’ time half of them magistrates and 
civil servants. War comes on : into the army helterskelter 
: same fellows used to whether on the scaffold high. 
Never know who you’re talking to. Corny Kelleher he has 
Harvey Duff in his eye. Like that Peter or Denis 
or James Carey that blew the gaff on the invincibles. 
Member of the corporation too. Egging raw youths on to 
get in the know. All the time drawing secret service 
pay from the castle. Drop him like a hot potato. 
Why those plain clothes men are always courting slaveys. Easily 
twig a man used to uniform. Squarepushing up against a 
backdoor. Maul her a bit. Then the next thing on 
the menu. And who is the gentleman does be visiting 
there? Was the young master saying anything? Peeping Tom through 
the keyhole. Decoy duck. Hotblooded young student fooling round her 
fat arms ironing. — Are those yours, Mary? — I 
don’t wear such things… Stop or I’ll tell the missus 
on you. Out half the night. — There are great 
times coming, Mary. Wait till you see. — Ah, get 
along with your great times coming. Barmaids too. Tobacco shopgirls. 
James Stephens’ idea was the best. He knew them. Circles 
of ten so that a fellow couldn’t round on more 
than his own ring. Sinn Fein. Back out you get 
the knife. Hidden hand. Stay in. The firing squad. Turnkey’s 
daughter got him out of Richmond, off from Lusk. Putting 
up in the Buckingham Palace hotel under their very noses. 
Garibaldi. You must have a certain fascination : Parnell, Arthur 
Griffith is a squareheaded fellow but he has no go 
in him for the mob. Want to gas about our 
lovely land. Gammon and spinach. Dublin Bakery Company’s tearoom. Debating 
societies. That republicanism is the best form of government. That 
the language question should take precedence of the economic question. 
Have your daughters inveigling them to your house. Stuff them 
up with meat and drink. Michaelmas goose. Here’s a good 
lump of thyme seasoning under the apron for you. Have 
another quart of goosegrease before it gets too cold. Halffed 
enthusiasts. Penny roll and a walk with the band. No 
grace for the carver. The thought that the other chap 
pays best sauce in the world. Make themselves thoroughly at 
home. Shove us over those apricots, meaning peaches. The not 
far distant day. Home Rule sun rising up in the 
northwest. His smile faded as he walked, a heavy cloud 
hiding the sun slowly, shadowing Trinity’s surly front. Trams passed 
one another, ingoing, outgoing, clanging. Useless words. Things go on 
same; day after day : squads of police marching out, 
back : trams in, out. Those two loonies mooching about. 
Dignam carted off. Mina Purefoy swollen belly on a bed 
