putty and he put them in the water and they 
opened, and every pill was something different. One was a 
ship, another was a house, another was a flower. Cooks 
rats in your soup, he appetisingly added, the Chinese does. 
Possibly perceiving an expression of dubiosity on their faces, the 
globetrotter went on adhering to his adventures. — And I 
seen a man killed in Trieste by an Italian chap. 
Knife in his back. Knife like that. Whilst speaking he 
produced a dangerous looking claspknife, quite in keeping with his 
character, and held it in the striking position. — In 
a knockingshop it was count of a tryon between two 
smugglers. Fellow hid behind a door, come up behind him. 
Like that. Prepare to meet your God, says he. Chuk! 
It went into his back up to the butt. His 
heavy glance, drowsily roaming about, kind of defied their further 
questions even should they by any chance want to. That’s 
a good bit of steel, repeated he, examining his formidable 
stiletto. After which harrowing dénouement sufficient to appal the stoutest 
he snapped the blade to and stowed the weapon in 
question away as before in his chamber of horrors, otherwise 
pocket. — They’re great for the cold steel, somebody who 
was evidently quite in the dark said for the benefit 
of them all. That was why they thought the park 
murders of the invincibles was done by foreigners on account 
of them using knives. At this remark, passed obviously in 
the spirit of where ignorance is bliss, Mr Bloom and 
Stephen, each in his own particular way, both instinctively exchanged 
meaning glances, in a religious silence of the strictly entre 
nous variety however, towards where Skin-the-Goat, alias the keeper, was 
drawing spurts of liquid from his boiler affair. His inscrutable 
face, which was really a work of art, a perfect 
study in itself, beggaring description, conveyed the impression that he 
didn’t understand one jot of what was going on. Funny, 
very. There ensued a somewhat lengthy pause. One man was 
reading by fits and starts a stained by coffee evening 
journal; another, the card with the natives choza de; another, 
the seaman’s discharge. Mr Bloom, so far as he was 
personally concerned, was just pondering in pensive mood. He vividly 
recollected when the occurrence alluded to took place as well 
as yesterday, some score of years previously, in the days 
of the land troubles when it took the civilised worldby 
storm, figuratively speaking, early in the eighties, eightyone to be 
correct, when he was just turned fifteen. — Ay, boss, 
the sailor broke in. Give us back them papers. The 
request being complied with, he clawed them up with a 
scrape. — Have you seen the Rock of Gibraltar? Mr 
Bloom inquired. The sailor grimaced, chewing, in a way that 
might be read as yes, ay, or no. — Ah, 
you’ve touched there too, Mr Bloom said, Europa point, thinking 
he had, in the hope that the rover might possibly 
