Meade’s yard. The hazard. Only two there now. Nodding. Full 
as a tick. Too much bone in their skulls. The 
other trotting round with a fare. An hour ago I 
was passing there. The jarvies raised their hats. A pointsman’s 
back straightened itself upright suddenly against a tramway standard by 
Mr Bloom’s window. Couldn’t they invent something automatic so that 
the wheel itself much handler? Well but that fellow would 
lose his job then? Well but then another fellow would 
get a job making the new invention? Antient concert rooms. 
Nothing on there. A man in a buff suit with 
a crape armlet. Not much grief there. Quarter mourning. People 
in law, perhaps. They went past the bleak pulpit of 
Saint Mark’s, under the railway bridge, past the Queen’s theatre 
: in silence. Hoardings. Eugene Stratton. Mrs Bandman Palmer. Could 
I go to see Leah tonight, I wonder. I said 
I. Or the Lily of Killarney? Elster Grimes Opera company. 
Big powerful change. Wet bright bills for next week. Fun 
on the Bristol. Martin Cunningham could work a pass for 
the Gaiety. Have to stand a drink or two. As 
broad as it’s long. He’s coming in the afternoon. Her 
songs. Plasto’s. Sir Philip Crampton’s memorial fountain bust. Who was 
he? — How do you do? Martin Cunningham said, raising 
his palm to his brow in salute. — He doesn’t 
see us, Mr Power said. Yes, he does. How do 
you do? — Who? Mr Dedalus asked. — Blazes Boylan, 
Mr Power said. There he is airing his quiff. Just 
that moment I was thinking. Mr Dedalus bent across to 
salute. From the door of the Red Bank the white 
disc of a straw hat flashed reply : passed. Mr 
Bloom reviewed the nails of his left hand, then those 
of his right hand. The nails, yes. Is there anything 
more in him that they she sees? Fascination. Worst man 
in Dublin. That keeps him alive. They sometimes feel what 
a person is. Instinct. But a type like that. My 
nails. I am just looking at them : well pared. 
And after : thinking alone. Body getting a bit softy. 
I would notice that from remembering. What causes that I 
suppose the skin can’t contract quickly enough when the flesh 
falls off. But the shape is there. The shape is 
there still. Shoulders. Hips. Plump. Night of the dance dressing. 
Shift stuck between the cheeks behind. He clasped his hands 
between his knees and, satisfied, sent his vacant glance over 
their faces. Mr Power asked : — How is the 
concert tour getting on, Bloom? — O very well, Mr 
Bloom said. I hear great accounts of it. It’s a 
good idea, you see… — Are you going yourself? — 
Well no, Mr Bloom said. In point of fact I 
have to go down to the county Clare on some 
private business. You see the idea is to tour the 
chief towns. What you lose on one you can make 
