Leopold Bloom (for it is he) stands silent, with bowed 
head before those young guileless eyes. What a brute he 
had been! At it again? A fair unsullied soul had 
called to him and, wretch that he was, how had 
he answered? An utter cad he had been. He of 
all men! But there was an infinite store of mercy 
in those eyes, for him too a word of pardon 
even though he had erred and sinned and wandered. Should 
a girl tell? No, a thousand times no. That was 
their secret, only theirs, alone in the hiding twilight and 
there was none to know or tell save the little 
bat that flew so softly through the evening to and 
fro and little bats don’t tell. Cissy Caffrey whistled, imitating 
the boys in the football field to show what a 
great person she was : and then she cried : 
— Gerty! Gerty! We’re going. Come on. We can see 
from farther up. Gerty had an idea, one of love’s 
little ruses. She slipped a hand into her kerchief pocket 
and took out the wadding and waved in reply of 
course without letting him and then slipped it back. Wonder 
if he’s too far to. She rose. Was it goodbye? 
No. She had to go but they would meet again, 
there, and she would dream of that till then, tomorrow, 
of her dream of yester eve. She drew herself up 
to her full height. Their souls met in a last 
lingering glance and the eyes that reached her heart, full 
of a strange shining, hung enraptured on her sweet flowerlike 
face. She half smiled at him wanly, a sweet forgiving 
smile, a smile that verged on tears, and then they 
parted. Slowly without looking back she went down the uneven 
strand to Cissy, to Edy, to Jacky and Tommy Caffrey, 
to little baby Boardman. It was darker now and there 
were stones and bits of wood on the strand and 
slippy seaweed. She walked with a certain quiet dignity characteristic 
of her but with care and very slowly because Gerty 
MacDowell was….. Tight boots? No. She’s lame! O! Mr Bloom 
watched her as she limped away. Poor girl! That’s why 
she’s left on the shelf and the others did a 
sprint. Thought something was wrong by the cut of her 
jib. Jilted beauty. A defect is ten times worse in 
a woman. But makes them polite. Glad I didn’t know 
it when she was on show. Hot little devil all 
The same. Wouldn’t mind. Curiosity like a nun or a 
negress or a girl with glasses. That squinty one is 
delicate. Near her monthlies, I expect, makes them feel ticklish. 
I have such a bad headache today. Where did I 
put the letter? Yes, all right. All kinds of crazy 
longings. Licking pennies. Girl in Tranquilla convent that nun told 
me liked to smell rock oil. Virgins go mad in 
the end I suppose. Sister? How many women in Dublin 
