Omaha. Ga. A lot of Deadwood Dicks in slouch hats 
and they firing at a sambo strung up on a 
tree with his tongue out and a bonfire under him. 
Gob, they ought to drown him in the sea after 
and electrocute and crucify him to make sure of their 
job. — But what about the fighting navy, says Ned, 
that keeps our foes at bay? — I’Il tell you 
what about it, says the citizen. Hell upon earth it 
is. Read the revelations that’s going on in the papers 
about flogging on the training ships at Portsmouth. A fellow 
writes that calls himself Disgusted One. So he starts telling 
us about corporal punishment and about the crew of tars 
and officers and rearadmirals drawn up in cocked hats and 
the parson with his protestant bible to witness punishment and 
a young lad brought out, howling for his ma, and 
they tie him down on the buttend of a gun. 
— A rump and dozen, says the citizen, was what 
that old ruffian sir John Beresford called if but the 
modern God’s Englishman calls it caning on the breech. And 
says John Wyse : — ’Tis a custom more honoured 
in the breach than in the observance. Then he was 
telling us the master at arms comes along with a 
long cane and he draws out and he flogs the 
bloody backside off of the poor lad till he yells 
meila murder. — That’s your glorious British navy, says the 
citizen, that bosses the earth. The fellows that never will 
be slaves, with the only hereditary chamber on the face 
of God’s earth and their land in the hands of 
a dozen gamehogs and cottonball barons. That’s the great empire 
they boast about of drudges and whipped serfs. — On 
which the sun never rises, says Joe. — And the 
tragedy of it is, says the citizen, they believe it. 
The unfortunate yahoos believe it. They believe in rod, the 
scourger almighty, creator of hell upon earth and in Jacky 
Tar, the son of a gun, who was conceived of 
unholy boast, born of the fighting navy, suffered under rump 
and dozen, was scarified, flayed and curried, yelled like bloody 
hell, the third day he arose again from the bed, 
steered into haven, sitteth on his beamend till further orders 
whence he shall come to drudge for a living and 
be paid. — But, says Bloom, isn’t discipline the same 
everywhere? I mean wouldn’t it be the same here if 
you put force against force? Didn’t I tell you? As 
true as I’m drinking this porter if he was at 
his last gasp he’d try to downface you that dying 
was living. — We’ll put force against force, says the 
citizen. We have our greater Ireland beyond the sea. They 
were driven out of house and home in the black 
47. Their mudcabins and their shielings by the roadside were 
laid low by the batteringram and the Times rubbed its 
