essences. The men cheer. Bloom’s boys run amid the bystanders 
with branches of hawthorn and wrenbushes.) bloom’s boys The wren, 
the wren, The king of all birds, Saint Stephen’s his 
day Was caught in the furze. a blacksmith (Murmurs.) For 
the Honour of God! And is that Bloom? He scarcely 
looks thirtyone. a pavior and flagger That’s the famous Bloom 
now, the world’s greatest reformer. Hats off! (All uncover their 
heads. Women whisper eagerly.) a millionairess (Richly.) Isn’t he simply 
wonderful? a noble woman (Nobly.) All that man has seen! 
a feminist (Masculinely.) And done! a bellhanger A classic face! 
He has the forehead of a thinker. (Bloom’s weather. A 
sunburst appears in the northwest.) the bishop of down and 
connor I here present your undoubted emperor president and king 
chairman, the most serene and potent and very puissant ruler 
of this realm. God save Leopold the First! all God 
save Leopold the First! bloom (In dalmatic and purple mantle, 
to the bishop of Down and Connor with dignity.) Thanks, 
somewhat eminent sir. william, archbishop of armagh (In purple stock 
and shovel hat.) Will you to your power cause law 
and mercy to be executed in all your judgments in 
Ireland and territories thereunto belonging? bloom (Placing his right hand 
on his testicles, swears.) So may the Creator deal with 
me. All this I promise to do. michael, archbishop of 
armagh (Pours a cruse of hairoil over Bloom’s head.) Gaudium 
magnum annuntio vobis. Habemus carneficem. Leopold, Patrick, Andrew, David, George, 
be thou anointed! (Bloom assumes a mantle of cloth of 
gold and puts on a ruby ring. He ascends and 
stands on the stone of destiny. The representative peers put 
on at the same time their twentyeight crowns. Joybells ring 
in Christ church, Saint Patrick’s, George’s and gay Malahide. Mirus 
bazaar fireworks go up from all sides with symbolical phallopyrotechnic 
designs. The peers do homage, one by one, approaching and 
genuflecting.) the peers I do become your liege man of 
life and limb to earthly worship. (Bloom holds up his 
right hand on which sparkles the Koh-i-Noor diamond. His palfrey 
neighs. Immediate silence. Wireless intercontinental and interplanetary transmitters are set 
for reception of message.) bloom My subjects! We hereby nominate 
our faithful charger Copula Felix hereditary Grand Vizier and announce 
that we have this day repudiated our former spouse and 
have bestowed our royal hand upon the princess Selene, the 
splendour of night. (The former morganatic spouse of Bloom is 
hastily removed in the Black Maria. The princess Selene, in 
moonblue robes, a silver crescent on her head, descends from 
a Sedan chair borne by two giants. An outburst of 
cheering.) john howard parnell (Raises the royal standard.) Illustrious Bloom! 
Successor to my famous brother! bloom (Embraces John Howard Parnell.) 
We thank you from our heart, John, for this right 
royal welcome to green Erin, the promised land of our 
common ancestors. (The freedom of the city is presented to 
him embodied in a charter. The keys of Dublin, crossed 
