blind of the window was drawn aside. A card Unfurnished 
Apartments slipped from the sash and fell. A plump bare 
generous arm shone, was seen, held forth from a white 
petticoatbodice and taut shiftstraps. A woman’s hand flung forth a 
coin over the area railings. It fell on the path. 
One of the urchins ran to it, picked it up 
and dropped it into the minstrel’s cap, saying : — 
There, sir. Katey and Boody Dedalus shoved in the door 
of the close steaming kitchen. — Did you put in 
the books? Boody asked. Maggy at the range rammed down 
a greyish mass beneath bubbling suds twice with her potstick 
and wiped her brow. — They wouldn’t give anything on 
them, she said. Father Conmee walked through Clongowes fields, his 
thinsocked ankles tickled by stubble. — Where did you try? 
Boody asked. — M’Guinness’s. Boody stamped her foot and threw 
her satchel on the table. — Bad cess to her 
big face! she cried. Katey went to the range and 
peered with squinting eyes. — What’s in the pot? she 
asked. — Shirts, Maggy said. Boody cried angrily : — 
Crickey, is there nothing for us to eat? Katey, lifting 
the kettlelid in a pad of her stained skirt, asked 
: — And what’s in this? A heavy fume gushed 
in answer. — Peasoup, Maggy said. — Where did you 
get it? Katey asked. — Sister Mary Patrick, Maggy said. 
The lacquey rang his bell. — Barang! Boody sat down 
at the table and said hungrily : — Give us 
it here! Maggy poured yellow thick soup from the kettle 
into a bowl. Katey, sitting opposite Boody, said quietly, as 
her fingertip lifted to her mouth random crumbs. — A 
good job we have that much. Where’s Dilly? — Gone 
to meet father, Maggy said. Boody, breaking big chunks of 
bread into the yellow soup, added : — Our father 
who art not in heaven. Maggy, pouring yellow soup in 
Katey’s bowl, exclaimed : — Boody! For shame! A skiff, 
a crumpled throwaway, Elijah is coming, rode lightly down the 
Liffey, under Loopline bridge, shooting the rapids where water chafed 
around the bridgepiers, sailing eastward past hulls and anchorchains, between 
the Customhouse old dock and George’s quay. The blonde girl 
in Thornton’s bedded the wicker basket with rustling fibre. Blazes 
Boylan handed her the bottle swathed in pink tissue paper 
and a small jar. — Put these in first, will 
you? he said. — Yes, sir, the blond girl said, 
and the fruit on top. — That’ll do, game ball, 
Blazes Boylan said. She bestowed fat pears neatly, head by 
tail, and among them ripe shamefaced peaches. Blazes Boylan walked 
here and there in new tan shoes about the fruitsmelling 
shop, lifting fruits, young juicy crinkled and plump red tomatoes, 
sniffing smells. H. E. L. Y’ S. filed before him, 
tallwhitehatted, past Tangier lane, plodding towards their goal. He turned 
suddenly from a chip of strawberries, drew a gold watch 
