praying now for the repose of his soul. Hoping you’re 
well and not in hell. Nice change of air. Out 
of the fryingpan of life into the fire of purgatory. 
Does he ever think of the hole waiting for himself? 
They say you do when you shiver in the sun. 
Someone walking over it. Callboy’s warning. Near you. Mine over 
there towards Finglas, the plot I bought. Mamma, poor mamma, 
and little Rudy. The gravediggers took up their spades and 
flung heavy clods of clay in on the coffin. Mr 
Bloom turned his face. And if he was alive all 
the time? Whew! By Jingo, that would be awful! No, 
no : he is dead, of course. Of course he 
is dead. Monday he died. They ought to have some 
law to pierce the heart and make sure or an 
electric clock or a telephone in the coffin and some 
kind of a canvas airhole. Flag of distress. Three days. 
Rather long to keep them in summer. Just as well 
to get shut of them as soon as you are 
sure there’sns. The clay fell softer. Begin to be forgotten. 
Out of sight, out of mind. The caretaker moved away 
a few paces and put on his hat. Had enough 
of it. The mourners took heart of grace, one by 
one, covering themselves without show. Mr Bloom put on his 
hat and saw the portly figure make its way deftly 
through the maze of graves. Quietly, sure of his ground, 
he traversed the dismal fields. Hynes jotting down something in 
his notebook. Ah, the names. But he knows them all. 
No : coming to me. — I am just taking 
the names, Hynes said below his breath. What is your 
christian name? I’m not sure. — L, Mr Bloom said. 
Leopold. And you might put down M’Coy’s name too. He 
asked me to. — Charley, Hynes said writing. I know. 
He was on the Freeman once. So he was before 
he got the job in the morgue under Louis Byrne. 
Good idea a postmortem for doctors. Find out what they 
imagine they know. He died of a Tuesday. Got the 
run. Levanted with the cash of a few ads. Charley, 
you’re my darling. That was why he asked me to. 
O well, does no harm. I saw to that, M’Coy. 
Thanks, old chap : much obliged. Leave him under an 
obligation : costs nothing. — And tell us, Hynes said, 
do you know that fellow in the, fellow was over 
there in the… He looked around. — Macintosh. Yes, I 
saw him, Mr Bloom said. Where is he now? — 
M’Intosh, Hynes said, scribbling, I don’t know who he is. 
Is that his name? He moved away, looking about him. 
— No, Mr Bloom began, turning and stopping. I say, 
Hynes! Didn’t hear. What? Where has he disappeared to? Not 
a sign. Well of all the. Has anybody here seen? 
Kay ee double ell. Become invisible. Good Lord, what became 
