the sun by extending his little finger.) brini, papal nuncio 
(In papal zouave’s uniform, steel cuirasses as breastplate, armplates, thighplates, 
legplates, large profane moustaches and brown paper mitre.) Leopoldi autem 
generatio. Moses begat Noah and Noah begat Eunuch and Eunuch 
begat O’Halloran and O’Halloran begat Guggenheim and Guggenheim begat Agendath 
and Agendath begat Netaim and Netaim begat Le Hirsch and 
Le Hirsch begat Jesurum and Jesurum begat MacKay and MacKay 
begat Ostrolopsky and Ostrolopsky begat Smerdoz and Smerdoz begat Weiss 
and Weiss begat Schwarz and Schwarz begat Adrianopoli and Adrianopoli 
begat Aranjuez and Aranjuez begat Lewy Lawson and Lewy Lawson 
begat Ichabudonosor and Ichabudonosor begat O’Donnell Magnus and O’Donnell Magnus 
begat Christbaum and Christbaum begat ben Maimun and ben Maimun 
begat Dusty Rhodes and Dusty Rhodes begat Benamor and Benamor 
begat Jones-Smith and Jones-Smith begat Savorgnanovich and Savorgnanovich begat Jasperstone 
and Jasperstone begat Vingtetunieme and Vingtetunieme begat Szombathely and Szombathely 
begat Virag and Virag begat Bloom et vocabitur nomen eius 
Emmanuel. a deadhand (Writes on the wall.) Bloom is a 
cod. crab (In bushranger’s kit.) What did you do in 
the cattlecreep behind Kilbarrack? a female infant (Shakes a rattle.) 
And under Ballybough bridge? a hollybush And in the devil’s 
glen? bloom (Blushes furiously all over from frons to nates, 
three tears falling from his left eye.) Spare my past. 
the irish evicted tenants (In bodycoats, kneebreeches, with Donnybrook fair 
shillelaghs.) Sjambok him! (Bloom with asses’ ears seats himself in 
the pillory with crossed arms, his feet protruding. He whistles 
Don Giovanni, a cenar teco. Artane orphans, joining hands, caper 
round him. Girls of the Prison Gat Mission, joining hands, 
caper round in the opposite direction.) the artane orphans You 
hig, you hog, you dirty dog! You think the ladies 
love you! the prison gate girls If you see kay 
Tell him he may See you in tea Tell him 
from me. hornblower (In ephod and huntingcap, announces.) And he 
shall carry the sins of the people to Azazel, the 
spirit which is in the wilderness, and to Lilith, the 
nighthag. And they shall stone him and defile him, yea, 
all from Agendath Netaim and from Mizraim, the land of 
Ham. (All the people cast soft pantomime stones at Bloom. 
Many bonafide travellers and ownerless dogs come near him and 
defile him. Mastiansky and Citron approach in gaberdines, wearing long 
earlocks, They wag their beards at Bloom.) mastiansky and citron 
Belial! Laemlein of Istria! the false Messiah! Abulafia! (George S. 
Mesias, Bloom’s tailor, appears, a tailor’s goose under his arm, 
presenting a bill.) mesias To alteration one pair trousers eleven 
shillings. bloom (Rubs his hands cheerfully.) Just like old times. 
Poor Bloom! (Reuben J. Dodd, black bearded Iscariot, bad shepherd, 
bearing on his shoulders the drowned corpse of his son, 
approaches the pillory.) reuben j. (Whispers hoarsely.) The squeak is 
out. A split is gone for the flatties. Nip the 
first rattler. the fire brigade Pflaap! brother buzz (Invests Bloom 
in a yellow habit with embroidery of painted flames and 
