Except it simply amounts to one thing and he is 
what they call picking your brains, he ventured to throw 
out. The guarded glance of half solicitude, half curiosity, augmented 
by friendliness which he gave at Stephen’s at present morose 
expression of features did not throw a flood of light, 
none at all in fact, on the problem as to 
whether he had let himself be badly bamboozled, to judge 
by two or three lowspirited remarks he let drop, or, 
the other way about, saw through the affair, and, for 
some reason or other best known to himself, allowed matters 
to more or less… Grinding poverty did have that effect 
and he more than conjectured that, high educational abilities though 
he possessed, he experienced no little difficulty in making both 
ends meet. Adjacent to the men’s public urinal he perceived 
an icecream car round which a group of presumably Italians 
in heated altercation were getting rid of voluble expressions in 
their vivacious language in a particularly animated way, there being 
some little differences between the parties. — Putanna madonna, che 
ci dia i quattrini! Ho ragione? Culo rotto! — Intendiamoci. 
Mezzo sovrano più… — Dice lui, però. — Farabutto! Mortacci 
sui! Mr Bloom and Stephen entered the cabman’s shelter, an 
unpretentious wooden structure, where, prior to then, he had rarely, 
if ever, been before; the former having previously whispered to 
the latter a few hints anent the keeper of it, 
said to be the once famous Skin-the-Goat, Fitzharris, the invincible, 
though he wouldn’t vouch for the actual facts, which quite 
possibly there was not one vestige of truth in. A 
few moments later saw our two noctambules safely seated in 
a discreet corner, only to be greeted by stares from 
the decidedly miscellaneous collection of waifs and strays and other 
nondescript specimens of the genus homo, already there engaged in 
eating and drinking, diversified by conversation, for whom they seemingly 
formed an object of marked curiosity. — Now touching a 
cup of coffee, Mr Bloom ventured to plausibly suggest to 
break the ice, it occurs to me you ought to 
sample something in the shape of solid food, say a 
roll of some description. Accordingly his first act was with 
characteristic sangfroid to order these commodities quietly. The hoi polloi 
of jarvies or stevedores, or whatever they were, after a 
cursory examinatiou, turned their eyes, apparently dissatisfied, away, though one 
redbearded bibulous individual, portion of whose hair was greyish, a 
sailor, probably, still stared for some appreciable time before transferring 
his rapt attention to the floor. Mr Bloom, availing himself 
of the right of free speech, he having just a 
bowing acquaintance with the language in dispute though, to be 
sure, rather in a quandary over voglio, remarked to his 
protégé in an audible tone of voice, apropos of the 
battle royal in the street which was still raging fast 
and furious : — A beautiful language. I mean for 
singing purposes. Why do you not write your poetry in 
