street with his cod’s eye counting up all the guts 
of the fish. Who comes through Michan’s land, bedight in 
sable armour? O’Bloom, the son of Rory : it is 
he. Impervious to fear is Rory’s son : he of 
the prudent soul. — For the old woman of Prince’s 
street, says the citizen, the subsidised organ. The pledgebound party 
on the floor of the house. And look at this 
blasted rag, says he. Look at this, says he. The 
Irish Independent, if you please, founded by Parnell to be 
the workingman’s friend. Listen to the births and deaths in 
the Irish all for Ireland Independent and I’ll thank you 
and the marriages. And he starts reading them out : 
— Gordon, Barnfield Crescent, Exeter; Redmayne of Iffley, Saint Anne’s 
on Sea, the wife of William T. Redmayne, of a 
son. How’s that, eh? Wright and Flint, Vincent and Gillett 
to Rotha Marion daughter of Rosa and the late George 
Alfred Gillett 179 Clapham Road, Stockwell, Playwood and Ridsdale at 
Saint Jude’s Kensington by the very reverend Dr Forrest, Dean 
of Worcester, eh? Deaths. Bristow, at Whitehall lane, London : 
Carr, Stoke Newington of gastritis and heart disease : Cockburn, 
at the Moat house, Chepstow… — I know that fellow, 
says Joe, from bitter experience. — Cockburn. Dimsey, wife of 
Davie Dimsey, late of the admiralty : Miller, Tottenham, aged 
eightyfive : Welsh, June 12, at 35 Canning Street, Liverpool, 
Isabella Helen. How’s that for a national press, eh, my 
brown son? How’s that for Martin Murphy, the Bantry jobber? 
— Ah, well, says Joe, handing round the boose. Thanks 
be to God they had the start of us. Drink 
that, citizen. — I will, says he, honourable person. — 
Health, Joe, says I. And all down the form. Ah! 
Ow! Don’t be talking! I was blue mouldy for the 
want of that pint. Declare to God I could hear 
it hit the pit of my stomach with a click. 
And lo, as they quaffed their cup of joy, a 
godlike messenger came swiftly in, radiant as the eye of 
heaven, a comely youth and behind him there passed an 
elder of noble gait and countenance, bearing the sacred scrolls 
of law and with him his lady wife, a dame 
of peerless lineage, fairest of her race. Little Alf Bergan 
popped in round the door and hid behind Barney’s snug, 
squeezed up with the laughing, and who was sitting up 
there in the corner that I hadn’t seen snoring drunk, 
blind to the world, only Bob Doran. I didn’t know 
what was up and Alf kept making signs out of 
the door. And begob what was it only that bloody 
old pantaloon Denis Breen in his bath slippers with two 
bloody big books tucked under his oxter and the wife 
hotfoot after him, unfortunate wretched woman trotting like a poodle. 
I thought Alf would split. — Look at him, says 
he. Breen. He’s traipsing all round Dublin with a postcard 
