What’s our studfee? What will you pay on the nail? 
You fee men dancers on the Riviera, I read. (The 
fleeing nymph raises a keen.) Eh! I have sixteen years 
of black slave labour behind me. And would a jury 
give me five shillings alimony to morrow, eh? Fool someone 
else, not me. (He sniffs.) But, Onions. Stale. Sulphur. Grease. 
(The figure of Bella Cohen stands before him.) bella You’ll 
know me the next time. bloom (Composed, regards her.) Passée. 
Mutton dressed as lamb. Lone in the tooth and superfluous 
hairs. A raw onion the last thing at night would 
benefit your complexion. And take some double chin drill. Your 
eyes are as vapid as the glass eyes of your 
stuffed fox. They have the dimensions of your other features, 
that’s all. I’m not a triple screw propeller. bella (Contemptuously.) 
You’re not game, in fact. (Her sowcunt barks.) Fohracht! bloom 
(Contemptuously.) Clean your nailless middle finger first, the cold spunk 
o your bully is dripping from your cockscomb. Take a 
handful of hay and wipe yourself. bella I know you, 
canvasser! Dead cod! bloom I saw him, kipkeeper! Pox and 
gleet vendor! bella (Turns to the piano.) Which of you 
was playing the dead march from Saul? zoe Me. Mind 
your cornflowers. (She darts to the piano and bangs chords 
on it with crossed arms.) The cat’s ramble through the 
slag. (She glances back.) Eh? Who’s making love to my 
sweeties? (She darts back to the table.) What’s yours is 
mine and what’s mine is my own. (Kitty disconcerted coats 
her teeth with the silver paper. Bloom approaches Zoe.) bloom 
(Gently.) Give me back that potato, will you? zoe Forfeits, 
a fine thing and a superfine thing. bloom (With feeling.) 
It is nothing but still a relic of poor mamma. 
zoe Give a thing and take it back God’ll ask 
you where is that You’ll say you don’t know God’ll 
send you down below. bloom There is a memory attached 
to it. I should like to have it. stephen To 
have or not to have, that is the question. zoe 
Here. (She hauls up a reef of her slip, revealing 
her bare thigh and unrolls the potato from the top 
of her stocking.) Those that hides knows where to find. 
bella (Frowns.) Here. This isn’t a musical peepshow. And don’t 
you smash that piano. Who’s paying here? (She goes to 
the pianola. Stephen fumbles in his pocket and, taking out 
a banknote by its corner, hands it to her.) stephen 
(With exagerated politeness.) This silken purse I made out of 
the sow’s ear of the public. Madam, excuse me. If 
you allow me. (He indicates vaguely Lynch and Bloom.) We 
are all in the same sweepstake, Kinch and Lynch. Dans 
ce bordel où tenons nostre état. lynch (Calls from the 
hearth.) Dedalus! Give her your blessing for me. stephen (Hands 
Bella a coin.) Gold. She has it. bella (Looks at 
the money, then at Zoe, Florry and Kitty.) Do you 
