according to the Hungarian system. We know that in the 
castle. — Isn’t he a cousin of Bloom the dentist? 
says Jack Power. — Not at all, says Martin. Only 
namesakes. His name was Virag. The father’s name that poisoned 
himself. He changed it by deedpoll, the father did. — 
That’s the new Messiah for Ireland! says the citizen. Island 
of saints and sages! — Well, they’re still waiting for 
their redeemer, says Martin. For that matter so are we. 
— Yes, says J. J., and every male that’s born 
they think it may be their Messiah. And every jew 
is in a tall state of excitement, I believe, till 
he knows if he’s a father or a mother. — 
Expecting every moment will be his next, says Lenehan. — 
O, by God, says Ned, you should have seen Bloom 
before that son of his that died was born. I 
met him one day in the south city markets buying 
a tin of Neave’s food six weeks before the wife 
was delivered. — En ventre sa mère, says J. J. 
— Do you call that a man? says the citizen. 
— I wonder did he ever put it out of 
sight, says Joe. — Well, there were two children born 
anyhow, says Jack Power. — And who does he suspect? 
says the citizen. Gob, there’s many a true word spoken 
in jest. One of those mixed middlings he is. Lying 
up in the hotel Pisser was telling me once a 
month with headache like a totty with her courses. Do 
you know what I’m telling you? It’d be an act 
of God to take a hold of a fellow the 
like of that and throw him in the bloody sea. 
Justifiable homicide, so it would. Then sloping off with his 
five quid without putting up a pint of stuff like 
a man. Give us your blessing. Not as much as 
would blind your eye. — Charity to the neighbour, says 
Martin. But where is he? We can’t wait. — A 
wolf in sheep’s clothing, says the citizen. That’s what he 
is. Virag from Hungary! Ahasuerus I call him. Cursed by 
God. — Have you time for a brief libation, Martin? 
says Ned. — Only one, says Martin. We must be 
quick. J. J. and S. — You Jack? Crofton? Three 
half ones, Terry. — Saint Patrick would want to land 
again at Ballykinlar and convert us, says the citizen, after 
allowing things like that to contaminate our shores. — Well, 
says Martin, rapping for his glass. God bless all here 
is my prayer. — Amen, says the citizen. — And 
I’m sure he will, says Joe. And at the sound 
of the sacring bell, headed by a crucifer with acolytes, 
thurifers, boatbearers, readers, ostiarii, deacons and subdeacons, the blessed company 
drew nigh of mitred abbots and priors and guardians and 
monks and friars : the monks of Benedict of Spoleto, 
Carthusians and Camaldolesi, Cistercians and Olivetans, Oratorians and Vallombrosans, and 
