Yes. Gaily Miss Douce polished a tumbler, trilling : — 
O, Idolores, queen of the eastern seas! — Was Mr 
Lidwell in today? In came Lenehan. Round him peered Lenehan. 
Mr Bloom reached Essex bridge. Yes, Mr Bloom crossed bridge 
of Yessex. To Martha I must write. Buy paper. Daly’s. 
Girl there civil. Bloom. Old Bloom. Blue Bloom is on 
the rye. — He was in at lunchtime, Miss Douce 
said. Lenehan came forward. — Was Mr Boylan looking for 
me? He asked. She answered : — Miss Kennedy, was 
Mr Boylan in while I was upstairs? She asked. Miss 
voice of Kennedy answered, a second teacup poised, her gaze 
upon a page. — No. He was not. Miss gaze 
of Kennedy, heard not seen, read on. Lenehan round the 
sandwichbell wound his round body round. — Peep! Who’s in 
the corner? No glance of Kennedy rewarding him he yet 
made overtures. To mind her stops. To read only the 
black ones : round o and crooked ess. Jingle jaunty 
jingle. Girlgold she read and did not glance. Take no 
notice. She took no notice while he read by rote 
a solfa fable for her, plappering flatly : — Ah 
fox met ah stork. Said thee fox too thee stork 
: Will you put your bill down inn my troath 
and pull upp ah bone? He droned in vain. Miss 
Douce turned to her tea aside. He sighed, aside : 
— Ah me! O my! He greeted Mr Dedalus and 
got a nod. — Greetings from the famous son of 
a famous father. — Who may he be? Mr Dedalus 
asked. Lenehan opened most genial arms. Who? — Who may 
he be? he asked. Can you ask? Stephen, the youthful 
bard. Dry. Mr Dedalus, famous father, laid by his dry 
filled pipe. — I see, he said. I didn’t recognize 
him for the moment. I hear he is keeping very 
select company. Have you seen him lately? He had. — 
I quaffed the nectarbowl with him this very day, said 
Lenehan. In Mooney’s en ville and in Mooney’s sur mer. 
He had received the rhino for the labour of his 
muse. He smiled at bronze’s teabathed lips, at listening lips 
and eyes. — The élite of Erin hung upon his 
lips. The ponderous pundit. Hugh MacHugh, Dublin’s most brilliant scribe 
and editor and that minstrel boy of the wild wet 
west who is known by the euphonious appellation of the 
O’Madden Burke. After an interval Mr Dedalus raised his grog 
and — That must have been highly diverting, said he. 
I see. He see. He drank. With faraway mourning mountain 
eye. Set down his glass. He looked towards the saloon 
door. — I see you have moved the piano. — 
The tuner was in today, Miss Douce replied, tuning it 
for the smoking concert and I never heard such an 
exquisite player. — Is that a fact? — Didn’t he, 
Miss Kennedy? The real classical, you know. And blind too, 
