Last lap. Crowded on the spit of land silent shapes 
appeared, white, sorrowful, holding out calm hands, knelt in grief, 
pointing. Fragments of shapes, hewn. In white silence : appealing. 
The best obtainable. Thos. H. Dennany, monumental builder and sculptor. 
Passed. On the curbstone before Jimmy Geary the sexton’s an 
old tramp sat, grumbling, emptying the dirt and stones out 
of his huge dustbrown yawning boot. After life’s journey. Gloomy 
gardens then went by, one by one : gloomy houses. 
Mr Power pointed. — That is where Childs was murdered, 
he said. The last house. — So it is, Mr 
Dedalus said. A gruesome case. Seymour Bushe got him off. 
Murdered his brother. Or so they said. — The crown 
had no evidence, Mr Power said. — Only circumstantial, Martin 
Cunningham said. That’s the maxim ot the law. Better for 
ninetynine guilty to escape than for one innocent person to 
be wrongfully condemned. They looked. Murderer’s ground. It passed darkly. 
Shuttered, tenantless, unweeded garden. Whole place gone to hell. Wrongfully 
condemned. Murder. The murderer’s image in the eye of the 
murdered. They love reading about it. Man’s head found in 
a garden. Her clothing consisted of. How she met her 
death. Recent outrage. The weapon used. Murderer is still at 
large. Clues. A shoelace. The body to be exhumed. Murder 
will out. Cramped in this carriage. She mightn’t like me 
to come that way without letting her know. Must be 
careful about women. Catch them once with their pants down. 
Never forgive you after. Fifteen. The high railings of Prospect 
rippled past their gaze. Dark poplars, rare white forms. Forms 
more frequent, white shapes thronged amid the trees, white forms 
and fragments streaming by mutely, sustaining vain gestures on the 
air. The felly harshed against the curbstone : stopped. Martin 
Cunningham put out his arm and, wrenching back the handle, 
shoved the door open with his knee. He stepped out. 
Mr Power and Mr Dedalus followed. Change that soap now. 
Mr Bloom’s hand unbuttoned his hip pocket swiftly and transferred 
the paperstuck soap to his inner handkerchief pocket. He stepped 
out of the carriage, replacing the newspaper his other hand 
still held. Paltry funeral : coach and three carriages. It’s 
all the same. Pallbearers, gold reins, requiem mass, firing a 
volley. Pomp of death. Beyond the hind carriage a hawker 
stood by his barrow of cakes and fruit. Simnel cakes 
those are, stuck together : cakes for the dead. Dogbiscuits. 
Who ate them? Mourners coming out. He followed his companions. 
Mr Kernan and Ned Lambert followed, Hynes walking after them. 
Corny Kelleher stood by the opened hearse and took out 
the two wreaths. He handed one to the boy. Where 
is that child’s funeral disappeared to? A team of horses 
passed from Finglas with toiling plodding tread, dragging through the 
funereal silence a creaking waggon on which lay a granite 
block. The waggoner marching at their head saluted. Coffin now. 
Got here before us, dead as he is. Horse looking 
