privilege he keenly appreciated, from the lips of Stephen’s respected 
father, sung to perfection, a study of the number, in 
fact, which made all the others take a back seat. 
Stephen, in reply to a politely put query, said he 
didn’t but launched out into praises of Shakespeare’s songs, at 
least of in or about that period, the lutenist Dowland 
who lived in Fetter Lane near Gerard the herbalist, who 
anno ludendo hausi, Doulandus, an instrument he was contemplating purchasing 
from Mr Arnold Dolmetsch, whom Bloom did not quite recall, 
though the name certainly sounded familiar, for sixtyfive guineas and 
Farnaby and son with their dux and comes conceits and 
Byrd (William), who played the virginals, he said, in the 
Queen’s Chapel or anywhere else he found them and one 
Tomkins who made toys or airs and John Bull. On 
the roadway which they were approaching whilst still speaking beyond 
the swing chain, a horse, dragging a sweeper, paced on 
the paven ground, brushing a long swathe of mire up 
so that with the noise Bloom was not perfectly certain 
whether he had caught a right the allusion to sixtyfive 
guineas and John Bull. He inquired if it was John 
Bull the political celebrity of that ilk, as it struck 
him, the two identical names, as a striking coincidence. By 
the chains, the horse slowly swerved to turn, which perceiving, 
Bloom, who was keeping a sharp lookout as usual plucked 
the other’s sleeve gently, jocosely remarking : — Our lives 
are in peril to night. Beware of the steamroller. They 
thereupon stopped. Bloom looked at the head of a horse 
not worth anything like sixtyfive guineas, suddenly in evidence in 
the dark quite near, so that it seemed new, a 
different grouping of bones and even flesh, because palpably it 
was a fourwalker, a hipshaker, a blackbuttocker, a taildangler, a 
headhanger, putting his hind foot foremost the while the lord 
of his creation sat on the perch, busy with his 
thoughts. But such a good poor brute, he was sorry 
he hadn’t a lump of sugar but, as he wisely 
reflected, you could scarcely be prepared for every emergency that 
might crop up. He was just a big foolish nervous 
noodly kind of a horse, without a second care in 
the world. But even a dog, he reflected, take that 
mongrel in Barney Kiernan’s, of the same size, would be 
a holy horror to face. But it was no animal’s 
fault in particular if he was built that way like 
the camel, ship of the desert, distilling grapes into potheen 
in his hump. Nine tenths of them all could be 
caged or trained, nothing beyond the art of man barring 
the bees; whale with a harpoon hairpin, alligator, tickle the 
small of his back and he sees the joke; chalk 
a circle for a rooster; tiger, my eagle eye. These 
timely reflections anent the brutes of the field occupied his 
mind, somewhat distracted from Stephen’s words, while the ship of 
