sir, I’ll make no order for payment. How dare you, 
sir, come up before me and ask me to make 
an order! A poor hardworking industrious man! I dismiss the 
case. And whereas on the sixteenth day of the month 
of the oxeyed goddess and in the third week after 
the feastday of the Holy and Undivided Trinity the daughter 
of the skies, the virgin moon being then in her 
first quarter, it came to pass that those learned judges 
repaired them to the halls of law. There master Courtenay, 
sitting in his own chamber, gave his rede and master 
Justice Andrews sitting without a jury in the probate court, 
weighed well and pondered the claims of the first chargeant 
upon the property in the matter of the will propounded 
and final testamentary disposition in re the real and personal 
estate of the late lamented Jacob Halliday, vintner, deceased, versus 
Livingstone, an infant, of unsound mind, and another. And to 
the solemn court of Green street there came sir Frederick 
the Falconer. And he sat him there about the hour 
of five o’clock to administer the law of the brehons 
at the commission for all that and those parts to 
be holden in and for the county of the city 
of Dublin. And there sat with him the high sinhedrim 
of the twelve tribes of Iar, for every tribe one 
man, of the tribe of Patrick and of the tribe 
of Hugh and of the tribe of Owen and of 
the tribe of Conn and of the tribe of Oscar 
and of the tribe of Fergus and of the tribe 
of Finn and of the tribe of Dermot and of 
the tribe of Cormac and of the tribe of Kevin 
and of the tribe of Caolte and of the tribe 
of Ossian, there being in all twelve good men and 
true. And he conjured them by Him who died on 
rood that they should well and truly try and true 
delivrance make in the issue joined between their sovereign lord 
the King and the prisoner at the bar and true 
verdict give according to the evidence so help them God 
and kiss the book. And they rose in their seats, 
those twelve of Iar, and they swore by the name 
of Him who is from everlasting that they would do 
His rightwiseness. And straightway the minions of the law led 
forth from their donjon keep one whom the sleuthhounds of 
justice had apprehended in consequence of information received. And they 
shackled him hand and foot and would take of him 
ne bail ne mainprise but preferred a charge against him 
for he was a malefactor. — Those are nice things, 
says the citizen, coming over here to Ireland filling the 
country with bugs. So Bloom lets on he heard nothing 
and he starts talking with Joe telling him he needn’t 
trouble about that little matter till the first but if 
he would just say a word to Mr Crawford. And 
