to a blind horse from John Mallon of Lower Castle 
Yard, so as not to be made amenable under section 
two of the Criminal Law Amendment Act, certain names of 
those subpœnaed being handed in but not divulged, for reasons 
which will occur to anyone with a pick of brains. 
Briefly, putting two and two together, six sixteen, which he 
pointedly turned a deaf ear to, Antonio and so forth, 
jockeys and esthetesand the tattoo which was all the go 
in the seventies or thereabouts, even in the House of 
Lords, because early in life the occupant of the throne, 
then heir apparent, the other members of the upper ten 
and other high personages simply following in the footsteps of 
the head of the state, he reflected about the errors 
of notorieties and crowned heads running counter to morality such 
as the Cornwall case a number of years before under 
their veneer in a way scarcely intended by nature, a 
thing good Mrs Grundy as the law stands was terribly 
down on, though not for the reason they thought they 
were probably, whatever it was, except women chiefly, who were 
always fiddling more or less at one another, it being 
largely a matter of dress and all the rest of 
it. Ladies who like distinctive underclothing should, and every welltailored 
man must, trying to make the gap wider between them 
by innuendo and give more of a genuine filip to 
acts of impropriety between the two, she unbuttoned his and 
then he untied her, mind the pin, whereas savages in 
the cannibal islands, say, at ninety degrees in the shade 
not caring a continental. However, reverting to the original, there 
were on the other hand others who had forced their 
way to the top from the lowest rung by the 
aid of their bootstraps. Sheer force of natural genius, that. 
With brains, sir. For which and further reasons he felt 
it was interest and duty even to wait on and 
profit by the unlookedfor occasion, though why, he could not 
exactly tell, being, as it was, already several shillings to 
the bad, having, in fact, let himself in for it. 
Still, to cultivate the acquaintance of someone of no uncommon 
calibre who could provide food for reflection would amply repay 
any small… Intellectual stimulation as such was, he felt, from 
time to time a firstrate tonic for the mind. Added 
to which was the coincidence of meeting, discussion, dance, row, 
old salt, of the here today and gone tomorrow type, 
night loafers, the whole galaxy of events, all went to 
make up a miniature cameo of the world we live 
in, especially as the lives of the submerged tenth, viz., 
coalminers, divers, scavengers, etc., were very much under the microscope 
lately. To improve the shining hour he wondered whether he 
might meet with anything approaching the same luck as Mr 
Philip Beaufoy if taken down in writing. Suppose he were 
to pen something out of the common groove (as he 
