protestants in his family and of course Gerty knew Who 
came first and after Him the blessed Virgin and then 
Saint Joseph. But he was undeniably handsome with an exquisite 
nose and he was what he looked, every inch a 
gentleman, the shape of his head too at the back 
without his cap on that she would know anywhere something 
off the common and the way he turned the bicycle 
at the lamp with his hands off the bars and 
also the nice perfume of those good cigarettes and besides 
they were both of a size and that was why 
Edy Boardman thought she was so frightfully clever because he 
didn’t go and ride up and down in front of 
her bit of a garden. Gerty was dressed simply but 
with the instinctive taste of a votary of Dame Fashion 
for she felt that there was just a might that 
he might be out. A neat blouse of electric blue, 
selftinted by dolly dyes (because it was expected in the 
Lady’s Pictorial that electric blue would be worn), with a 
smart vee opening down to the division and kerchief pocket 
(in which she always kept a piece of cottonwool scented 
with her favourite perfume because the handkerchief spoiled the sit) 
and a navy threequarter skirt cut to the strideshowed off 
her slim graceful figure to perfection. She wore a coquettish 
little love of a hat of wideleaved nigger straw contrast 
trimmed with an underbrim of eggblue chenille and at the 
side a butterfly bow to tone. All Tuesday week afternoon 
she was hunting to match that chenille but at last 
she found what she wanted at Clery’s summer sales, the 
very it, slightly shopsoiled but you would never notice, seven 
fingers two and a penny. She did it up all 
by herself and what joy was hers when she tried 
it on then, smiling at the lovely reflection which the 
mirror gave back to her! And when she put it 
on the waterjug to keep the shape she knew that 
that would take the shine out of some people she 
knew. Her shoes were the newest thing in footwear (Edy 
Boardman prided herself that she was very petite but she 
never had a foot like Gerty MacDowell, a five, and 
never would ash, oak or elm) with patent toecaps and 
just one smart buckle at her higharched instep. Her wellturned 
ankle displayed its perfect proportions beneath her skirt and just 
the proper amount and no more of her shapely limbs 
encased in finespun hose with highspliced heels and wide garter 
tops. As for undies they were Gerty’s chief care and 
who that knows the fluttering hopes and fears of sweet 
seventeen (though Gerty would never see seventeen again) can find 
it in his heart to blame her? She had four 
dinky sets, with awfully pretty stitchery, three garments and nighties 
extra, and each set slotted with different coloured ribbons, rosepink, 
pale blue, mauve and peagreen and she aired them herself 
