Tea Company and read the legends of leadpapered packets : 
choice blend, finest quality, family tea. Rather warm. Tea. Must 
get some from Tom Kernan. Couldn’t ask him at a 
funeral, though. While his eyes still read blandly he took 
off his hat quietly inhaling his hairoil and sent his 
right hand with slow grace over his brow and hair. 
Very warm morning. Under their dropped lids his eyes found 
the tiny bow of the leather headband inside his high 
grade ha. Just there. His right hand came down into 
the bowl of his hat. His fingers found quickly a 
card behind the headband and transferred it to his waistcoat 
pocket. So warm. His right hand once more more slowly 
went over again : choice blend, made of the finest 
Ceylon brands. The far east. Lovely spot it must be 
: the garden of the world, big lazy leaves to 
float about on, cactuses, flowery meads, snaky lianas they call 
them. Wonder is it like that. Those Cinghalese lobbing around 
in the sun, in dolce far niente. Not doing a 
hand’s turn all day. Sleep six months out of twelve. 
Too hot to quarrel. Influence of the climate. Lethargy. Flowers 
of idleness. The air feeds most. Azotes. Hothouse in Botanic 
gardens. Sensitive plants. Waterlilies. Petals too tired to. Sleeping sickness 
in the air. Walk on roseleaves. Imagine trying to eat 
tripe and cowheel. Where was the chap I saw in 
that picture somewhere? Ah, in the dead sea, floating on 
his back, reading a book with a parasol open. Couldn’t 
sink if you tried : so thick with salt. Because 
the weight of the water, no, the weight of the 
body in the water is equal to the weight of 
the. Or is it the volume is equal to the 
weight? It’s a law something like that. Vance in High 
school cracking his fingerjoints, teaching. The college curriculum. Cracking curriculum. 
What is weight really when you say the weight? Thirtytwo 
feet per second, per second. Law of falling bodies : 
per second, per second. They all fall to the ground. 
The earth. It’s the force of gravity of the earth 
is the weight. He turned away and sauntered across the 
road. How did she walk with her sausages? Like that 
something. As he walked he took the folded Freeman from 
his sidepocket, unfolded it, rolled it lengthwise in a baton 
and tapped it at each sauntering step against his trouserleg. 
Careless air : just drop in to see. Per second, 
per second. Per second for every second it means. From 
the curbstone he darted a keen glance through the door 
of the postoffice. Too late box. Post here. No-one. In. 
He handed the card through the brass grill. — Are 
there any letters for me? he asked. While the postmistress 
searched a pigeonhole he gazed at the recruiting poster with 
soldiers of all arms on parade : and held the 
tip of his baton against his nostrils, smelling freshprinted rag 
