murmurs among damask roses. Mammoth roses murmur of scarlet winegrapes. 
A wine of shame, lust, blood exudes, strangely murmuring.) zoe 
(Murmuring singsong with the music, her odalisk lips lusciously smeared 
with salve of swinefat and rosewater.) Schorach ani wenowach, benoith 
Hierushaloim. bloom (Fascinated.) I thought you were of good stock 
by your accent. zoe And you know what thought did? 
(She bites his ear gently with little goldstopped teeth sending 
on him a cloying breath of stale garlic. The roses 
draw apart, disclose a sepulchre of the gold of kings 
and their mouldering bones.) bloom (Draws back, mechanically caressing her 
right bub with a flat awkward hand.) Are you a 
Dublin girl? zoe (Catches a stray hair deftly and twists 
it to her coil.) No bloody fear. I’m English. Have 
you a swaggerroot? bloom (As before.) Rarely smoke, dear. Cigar 
now and then. Childish device. (Lewdly.) The mouth can be 
better engaged than with a cylinder of rank weed. zoe 
Go on. Make a stump speech out of it. bloom 
(In workman’s corduroy overalls, black gansy with red floating tie 
and apache cap.) Mankind is incorrigible. Sir Walter Raleigh brought 
from the new world that potato and that weed, the 
one a killer of pestilence by absorption, the other a 
poisoner of the ear, eye, heart, memory, will, understanding, all. 
That is to say, he brought the poison a hundred 
years before another person whose name I forget brought the 
food. Suicide. Lies. All our habits. Why, look at our 
public life! (Midnight chimes from distant steeples.) the chimes Turn 
again, Leopold! Lord mayor of Dublin! bloom (In alderman’s gown 
and chain.) Electors of Arran Quay, Inns Quay, Rotunda, Mountjoy 
and North Dock better run a tramline, I say, from 
the cattlemarket to the river. That’s the music of the 
future. That’s my programme. Cui bono? But our buccaneering Vanderdeckens 
in their phantom ship of finance… an elector Three times 
three for our future chief magistrate! (The aurora borealis of 
the torchlight procession leaps.) the torchbearers Hooray! (Several wellknown burgesses, 
city magnates and freemen of the city shake hands with 
Bloom and congratulate him. Timothy Harrington, late thrice Lord Mayor 
of Dublin, imposing in mayoral scarlet, gold chain and white 
silk tie, confers with councillor Lorcan Sherlock, locum tenens. They 
nod vigorously in agreement.) late lord mayor harrington (In scarlet 
robe with mace, gold mayoral chain and lace white silk 
scarf.) That alderman, sir Leo Bloom’s speech be printed at 
the expense of the ratepayers. That the house in which 
he was born be ornamented with a commemorative tablet and 
that the thoroughfare hitherto known as Cow Parlour off Cork 
street be henceforth designated Boulevard Bloom. councillor lorcan sherlock Carried 
unanimously. bloom (Impassionedly.) These flying Dutchmen or lying Dutchmen as 
they recline in their upholstered poop, casting dice, what reck 
they? Machines is their cry, their chimera, their panacea. Laboursaving 
apparatuses, supplanters, bugbears, manufactured monsters for mutual murder, hideous hobgoblins 
produced by a horde of capitalistic lusts upon our prostituted 
