wand he beats time slowly. Kitty Ricketts, a bony pallid 
whore in navy costume, doeskin gloves rolled back from a 
coral wristlet, a chain purse in her hand, sits perched 
on the edge of the table swinging her leg and 
glancing at herself in the gilt mirror over the mantelpiece. 
A tag of her corset lace hangs slightly below her 
jacket. Lynch indicates mockingly the couple at the piano.) kitty 
(Coughs behind her hand.) She’s a bit imbecillic. (She signs 
with a waggling forefinger.) Blemblem. (Lynch lifts up her skirt 
and white petticoat with the wand. She settles them down 
quickly.) Respect yourself. (She hiccups, then bends quickly her sailor 
hat under which her hair glows, red with henna.) O, 
excuse! zoe More limelight, Charley. (She goes to the chandelier 
and turns the gas full cock.) kitty (Peers at the 
gasjet.) What ails it tonight? lynch (Deeply.) Enter a ghost 
and hobgoblins. zoe Clap on the back for Zoe. (The 
wand in Lynch’s hand flashes : a brass poker. Stephen 
stands at the pianola on which sprawl his hat and 
ashplant. With two fingers he repeats once more the series 
of empty fifths. Florry Talbot, a blond feeble goosefat whore 
in a tatterdemalion gown of mildewed strawberry, lolls spreadeagle in 
the sofa corner, her limp forearm pendent over the bolster, 
listening. A heavy stye droops over her sleepy eyelid.) kitty 
(Hiccups again with a kick of her horsed foot.) O, 
excuse! zoe (Promptly.) Your boy’s thinking of you. Tie a 
knot on your shift. (Kitty Ricketts bends her head. Her 
boa uncoils, slides, glides over her shoulder, back, arm, chair 
to the ground. Lynch lifts the curled catterpillar on his 
wand. She snakes her neck, nestling. Stephen glances behind at 
the squatted figure with its cap back to the front.) 
stephen As a matter of fact it is of no 
importance whether Benedetto Marcello found it or made it. The 
rite is the poet’s rest. It may be an old 
hymn to Demeter or also illustrate Cœla enarrant gloriam Domini. 
It is susceptible of nodes or modes as far apart 
as hyperphrygian and mixolydian and of texts so divergent as 
priests haihooping round David’s that is Circe’s or what am 
I saying Ceres’ altar and David’s tip from the stable 
to his chief bassoonist about the alrightiness of his almightiness. 
Mais, nom de nom, that is another pair of trousers. 
Jetez la gourme. Faut que jeunesse se passe. (He stops, 
points at Lynch’s cap, smiles, laughs.) Which side is your 
knowledge bump? the cap (With saturnine spleen.) Bah! It is 
because it is. Woman’s reason. Jewgreek is greekjew. Extremes meet. 
Death is the highest form of life. Bah! stephen You 
remember fairly accurately all my errors, boasts, mistakes. How long 
shall I continue to close my eyes to disloyalty? Whetstone! 
the cap Bah! stephen Here’s another for you. (He frowns.) 
The reason is because the fundamental and the dominant are 
separated by the greatest possible interval which… the cap Which? 
