waltz in their places, turning, advancing to each other, shaping 
their curves, bowing vis a vis. Cavaliers behind them arch 
and suspend their arms, with hands descending to, touching, rising 
from their shoulders.) hours You may touch my… cavaliers May 
I touch your? hours O, but lightly! cavaliers O, so 
lightly! the pianola My little shy little lass has a 
waist. (Zoe and Stephen turn boldly with looser swing. The 
twilight hours advance, from long landshadows, dispersed, lagging, languideyed, their 
cheeks delicate with cipria and false faint bloom. They are 
in grey gauze with dark bat sleeves that flutter in 
the land breeze.) maginni Avant! huit! Traversé! Salut! Cours de 
mains! Croisé! (The night hours steal to the last place. 
Morning, noon and twilight hours retreat before them. They are 
masked, with daggered hair and bracelets of dull bells. Weary, 
they curchycurchy under veils.) the bracelets Heigho! Heigho! zoe (Twisting, 
her hand to her brow.) O! maginni Les tiroirs! Chaîne 
de dames! La corbeille! Dos à dos! (Arabesquing wearily, they 
weave a pattern on the floor, weaving, unweaving, curtseying, twisting, 
simply swirling.) zoe I’m giddy. (She frees herself, droops on 
a chair, Stephen seizes Florry and turns with her.) maginni 
Boulangère! Les ronds! Les ponts! Chevaux de bois! Escargots! (Twining, 
receding, with interchanging hands, the night hours link, each with 
arching arms, in a mosaic of movements, Stephen and Florry 
turn cumbrously.) maginni Dansez avec vos dames! Changez de dames! 
Donnez le petit bouquet à votre dame! Remerciez! the pianola 
Best, best of all, Baraabum! kitty (Jumps up.) O, they 
played that on the hobbyhorses at the Mirus bazaar! (She 
runs to Stephen. He leaves Florry brusquely and seizes Kitty. 
A screaming bittern’s harsh high whistle shrieks. Groangrousegurgling Toft’s cumbersome 
whirligig turns slowly the room right roundabout the room.) the 
pianola My girl’s a Yorkshire girl. zoe Yorkshire through and 
through. Come on all! (She seizes Florry and waltzes her.) 
stephen Pas seul! (He wheels Kitty into Lynch’s arm’s, snatches 
up his ashplant from the table and takes the floor. 
All wheel, whirl, waltz, twirl. Bloombella, Kittylynch, Florryzoe, jujuby women. 
Stephen with hat ashplant frogsplits in middle highkicks with skykicking 
mouth shut hand clasp part under thigh, with clang tinkle 
boomhammer tallyho hornblower blue green yellow flashes. Toft’s cumbersome turns 
with hobbyhorse riders from gilded snakes dangled, bowels fandango leaping 
spurn soil foot and fall again.) the pianola Though she’s 
a factory lass And wears no fancy clothes. (Closeclutched swift 
swifter with glareblareflare scudding they scotlootshoot lumbering by. Baraabum!) tutti 
Encore! Bis! Bravo! Encore! simon Think of your mother’s people! 
stephen Dance of death. (Bang fresh barang bang of lacquey’s 
bell, horse, nag, steer, piglings, Conmee on Christass lame crutch 
and leg sailor in cockboat armfolded ropepulling hitching stamp hornpipe 
through and through, Baraabum! On nags, hogs, bellhorses, Gadarene swine, 
Corny in coffin. Steel shark stone onehandled Nelson, two trickies 
Frauenzimmer plumstained from pram falling bawling. Gum, he’s a champion. 
Fuseblue peer from barrel rev. evensong Love on hackney jaunt 
