— Haines missed you, he said. Did you meet him? 
He’ll see you after at the D. B. C. He’s 
gone to Gill’s to buy Hyde’s Lovesongs of Connacht. — 
I came through the museum, Buck Mulligan said. Was he 
here? — The bard’s fellowcountrymen, John Eglinton answered, are rather 
tired perhaps of our brilliancies of theorising. I hear that 
an actress played Hamlet for the fourhundredandeighth time last night 
in Dublin. Vining held that the prince was a woman. 
Has no-one made him out to be an Irishman? Judge 
Barton, I believe, is searching for some clues. He swears 
(His Highness not His Lordship) by saint Patrick. — The 
most brilliant of all is that story of Wilde’s, Mr 
Best said, lifting his brilliant notebook. That Portrait of Mr 
W. H. where he proves that the sonnets were written 
by a Willie Hughes, a man all hues. — For 
Willie Hughes, is it not? the quaker librarian asked. Or 
Hughie Wills. Mr William Himself. W. H. : who am 
I? — I mean, for Willie Hughes, Mr Best said, 
amending his gloss easily. Of course it’s all paradox, don’t 
you know, Hughes and hews and hues the colour, but 
it’s so typical the way he works it out. It’s 
the very essence of Wilde, don’t you know. The light 
touch. His glance touched their faces lightly as he smiled, 
a blond ephebe. Tame essence of Wilde. You’re darned witty. 
Three drams of usquebaugh you drank with Dan Deasy’s ducats. 
How much did I spend? O, a few shillings. For 
a plump of pressmen. Humour wet and dry. Wit. You 
would give your five wits for youth’s proud livery he 
pranks in. Lineaments of gratified desire. There be many mo. 
Take her for me. In pairing time. Jove, a cool 
ruttime send them. Yea, turtledove her. Eve. Naked wheatbellied sin. 
A snake coils her, fang in’s kiss. — Do you 
think it is only a paradox, the quaker librarian was 
asking. The mocker is never taken seriously when he is 
most serious. They talked seriously of mocker’s seriousness. Buck Mulligan’s 
again heavy face eyed Stephen awhile. Then, his head wagging, 
he came near, drew a folded telegram from his pocket. 
His mobile lips read, smiling with new delight. — Telegram! 
he said. Wonderful inspiration! Telegram! A papal bull! He sat 
on a corner of the unlit desk, reading aloud joyfully 
: — The sentimentalist is he who would enjoy without 
incurring the immense debtorship for a thing done. Signed : 
Dedalus. Where did you launch it from? The kips? No. 
College Green. Have you drunk the four quid? The aunt 
is going to call on your unsubstantial father. Telegram! Malachi 
Mulligan, the Ship, lower Abbey street. O, you peerless mummer! 
O, you priestified kinchite! Joyfully he thrust the message and 
envelope into a pocket but keened in querulous brogue : 
— It’s what I’m telling you, mister honey, it’s queer 
and sick we were, Haines and myself, the time himself 
