he near sent it into the county Longford. The bloody 
nag took fright and the old mongrel after the car 
like bloody hell and all the populace shouting and laughing 
and the old tinbox clattering along the street. The catastrophe 
was terrific and instantaneous in its effect. The observatory of 
Dunsink registered in all eleven shocks, all of the fifth 
grade of Mercalli’s scale, and there is no record extant 
of a similar seismic disturbance in our island since the 
earthquake of 1534, the year of the rebellion of Silken 
Thomas. The epicentre appears to have been that part of 
the metropolis which constitutes the Inn’s Quay ward and parish 
of Saint Michan covering a surface of fortyone acres, two 
roods and one square pole or perch. All the lordly 
residences in the vicinity of the palace of justice were 
demolished and that noble edifice itself, in which at the 
time of the catastrophe important legal debates were in progress, 
is literally a mass of ruins beneath which it is 
to be feared all the occupants have been buried alive. 
From the reports of eyewitnesses it transpires that the seismic 
waves were accompanied by a violent atmospheric perturbation of cyclonic 
character. An article of headgear since ascertained to belong to 
the much respected clerk of the crown and peace Mr 
George Fottrell and a silk umbrella with gold handle with 
the engraved initials, coat of arms and house number of 
the erudite and worshipful chairman of quarter sessions sir Frederick 
Falkiner, recorder of Dublin, have been discovered by search parties 
in remote parts of the island respectively, the former on 
the third basaltic ridge of the giant’s causeway, the latter 
embedded to the extent of one foot three inches in 
the sandy beach of Holeopen bay near the old head 
of Kinsale. Other eyewitnesses depose that they observed an incandescent 
object of enormous proportions hurtling through the atmosphere at a 
terrifying velocity in a trajectory directed southwest by west. Messages 
of condolence and sympathy are being hourly received from all 
parts of the different continents and the sovereign pontiff has 
been graciously pleased to decree that a special missa pro 
defunctis shall be celebrated simultaneously by the ordinaries of each 
and every cathedral church of all the episcopal dioceses subject 
to the spiritual authority of the Holy See in suffrage 
of the souls of those faithful departed who have been 
so unexpectedly called away from our midst. The work of 
salvage, removal of débris, human remains etc has been entrusted 
to Messrs Michael Meade and Son 159, Great Brunswick Street, 
and Messrs T. & C. Martin 77, 78, 79 and 
80, North Wall, assisted by the men and officers of 
the Duke of Cornwall’s light infantry under the general supervision 
of H. R. H., rear admiral, the right honourable sir 
Hercules Hannibal Habeas Corpus Anderson K. G., K. P., K. 
T., P. C., K. C. B.,M. P., J. P., M. 
B., D. S. O., S. O. D., M. F. H., 
