leg? Got a match on you? Eh, come her till 
I stiffen it for you. (He plodges through their sump 
towards the lighted street beyond. From a bulge of window 
curtains a gramophone rears a battered brazen trunk. In the 
shadow a shebeenkeeper haggles with the navvy and the two 
redcoats.) the navvy (Belching.) Where’s the bloody house? the shebeenkeeper 
Purdon street. Shilling a bottle of stout. Respectable woman. the 
navvy (Gripping the two redcoats, staggers forward with them.) Come 
on, you British army! private carr (Behind his back.) He 
aint half balmy. private compton (Laughs.) What ho! private carr 
(To the navvy.) Portobello barracks canteen. You ask for Carr. 
Just Carr. the navvy (Shouts.) We are the boys. Of 
Wexford. private compton Say! What price the sergeantmajor? private carr 
Bennett? He’s my pal. I love old Bennett. the navvy 
(Shouts.) The galling chain. And free our native land. (He 
staggers forward, dragging them with him. Bloom stops, at fault. 
The dog approaches, his tongue outlolling, panting.) bloom Wildgoose chase 
this. Disorderly houses. Lord knows where they are gone. Drunks 
cover distance double quick. Nice mixup. Scene at Westland row. 
Then jump in first class with third ticket. Then too 
far. Train with engine behind. Might have taken me to 
Malahide or a siding for the night or collision. Second 
drink does it. Once is a dose. What am I 
following him for? Still, he’s the best of that lot. 
If I hadn’t heard about Mrs Beaufoy Purefoy I wouldn’t 
have gone and wouldn’t have met. Kismet. He’ll lose that 
cash. Relieving office here. Good biz for cheapjacks, organs. What 
do ye lack? Soon got, soon gone. Might have lost 
my life too with that mangongwheeltracktrolleyglarejuggernaut only for presence of 
mind. Can’t always save you, though. If I had passed 
Truelock’s window that day two minutes later would have been 
shot. Absence of body. Still if bullet only went through 
my coat get damages for shock, five hundred pounds. What 
was he? Kildare street club toff. God help his gamekeeper. 
(He gazes ahead reading on the wall a scrawled chalk 
legend Wet Dream and a phallic design.) Odd! Molly drawing 
on the frosted carriagepane at Kingstown. What’s that like? (Gaudy 
dollwomen loll in the lighted doorways, in window embrasures, smoking 
birdseye cigarettes. The odour of the sicksewet weed floats towards 
him in slow round ovalling wreaths.) the wreaths Sweet are 
the sweets. Sweets of sin. bloom My spine’s a bit 
limp. Go or turn? And this food? Eat it and 
get all pigsticky. Absurd I am. Waste of money. One 
and eightpence too much. (The retriever drives a cold snivelling 
muzzle against his hand, wagging his tail.) Strange how they 
take to me. Even that brute today. Better speak to 
him first. Like women they like rencontres. Stinks like a 
polecat. Chacun son goût. He might be mad. Fido. Uncertain 
in his movements. Good fellow! Garryowen! (The wolfdog sprawls on 
his back, wriggling obscenely with begging paws, his long black 
