drunk with though, touching the much vexed question of stimulants 
he relished a glass of choice old wine in season 
as both nourishing and bloodmaking and possessing aperient virtues (notably 
a good burgundy which he was a staunch believer in) 
still never beyond a certain point where he invariably drew 
the line as it simply led to trouble all round 
to say nothing of your being at the tender mercy 
of others pratically. Most of all he commented adversely on 
the desertion of Stephen by all his pubhunting confrères but 
one, a most glaring piece of ratting on the part 
of his brother medicos under all the circs. — And 
that one was Judas, said Stephen, who up to then 
had said nothing whatsoever of any kind. Discussing these and 
kindred topics they made a beeline across the back of 
the Customhouse and passed under the Loop Line bridge when 
a brazier of coke burning in front of a sentrybox, 
or something like one, attracted their rather lagging footsteps. Stephen 
of his own accord stopped for no special reason to 
look at the heap of barren cobblestones and by the 
light emanating from the brazier he could just make out 
the darker figure of the corporation watchman inside the gloom 
of the sentrybox. He began to remember that this had 
happened, or had been mentioned as having happened, before but 
it cost him no small effort before he remembered that 
he recognised in the sentry a quondam friend of his 
father’s, Gumley. To avoid a meeting be drew nearer to 
the pillars of the railway bridge. — Someone saluted you, 
Mr Bloom said. A figure of middle height on the 
prowl, evidently, under the arches saluted again, calling : Night! 
Stephen, of course, started rather dizzily and stopped to return 
the compliment. Mr Bloom, actuated by motives of inherent delicacy, 
inasmuch as he always believed in minding his own business, 
moved off but nevertheless remained on the qui vive with 
just a shade of anxiety though not funkyish in the 
least. Although unusual in the Dublin area, he knew that 
it was not by any means unknown for desperadoes who 
had next to nothing to live on to be about 
waylaying and generally terrorising peaceable pedestrians by placing a pistol 
at their head in some secluded spot outside the city 
proper, famished loiterers of the Thames embankment category they might 
be hanging about there or simply marauders ready to decamp 
with whatever boodle they could in one fell swoop at 
a moment’s notice, your money or your life, leaving you 
there to point a moral, gagged and garrotted. Stephen, that 
is when the accosting figure came to close quarters, though 
he was not in any over sober state himself, recognised 
Corley’s breath redolent of rotten cornjuice. Lord John Corley, some 
called him, and his genealogy came about in this wise. 
He was the eldest son of Inspector Corley of the 
G Division, lately deceased, who had married a certain Katherine 
