cruel force into vicelike corsets of soft dove coutille, with 
whalebone busk, to the diamond trimmed pelvis, the absolute outside 
edge, while your figure, plumper than when at large, will 
be restrained in nettight frocks, pretty two ounce petticoats and 
fringes and things stamped, of course, with my houseflag, creations 
of lovely lingerie for Alice and nice scent for Alice. 
Alice will feel the pullpull. Martha and Mary will be 
a little chilly at first in such delicate thighcasing but 
the frilly flimsiness of lace round your bare knees will 
remind you… bloom (A charming soubrette with dauby cheeks, mustard 
hair and lace male hands and nose, leering mouth.) I 
tried her things on only once, a small prank, in 
Holles street. When we were hardup I washed them to 
save the laundry bill. My own shirts I turned. It 
was the purest thrift. bello (Jeers.) Little jobs that make 
mother pleased, eh! and showed off coquettishly in your domino 
at the mirror behind closedrawn blinds your unskirted thighs and 
hegoat’s udders, in various poses of surrender, eh? Ho! Ho! 
I have to laugh! That secondhand black operatop shift and 
short trunk leg naughties all split up the stitches at 
her last rape that Mrs Miriam Dandrade sold you from 
the Shelbourne Hotel, eh? bloom Miriam. Black. Demimondaine. bello (Guffaws.) 
Christ Almighty, it’s too tickling, this! You were a nicelooking 
Miriam when you clipped off your backgate hairs and lay 
swooning in the thing across the bed as Mrs Dandrade, 
about to be violated by Lieutenant Smythe-Smythe, Mr Philip Augustus 
Blockwell, M. P., Signor Laci Daremo, the robust tenor, blueeyed 
Bert, the liftboy, Henry Fleury of Gordon Bennett fame, Sheridan, 
the quadroon Crœsus, the varsity wetbob eight from old Trinity, 
Ponto, her splendid Newfoundland and Bobs, dowager duchess of Manorhamilton. 
(He guffaws again.) Christ, wouldn’t it make a Siamese cat 
laugh? bloom (Her hands and features working.) It was Gerald 
converted me to be a true corsetlover when I was 
female impersonator in the High School play Vice Versa. It 
was dear Gerald. He got that kink, fascinated by sister’s 
stays. Now dearest Gerald uses pinky greasepaint and gilds his 
eyelids. Cult of the beautiful. bello (With wicked glee.) Beautiful! 
Give us a breather! When you took your seat with 
womanish care, lifting your billowy flounces, on the smoothworn throne. 
bloom Science. To compare the various joys we each enjoy. 
(Earnestly.) And really it’s better the position… because often I 
used to wet… bello (Sternly.) No insubordination. The sawdust is 
there in the corner for you. I gave you strict 
instructions, didn’t I? Do it standing, sir! I’ll teach you 
to behave like a jinkleman! If I catch a trace 
on your swaddles. Aha! By the ass of the Dorans’ 
you’ll find I’m a martinet. The sins of your past 
are rising against you. Many. Hundreds. the sins of the 
past (In a medley of voices.) He went through a 
form of clandestine marriage with at least one woman in 
