to the point of Bennett’s jaw. The redcoat ducked but 
the Dubliner lifted him with a left hook, the body 
punch being a fine one. The men came to handigrips. 
Myler quickly became busy and got his man under, the 
bout ending with the bulkier man on the ropes, Myler 
punishing him. The Englishman, whose right eye was nearly closed, 
took his corner where he was liberally drenched with water 
and when the bell went, came on gamey and brimful 
of pluck, confident of knocking out the fistic Eblanite in 
jigtime. It was a fight to a finish and the 
best man for it. The two fought like tigers and 
excitement ran fever high. The referee twice cautioned Pucking Percy 
for holding but the pet was tricky and his footwork 
a treat to watch. After a brisk exchange of courtesies 
during which a smart upper cut of the military man 
brought blood freely from his opponent’s mouth the lamb suddenly 
waded in all over his man and landed a terrific 
left to Battling Bennett’s stomach, flooring him flat. It was 
a knockout clean and clever. Amid tense expectation the Portobello 
bruiser was being counted out when Bennett’s second Ole Pfotts 
Wettstein threw in the towel and the Santry boy was 
declared victor to the frenzied cheers of the public who 
broke through the ringropes and fairly mobbed him with delight. 
— He knows which side his bread is buttered, says 
Alf. I hear he’s running a concert tour now up 
in the north. — He is, says Joe. Isn’t he? 
— Who? says Bloom. Ah, yes. That’s quite true. Yes, 
a kind of summer tour, you see. Just a holiday. 
— Mrs B. is the bright particular star, isn’t she? 
says Joe. — My wife? says Bloom. She’s singing, yes. 
I think it will be a success too. He’s an 
excellent man to organise. Excellent. Hoho begob, says I to 
myself, says I. That explains the milk in the cocoanut 
and absence of hair on the animal’s chest. Blazes doing 
the tootle on the flute. Concert tour. Dirty Dan the 
dodger’s son off Island bridge that sold the same horses 
twice over to the government to fight the Boers. Old 
Whatwhat. I called about the poor and water rate, Mr 
Boylan. You what? The water rate, Mr Boylan. You whatwhat? 
That’s the bucko that’ll organise her, take my tip. ’Twixt 
me and you Caddereesh. Pride of Calpe’s rocky mount, the 
ravenhaired daughter of Tweedy. There grew she to peerless beauty 
where loquat and almond scent the air. The gardens of 
Alameda knew her step : the garths of olives knew 
and bowed. The chaste spouse of Leopold is she : 
Marion of the bountiful bosoms. And lo, there entered one 
of the clan of the O’Molloys, a comely hero of 
white face yet withal somewhat ruddy, his majesty’s counsel learned 
in the law, and with him the prince and heir 
of the noble line of Lambert. — Hello, Ned. — 
