Your dean of studies holds he was a holy Roman. 
Sufflaminandus sum. — He was made in Germany, Stephen replied, 
as the champion French polisher of Italian scandals. — A 
myriadminded man, Mr Best reminded. Coleridge called him myriadminded. Amplius. 
In societate humana hoc est maxime necessarium ut sit amicitia 
inter multos. — Saint Thomas, Stephen began… — Ora pro 
nobis, Monk Mulligan groaned, sinking to a chair. There he 
keened a wailing rune. — Pogue mahone! Acushla machree! It’s 
destroyed we are from this day! It’s destroyed we are 
surely! All smiled their smiles. — Saint Thomas, Stephen, smiling, 
said, whose gorbellied works I enjoy reading in the original, 
writing of incest from a standpoint different from that of 
the new Viennese school Mr Magee spoke of, likens it 
in his wise and curious way to an avarice of 
the emotions. He means that the love so given to 
one near in blood is covetously withheld from some stranger 
who, it may be, hungers for it. Jews, whom christians 
tax with avarice, are of all races the most given 
to intermarriage. Accusations are made in anger. The christian laws 
which built up the hoards of the jews (for whom, 
as for the lollards, storm was shelter) bound their affections 
too with hoops of steel. Whether these be sins or 
virtues old Nobodaddy will tell us at doomsday leet. But 
a man who holds so tightly to what he calls 
his rights over what he calls his debts will hold 
tightly also to what he calls his rights over her 
whom he calls his wife. No sir smile neighbour shall 
covet his ox or his wife or his manservant or 
his maidservant or his jackass. — Or his jennyass, Buck 
Mulligan antiphoned. — Gentle will is being roughly handled, gentle 
Mr Best said gently. — Which will! gagged sweetly Buck 
Mulligan. We are getting mixed. — The will to live, 
John Eglinton philosophised, for poor Ann, Will’s widow, is the 
will to die. — Requiescat! Stephen prayed. What of all 
the will to do? It has vanished long ago… — 
She lies laid out in stark stiffness in that secondbest 
bed, the mobled queen, even though you prove that a 
bed in those days was as rare as a motorcar 
is now and that its carvings were the wonder of 
seven parishes. In old age she takes up with gospellers 
(one stayed at New Place and drank a quart of 
sack the town paid for but in which bed he 
slept it skills not to ask) and heard she had 
a soul. She read or had read to her his 
chapbooks preferring them to the Merry Wives and, loosing her 
nightly waters on the jordan, she thought over Hooks and 
Eyes for Believers’ Breeches and The Most Spiritual Snuffbox to 
Make the Most Devout Souls Sneeze. Venus had twisted her 
lips in prayer. Agenbite of inwit : remorse of conscience. 
It is an age of exhausted whoredom groping for its 
