lips. Besides there was absolution so long as you didn’t 
do the other thing before being married and there ought 
to be women priests that would understand without your telling 
out and Cissy Caffrey too sometimes had that dreamy kind 
of dreamy look in her eyes so that she too, 
my dear, and Winny Rippingham so mad about actors’ photographs 
and besides it was on account of that other thing 
coming on the way it did. And Jacky Caffrey shouted 
to look, there was another and she leaned back and 
the garters were blue to match on account of the 
transparent and they all saw it and shouted to look, 
look there it was and she leaned back ever so 
far to see the fireworks and something queer was flying 
about through the air, a soft thing to and fro, 
dark. And she saw a long Roman candle going up 
over the trees up, up, and, in the tense hush, 
they were all breathless with excitement as it went higher 
and higher and she had to lean back more and 
more to look up after it, high, high, almost out 
of sight, and her face was suffused with a divine, 
an entrancing blush from straining back and he could see 
her other things too, nainsook knickers, the fabric that caresses 
the skin, better than those other pettiwidth, the green, four 
and eleven, on account of being white and she let 
him and she saw that he saw and then it 
went so high it went out of sight a moment 
and she was trembling in every limb from being bent 
so far back that he had a full view high 
up above her knee where no-one ever not even on 
the swing or wading and she wasn’t ashamed and he 
wasn’t either to look in that immodest way like that 
because he couldn’t resist the sight of the wondrous revealment 
half offered like those skirtdancers behaving so immodest before gentlemen 
looking and he kept on looking, looking. She would fain 
have cried to him chokingly, held out her snowy slender 
arms to him to come, to feel his lips laid 
on her white brow, the cry of a young girl’s 
love, a little strangled cry, wrung from her, that cry 
that has rung through the ages. And then a rocket 
sprang and bang shot blind and O! then the Roman 
candle burst and it was like a sigh of O! 
and everyone cried O! O! in raptures and it gushed 
out of it a stream of rain gold hair threads 
and they shed and ah! they were all greeny dewy 
stars falling with golden, O so lovely! O so soft, 
sweet, soft! Then all melted away dewily in the grey 
air : all was silent. Ah! She glanced at him 
as she bent forward quickly, a pathetic little glance of 
piteous protest, of shy reproach under which he coloured like 
a girl. He was leaning back against the rock behind. 
