weeks’ borard. The lump I have is useless. — For 
the moment, no, Stephen answered. Mr Deasy laughed with rich 
delight, putting back his savingsbox. — I knew you couldn’t, 
he said joyously. But one day you must feel it. 
We are a generous people but we must also be 
just. — I fear those big words, Stephen said, which 
make us so unhappy. Mr Deasy stared sternly for some 
moments over the mantelpiece at the shapely bulk of a 
man in tartan fillibegs : Albert Edward, Prince of Wales. 
— You think me an old fogey and an old 
tory, his thoughtful voice said. I saw three generations since 
O’Connell’s time. I remember the famine. Do you know that 
the orange lodges agitated for repeal of the union twenty 
years before O’Connell did or before the prelates of your 
communion denounced him as a demagogue? You fenians forget some 
things. Glorious, pious and immortal memory. The lodge of Diamond 
in Armagh the splendid behung with corpses of papishes. Hoarse, 
masked and armed, the planters’ covenant. The black north and 
true blue bible. Croppies lie down. Stephen sketched a brief 
gesture. — I have rebel blood in me too, Mr 
Deasy said. On the spindle side. But I am descended 
from sir John Blackwood who voted for the union. We 
are all Irish, all kings’ sons. — Alas, Stephen said. 
— Per vias rectas, Mr Deasy said firmly, was his 
motto. He voted for it and put on his topboots 
to ride to Dublin from the Ards of Down to 
do so. Lal the ral the ra The rocky road 
to Dublin. A gruff squire on horseback with shiny topboots. 
Soft day, sir John. Soft, day, your honour… Day… Day… 
Two topboots jog dangling on to Dublin. Lal the ral 
the ra, lal the ral the raddy. — That reminds 
me, Mr Deasy said. You can do me a favour, 
Mr Dedalus, with some of your literary friends : I 
have a letter here for the press. Sit down a 
moment. I have just to copy the end. He went 
to the desk near the window, pulled in his chair 
twice and read off some words from the sheet on 
the drum of his typewriter. — Sit down. Excuse me, 
he said over his shoulder, the dictates of common sense. 
Just a moment. He peered from under his shaggy brows 
at the manuscript by his elbow and, muttering, began to 
prod the stiff buttons of the keyboard slowly, some times 
blowing as he screwed up the drum to erase an 
error. Stephen seated himself noiselessly before the princely presence. Framed 
around the walls images of vanished horses stood in homage, 
their meek heads poised in air : lord Hastings’ Repulse, 
the duke of Westminster’s Shotover, the duke of Beaufort’s Ceylon, 
prix de Paris, 1866. Elfin riders sat them, watchful of 
a sign. He saw their speeds, backing king’s colours, and 
shouted with the shouts of vanished crowds. — Full stop, 
