34, Berlin, W, 15. Nothing doing. Still an idea behind 
it. He looked at the cattle, blurred in silver heat. 
Silvered powdered olivetrees. Quiet long days : pruning ripening. Olives 
are packed in jars, eh? I have a few left 
from Andrews. Molly spitting them out. Knows the taste of 
them now. Oranges in tissue paper packed in crates. Citrons 
too. Wonder is poor Citron still alive in Saint Kevin’s 
parade. And Mastiansky with the old cither. Pleasant evenings we 
had then. Molly in Citron’s basketchair. Nice to hold, cool 
waxen fruit, hold in the hand, lift it to the 
nostrils and smell the perfume. Like that, heavy, sweet, wild 
perfume. Always the same, year after year. They fetched high 
prices too Moisel told me. Arbutus place : Pleasants street 
: pleasant old times. Must be without a flaw, he 
said. Coming all that way : Spain, Gibraltar, Mediterranean, the 
Levant. Crates lined up on the quayside at Jaffa, chap 
ticking them off in a book, navvies handling them in 
soiled dungarees. There’s whatdoyoucallhim out of. How do you? Doesn’t 
see. Chap you know just to salute bit of a 
bore. His back is like that Norwegian captain’s. Wonder if 
I’ll meet him today. Watering cart. To provoke the rain. 
On earth as it is in heaven. A cloud began 
to cover the sun wholly slowly wholly. Grey. Far. No, 
not like that. A barren land, bare waste. Vulcanic lake, 
the dead sea : no fish, weedless, sunk deep in 
the earth. No wind would lift those waves, grey metal, 
poisonous foggy waters. Brimstone they called it raining down : 
the cities of the plain : Sodom, Gomorrah, Edom. All 
dead names. A dead sea in a dead land, grey 
and old. Old now. It bore the oldest, the first 
race. A bent hag crossed from Cassidy’s clutching a noggin 
bottle by the neck. The oldest people. Wandered far away 
over all the earth, captivity to captivity, multiplying, dying, being 
born everywhere. It lay there now. Now it could bear 
no more. Dead : an old woman’s : the grey 
sunken cunt of the world. Desolation. Grey horror seared his 
ftesh. Folding the page into his pocket he turned into 
Eccles’ Street, hurrying homeward. Cold oils slid along his veins, 
chilling his blood : age crusting him with a salt 
cloak. Well, I am here now. Morning mouth bad images. 
Got up wrong side of the bed. Must begin again 
those Sandow’s exercises. On the hands down. Blotchy brown brick 
houses. Number eighty still unlet. Why is that? Valuation is 
only twentyeight. Towers, Battersby, North, MacArthur : parlour windows plastered 
with bills. Plasters on a sore eye. To smell the 
gentle smoke of tea, fume of the pan, sizzling butter. 
Be near her ample bedwarmed flesh. Yes, yes. Quick warm 
sunlight came running from Berkeley Road, swiftly, in slim sandals, 
along the brightening footpath. Runs, she runs to meet me, 
a girl with gold hair on the wind. Two letters 
