— That’s the style, Mr Dedalus said, nodding to its 
drone. — What about that? Ben Dollard said. Not too 
dusty? What? He turned to both. — That’ll do, Father 
Cowley said, nodding also. The reverend Hugh C. Love walked 
from the old Chapterhouse of saint Mary’s abbey past James 
and Charles Kennedy’s, rectifiers, attended by Geraldines tall and personable, 
towards the Tholsel beyond the Ford of Hurdles. Ben Dollard 
with a heavy list towards the shopfronts led them forward, 
his joyful fingers in the air. — Come along with 
me to the subsheriff’s office, he said. I want to 
show you the new beauty Rock has for a bailiff. 
He’s a cross between Lobengula and Lynchehaun. He’s well worth 
seeing, mind you. Come along. I saw John Henry Menton 
casually in the Bodega just now and it will cost 
me a fall if I don’t… wait awhile… We’re on 
the right lay, Bob, believe you me. — For a 
few days tell him, Father Cowley said anxiously. Ben Dollard 
halted and stared, his loud orifice open, a dangling button 
of his coat wagging brightbacked from its thread as he 
wiped away the heavy shraums that clogged his eyes to 
hear aright. — What few days? he boomed. Hasn’t your 
landlord distrained for rent? — He has, Father Cowley said. 
— Then our friend’s writ is not worth the paper 
it’s printed on, Ben Dollard said. The landlord has the 
prior claim. I gave him all the particulars. 29 Windsor 
avenue. Love is the name? — That’s right, Father Cowley 
said. The reverend Mr Love. He’s a minister in the 
country somewhere. But are you sure of that? — You 
can tell Barabbas from me, Ben Dollard said, that he 
can put that writ where Jacko put the nuts. He 
led Father Cowley boldly forward linked to his bulk. — 
Filberts I believe they were, Mr Dedalus said, as he 
dropped his glasses on his coatfront, following them. — The 
youngster will be all right, Martin Cunningham said, as they 
passed out of the Castleyard gate. The policeman touched his 
forehead. — God bless you, Martin Cunningham said, cheerily. He 
signed to the waiting jarvey who chucked at the reins 
and set on towards Lord Edward street. Bronze by gold, 
Miss Kennedy’s head by Miss Douce’s head, appeared above the 
crossblind of the Ormond hotel. — Yes, Martin Cunningham said, 
fingering his beard. I wrote to Father Conmee and laid 
the whole case before him. — You could try our 
friend, Mr Power suggested backward. — Boyd? Martin Cunningham said 
shortly. Touch me not. John Wyse Nolan, lagging behind, reading 
the list, came after them quickly down Cork hill. On 
the steps of the City hall Councillor Nannetti, descending, hailed 
Alderman Cowley and Councillor Abraham Lyon ascending. The castle car 
wheeled empty into upper Exchange street. — Look here Martin, 
John Wyse Nolan said, overtaking them at the Mail office. 
I see Bloom put his name down for five shillings. 
