Messrs Flower and M’Donald of 14 D’Olier street, kindled it 
at three projecting points of paper with one ignited lucifer 
match, thereby releasing the potential energy contained in the fuel 
by allowing its carbon and hydrogen elements to enter into 
free union with the oxygen of the air. Of what 
similar apparitions did Stephen think? Of others elsewhere in other 
times who, kneeling on one knee or on two, had 
kindled fires for him, of Brother Michael in the infirmary 
of the college of the Society of Jesus at Clongowes 
Wood, Sallins, in the county of Kildare : of his 
father, Simon Dedalus, in an unfurnished room of his first 
residence in Dublin, number thirteen Fitzgibbon street : of his 
godmother Miss Kate Morkan in the house of her dying 
sister Miss Julia Morkan at 15 Usher’s Island : of 
his mother Mary, wife of Simon Dedalus, in the kitchen 
of number twelve North Richmond street on the morning of 
the feast of Saint Francis-Xavier 1898 : of the dean 
of studies, Father Butt, in the physics’ theatre of university 
College, 16 Stephen’s Green, north : of his sister Dilly 
(Delia) in his father’s house in Cabra. What did Stephen 
see on raising his gaze to the height of a 
yard from the fire towards the opposite wall? Under a 
row of five coiled spring housebells a curvilinear rope, stretched 
between two holdfasts athwart across the recess beside the chimney 
pier, from which hung four smallsized square handkerchiefs folded unattached 
consecutively in adjacent rectangles and one pair of ladies’ grey 
hose with Lisle suspender tops and feet in their habitual 
position clamped by three erect wooden pegs two at their 
outer extremities and the third at their point of junction. 
What did Bloom see on the range? On the right 
(smaller) hob a blue enamelled saucepan : on the left 
(larger) hob a black iron kettle. What did Bloom do 
at the range? He removed the saucepan to the left 
hob, rose and carried the iron kettle to the sink 
in order to tap the current by turning the faucet 
to let it flow. Did it flow? Yes. From Roundwood 
reservoir in county Wicklow of a cubic capacity of 2.400 
million gallons, percolating through a subterranean aqueduct of filtre mains 
of single and double pipeage constructed at an initial plant 
cost of £ 5 per linear yard by way of 
the Dargle, Rathdown, Glen of the Downs and Callowhill to 
the 26 acre reservoir at Stillorgan, a distance of 22 
statute miles, and thence, through a system of relieving tanks, 
by a gradient of 250 feet to the city boundary 
at Eustace bridge, upper Leeson street, though from prolonged summer 
drouth and daily supply of 12 1/2 million gallons the 
water had fallen below the sill of the overflow weir 
for which reason the borough surveyor and waterworks engineer, Mr 
Spencer Harty, C. E., on the instructions of the waterworks 
committee had prohibited the use of municipal water for purposes 
