Cissy was a past mistress in the art of smoothing 
over life’s tiny troubles and and very quickly not one 
speck of sand was to be seen on his smart 
little suit. Still the blue eyes were glistening with hot 
tears that would well up so she kissed away the 
hurtness and shook her hand at Master Jacky the culprit 
and said if she was near him she wouldn’t be 
far from him, her eyes dancing in admonition. — Nasty 
bold Jacky! she cried. She put an arm round the 
little mariner and coaxed winningly : — What’s your name? 
Butter and cream? — Tell us who is your sweetheart, 
spoke Edy Boardman. Is Cissy your sweetheart? — Nao, tearful 
Tommy said. — Is Edy Boardman your sweetheart? Cissy queried. 
— Nao, Tommy said. — I know, Edy Boardman said 
none too amiably with an arch glance from her shortsighted 
eyes. I know who is Tommy’s sweetheart, Gerty is Tommy’s 
sweetheart. — Nao, Tommy said on the verge of tears. 
Cissy’s quick motherwit guessed what was amiss and she whispered 
to Edy Boardman to take him there behind the pushcar 
where the gentlemen couldn’t see and to mind he didn’t 
wet his new tan shoes. But who was Gerty? Gerty 
MacDowell who was seated near her companions, lost in thought, 
gazing far away into the distance was in very truth 
as fair a specimen of winsome Irish girlhood as one 
could wish to see. She was pronounced beautiful by all 
who knew her though, as folks often said, she was 
more a Giltrap than a MacDowell. Her figure was slight 
and graceful, inclining even to fragility but those iron jelloids 
she had been taking of late had done her a 
world of good much better than the Widow Welch’s female 
pills and she was much better of those discharges she 
used to get and that tired feeling. The waxen pallor 
of her face was almost spiritual in its ivorylike purity 
though her rosebud mouth was a genuine Cupid’s bow, Greekly 
perfect. Her hands were of finely veined alabaster with tapering 
fingers and as white as lemon juice and queen of 
ointments could make them though it was not true that 
she used to wear kid gloves in bed or take 
a milk footbath either. Bertha Supple told that once to 
Edy Boardman, a deliberate lie, when she was black out 
at daggers drawn with Gerty (the girl chums had of 
course their little tiffs from time to time like the 
rest of mortals) and she told her not let on 
whatever she did that it was her that told her 
or she’d never speak to her again. No. Honour where 
honour is due. There wasan innate refinement, a languid queenly 
hauteur about Gerty which was unmistakably evidenced in her delicate 
hands and higharched instep. Had kind fate but willed her 
to be born a gentlewoman of high degree in her 
own right and had she only received the benefit of 
