And our potteries and textiles, the finest in the whole 
world! And our wool that was sold in Rome in 
the time of Juvenal and our flax and our damask 
from the looms of Antrim and our Limerick lace, our 
tanneries and our white flint glass down there by Ballybough 
and our Huguenot poplin that we have since Jacquard de 
Lyon and our woven silk and our Foxford tweeds and 
ivory raised point from the Carmelite convent in New Ross, 
nothing like it in the whole wide world! Where are 
the Greek merchants that came through the pillars of Hercules, 
the Gibraltar now grabbed by the foe of mankind, with 
gold and Tyrian purple to sell in Wexford at the 
fair of Carmen? Read Tacitus and Ptolemy, even Giraldus Cambrensis. 
Wine, peltries, Connemara marble, silver from Tipperary, second to none, 
our farfamed horses even today, the Irish hobbies, with king 
Philip of Spain offering to pay customs duties for the 
right to fish in our waters. What do the yellowjohns 
of Anglia owe us for our ruined trade and our 
ruined hearths? And the beds of the Barrow and Shannon 
they won’t deepen with millions of acres of marsh and 
bog to make us all die of consumption. — As 
treeless as Portugal we’ll be soon, says John Wyse, or 
Heligoland with its one tree if something is not done 
to reafforest the land. Larches, firs, all the trees of 
the conifer family are going fast. I was reading a 
report of lord Castletown’s… — Save them, says the citizen, 
the giant ash of Galway and the chieftain elm of 
Kildare with a fortyfoot bole and an acre of foliage. 
Save the trees of Ireland for the future men of 
Ireland on the fair hills of Eire, O. — Europe 
has its eyes on you, says Lenehan. The fashionable international 
world attended en masse this afternoon at the wedding of 
the chevalier Jean Wyse de Neaulan, grand high chief ranger 
of the Irish National Foresters, with Miss Fir Conifer of 
Pine Valley. Lady Sylvester Elmshade, Mrs Barbara Lovebirch, Mrs Poll 
Ash, Mrs Holly Hazeleyes, Miss Daphne Bays, Miss Dorothy Canebrake, 
Mrs Clyde Twelvetrees, Mrs Rowan Greene, Mrs Helen Vinegadding, Miss 
Virginia Creeper, Miss Gladys Beech, Miss Olive Garth, Miss Blanche 
Maple, Mrs Maud Mahogany, Miss Myra Myrtle, Miss Priscilla Elderflower, 
Miss Bee Honeysuckle, Miss Grace Poplar, Miss O Mimosa San, 
Miss Rachel Cedarfrond, the Misses Lilian and Viola Lilac, Miss 
Timidity Aspenall, Mrs Kitty Dewey-Mosse, Miss May Hawthorne, Mrs Gloriana 
Palme, Mrs Liana Forrest, Mrs Arabella Blackwood and Mrs Norma 
Holyoake of Oakholme Regis graced the ceremony by their presence. 
The bride who was given away by her father, the 
M’Conifer of the Glands, looked exquisitely charming in a creation 
carried out in green mercerised silk, moulded on an underslip 
of gloaming grey, sashed with a yoke of broad emerald 
and finished with a triple flounce of darkerhued fringe, the 
scheme being relieved by bretelles and hip insertions of acorn 
