a knee.) And the rest. bloom (Dejected.) Yes. Peccavi! I 
have paid homage on that living altar where the back 
changes name. (With sudden fervour.) For why should the dainty 
scented jewelled hand, the hand that rules…? (Figures wind serpenting 
in slow woodland pattern around the treestems, cooeeing.) the voice 
of kitty (In the thicket.) Show us one of them 
cushions. the voice of florry Here. (A grouse wings clumsily 
through the underwood.) the voice of lynch (In the thicket.) 
Whew! Piping hot! the voice of zoe (From the thicket.) 
Came from a hot place. the voice of virag (A 
birdchief, bluestreaked and feathered in war panoply with his assegai, 
striding through a crackling canebrake over beechmast and acorns.) Hot! 
Hot! Ware Sitting Bull! bloom It overpowers me. The warm 
impress of her warm form. Even to sit where a 
woman has sat, especially with divaricated thighs, as though to 
grant the last favours, most especially with previously well uplifted 
white sateen coatpans. So womanly full. It fills me full. 
the waterfall Phillaphulla Poulaphouca Poulaphouca Poulaphouca. the yews Ssh! Sister, 
speak! the nymph (Eyeless, in nun’s white habit, coif and 
huge winged wimple, softly, with remote eyes.) Tranquilla convent. Sister 
Agatha. Mount Carmel, the apparitions of Knock and Lourdes. No 
more desire. (She reclines her head, sighing.) Only the ethereal. 
Where dreamy creamy gull waves o’er the waters dull. (Bloom 
half rises. His back trousers button snaps.) the button Bip! 
(Two sluts of the Coombe dance rainily by, shawled, yelling 
flatly.) the sluts O Leopold lost the pin of his 
drawers He didn’t know what to do, To keep it 
up, To keep it up. bloom (Coldly.) You have broken 
the spell. The last straw. If there were only ethereal 
where would you all be, postulants and novices? Shy but 
willing like an ass pissing. the yews (Their silverfoil of 
leaves precipitating, their skinny arms aging and swaying.) Deciduously! the 
nymph Sacrilege! To attempt my virtue! (A large moist stain 
appears on her robe.) Sully my innocence! You are not 
fit to touch the garment of a pure woman. (She 
clutches in her robe.) Wait, Satan. You’ll sing no more 
lovesongs. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. (She draws a poniard and, 
clad in the sheathmail of an elected knight of nine, 
strikes at his loins.) Nekum! bloom (Starts up, seizes her 
hand.) Hoy! Nebrakada! Cat of nine lives! Fair play, madam. 
No pruning knife. The fox and the grapes, is it? 
What do we lack with your barbed wire? Crucifix not 
thick enough? (He clutches her veil.) A holy abbot you 
want or Brophy, the lame gardener, or the spoutless statue 
of the watercarrier or good Mother Alphonsus, eh Reynard? the 
nymph (With a cry, flees from him unveiled, her plaster 
cast cracking, a cloud of stench escaping from the cracks.) 
Poli…! bloom (Calls after her.) As if you didn’t get 
it on the double yourselves. No jerks and multiple mucosities 
all over you. I tried it. Your strength our weakness. 
