a good education Gerty MacDowell might easily have held her 
own beside any lady in the land and have seen 
herself exquisitely gowned with jewels on her brow and patrician 
suitors at her feet vying with one another to pay 
their devoirs to her. Mayhap it was this, the love 
that might have been, that lent to her softlyfeatured face 
at whiles a look, tense with suppressed meaning, that imparted 
a strange yearning tendency to the beautiful eyes, a charm 
few could resist. Why have women such eyes of witchery? 
Gerty’s were of the bluest Irish blue, set off by 
lustrous lashes and dark expressive brows. Time was when those 
brows were not so silkilyseductive. It was Madame Vera Verity, 
directress of the Woman Beautiful page of the Princess novelette, 
who had first advised her to try eyebrowleine which gave 
that haunting expression to the eyes, so becoming in leaders 
of fashion, and she had never regretted it. Then there 
was blushing scientifically cured and how to be tall increase 
your height and you have a beautiful face but your 
nose? That would suit Mrs Dignam because she had a 
button one. But Gerty’s crowning glory was her wealth of 
wonderful hair. It was dark brown with a natural wave 
in it. She had cut it that very morning on 
account of the new moon and it nestled about her 
pretty head in a profusion of luxuriant clusters and pared 
her nails too, Thursday for wealth. And just now at 
Edy’s words as a telltale flush, delicate as the faintest 
rosebloom, crept into her cheeks she looked so lovely in 
her sweet girlish shyness that of a surety God’s fair 
land of Ireland did not hold her equal. For an 
instant she was silent with rather sad downcast eyes. She 
was about to retort but something checked the words on 
her tongue. Inclination prompted her to speak out : dignity 
told her to be silent. The pretty lips pouted a 
while but then she glanced up and broke out into 
a joyous little laugh which had in it all the 
freshness of a young May morning. She knew right well, 
no-one better, what made squinty Edy say that because of 
him cooling in his attentions when it was simply a 
lover’s quarrel. As per usual somebody’s nose was out of 
joint about the boy that had the bicycle always riding 
up and down in front of her window. Only now 
his father kept him in the evenings studying hard to 
get an exhibition in the intermediate that was on and 
he was going to Trinity college to study for a 
doctor when he left the high school like his brother 
W. E. Wylie who was racing in the bicycle races 
in Trinity college university. Little recked he perhaps for what 
she felt, that dull aching void in her heart sometimes, 
piercing to the core. Yet he was young and perchance 
he might learn to love her in time. They were 
