calculated to freeze the marrow of anybody’s bones and mauling 
their largesized charms between whiles with rough and tumble gusto 
to theaccompaniment of large potations of pottheen and the usual 
blarney about himself for as to who he in reality 
was let XX equal my right name and address, as 
Mr Algebra remarks passim. At the same time he inwardly 
chuckled over his repartee to the blood and ouns champion 
about his God being a jew. People could put up 
with being bitten by a wolf but what properly riled 
them was a bite from a sheep. The most vulnerable 
point too of tender Achilles, your God was a jew, 
because mostly they appeared to imagine he came from Carrick-on-Shannon 
or somewhere about in the county Sligo. — I propose, 
our hero eventually suggested, after mature reflection, while prudently pocketing 
her photo, as it’s rather stuffy here, you just come 
home with me and talk things over. My diggings are 
quite close in the vicinity. You can’t drink that stuff. 
Wait, I’ll just pay this lot. The best plan clearly 
being to clear out, the remainder being plain sailing, he 
beckoned, while prudently pocketing the photo, to the keeper, of 
the shanty, who didn’t seem to… — Yes, that’s the 
best, he assured Stephen, to whom for the matter of 
that Brazen Head or him or anywhere else was all 
more or less… All kinds of Utopian plans were flashing 
through his (Bloom’s) busy brain. Education (the genuine article), literature, 
journalism, prize titbits, up to date billing, hydros and concert 
tours in English watering resorts packed with theatres, turning money 
away, duets in Italian with the accent perfectly true to 
nature and a quantity of other things, no necessity of 
course to tell the world and his wife from the 
housetops about it and a slice of luck. An opening 
was all was wanted. Because he more than suspected he 
had his father’s voice to bank his hopes on which 
it was quite on the cards he had so it 
would be just as well, by the way no harm, 
to trail the conversation in the direction of that particular 
red herring just to… The cabby read out of the 
paper he had got hold of that the former viceroy, 
Earl Cadogan, had presided at the cabdrivers’ association dinner in 
London somewhere. Silence with a yawn or two accompanied this 
thrilling announcement. Then the old specimen in the corner who 
appeared to have some spark of vitality left read out 
that Sir Anthony MacDonnell had left Euston for the chief 
secretary’s lodge or words to that effect. To which absorbing 
piece of intelligence echo answered why. — Give us a 
squint at that literature, grandfather, the ancient mariner put in, 
manifesting some natural impatience. — And welcome, answered the elderly 
party thus addressed. The sailor lugged out from a case 
he had a pair of greenish goggles which he very 
slowly hooked over his nose and both ears. — Are 
