red. Anemic a little. Was given milk too long. On 
the Erin’s King that day round the Kish. Damned old 
tub pitching about. Not a bit funky. Her pale blue 
scarf loose in the wind with her hair. All dimpled 
cheek’s and curls, Your head it simply swirls. Seaside girls. 
Torn envelope. Hands stuck in his trousers’ pockets, jarvey off 
for the day, singing. Friend of the family. Swurls, he 
says. Pier with lamps, summer evening, band, Those girls, those 
girls, Those lovely seaside girls. Milly too. Young kisses : 
the first. Far away now past. Mrs Marion. Reading lying 
back now, counting the strands of her hair, smiling, braiding. 
A soft qualm regret, flowed down his backbone, increasing. Will 
happen, yes. Prevent. Useless : can’t move. Girl’s sweet light 
lips. Will happen too. He felt the flowing qualm spread 
over him. Useless to move now. Lips kissed, kissing kissed. 
Full gluey woman’s lips. Better where she is down there 
: away. Occupy her. Wanted a dog to pass the 
time. Might take a trip down there. August bank holiday, 
only two and six return. Six weeks off however. Might 
work a press pass. Or through M’Coy. The cat, having 
cleaned all her fur, returned to the meatstained paper, nosed 
at it and stalked to the door. She looked back 
at him, mewing. Wants to go out. Wait before a 
door sometime it will open. Let her wait. Has the 
fidgets. Electric. Thunder in the air. Was washing at her 
ear with her back to the fire too. He felt 
heavy, full : then a gentle loosening of his bowels. 
He stood up, undoing the waistband of his trousers. The 
cat mewed to him. — Miaow! he said in answer. 
Wait till I’m ready. Heaviness : hot day coming. Too 
much trouble to fag up the stairs to the landing. 
A paper. He liked to read at stool. Hope no 
ape comes knocking just as I’m. In the table drawer 
he found an old number of Titbits. He folded it 
under his armpit, went to the door and opened it. 
The cat went up in soft bounds. Ah, wanted to 
go upstairs, curl up in a ball on the bed. 
Listening, he heard her voice : — Come, come, pussy. 
Come. He went out through the backdoor into the garden 
: stood to listen towards the next garden. No sound. 
Perhaps hanging clothes out to dry. The maid was in 
the garden. Fine morning. He bent down to regard a 
lean file of spearmint growing by the wall. Make a 
summerhouse here. Scarlet runners. Virginia creepers. Want to manure the 
whole place over, scabby soil. A coat of liver of 
sulphur. All soil like that without dung. Household slops. Loam, 
what is this that is? The hens in the next 
garden : their droppings are very good top dressing. Best 
of all though are the cattle, especially when they are 
fed on those oilcakes. Mulch of dung. Best thing to 
