of their life. He encircled his gadding hair with a 
coronal of vineleaves, smiling at Vincent. That answer and those 
leaves, Vincent said to him, will adorn you more fitly 
when something more, and greatly more, than a capful of 
light odes can call your genius father. All who wish 
you well hope this for you. All desire to see 
you bring forth the work you meditate. I heartily wish 
you may not fail them. O no, Vincent, Lenehan said, 
laying a hand on the shoulder near him, have no 
fear. He could not leave his mother an orphan. The 
young mans face grew dark. All could see how hard 
it was for him to be reminded of his promise 
and of his recent loss. He would have withdrawn from 
the feast had not the noise of voices allayed the 
smart. Madden had lost five drachmas on Sceptre for a 
whim of the rider’s name : Lenehan as much more. 
He told them of the race. The flag fell and, 
huuh, off, scamper, the mare ran out freshly with O. 
Madden up. She was leading the field : all hearts 
were beating. Even Phyllis could not contain herself. She waved 
her scarf and cried : Huzzah! Sceptre wins! But in 
the straight on the run home when all were in 
close order the dark horse Throwaway drew level, reached, outstripped 
her. All was lost now. Phyllis was silent : her 
eyes were sad anemones. Juno, she cried, I am undone. 
But her lover consoled her and brought her a bright 
casket of gold in which lay some oval sugarplums which 
she partook. A tear fell : one only. A whacking 
fine whip, said Lenehan, is W. Lane. Four winners yesterday 
and three today. What rider is like him? Mount him 
on the camel or the boisterous buffalo the victory in 
a hack canter is still his. But let us bear 
it as was the ancient wont. Mercy on the luckless! 
Poor Sceptre! he said with a light sigh. She is 
not the filly that she was. Never, by this hand, 
shall we behold such another. By gad, sir, a queen 
of them. Do you remember her, Vincent? I wish you 
could have seen my queen today, Vincent said, how young 
she was and radiant (Lalage were scarce fair beside her) 
in her yellow shoes and frock of muslin, I do 
not know the right name of it. The chestnuts that 
shaded us were in bloom : the air drooped with 
their persuasive odour and with pollen floating by us. In 
the sunny patches one might easily have cooked on a 
stone a batch of those buns with Corinth fruit in 
them that Periplepomenos sells in his booth near the bridge. 
But she had nought for her teeth but the arm 
with which I held her and in that she nibbled 
mischievously when I pressed too dose. A week ago she 
lay ill, four days on the couch, but today she 
