the sense of destiny, of retribution. Rather strange he should 
have just that fixed idea. Does he write anything for 
your movement? He sank two lumps of sugar deftly longwise 
through the whipped cream. Buck Mulligan slit a steaming scone 
in two and plastered butter over its smoking pith. He 
bit off a soft piece hungrily. — Ten years, he 
said, chewing and laughing. He is going to write something 
in ten years. — Seems a long way off, Haines 
said, thoughtfully lifting his spoon. Still, I shouldn’t wonder if 
he did after all. He tasted a spoonful from the 
creamy cone of his cup. — This is real Irish 
cream I take it, he said with forbearance. I don’t 
want to be imposed on. Elijah, skiff, light crumpled throwaway, 
sailed eastward by flanks of ships and trawlers, amid an 
archipelago of corks, beyond new Wapping street past Benson’s ferry, 
and by the threemasted schooner Rosevean from Bridgewater with bricks. 
Almidano Artifoni walked past Holles street, past Sewell’s yard. Behind 
him Cashel Boyle O’Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell with stickumbrelladustcoat dangling, 
shunned the lamp before Mr Law Smith’s house and, crossing, 
walked along Merrion square. Distantly behind him a blind stripling 
tapped his way by the wall of College Park. Cashel 
Boyle O’Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell walked as far as Mr 
Lewis Werner’s cheerful windows, then turned and strode back along 
Merrion square, his stickumbrelladustcoat dangling. At the corner of Wilde’s 
he halted, frowned at Elijah’s name announced on the Metropolitan 
Hall, frowned at the distant pleasance of duke’s lawn. His 
eyeglass flashed frowning in the sun. With ratsteeth bared he 
muttered : — Coactus volui. He strode on for Clare 
street, grinding his fierce word. As he strode past Mr 
Bloom’s dental windows the sway of his dustcoat brushed rudely 
from its angle a slender tapping cane and swept onwards, 
having buffeted a thewless body. The blind stripling turned his 
sickly face after the striding form. — God’s curse on 
you, he said sourly, whoever you are! You’re blinder nor 
I am, you bitch’s bastard! Opposite Ruggy O’Donohoe’s Master Patrick 
Aloysius Dignam, pawing the pound and half of Mangan’s, late 
Fehrenbach’s, porksteaks he had been sent for, went along warm 
Wicklow street dawdling. It was too blooming dull sitting in 
the parlour with Mrs Stoer and Mrs Quigley and Mrs 
Mac Dowell and the blind down and they all at 
their sniffles and sipping sups of the superior tawny sherry 
uncle Barney brought from Tunney’s. And they eating crumbs of 
the cottage fruit cake jawing the whole blooming time and 
sighing. After Wicklow lane the window of Madame Doyle, court 
dress milliner, stopped him. He stood looking in at the 
two puckers stripped to their pelts and putting up their 
props. From the sidemirrors two mourning Masters Dignam gaped silently. 
Myler Keogh, Dublin’s pet lamb, will meet sergeant major Bennett, 
the Portobello bruiser, for a purse of fifty sovereigns, Gob, 
that’d be a good pucking match to see. Myler Keogh, 
