Absinthe, the greeneyed monster. I know him. He’s a gentleman, 
a poet. It’s all right. stephen (Nods, smiling and laughing.) 
Gentleman, patriot, scholar and judge of impostors. private carr I 
don’t give a bugger who he is. private compton We 
don’t give a bugger who he is. stephen I seem 
to annoy them. Green rag to a bull. (Kevin Egan 
of Paris in black Spanish tasselled shirt and peep-o’-day boy’s 
hat signs to Stephen.) kevin egan H’lo. Bonjour! The vieille 
ogresse with the dents jaunes. (Patrice Egan peeps from behind, 
his rabbit face nibbling a quince leaf.) patrice Socialiste! don 
emile patrizio franz rupert pope hennessy (In medieval hauberk, two 
wild geese valant on his helm, with noble indignation points 
a mailed hand against the privates.) Werf those eykes to 
footboden, big grand porcos of johnyellows todos covered of gravy! 
bloom (To Stephen.) Come home. You’ll get into trouble. stephen 
(Swaying.) I don’t avoid it. He provokes my intelligence. biddy 
the clap One immediately observes that he is of patrician 
lineage. the virago Green above the red, says he. Wolfe 
Tone. the bawd The red’s as good as the green, 
and better. Up the soldiers! Up King Edward! a rough 
(Laughs.) Ay! Hands up to De Wet. the citizen (With 
a huge emerald muffler and shillelagh, calls.) May the God 
above Send down a dove With teeth as sharp as 
razors To slit the throat Of the English dogs That 
hanged our Irish leaders. the croppy boy (The rope noose 
round his neck, gripes in his issuing bowels with both 
hands.) I bear no hate to a living thing, But 
I love my country beyond the king. rumbold, demon barber 
(Accompanied by two blackmasked assistants, advances with a gladstone bag 
which he opens.) Ladies and gents, cleaver purchased by Mrs 
Pearcy to slay Mogg. Knife with which Voisin dismembered the 
wife of a compatriot and hid remains in a sheet 
in the cellar, the unfortunate female’s throat being cut from 
ear to ear. Phial containing arsenic retrieved from the body 
of Miss Barron which sent Seddon to the gallows. (He 
jerks the rope, the assistants leap at the victim’s legs 
and drag him downward, grunting : the croppy boy’s tongue 
protrudes violently.) the croppy boy Horhot ho hray ho rhother’s 
hest (He gives up the ghost. A violent erection of 
the hanged sends gouts of sperm spouting through his death 
clothes on to the cobblestones. Mrs Bellingham, Mrs Yelverton Barry 
and the Honourable Mrs Mervy Talboys rush forward with their 
handkerchiefs to sop it up.) rumbold I’m near it myself. 
(He undoes the noose.) Rope which hanged the awful rebel. 
Ten shillings a time as applied to His Royal Highness. 
(He plunges his head into the gaping belly of the 
hanged and draws out his head again clotted with coiled 
and smoking entrails.) My painful duty has now been done. 
God save the king! edward the seventh (Dances slowly, solemnly, 
rattling his bucket and sings with soft contentment.) On coronation 
