A stick struck the door and a voice in the 
corridor called : — Hockey ! They broke asunder, sidling 
out of their benches, leaping them. Quickly they were gone 
and from the lumberroom came the rattle of sticks and 
clamour of their boots and tongues. Sargent who alone had 
lingered came forward slowly, showing an open copybook. His tangled 
hair and scraggy neck gave witness of unreadiness and through 
his misty glasses weak eyes looked up pleading. On his 
cheek, dull and bloodless, a soft stain of ink lay, 
dateshaped, recent and damp as a snail’s bed. He held 
out his copybook. The word Sums was written on the 
headline. Beneath were sloping figures and at the foot a 
crooked signature with blind loops and a blot. Cyril Sargent 
: his name and seal. — Mr Deasy told me 
to write them out all again, he said, and show 
them to you, sir. Stephen touched the edges of the 
book. Futility. — Do you understand how to do them 
now? he asked. — Numbers eleven to fifteen, Sargent answered. 
Mr Deasy said I was to copy them off the 
board, sir. — Can you do them yourself? Stephen asked. 
— No, sir. Ugly and futile : lean neck and 
tangled hair and a stain of ink, a snail’s bed. 
Yet someone had loved him, borne him in her arms 
and in her heart. But for her the race of 
the world would have trampled him under foot, a squashed 
boneless snail. She had loved his weak watery blood drained 
from her own. Was that then real? The only true 
thing in life? His mother’s prostrate body the fiery Columbanus 
in holy zeal bestrode. She was no more : the 
trembling skeleton of a twig burnt in the fire, an 
odour of rosewood and wetted ashes. She had saved him 
from being trampled under foot and had gone, scarcely having 
been. A poor soul gone to heaven : and on 
a heath beneath winking stars a fox, red reek of 
rapine in his fur, with merciless bright eyes scraped in 
the earth, listened, scraped up the earth, listened, scraped and 
scraped. Sitting at his side Stephen solved out the problem. 
He proves by algebra that Shakespeare’s ghost is Hamlet’s grandfather. 
Sargent peered askance through his slanted glasses. Hockeysticks rattled in 
the lumberroom : the hollow knock of a ball and 
calls from the field. Across the page the symbols moved 
in grave morrice, in the mummery of their letters, wearing 
quaint caps of squares and cubes. Give hands, traverse, bow 
to partner : so : imps of fancy of the 
Moors. Gone too from the world, Averroes and Moses Maimonides, 
dark men in mien and movement, flashing in their mocking 
mirrors the obscure soul of the world, a darkness shining 
in brightness which brightness could not comprehend. — Do you 
understand now? Can you work the second for yourself? — 
Yes, sir. In long shady strokes Sargent copied the data. 
