In liver gravy Bloom mashed mashed potatoes. Love and war 
someone is. Ben Dollard’s famous. Night he ran round to 
us to borrow a dress suit for that concert. Trousers 
tight as a drum on him. Musical porkers. Molly did 
laugh when he went out. Threw herself back across the 
bed, screaming, kicking. With all his belongings on show. O, 
saints above, I’m drenched! O, the women in the front 
row! O, I never laughed so many! Well, of course, 
that’s what gives him the base barreltone. For instance eunuchs. 
Wonder who’s playing. Nice touch. Must be Cowley. Musical. Knows 
whatever note you play. Bad breath he has, poor chap. 
Stopped. Miss Douce, engaging, Lydia Douce, bowed to suave solicitor, 
George Lidwell, gentleman, entering. Good afternoom. She gave her moist, 
a lady’s, hand to his firm clasp. Afternoon. Yes, she 
was back. To the old dingdong again. — Your friends 
are inside, Mr Lidwell. George Lidwell, suave, solicited, held a 
lydiahand. Bloom ate liv as said before. Clean here at 
least. That chap in the Burton, gummy with gristle. No-one 
here : Goulding and I. Clean tables, flowers, mitres of 
napkins. Pat to and fro, bald Pat. Nothing to do. 
Best value in Dub. Piano again. Cowley it is. Way 
he sits in to it, like one together, mutual understanding. 
Tiresome shapers scraping fiddles, eye on the bowend, sawing the 
’cello, remind you of toothache. Her high long snore. Night 
we were in the box. Trombone under blowing like a 
grampus, between the acts, other brass chap unscrewing, emptying spittle. 
Conductor’s legs too, bagstrousers, jiggedy jiggedy. Do right to hide 
them. Jiggedy jingle jaunty jaunty. Only the harp. Lovely gold 
glowering light. Girl touched it. Poop of a lovely. Gravy’s 
rather good fit for a. Golden ship. Erin. The harp 
that once or twice. Cool hands. Ben Howth, the rhododendrons. 
We are their harps. I. He. Old. Young. — Ah, 
I couldn’t, man, Mr Dedalus said, shy, listless. Strongly. — 
Go on, blast you, Ben Dollard growled. Get it out 
in bits. — M’appari, Simon, Father Cowley said. Down stage 
he strode some paces, grave, tall in affliction, his long 
arms outheld. Hoarsely the apple of his throat hoarsed softly. 
Softly he sang to a dusty seascape there : A 
Last Farewell. A headland, a ship, a sail upon the 
billows. Farewell. A lovely girl, her veil awave upon the 
wind upon the headland wind around her. Cowley sang : 
— M’appari tutt’amor : Il mio sguardo l’incontr… She waved, 
unhearing Cowley, her veil to one departing, dear one, to 
wind, love, speeding sail, return. — Go on, Simon. — 
Ah, sure my dancing days are done, Ben… Well… Mr 
Dedalus laid his pipe to rest beside the tuningfork and, 
sitting, touched the obedient keys. — No, Simon, Father Cowley 
turned. Play it in the original One flat. The keys, 
obedient, rose higher, told, faltered, confessed, confused. Up stage strode 
Father Cowley. — Here, Simon. I’ll accompany you, he said. 
