with met him pike hoses (sic) in it which must 
have fell down sufficiently appropriately beside the domestic chamberpot with 
apologies to Lindley Murray. The vicinity of the young man 
he certainly relished, educated, distingué, and impulsive into the bargain, 
far and away the pick of the bunch, though you 
wouldn’t think he had it in him… yet you would. 
Besides he said the picture was handsome which, say what 
you like, it was, though at the moment she was 
distinctly stouter. And why not? An awful lot of makebelieve 
went on about that sort of thing involving a lifelong 
slur with the usual splash page of letterpress about the 
same old matrimonial tangle alleging misconduct with professional golfer or 
the newest stage favourite instead of being honest and aboveboard 
about the whole business. How they were fated to meet 
and an attachment sprang up between the two so that 
their names were coupled in the public eye was told 
in court with letters containing the habitual mushy and compromising 
expressions, leaving no loophole, to show that they openly cohabited 
two or three times a week at some wellknown seaside 
hotel and relations, when the thing ran its normal course, 
became in due course intimate. Then the decree nisi and 
the King’s Proctor to show cause why and, he failing 
to quash it, nisi was made absolute. But as for 
that, the two misdemeanants, wrapped up as they largely were 
in one another, could safely afford to ignore it as 
they very largely did till the matter was put in 
the hands of a solicitor, who filed a petition for 
the party wronged in due course. He, Bloom, enjoyed the 
distinction of being close to Erin’s uncrowned king in the 
flesh when the thing occurred in the historic fracas when 
the fallen leader’s — who notoriously stuck to his guns 
to the last drop even when clothed in the mantle 
of adultery — (leader’s) trusty henchmen to the number of 
ten or a dozen or possibly even more than that 
penetrated into the prinitng works of the Insuppressible or no 
it was United Ireland (a by no means, by the 
by appropriate appellative) and broke up the typecases with hammers 
or something like that all on account of some scurrilous 
effusions from the facile pens of the O’Brienite scribes at 
the usual mudslinging occuaption, reflecting on the erstwhile tribune’s private 
morals. Though palpably a radically altered man, he was still 
a commanding figure, though carelessly garbed as usual, with that 
look of settled purpose which went a long way with 
the shillyshallyers till they discovered to their vast discomfiture that 
their idol had feet of clay, after placing him upon 
a pedestal, which she, however, was the first to perceive. 
As those were particularly hot times in the general hullaballoo 
Bloom sustained a minor injury from a nasty prod of 
some chap’s elbow in the crowd that of course congregated 
lodging some place about the pit of the stomach, fortunately 
