will be so kind then, the clergyman said, the next 
time to allow me perhaps… — Certainly, Ned Lambert said. 
Bring the camera whenever you like. I’ll get those bags 
cleared away from the windows. You can take it from 
here or from here. In the still faint light he 
moved about, tapping with his lath the piled seedbags and 
points of vantage on the floor. From a long face 
a beard and gaze hung on a chessboard. — I’m 
deeply obliged, Mr Lambert, the clergyman said. I won’t trespass 
on your valuable time… — You’re welcome, sir, Ned Lambert 
said. Drop in whenever you like. Next week, say. Can 
you see? — Yes, yes. Good afternoon, Mr Lambert. Very 
pleased to have met you. — Pleasure is mine, sir, 
Ned Lambert answered. He followed his guest to the outlet 
and then whirled his lath away among the pillars. With 
J.J. O’Molloy he came forth slowly into Mary’s abbey where 
draymen were loading floats with sacks of carob and palm 
nut meal, O’Connor, Wexford. He stood to read the card 
in his hand. — The reverend Hugh C. Love, Rathcoffey. 
Present address : Saint Michael’s, Sallins. Nice young chap he 
is. He’s writing a book about the Fitzgeralds he told 
me. He’s well up in history, faith. The young woman 
with slow care detached from her light skirt a clinging 
twig. — I thought you were at a new gunpowder 
plot, J.J. O’Molloy said. Ned Lambert cracked his fingers in 
the air. — God, he cried. I forgot to tell 
him that one about the earl of Kildare after he 
set fire to Cashel cathedral. You know that one? I’m 
bloody sorry I didit, says he, but I declare to 
God I thought the archbishop was inside. He mightn’t like 
it, though. What? God, I’ll tell him anyhow. That was 
the great earl, the Fitzgerald Mor. Hot members they were 
all of them, the Geraldines. The horses he passed started 
nervously under their slack harness. He slapped a piebald haunch 
quivering near him and cried : — Woa, sonny! He 
turned to J.J. O’Molloy and asked : — Well, Jack. 
What is it? What’s the trouble? Wait a while. Hold 
hard. With gaping mouth and head far back he stood 
still and, after an instant, sneezed loudly. — Chow! he 
said. Blast you! — The dust from those sacks, J.J. 
O’Molloy said politely. — No, Ned Lambert gasped, I caught 
a… cold night before … blast your soul… night before 
last… and there was a hell of a lot of 
draught… He held his handkerchief ready for the coming… — 
I was… this morning… poor little… what do you call 
him… Chow!… Mother of Moses! Tom Rochford took the top 
disk from the pile he clasped against his claret waistcoat. 
— See? he said. Say it’s turn six. In here, 
see. Turn Now On. He slid it into the left 
slot for them. It shot down the groove, wobbled a 
