he conceded. On the contrary, that stab in the back 
touch was quite in keeping with those Italianos, though candidly 
he was none the less free to admit those ice 
creamers and friers in the fish way, not to mention 
the chip potato variety and so forth, over in little 
Italy there, near the Coombe, were sober thrifty hardworking fellows 
except perhaps a bit too given to pothunting the harmless 
necessary animal of the feline persuasion of others at night 
so as to have a good old succulent tuckink with 
garlic de rigueur off him or her next day on 
the quiet and, he added, on the cheap. — Spaniards, 
for instance, he continued, passionate temperaments like that, impetuous as 
Old Nick, are given to taking the law into their 
own hands and give you your quietus double quick with 
those poignards they carry in the abdomen. It comes from 
the great heat, climate generally. My wife is, so to 
speak, Spanish, half, that is. Point of fact she could 
actually claim Spanish nationality if she wanted, having been born 
in (technically) Spain, i. e. Gibraltar. She has the Spanish 
type. Quite dark, regular brunette, black. I, for one, certainly 
believe climate accounts for character. That’s why I asked you 
if you wrote your poetry in Italian. — The temperaments 
at the door, Stephen interposed with, were very passionate about 
ten shillings. Roberto ruba roba sua. — Quite so, Mr 
Bloom dittoed. — Then, Stephen said, staring and rambling on 
to himself or some unknown listener somewhere, we have the 
impetuosity of Dante and the isosceles triangle, Miss Portinari, he 
fell in love with and Leonardo and san Tommaso Mastino. 
— It’s in the blood, Mr Bloom acceded at once. 
All are washed in the blood of the sun. Coincidence, 
I just happened to be in the Kildare Street Museum 
today, shortly prior to our meeting, if I can so 
call it, and I was just looking at those antique 
statues there. The splendid proportions of hips, bosom. You simply 
don’t knock against those kind of women here. An exception 
here and there. Handsome, yes, pretty in a way you 
find, but what I’m talking about is the female form. 
Besides, they have so little taste in dress, most of 
them, which greatly enhances a woman’s natural beauty, no matter 
what you say. Rumpled stockings — it may be, possibly 
is, a foible of mine, but still it’s a thing 
I simply hate to see. Interest, however, was starting to 
flag somewhat all round and the others got on to 
talking about accidents at sea, ships lost in a fog, 
collisions with icebergs, all that sort of thing. Shipahoy, of 
course, had his own say to say. He had doubled 
the Cape a few odd times and weathered a monsoon, 
a kind of wind, in the China seas and through 
all those perils of the deep there was one thing, 
he declared, stood to him, or words to that effect, 
