citizen up in the corner having a great confab with 
himself and that bloody mangy mongrel, Garryowen, and he waiting 
for what the sky would drop in the way of 
drink. — There he is, says I, in his gloryhole, 
with his cruiskeen lawn and his load of papers, working 
for the cause. The bloody mongrel let a grouse out 
of him would give you the creeps. Be a corporal 
work of mercy if someone would take the life of 
that bloody dog. I’m told for a fact he ate 
a good part of the breeches off a constabulary man 
in Santry that came round one time with a blue 
paper about a licence. — Stand and deliver, says he. 
— That’s all right, citizen, says Joe. Friends here. — 
Pass, friends, says he. Then he rubs his hand in 
his eye and says he : — What’s your opinion 
of the times? Doing the rapparee and Rory of the 
hill. But, begob, Joe was equal to the occasion. — 
I think the markets are on a rise, says he, 
sliding his hand down his fork. So begob the citizen 
claps his paw on his knee and he says : 
— Foreign wars is the cause of it. And says 
Joe, sticking his thumb in his pocket : — It’s 
the Russians wish to tyrannise. — Arrah, give over your 
bloody codding, Joe, says I, I’ve a thirst on me 
I wouldn’t sell for half a crown. — Give it 
a name, citizen, says Joe. — Wine of the country, 
says he. — What’s yours? says Joe. — Ditto MacAnaspey, 
says I. — Three pints, Terry, says Joe. And how’s 
the old heart, citizen? says he. — Never better, a 
chara, says he. What Garry? Are we going to win? 
Eh? And with that he took the bloody old towser 
by the scruff of the neck and, by Jesus, he 
near throttled him. The figure seated on a large boulder 
at the foot of a round tower was that of 
a broadshouldered deepchested stronglimbed frankeyed redhaired freely freckled shaggybearded widemouthed 
largenosed longheaded deepvoiced barekneed brawnyhanded hairylegged ruddyfaced sinewyarmed hero. From 
shoulder to shoulder he measured several ells and his rocklike 
mountainous knees were covered, as was likewise the rest of 
his body wherever visible, with a strong growth of tawny 
prickly hair in hue and toughness similar to the mountain 
gorse (Ulex Europeus). The widewinged nostrils, from which bristles of 
the same tawny hue projected, were of such capaciousness that 
within their cavernous obscurity the fieldlark might easily have lodged 
her nest. The eyes in which a tear and a 
smile strove ever for the mastery were of the dimensions 
of a goodsized cauliflower. A powerful current of warm breath 
issued at regular intervals from the profound cavity of his 
mouth while in rhythmic resonance the loud strong hale reverberations 
of his formidable heart thundered rumblingly causing the ground, the 
summit of the lofty tower and the still loftier walls 
