tight on her because there was a lot of the 
tomboy about Cissy Caffrey and she was a forward piece 
whenever she thought she had a good opportunity to show 
off and just because she was a good runner she 
ran like that so that he could see all the 
end of her petticoat running and her skinny shanks up 
as far as possible. It would have served her just 
right if she had tripped up over something accidentally on 
purpose with her high crooked French heels on her to 
make her look tall and got a fine tumble. Tableau! 
That would have been a very charming exposé for a 
gentleman like that to witness. Queen of angels, queen of 
patriarchs, queen of prophets, of all saints, they prayed, queen 
of the most holy rosary and then Father Conroy handed 
the thurible to Canon O’ Hanlon and he put in 
the incense and censed the Blessed Sacrament and Cissy Caffrey 
caught the two twins and she was itching to give 
them a ringing good clip on the ear but she 
didn’t because she thought he might be watching but she 
never made a bigger mistake in all her life because 
Gerty could see without looking that he never took his 
eyes off of her and then Canon O’Hanlon handed the 
thurible back to Father Conroy and knelt down looking up 
at the Blessed Sacrament and the choir began to sing 
Tantum ergo and she just swung her foot in and 
out in time as the music rose and fell to 
the Tantumer gosa cramen tum. Three and eleven she paid 
for those stockings in Sparrow’s of Ceorge’s street on the 
Tuesday, no the Monday before Easter and there wasn’t a 
brack on them and that was what he was looking 
at, transparent, and not at her insignificant ones that had 
neither shape nor form (the cheek of her!) because he 
had eyes in his head to see the difference for 
himself. Cissy came up along the strand with the two 
twins and their ball with her hat anyhow on her 
to one side after her run and she did look 
a streel tugging the two kids along with the flimsy 
blouse she bought only a fortnight before like a rag 
on her back and bit of her petticoat hanging like 
a caricature. Gerty just took off her hat for a 
moment to settle her hair and a prettier, a daintier 
head of nutbrown tresses was never seen on a girl’s 
shoulders, a radiant little vision, in sooth, almost maddening in 
its sweetness. You would have to travel many a long 
mile before you found a head of hair the like 
of that. She could almost see the swift answering flush 
of admiration in his eyes that set her tingling in 
every nerve. She put on her hat so that she 
could see from underneath the brim and swung her buckled 
shoe faster for her breath caught as she caught the 
