which (if any) of these mental or physical disorders was 
he not totally immune? From hypnotic suggestion : once, waking, 
he had not recognised his sleeping apartment : more than 
once, waking, he had been for an indefinite time incapable 
ofmovingor uttering sounds. From somnambulism : once, sleeping, his body 
had risen, crouched and crawled in the direction of a 
heatless fire and, having attained its destination, there, curled, unheated, 
in night attire had lain, sleeping. Had this latter or 
any cognate phenomenon declared itself in any member of his 
family? Twice, in Holles street and in Ontario terrace, his 
daughter Millicent (Milly) at the ages of 6 and 8 
years had uttered in sleep an exclamation of terror and 
had replied to the interrogations of two figures in night 
attire with a vacant mute expression. What other infantile memories 
had he of her? 15 June 1889. A querulous newborn 
female infant crying to cause and lessen congestion. A child 
renamed Padney Socks she shook with shocks her moneybox : 
counted his three free moneypenny buttons one, tloo, tlee : 
a doll, a boy, a sailor she cast away : 
blond, born of two dark, she had blond ancestry, remote, 
a violation, Herr Hauptmann Hainau, Austrian army, proximate, ahallucination, lieutenant 
Mulvey, British navy. What endemic characteristics were present? Conversely the 
nasal and frontal formation was derived in a direct line 
of lineage which, though interrupted, would continue at distant intervals 
to its most distant intervals. What memories had he of 
her adolescence? She relegated her hoop and skippingrope to a 
recess. On the duke’s lawn entreated by an English visitor, 
she declined to permit him to make and take away 
her photographic image (objection not stated). On the South Circular 
road in the company of Elsa Potter, followed by an 
individual of sinister aspect, she went half way down Stamer 
street and turned abruptly back (reason of change not stated). 
On the vigil of the 15th anniversary of her birth 
she wrote a letter from Mullingar, county Westmeath, making a 
brief allusion to a local student (faculty and year not 
stated). Did that first division, portending a second division, afflict 
him? Less than he had imagined, more than he had 
hoped. What second departure was contemporaneously perceived by him similarly 
if differently? A temporary departure of his cat. Why similarly, 
why differently? Similarly, because actuated by a secret purpose the 
quest of a new male (Mullingar student) or of a 
healing herb (valerian). Differently, because of different possible returns to 
the inhabitants or to the habitation. In other respects were 
their differences similar? In passivity, in economy, in the instinct 
of tradition, in unexpectedness. As? Inasmuch as leaning she sustained 
her blond hair for him to ribbon it for her 
(cf. neckarching cat). Moreover, on the free surface of the 
lake in Stephen’s green amid inverted reflections of trees her 
uncommented spit, describing concentric circles of waterrings, indicated by the 
constancy of its permanence the locus of a somnolent prostrate 
