the honourable mrs mervyn talboys (Unbuttoning her gauntlet violently.) I’ll 
do no such thing. Pig dog and always was ever 
since he was pupped! To dare address me! I’ll flog 
him black and blue in the public streets. I’ll dig 
my spurs in him up to the rowel. He is 
a wellknown cuckold. (She swishes her huntingcrop savagely in the 
air.) Take down his trousers without loss of time. Come 
here, sir! Quick! Ready? bloom (Trembling, beginning to obey.) The 
weather has been so warm. (Davy Stephens, ringletted, passes with 
a bevy of barefoot newsboys.) davy stephens Messenger of the 
Sacred Heart and Evening Telegraph with Saint Patrick’s Day Supplement. 
Containing the new addresses of all the cuckolds in Dublin. 
(The very reverend Canon O’Hanlon in cloth of gold cope 
elevates and exposes a marble timepiece. Before him Father Conroy 
and the reverend John Hughes S.J. bend low.) the timepiece 
(Unportalling.) Cuckoo. Cuckoo. Cuckoo. (The brass quoits of a bed 
are heard to jingle.) the quoits Jigjag, Jigajiga. Jigjag. (A 
panel of fog rolls back rapidly, revealing rapidly in the 
jurybox the faces of Martin Cunningham, foreman, silkhatted, Jack Power, 
Simon Dedalus, Tom Kernan, Ned Lambert, John Henry Menton, Myles 
Crawford, Lenehan, Paddy Leonard Nosey Flynn, M’Coy and the featureless 
face of a Nameless One.) the nameless one Bareback riding. 
Weight for age. Gob, he organised her. the jurors (All 
their heads turned to his voice.) Really? the nameless one 
(Snarls.) Arse over tip. Hundred shillings to five. the jurors 
(All their heads lowered in assent.) Most of us thought 
as much. first watch He is a marked man. Another 
girl’s plait cut. Wanted : Jack the Ripper. A thousand 
pounds reward. second watch (Awed, whispers.) And in black. A 
mormon. Anarchist. the crier (Loudly.) Whereas Leopold Bloom of no 
fixed abode is a wellknown dynamitard, forger, bigamist, bawd and 
cuckold and a public nuisance to the citizens of Dublin 
and whereas at this commission of assizes the most honourable… 
(His Honour sir Frederick Falkiner recorder of Dublin, in judicial 
garb of grey stone rises from the bench, stonebearded. He 
bears in his arms an umbrella sceptre. From his forehead 
arise starkly the Mosaic ramshorns.) the recorder I will put 
an end to this white slave traffic and rid Dublin 
of this odious pest. Scandalous! (He dons the black cap.) 
Let him be taken, Mr Subsheriff, from the dock where 
he now stands and detained in custody in Mountjoy prison 
during His Majesty’s pleasure and there be hanged by the 
neck until he is dead and therein fail not at 
your peril or may the Lord have mercy on your 
soul. Remove him. (A black skullcap descends upon his head.) 
(The subsheriff Long John Fanning appears, smoking a pungent Henry 
Clay.) long john fanning Scowls and calls with rich rolling 
utterance.) Who’ll hang Judas Iscariot? (H. Rumbold, master barber, in 
a bloodcoloured jerk in and tanner’s apron, a rope coiled 
over his shoulder, mounts the block. A life preserver and 
