Dowell noticed the time she was there because she was 
as quick as anything about a thing like that, was 
Gerty MacDowell, and she noticed at once that that foreign 
gentleman that was sitting on the rocks looking was Cuckoo. 
Cuckoo. Cuckoo. 14 Deshil Holles Eamus. Deshil Holles Eamus. Deshil 
Holles Eamus. Send us, bright one, light one, Horhorn, quickening 
and wombfruit. Send us, bright one, light one, Horhorn, quickening 
and wombfruit. Send us bright one, light one, Horhorn, quickening 
and wombfruit. Hoopsa, boyaboy, hoopsa! Hoopsa, boyaboy, hoopsa! Hoopsa, boyaboy, 
hoopsa. Universally that person’s acumen is esteemed very little perceptive 
concerning whatsoever matters are being held as most profitable by 
mortals with sapience endowed to be studied who is ignorant 
of that which the most in doctrine erudite and certainly 
by reason of that in them high mind’s ornament deserving 
of veneration constantly maintain when by general consent they affirm 
that other circumstances being equal by no exterior splendour is 
the prosperity of a nation more efficaciously asserted than by 
the measure of how far forward may have progressed the 
tribute of its solicitude for that proliferent continuance which of 
evils the original if it be absent when fortunately present 
constitutes the certain sign of omnipollent nature’s incorrupted benefaction. For 
who is there who anything of some significance has apprehended 
but is conscious that that exterior splendour may be the 
surface of a downwardtending lutulent reality or on the contrary 
anyone so is there inilluminated as not to perceive that 
as no nature’s boon can contend against the bounty of 
increase so it behoves every most just citizen to become 
the exhortator and admonisher of his semblables and to tremble 
lest what had in the past been by the nation 
excellently commenced might be in the future not with similar 
excellence accomplished if an inverecund habit shall have gradually traduced 
the honourable by ancestors transmitted customs to that thither of 
profundity that that one was audacious excessively who would have 
the hardihood to rise affirming that no more odious offence 
can for anyone be than to oblivious neglect to consign 
that evangel simultaneously command and promise which on all mortals 
with prophecy of abundance or with diminution’s menace that exalted 
of reiteratedly procreating function ever irrevocably enjoined? It is not 
why therefore we shall wonder if, as the best historians 
relate, among the Celts, who nothing that was not in 
its nature admirable admired, the art of medicine shall have 
been highly honoured. Not to speak of hostels, leperyards, sweating 
chambers, plaguegraves, their greatest doctors, the O’Shiels, the O’Hickeys, the 
O’Lees, have sedulously set down the divers methods by which 
the sick and the relapsed found again health whether the 
malady had been the trembling withering or loose boyconnell flux. 
Certainly in every public work which in it anything of 
gravity contains preparation should be with importance commensurate and therefore 
a plan was by them adopted (whether by having preconsidered 
or as the maturation of experience it is difficult in 
