human mentality : seismic upheavals the epicentres of which are 
located in densely populated regions : the fact of vital 
growth, through convulsions of metamorphosis, from infancy through maturity to 
decay. Why did he desist from speculation? Because it was 
a task for a superior intelligence to substitute other more 
acceptable phenomena in place of the less acceptable phenomena to 
be removed. Did Stephen participate in his dejection? He affirmed 
his significance as a conscious rational animal proceeding syllogistically from 
the known to the unknown and a conscious rational reagent 
between a micro and a macrocosm ineluctably constructed upon the 
incertitude of the void. Was this affirmation apprehended by Bloom? 
Not verbally. Substantially. What comforted his misapprehension? That as a 
competent keyless citizen he had proceeded energetically from the unknown 
to the known through the incertitude of the void. In 
what order of precedence, with what attendant ceremony was the 
exodus from the house of bondage to the wilderness of 
inhabitation effected? Lighted Candle in Stick borne by Bloom Diaconal 
Hat on Ashplant borne by Stephen. With what intonation secreto 
of what commemorative psalm? The 113 th, modus peregrinus : 
In exitu Israël de Egypto : domus Jacob de populo 
barbaro. What did each so at the door of egress? 
Bloom set the candlestick on the floor. Stephen put the 
hat on his head. For what creature was the door 
of egress a door of ingress? For a cat. What 
spectacle confronted them when they, first the host, then the 
guest, emerged silently, doubly dark, from obscurity by a passage 
from the rere of the house into the penumbra of 
the garden? The heaventree of stars hung with humid nightblue 
fruit. With what meditations did Bloom accompany his demonstration to 
his companion of various constellation? Meditations of evolution increasingly vaster 
: of the moon invisible in incipent lunation, approaching perigee 
: of the infinite lattiginous scintillating uncondensed milky way, discernible 
by daylight by an observer placed at the lower end 
of a cylindrical vertical shaft 5000 ft deep sunk from 
the surface towards the centre of the earth : of 
Sirius (alpha in Canis Major) 10 lightyears (57, 000, 000, 
000, 000 miles) distant and in volume 900 times the 
dimension of our planet : of Arcturus : of the 
precession of equinoxes : of Orion with belt and sextuple 
sun theta and nebula in which 100 of our solar 
systems could be contained : of moribund and of nascent 
new stars such as Nova in 1901 : of our 
system plunging towards the constellation of Hercules : of the 
parallax or parallactic drift of socalled fixed stars, in reality 
evermoving from immeasurably remote eons to infinitely remote futures in 
comparison with which the years, threscore and ten, of allotted 
human life formed a parenthesis of infinitesimal brevity. Were there 
obverse meditations of involution increasingly less vast? Of the eons 
of geological periods recorded in the stratifications of the earth 
: of the myriad minute entomological organic existences concealed in 
