he screwed his features up some way sideways and glared 
out into the night with an unprepossessing cast of countenance. 
— Pom, he then shouted once. The entire audience waited, 
anticipating an additional detonation, there being still a further egg. 
— Pom, he shouted twice. — Egg two evidently demolished, 
he nodded and winked, adding bloodthirstily : —Buffalo Bill shoots 
to kill, Never missed nor he never will. A silence 
ensued till Mr Bloom for agreeableness’ sake just felt like 
asking him whether it was for a marksmanship competition like 
the Bisley. — Beg pardon, the sailor said. — Long 
ago? Mr Bloom pursued without flinching a hairsbreadth. — Why, 
the sailor replied, relaxing to a certain extent under the 
magic influence of diamond cut diamond, it might be a 
matter of ten years. He toured the wide world with 
Hengler’s Royal Circus. I seen him do that in Stockholm. 
— Curious coincidence, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen unobtrusively. — 
Murphy’s my name, the sailor continued, W. B. Murphy, of 
Carrigaloe. Know where that is? — Queenstown Harbour, Stephen replied. 
— That’s right, the sailor said. Fort Camden and Fort 
Carlisle. That’s where I hails from. My little woman’s down 
there. She’s waiting for me, I know. For England, home 
and beauty. She’s my own true wife I haven’t seen 
for seven years now, sailing about. Mr Bloom could easily 
picture his advent on this scene — the homecoming to 
the mariner’s roadside shieling after having diddled Davy Jones — 
a rainy night with a blind moon. Across the world 
for a wife. Quite a number of stories there were 
on that particular Alice Ben Bolt topic, Enoch Arden and 
Rip van Winkle and does anybody hereabouts remember Caoc O’Leary, 
a favourite and most trying declamation piece, by the way, 
of poor John Casey and a bit of perfect poetry 
in its own small way. Never about the runaway wife 
coming back, however much devoted to the absentee. The face 
at the window! Judge of his astonishment when he finelly 
did breast the tape and the awful truth dawned upon 
him anent his better half, wrecked in his affections. You 
little expected me but I’ve come to stay and make 
a fresh start. There she sits, a grass widow, at 
the selfsame fireside. Believes me dead. Rocked in the cradle 
of the deep. And there sits uncle Chubb or Tomkin, 
as the case might be, the publican of the Crown 
and Anchor, in shirtsleeves, eating rumpsteak and onions. No chair 
for father. Boo! The wind! Her brandnew arrival is on 
her knee, post mortem child. With a high ro! and 
a randy ro and my galloping tearing tandy O! Bow 
to the inevitable. Grin and bear it. I remain with 
much love your brokenhearted husband, W. B. Murphy. The sailor, 
who scarcely seemed to be a Dublin resident, turned to 
one of the jarvies with the request : — You 
don’t happen to have such a thing as a spare 
