Each has his banjo slung. Their paler smaller negroid hands 
jingle the twingtwang wires. Flashing white Kaffir eyes and tusks 
they rattle through a breakdown in clumsy clogs, twinging, singing, 
back to back, toe heel, heel toe, with smackfatclacking nigger 
lips.) tom and sam There’s someone in the house with 
Dina There’s someone in the house, I know, There’s someone 
in the house with Dina Playing on the old banjo. 
(They whisk black masks from raw babby faces : then, 
chuckling, chortling, trumming, twanging they diddle diddle cakewalk dance away.) 
bloom (With a sour tenderish smile.) A little frivol, shall 
we, if you are so inclined? Would you like me 
perhaps to embrace you just for a fraction of a 
second? mrs breen (Screams gaily.) O, you ruck! You ought 
to see yourself! bloom For old sake’ sake. I only 
meant a square party, a mixed marriage mingling of our 
different little conjugials. You know I had a soft corner 
for you. (Gloomily.) ’Twas I sent you that valentine of 
the dear gazelle. mrs breen Glory Alice, you do look 
a holy show! Killing simply. (She puts out her hand 
inquisitively.) What are you hiding behind your back? Tell us, 
there’s a dear. bloom (Seizes her wrist with his free 
hand.) Josie Powell that was, prettiest deb in Dublin. How 
time flies by! Do you remember, harking back in a 
retrospective arrangement, Old Christmas night Georgina Simpson’s housewarming while they 
were playing the Irving Bishop game, finding the pin blindfold 
and thoughtreading? Subject, what is in this snuffbox? mrs breen 
You were the lion of the night with your seriocomic 
recitation and you looked the part. You were always a 
favourite with the ladies. bloom (Squire of dames, in dinner 
jacket, with watered silkfacings, blue masonic badge in his buttonhole, 
black bow and mother-of-pear studs, a prismatic champagne glass tilted 
in his hand.) Ladies and gentlemen, I give you Ireland, 
home and beauty. mrs breen The dear dead days beyond 
recall. Love’s old sweet song. bloom (Meaningfully dropping his voice.) 
I confess I’m teapot with curiosity to find out whether 
some person’s something is a little teapot at present. mrs 
breen (Gushingly.) Tremendously teapot! London’s teapot and I’m simply teapot 
all over me. (She rubs sides with him.) After the 
parlour mystery games and the crackers from the tree we 
sat on the staircase ottoman. Under the mistletoe. Two is 
company. bloom (Wearing a purple Napoleon hat with an amber 
halfmoon, his fingers and thumb passing slowly down to her 
soft moist meaty palm which she surrenders gently.) The witching 
hour of night. I took the splinter out of this 
hand, carefully, slowly. (Tenderly, as he slips on her finger 
a ruby ring.) Là ci darem la mano. mrs breen 
(In a onepiece eveningfrock executed in moonlight blue, a tinsel 
sylph’s diadem on her brow with her dancecard fallen beside 
her moonblue satin slipper curves her palm softly, breathing quickly.) 
Voglio e non. You’re hot! You’re scalding! The left hand 
