chaw about you, do you? The jarvey addressed, as it 
happened, had not but the keeper took a die of 
plug from his good jacket hanging on a nail and 
the desired object was passed from hand to hand. — 
Thank you, the sailor said. He deposited the quid in 
his gob and, chewing, and with some slow stammers, proceeded 
: — We come up this morning eleven o’clock. The 
threemaster Rosevean from Bridgwater with bricks. I shipped to get 
over. Paid off this afternoon. There’s my discharge. See? W. 
B. Murphy, A. B. S. In confirmation of which statement 
he extricated from an inside pocket and handed to his 
neighbours a not very cleanlooking folded document. — You must 
have seen a fair share of the world, the keeper 
remarked, leaning on the counter. — Why, the sailor answered, 
upon reflection upon it, I’ve circumnavigated a bit since I 
first joined on. I was in the Red Sea. I 
was in China and North America and South America. I 
seen icebergs plenty, growlers. I was in Stockholm and the 
Black Sea, the Dardanelles, under Captain Dalton, the best bloody 
man that ever scuttled a ship. I seen Russia. Gospodi 
pomilooy. That’s how the Russians prays. — You seen queer 
sights, don’t be talking, put in a jarvey. — Why, 
the sailor said, shifting his partially chewed plug, I seen 
queer things too, ups and downs. I seen a crocodile 
bite the fluke of an anchor same as I chew 
that quid. He took out of his mouth the pulpy 
quid and, lodging it between his teeth, bit ferociously. — 
Khaan! Like that. And I seen maneaters in Peru that 
eats corpses and the livers of horses. Look here. Here 
they are. A friend of mine sent me. He fumbled 
out a picture postcard from his inside pocket, which seemed 
to be in its way a species of repository, and 
pushed it along the table. The printed matter on it 
stated : Choza de Indios. Beni, Bolivia. All focussed their 
attention on the scene exhibited, at a group of savage 
women in striped loincloths, squatted, blinking, suckling, frowning, sleeping, amid 
a swarm of infants (there must have been quite a 
score of them) outside some primitive shanties of osier. — 
Chews coca all day long, the communicative tarpaulin added. Stomachs 
like breadgraters. Cuts off their diddies when they can’t bear 
no more children. See them there stark ballocknaked eating a 
dead horse’s liver raw. His postcard proved a centre of 
attraction for Messrs the greenhorns for several minutes, if not 
more. — Know how to keep them off? he inquired 
genially. Nobody volunteering a statement, he winked, saying : — 
Glass. That boggles ’em. Glass. Mr Bloom, without evincing surprise, 
unostentatiously turned over the card to peruse the partially obliterated 
address and postmark. It ran as follows : Tarjeta Postal. 
Señor A. Boudin, Galeria Becche, Santiago, Chile. There was no 
message evidently, as he took particular notice. Though not an 
