or something of that sort, which he described in his 
lengthy dissertation as the richest country bar none on the 
face of God’s earth, far and away superior to England, 
with coal in large quantities, six million pounds’ worth of 
pork exported every year, ten millions between butter and eggs, 
and all the riches drained out of it by England 
levying taxes on the poor people that paid through the 
nose always, and gobbling up the best meat in the 
market, and a lot more surplus steam in the same 
vein. Their conversation accordingly became general and all agreed that 
that was a fact. You could grow any mortal thing 
in Irish soil, he stated, and there was Colonel Everard 
down there in Cavan growing tobacco. Where would you find 
anywhere the like of Irish bacon? But a day of 
reckoning, he stated crescendo with no uncertain voice — thoroughly 
monopolising all the conversation — was in store for mighty 
England, despite her power of pelf on account of her 
crimes. There would be a fall and the greatest fall 
in history. The Germans and the Japs were going to 
have their little lookin, he affirmed. The Boers were the 
beginning of the end. Brummagem England was toppling already and 
her downfall would be Ireland, her Achilles heel, which he 
explained to them about the vulnerable point of Achilles, the 
Greek hero — a point his auditors at once seized 
as he completely gripped their attention by showing the tendon 
referred to on his boot. His advice to every Irishman 
was : stay in the land of your birth and 
work for Ireland and live for Ireland. Ireland, Parnell said, 
could not spare a single one of her sons. Silence 
all round marked the termination of his finale. The impervious 
navigator heard these lurid tidings undismayed. — Take a bit 
of doing, boss, retaliated that rough diamond palpably a bit 
peeved in response to the foregoing truism. To which cold 
douche, referring to downfall and so on, the keeper concurred 
but nevertheless held to his main view. — Who’s the 
best troops in the army? the grizzled old veteran irately 
interrogated. And the best jumpers and racers? And the best 
admirals and generals we’ve got? Tell me that. — The 
Irish for choice, retorted the cabby like Campbell, facial blemishes 
apart. — That’s right, the old tarpaulin corroborated. The Irish 
catholic peasant. He’s the backbone of our empire. You know 
Jem Mullins? While allowing him his individual opinions, as every 
man, the keeper added he cared nothing for any empire, 
ours or his, and considered no Irishman worthy of his 
salt that served it. Then they began to have a 
few irascible words, when it waxed hotter, both, needless to 
say, appealing to the listeners who followed the passage of 
arms with interest so long as they didn’t indulge in 
recriminations and come to blows. From inside information extending over 
a series of years Mr Bloom was rather inclined to 
