Was Jesus a Sun Myth? (historic), Expel that Pain (medic), 
Infant’s Compendium of the Universe (cosmic), Let’s All Chortle (hilaric), 
Canvasser’s Vade Mecum (journalic), Loveletters of Mother Assistant (erotic), Who’s 
Who in Space (astric), Songs that Reached ’Our Heart (melodic), 
Pennywise’s Way to Wealth (parsimonic). A general rush and scramble. 
Women press forward to touch the hem of Bloom’s robe. 
The lady Gwendolen Dubedat bursts through the throng, leaps on 
his horse and kisses him on both cheeks amid great 
acclamation. A magnesium flashlight photograph is taken. Babes and sucklings 
are held up.) the women Little father! Little father! the 
babes and sucklings Clap clap hands till Poldy comes home, 
Cakes in his pocket for Leo alone. (Bloom, bending down, 
pokes Baby Boardman gently in the stomach.) baby boardman (Hiccups, 
curdled milk flowing from his mouth.) Hajajaja. bloom (Shaking hands 
with a blind stripling.) My more than Brother! (Placing his 
arms round the shoulders of an old couple.) Dear old 
friends! (He playes pussy fourcorners with ragged boys and girls.) 
Peep! Bopeep! (He wheels twins in a perambulator.) Ticktacktwo wouldyousetashoe? 
(He performs juggler’s tricks, draws red, orange, yellow, green, blue, 
indigo and violet silk haudkerchiefs from his mouth.) Roygbiv. 32 
feet per second. (He consoles a widow.) Absence makes the 
heart grow younger. (He dances the Highland fling with grotesque 
antics.) Leg it, ye devils! (He kisses the bedsores of 
a palsied veteran.) Honourable wounds! (He trips up a fat 
policeman.) U. p. : up. U. p. : up. (He 
whispers in the ear of a blushing waitress and laughs 
kindly.) Ah, naughty, naughty! (He eats a raw turnip offered 
him by Maurice Butterly, farmer.) Fine! Splendid! (He refuses to 
accept three shillings offered him by Joseph Hynes, journalist.) My 
dear fellow, not at all! (He gives his coat to 
a beggar.) Please accept. (He takes part in a stomach 
race with elderly male and female cripples.) Come on, boys! 
Wriggle it, girls! the citizen (Choked with emotion, brushes aside 
a tear in his emerald muffler.) May the good God 
bless him! (The ram’s horns sound for silence. The standard 
of Zion is hoisted.) bloom (Uncloaks impressively, revealing obesity, unrolls 
a paper and reads solemnly.) Aleph Beth Ghimel Daleth Hagadah 
Tephilim Kosher Yom Kippur Hanukah Roschaschana Beni Brith Bar Mitzvah 
Mazzoth Askenazim Meshuggah Talith. (An official translation is read by 
Jimmy Henry, assistant town clerk.) jimmy henry The Court of 
Conscience is now open. His Most Catholic Majesty will now 
administer open air justice. Free medical and legal advice, solution 
of doubles and other problems. All cordially invited. Given at 
this our loyal city of Dublin in the year i 
of the Paradisiacal Era. paddy leonard What am I to 
do about my rates and taxes? bloom Pay them, my 
friend. paddy leonard Thank you. nosey flynn Can I raise 
a mortgage on my fire insurance? bloom (Obdurately.) Sirs, take 
notice that by the law of torts you are bound 
over in your own recognisances for six months in the 
