will (the air) do you good, Bloom said, meaning also 
the walk, in a moment. The only thing is to 
walk then you’ll feel a different man. It’s not far. 
Lean on me. Accordingly he passed his left arm in 
Stephen’s right and led him on accordingly. — Yes, Stephen 
said uncertainly, because he thought he felt a strange kind 
of flesh of a different man approach him, sinewless and 
wobbly and all that. Anyhow, they passed the sentrybox with 
stones, brazier, etc. where the municipal supernumerary, ex-Gumley, was still 
to all intents and purposes wrapped in the arms of 
Murphy, as the adage has it, dreaming of fresh fields 
and pastures new. And apropos of coffin of stones, the 
analogy was not at all bad, as it was in 
fact a stoning to death on the part of seventytwo 
out of eighty odd constituencies that ratted at the time 
of the split and chiefly the belauded peasant class, probably 
the selfsame evicted tenants he had put in their holdings. 
So they passed on to chatting about music, a form 
of art for which Bloom, as a pure amateur, possessed 
the greatest love, as they made tracks arm-in-arm across Beresford 
Place. Wagnerian music, though confessedly grand in its way, was 
a bit too heavy for Bloom and hard to follow 
at the first go off but the music of Mercadante’s 
Huguenots, Meyerbeer’s Seven Last Words on the Cross, and Mozart’s 
Twelfth Mass, he simply revelled in, the Gloria in that 
being to his mind the acme of first class music 
as such, literally knocking everything else into a cocked hat. 
He infinitely preferred the sacred music of the catholic church 
to anything the opposite shop could offer in that line 
such as those Moody and Sankey hymns or Bid me 
to live and I will live thy protestant to be. 
He also yielded to none in his admiration of Rossini’s 
Stabat Mater, a work simply abounding in immortal numbers, in 
which his wife, Madam Marion Tweedy, made a hit, a 
veritable sensation, he might safely say greatly adding to her 
other laurels and putting the others totally in the shade 
in the jesuit fathers’ church in Upper Gardiner Street, the 
sacred edifice being thronged to the doors to hear her 
with virtuosos, or virtuosi rather. There was the unanimous opinion 
that there was none to come up to her and, 
suffice it to say in a place of worship for 
music of a sacred character, there was a generally voiced 
desire for an encore. On the whole, though favouring preferably 
light opera of the Don Giovanni description, and Martha, a 
gem in its line, he had a penchant, though with 
only a surface knowledge, for the severe classical school such 
as Mendelssohn. And talking of that, taking it for granted 
he knew all about the old favourites, he mentioned par 
excellence Lionel’s air in Martha, M’appari, which, curiously enough, he 
heard, or overheard, to be more accurate, on yesterday, a 
