and immortal, standing from everlasting to everlasting. Womb of sin. 
Wombed in sin darkness I was too, made not begotten. 
By them, the man with my voice and my eyes 
and a ghostwoman with ashes on her breath. They clasped 
and sundered, did the coupler’s will. From before the ages 
He willed me and now may not will me away 
or ever. A lex eterna stays about Him. Is that 
then the divine substance wherein Father and Son are consubstantial? 
Where is poor dear Arius to try conclusions? Warring his 
life long on the contransmagnificandjewbangtantiality. Illstarred heresiarch. In a Greek 
watercloset he breathed his last : euthanasia. With beaded mitre 
and with crozier, stalled upon his throne, widower of a 
widowed see, with upstiffed omophorion, with clotted hinderparts. Airs romped 
around him, nipping and eager airs. They are coming, waves. 
The whitemaned seahorses, champing, brightwindbridled, the steeds of Mananaan. I 
mustn’t forget his letter for the press. And after? The 
Ship, half twelve. By the way go easy with that 
money like a good young imbecile. Yes, I must. His 
pace slackened. Here. Am I going to Aunt Sara’s or 
not? My consubstantial father’s voice. Did you see anything of 
your artist brother Stephen lately? No? Sure he’s not down 
in Strasburg terrace with his aunt Sally? Couldn’t he fly 
a bit higher than that, eh? And and and and 
tell us Stephen, how is uncle Si? O weeping God, 
the things I married into. De boys up in de 
hayloft. The drunken little costdrawer and his brother, the cornet 
player. Highly respectable gondoliers. And skeweyed Walter sirring his father, 
no less. Sir. Yes, sir. No, sir. Jesus wept : 
and no wonder, by Christ. I pull the wheezy bell 
of their shuttered cottage : and wait. They take me 
for a dun, peer out from a coign of vantage. 
— It’s Stephen, sir. — Let him in. Let Stephen 
in. A bolt drawn back and Walter welcomes me. — 
We thought you were someone else. In his broad bed 
nuncle Richie, pillowed and blanketed, extends over the hillock of 
his knees a sturdy forearm. Cleanchested. He has washed the 
upper moiety. — Morrow, nephew. He lays aside the lapboard 
whereon he drafts his bills of costs for the eyes 
of Master Goff and Master Shapland Tandy, filing consents and 
common searches and a writ of Duces Tecum. A bogoak 
frame over his bald head : Wilde’s Requiescat. The drone 
of his misleading whistle brings Walter back. — Yes, sir? 
— Malt for Richie and Stephen, tell mother. Where is 
she? — Bathing Crissie, sir. Papa’s little bedpal. Lump of 
love. — No, uncle Richie… — Call me Richie. Damn 
your lithia water. It lowers. Whusky ! — Uncle Richie, 
really… — Sit down or by the law. Harry I’ll 
knock you down. Walter squints vainly for a chair. — 
He has nothing to sit down on, sir. — He 
has nowhere put toit, you mug. Bring in our Chippendale 
