if you have any sense of decency or grace about 
you. I can give you a rare old wine that’ll 
send you skipping to hell and back. Sign a will 
and leave us any coin you have. If you have 
none see you damn well get it, steal it, rob 
it! We’ll bury you in our shrubbery jakes where you’ll 
be dead and dirty with old Cuck Cohen, my stepnephew 
I married, the bloody old gouty procurator and sodomite with 
a crick in his neck, and my other ten or 
eleven husbands, whatever the buggers’ names were, suffocated in the 
one cesspool. (He explodes in a loud phlegmy laugh.) We’ll 
manure you, Mr Flower! (He pipes scoffingly.) Byby, Poldy! Byby, 
Papli! bloom (Clasps his head.) My will power! Memory! I 
have sinned! I have suff… (He weeps tearlessly.) bello (Sneers.) 
Crybabby! Crocodile tears! (Bloom, broken, closely veiled for the sacrifice, 
sobs, his face to the earth. The passing bell is 
heard. Darkshawled figures of the circumcised, in sackcloth and ashes, 
stand by the wailing wall. M. Shulomowitz, Joseph Goldwater, Moses 
Herzog, Harris Rosenberg, M. Moisel, J. Citron, Minnie Watchman, O. 
Mastiansky, the Reverend Leopold Abramovitz, Chazen. With swaying arms they 
wail in pneuma over the recreant Bloom.) the circumcised (In 
a dark guttural chant as they cast dead sea fruit 
upon him, no flowers.) Shema Israel Adonai Elohenu Adonai Echad. 
voices (Sighing.) So he’s gone. Ah, yes. Yes, indeed. Bloom? 
Never heard of him. No? Queer kind of chap. There’s 
the widow. That so? Ah, yes. (From the suttee pyre 
the flame of gum camphire ascends. The pall of incense 
smoke screens and disperses. Out of her oak frame a 
nymph with hair unbound, lightly clad in teabrown art colours, 
descends from her grotto and passing under interlacing yews, stands 
over Bloom.) the yews (Their leaves whispering.) Sister. Our sister. 
Ssh. the nymph (Softly.) Mortal! (Kindly.) Nay, dost not weepest! 
bloom (Crawls jellily forward under the bought, streaked by sunlight, 
with dignity.) This position. I felt it was expected of 
me. Force of habit. the nymph Mortal! You found me 
in evil company, high kickers, coster picnic makers, pugilists, popular 
generals, immoral panto boys in flesh tights and the nifty 
shimmy dancers, La Aurora and Karini, musical act, the hit 
of the century. I was hidden in cheap pink paper 
that smelt of rock oil. I was surrounded by the 
stale smut of clubmen, stories to disturb callow youth, adsf 
or transparencies, truedup dice and bustpads, proprietary articles and why 
wear a truss with testimonial from ruptured gentleman. Useful hints 
to the married. bloom (Lifts a turtle head towards her 
lap.) We have met before. On another star. the nymph 
(Sadly.) Rubber goods. Neverrip. Brand as supplied to the aristocracy. 
Corsets for men. I cure fits or money refunded. Unsolicited 
testimonials for Professor Waldmann’s wonderful chest exuber. My bust developed 
four inches in three weeks, reports Mrs Gus Rublin with 
photo. bloom You mean Photo Bits? the nymph I do. 
