Brophy, the daughter of a Louth farmer. His grandfather, Patrick 
Michael Corley, of New Ross, had married the widow of 
a publican there whose maiden name had been Katherine (also) 
Talbot. Rumour had it, though not proved, that she descended 
from the house of the Lords Talbot de Malahide, in 
whose mansion, really an unquestionably fine residence of its kind 
and well worth seeing, his mother or aunt or some 
relative had enjoyed the distinction of being in service in 
the washkitchen. This, therefore, was the reason why the still 
comparatively young though dissolute man who now addressed Stephen was 
spoken of by some with facetious proclivities as Lord John 
Corley. Taking Stephen on one side he had the customary 
doleful ditty to tell. Not as much as a farthing 
to purchase a night’s lodgings. His friends had all deserted 
him. Furthermore, he had a row with Leneban and called 
him to Stephen a mean bloody swab with a sprinkling 
of other uncalledfor expressions. He was out of a job 
and implored of Stephen to tell him where on God’s 
earth he could get something, anything at all to do. 
No, it was the daughter of the mother in the 
washkitchen that was fostersister to the heir of the house 
or else they were connected through the mother in some 
way, both occurrences happening at the same time if the 
whole thing wasn’t a complete fabrication from start to finish. 
Anyhow, he was all in. — I wouldn’t ask you, 
only, pursued he, on my solemn oath and God knows 
I’m on the rocks. — There’ll be a job to 
morrow or the next day, Stephen told him, in a 
boys’ school at Dalkey for a gentleman usher. Mr Garrett 
Deasy. Try it. You may mention my name. — Ah, 
God, Corley replied, sure I couldn’t teach in a school, 
man. I was never one of your bright ones, he 
added with a half laugh. Got stuck twice in the 
junior at the Christian Brothers. — I have no place 
to sleep myself, Stephen informed him. Corley, at the first 
go-off, was inclined to suspect it was something to do 
with Stephen being fired out of his digs for bringing 
in a bloody tart off the street. There was a 
dosshouse in Marlborough street, Mrs Maloney’s, but it was only 
a tanner touch and full of undesirables but M’Conachie told 
him you got a decent enough do in the Brazen 
Head over in Winetavern Street (which was distantly suggestive to 
the person addressed of friar Bacon) for a bob. He 
was starving too though he hadn’t said a word about 
it. Though this sort of thing went on every other 
night or very near it still Stephen’s feelings got the 
better of him in a sense though he knew that 
Corley’s brandnew rigmarole, on a par with the others, was 
hardly deserving of much credence. However, haud ignarus malorum miseris 
succurrere disco, etcetera, as the Latin poet remarks, especially as 
