read in that book The Lamplighter by Miss Cummins, author 
of Mabel Vaughan and other tales. For Gerty had her 
dreams that no-one knew of. She loved to read poetry 
and when she got a keepsake from Bertha Supple of 
that lovely confession album with the coralpink cover to write 
her thoughts in she laid it in the drawer of 
her toilettable which, though it did not err on the 
side of luxury, was scrupulously neat and clean. It was 
there she kept her girlish treasures trove, the tortoiseshell combs, 
her child of Mary badge, the whiterose scent, the eyebrowleine, 
her alabaster pouncetbox and the ribbons to change when her 
things came home from the wash and there were some 
beautiful thoughts written in it in violet ink that she 
bought in Hely’s of Dame Street for she felt that 
she too could write poetry if she could only express 
herself like that poem that appealed to her so deeply 
that she had copied out of the newspaper she found 
one evening round the potherbs. Art thou real, my ideal? 
it was called by Louis J. Walsh, Magherafelt, and after 
there was something about twilight, wilt thou ever? and ofttimes 
the beauty of poetry, so sad in its transient loveliness, 
had misted her eyes with silent tears that the years 
were slipping by for her, one by one, and but 
for that one shortcoming she knew she need fear no 
competition and that was an accident coming down Dalkey hill 
and she always tried to conceal it. But it must 
end she felt. If she saw that magic lure in 
his eyes there would be no holding back for her. 
Love laughs at locksmiths. She would make the great sacrifice. 
Her every effort would be to share his thoughts. Dearer 
than the whole world would she be to him and 
gild his days with happiness. There was the allimportant question 
and she was dying to know was he a married 
man or a widower who had lost his wife or 
some tragedy like the nobleman with the foreign name from 
the land of song had to have her put into 
a madhouse, cruel only to be kind. But even if 
— what then? Would it make a very great difference? 
From everything in the least indelicate her finebred nature instinctively 
recoiled. She loathed that sort of person, the fallen women 
off the accommodation walk beside the Dodder that went with 
the soldiers and coarse men, with no respect for a 
girl’s honour, degrading the sex and being taken up to 
the police station. No, no : not that. They would 
be just good friends like a big brother and sister 
without all that other in spite of the conventions of 
Society with a big ess. Perhaps it was an old 
flame he was in mourning for from the days beyond 
recall. She thought she understood. She would try to understand 
him because men were so different. The old love was 
