long last in sight of the whipping post, to lead 
a homely life in the evening of his days, permeated 
by the affectionate surroundings of the heaving bosom of the 
family. An acclimatised Britisher, he had seen that summer eve 
from the footplate of an engine cab of the Loop 
line railway company while the rain refrained from falling glimpses, 
as it were, through the windows of loveful households in 
Dublin city and urban district of scenes truly rural of 
happiness of the better land with Dockrell’s wallpaper at one 
and ninepence a dozen, innocent Britishborn bairns lisping prayers to 
the Sacred Infant, youthful scholars grappling with their pensums, model 
young ladies playing on the pianoforte or anon all with 
fervour reciting the family rosary round the crackling Yulelog while 
in the boreens and green lanes the colleens with their 
swains strolled what times the strains of the organtoned melodeon 
Brittannia metalbound with four acting stops and twelvefold bellows, a 
sacrifice, greatest bargain ever…) (Renewed laughter. He mumbles incoherently. Reporters 
complain that they cannot hear.) longhand and shorthand (Without looking 
up from their notebooks.) Loosen his boots. professor machugh (From 
the presstable, coughs and calls.) Cough it up, man. Get 
it out in bits. (The crossexamination proceeds re Bloom and 
the bucket. A lace bucket. Bloom himself. Bowel trouble. In 
Beaver street. Gripe, yes. Quite bad. A plasterer’s bucket. By 
walking stifflegged. Suffered untold misery. Deadly agony. About noon. Love 
or burgundy. Yes, some spinach. Crucial moment. He did not 
look in the bucket. Nobody. Rather a mess. Not completely. 
A Titbits back number.) (Uproar and cat calls. Bloom, in 
a torn frockcoat stained with whitewash, dinged silk hat sideways 
on his head, a strip of stickingplaster across his nose, 
talks inaudibly.) j. j. o’molloy (In barrister’s grey wig and 
stuffgown, speaking with a voice of pained protest.) This is 
no place for indecent levity at the expense of an 
erring mortal disguised in liquor. We are not in a 
beargarden nor at an Oxford rag nor is this a 
travesty of justice. My client is an infant, a poor 
foreign immigrant who started scratch as a stowaway and is 
now trying to turn an honest penny. The trumped up 
misdemeanour was due to a momentary aberration of heredity, brought 
on by hallucination, such familiarities as the alleged guilty occurrence 
being quite permitted in my client’s native place, the land 
of the Pharaoh. Prima facie, I put it to you 
that there was no attempt at carnally knowing. Intimacy did 
not occur and the offence complained of by Driscoll, that 
her virtue was solicited, was not repeated. I would deal 
in especial with atavism. There have been cases of shipwreck 
and somnambulism in my client’s family. If the accused could 
speak he could a tale unfold one of the strangest 
that have ever been narrated between the covers of a 
book. He himself, my lord, is a physical wreck from 
cobbler’s weak chest. His submission is that he is of 
