luck would have it he got paid his screw after 
every middle of the month on the sixteenth which was 
the date of the month as a matter of fact 
though a good bit of the wherewithal was demolished. But 
the cream of the joke was nothing would get it 
out of Corley’s head that he was living in affluence 
and hadn’t a thing to do but hand out the 
needful — whereas. He put his hand in a pocket 
anyhow, not with the idea of finding any food there, 
but thinking he might lend him anything up to a 
bob or so in lieu so that he might endeavour 
at all events and get sufficient to eat. But the 
result was in the negative for, to his chagrin, he 
found his cash missing. A few broken biscuits were all 
the result of his invetiongstia. He tried his hardest to 
recollect for the moment whether he had lost, as well 
he might have, or left, because in that contingency it 
was not a pleasant lookout, very much the reverse, in 
fact. He was altogether too fagged out to institute a 
thorough search though he tried to recollect about biscuits he 
dimly remembered. Who now exactly gave them, or where was, 
or did he buy? However, in another pocket he came 
across what he surmised in the dark were pennies, erroneously, 
however, as it turned out. — Those are halfcrowns, man, 
Corley corrected him. And so in point of fact they 
turned out to be. Stephen lent him one of them. 
— Thanks, Corley answered. You’re a gentleman. I’ll pay you 
back some time. Who’s that with you? I saw him 
a few times in the Bleeding Horse in Camden street 
with Boylan the billsticker. You might put in a good 
word for us to get me taken on there. I’d 
carry a sandwichboard only the girl in the office told 
me they’re full up for the next three weeks, man. 
God, you’ve to book ahead, man, you’d think it was 
for the Carl Rosa. I don’t give a shite anyway 
so long as I get a job even as a 
crossing sweeper. Subsequently, being not quite so down in the 
mouth after the two-and-six he got, he informed Stephen about 
a fellow by the name of Bags Comisky that he 
said Stephen knew well out of Fullam’s, the shipchandler’s, bookkeeper 
there, that used to be often round in Nagle’s back 
with O’Mara and a little chap with a stutter the 
name of Tighe. Anyhow, he was lagged the night before 
last and fined ten bob for a drunk and disorderly 
and refusing to go with the constable. Mr Bloom in 
the meanwhile kept dodging about in the vicinity of the 
cobblestones near the brazier of coke in front of the 
corporation watchman’s sentrybox, who, evidently a glutton for work, it 
struck him, was having a quiet forty winks for all 
intents and purposes on his own private account while Dublin 
