that is. — True men like you men. — Ay, 
ay, Ben. — Will lift your glass with us. They 
lifted. Tschink. Tschunk. Tip. An unseeing stripling stood in the 
door. He saw not bronze. He saw not gold. Nor 
Ben nor Bob nor Tom nor Si nor George nor 
tanks nor Richie nor Pat. Hee hee hee hee. He 
did not see. Seabloom, greaseabloom viewed last words. Softly. When 
my country takes her place among. Prrprr. Must be the 
bur. Fff. Oo. Rrpr. Nations of the earth. No-one behind. 
She’s passed. Then and not till then. Tram. Kran, kran, 
kran. Good oppor. Coming. Krandlkrankran. I’m sure it’s the burgund. 
Yes. One, two. Let my epitaph be. Kraaaaaaaa. Written. I 
have. Pprrpffrrppfff. Done. 12 I was just passing the time 
of day with old Troy of the D.M.P. at the 
corner of Arbour hill there and be damned but a 
bloody sweep came along and he near drove his gear 
into my eye. I turned around to let him have 
the weight of my tongue when who should I see 
dodging along Stony Batter only Joe Hynes. — Lo, Joe, 
says I. How are you blowing? Did you see that 
bloody chimneysweep near shove my eye out with his brush? 
— Soot’s luck, says Joe. Who’s the old ballocks you 
were taking to? — Old Troy, says I, was in 
the force. I’m on two minds not to give that 
fellow in charge for obstructing the thoroughfare with his brooms 
and ladders. — What are you doing round those parts? 
says Joe. — Devil a much, says I. There is 
a bloody big foxy thief beyond by the garrison church 
at the corner of Chicken Lane — old Troy was 
just giving me a wrinkle about him — lifted any 
God’s quantity of tea and sugar to pay three bob 
a week said he had a farm in the county 
Down off a hop of my thumb by the name 
of Moses Herzog over there near Heytesbury street. — Circumcised! 
says Joe. — Ay, says I. A bit off the 
top. An old plumber named Geraghty. I’m hanging on to 
his taw now for the past fortnight and I can’t 
get a penny out of him. — That the lay 
you’re on now? says Joe. — Ay, says I . 
How are the mighty fallen! Collector of bad and doubtful 
debts. But that’s the most notorious bloody robber you’d meet 
in a day’s walk and the face on him all 
pockmarks would hold a shower of rain. Tell him, says 
he, I dare him, says he and I doubledare him 
to send you round here again or if he does, 
says he, I’ll have him summonsed up before the court, 
so will I, for trading without a licence. And he 
after stuffing himself till he’s fit to burst! Jesus, I 
had to laugh at the little jewy getting his shirt 
out. He drink me my teas. He eat me my 
