mentions famous beds, Second Eglinton puckered, bedsmiling. Let me think. 
— Antiquity mentions that Stagyrite schoolurchin and bald heathen sage, 
Stephen said, who when dying in exile frees and endows 
his slaves, pays tribute to his elders, wills to be 
laid in earth near the bones of his dead wife 
and bids his friends be kind to an old mistress 
(don’t forget Nell Gwynn Herpyllis) and let her live in 
his villa. — Do you mean he died so? Mr 
Best asked with slight concern. I mean… — He died 
dead drunk, Buck Mulligan capped. A quart of ale is 
a dish for a king. O, I must tell you 
what Dowden said! — What? asked Besteglinton. William Shakespeare and 
company, limited. The people’s William. For terms apply : E. 
Dowden, Highfield house… — Lovely! Buck Mulligan suspired amorously. I 
asked him what he thought of the charge of pederasty 
brought against the bard. He lifted his hands and said 
: All we can say is that life ran very 
high in those days. Lovely! Catamite. — The sense of 
beauty leads us astray, said beautifulinsadness Best to ugling Eglinton. 
Steadfast John replied severe : — The doctor can tell 
us what those words mean. You can not eat your 
cake and have it. Sayest thou so? Will they wrest 
from us, from me the palm of beauty? — And 
the sense of property, Stephen said. He drew Shylock out 
of his own long pocket. The son of a maltjobber 
and moneylender he was himself a cornjobber and moneylender with 
ten tods of corn hoarded in the famine riots. His 
borrowers are no doubt those divers of worship mentioned by 
Chettle Falstaff who reported his uprightness of dealing. He sued 
a fellowplayer for the price of a few bags of 
malt and exacted his pound of flesh in interest for 
every money lent. How else could Aubrey’s ostler and callboy 
get rich quick? All events brought grist to his mill. 
Shylock chimes with the jewbaiting that followed the hanging and 
quartering of the queen’s leech Lopez, his jew’s heart being 
plucked forth while the sheeny was yet alive : Hamlet 
and Macbeth with the coming to the throne of a 
Scotch philosophaster with a turn for witchroasting. The lost armada 
is his jeer in Love’s Labour Lost. His pageants, the 
histories, sail fullbellied on a tide of Mafeking enthusiasm. Warwickshire 
jesuits are tried and we have a porter’s theory of 
equivocation. The Sea Venture comes home from Bermudas and the 
play Renan admired is written with Patsy Caliban, our American 
cousin. The sugared sonnets follow Sidney’s. As for fay Elizabeth, 
otherwise carrotty Bess, the gross virgin who inspired The Merry 
Wives of Windsor let some meinherr from Almany grope his 
life long for deephid meanings in the depth of the 
buckbasket. I think you’re getting on very nicely. Just mix 
up a mixture of theolologicophilolological. Mingo, minxi, mictum, mingere. — 
Prove that he was a jew, John Eglinton dared, expectantly. 
