loved a lord. Old wall where sudden lizards flash. At 
Charenton I watched them. — It seems so, Stephen said, 
when he wants to do for him, and for all 
other and singular uneared wombs, the holy office an ostler 
does for the stallion. Maybe, like Socrates, he had a 
midwife to mother as he had a shrew to wife. 
But she, the giglot wanton, did not break a bedvow. 
Two deeds are rank in that ghost’s mind : a 
broken vow and the dullbrained yokel on whom her favour 
has declined, deceased husband’s brother. Sweet Ann I take it, 
was hot in the blood. Once a wooer twice a 
wooer. Stephen turned boldly in his chair. — The burden 
of proof is with you not with me, he said, 
frowning. If you deny that in the fifth scene of 
Hamlet he has branded her with infamy, tell me why 
there is no mention of her during the thirtyfour years 
between the day she married him and the day she 
buried him. All those women saw their men down and 
under : Mary, her goodman John, Ann, her poor dear 
Willun, when he went and died on her, raging that 
he was the first to go, Joan, her four brothers, 
Judith, her husband and all her sons, Susan, her husband 
too, while Susan’s daughter, Elizabeth, to use granddaddy’s words, wed 
her second, having killed her first. O yes, mention there 
is. In the years when he was living richly in 
royal London to pay a debt she had to borrow 
forty shillings from her father’s shepherd. Explain you then. Explain 
the swansong too wherein he has commended her to posterity. 
He faced their silence. To whom thus Eglinton : You 
mean the will. That has been explained, I believe, by 
jurists. She was entitled to her widow’s dower At common 
law. His legal knowledge was great Our judges tell us. 
Him Satan fleers, Mocker : And therefore he left out 
her name From the first draft but he did not 
leave out The presents for his granddaughter, for his daughters, 
For his sister, for his old cronies in Stratford And 
in London. And therefore when he was urged, As I 
believe, to name her He left her his Secondbest Bed. 
Punkt Leftherhis Secondbest Leftherhis Bestabed Secabest Leftabed. Woa! — Pretty 
countryfolk had few chattels then, John Eglinton observed, as they 
have still if our peasant plays are true to type. 
— He was a rich countrygentleman, Stephen said, with a 
coat of arms and landed estate at Stratford and a 
house in Ireland yard, a capitalist shareholder, a bill promoter, 
a tithefarmer. Why did he not leave her his best 
bed if he wished her to snore away the rest 
of her nights in peace? — It is clear that 
there were two beds, a best and a secondbest, Mr 
Secondbest Best said finely. — Separatio a mensa et a 
thalamo, bettered Buck Mulligan and was smiled on. — Antiquity 
