folded the sausages he had snipped off with blotchy fingers, 
sausagepink. Sound meat there like a stallfed heifer. He took 
up a page from the pile of cut sheets. The 
model farm at Kinnereth on the lakeshore of Tiberias. Can 
become ideal winter sanatorium. Moses Montefiore. I thought he was. 
Farmhouse, wall round it, blurred cattle cropping. He held the 
page from him : interesting : read it nearer, the 
title, the blurred cropping cattle, the page rustling. A young 
white heifer. Those mornings in the cattlemarket the beasts lowing 
in their pens, branded sheep, flop and fall of dung, 
the breeders in hobnailed boots trudging through the litter, slapping 
a palm on a ripemeated hindquarter, there’s a prime one, 
unpeeled switches in their hands. He held the page aslant 
patiently, bending his senses and his will, his soft subject 
gaze at rest. The crooked skirt swinging whack by whack 
by whack. The porkbutcher snapped two sheets from the pile, 
wrapped up her prime sausages and made a red grimace. 
— Now, my miss, he said. She tendered a coin, 
smiling boldly, holding her thick wrist out. — Thank you, 
my miss. And one shilling threepence change. For you, please? 
Mr Bloom pointed quickly. To catch up and walk behind 
her if she went slowly, behind her moving hams. Pleasant 
to see first thing in the morning. Hurry up, damn 
it. Make hay while the sun shines. She stood outside 
the shop in sunlight and sauntered lazily to the right. 
He sighed down his nose : they never understand. Sodachapped 
hands. Crusted toenails too. Brown scapulars in tatters, defending her 
both ways. The sting of disregard glowed to weak pleasure 
within his breast. For another : a constable off duty 
cuddled her in Eccles’ Lane. They like them sizeable. Prime 
sausage. O please, Mr Policeman, I’m lost in the wood. 
— Threepence, please. His hand accepted the moist tender gland 
and slid it into a sidepocket. Then it fetched up 
three coins from his trousers’ pocket and laid them on 
the rubber prickles. They lay, were read quickly and quickly 
slid, disc by disc, into the till. — Thank you, 
sir. Another time. A speck of eager fire from foxeyes 
thanked him. He withdrew his gaze after an instant. No 
: better not : another time. — Good morning, he 
said, moving away. — Good morning, sir. No sign. Gone. 
What matter? He walked back along Dorset street, reading gravely. 
Agendath Netaim : planters’ company. To purchase waste sandy tracts 
from Turkish government and plant with eucalyptus trees. Excellent for 
shade, fuel and construction. Orangegroves and immense melonfields north of 
Jaffa. You pay eight marks and they plant a dunam 
of land for you with olives, oranges, almonds or citrons. 
Olives cheaper : oranges need artificial irrigation. Every year you 
get a sending of the crop. Your name entered for 
life as owner in the book of the union. Can 
pay ten down and the balance in yearly instalments. Bleibtreustrasse 
