prepuce, the carnal bridal ring of the holy Roman catholic 
apostolic church, conserved in Calcata, were deserving of simple hyperduly 
or of the fourth degree of latria accorded to the 
abscission of such divine excrescences as hair and toenails. What 
celestial sign was by both simultaneously observed? A star precipitated 
with great apparent velocity across the firmament from Vega in 
the Lyre above the zenith beyond the stargroup of the 
Tress of Berenice towards the zodiacal sign of Leo. How 
did the centripetal remainer afford egress to the centrifugal departer? 
By inserting the barrel of an arruginated male key in 
the hole of an unstable female lock, obtaining a purchase 
on the bow of the key and turning its wards 
from right to left, withdrawing a bolt from its staple, 
pulling inward spasmodically an obsolescent unhinged door and revealing an 
aperture for free egress and free ingress. How did they 
take leave, one of the other, in separation? Standing perpendicular 
at the same door and on different sides of its 
base, the lines of their valedictory arms, meeting at any 
point and forming any angle less than the sum of 
two right angles. What sound accompanied the union of their 
tangent, the disunion of their (respectively) centrifugal and centripetal hands? 
The sound of the peal of the hour of the 
night by the chime of the bells in the church 
of Saint George. What echoes of that sound were by 
both and each heard? By Stephen : Liliata rutilantium. Turma 
circumdet. Jubilantium te virginum. Chorus excipiat. By Bloom : Heigho, 
heigho, Heigho, heigho. Where were the several members of the 
company which with Bloom that day at the bidding of 
that peal had travelled from Sandymount in the south to 
Glasnevin in the north? Martin Cunningham (in bed), Jack Power 
(in bed), Simon Dedalus (in bed), Tom Kernan (in bed), 
Ned Lambert (in bed), Joe Hynes (in bed), John Henry 
Menton (in bed), Bernard Corrigan (in bed), Patsy Dignam (in 
bed), Paddy Dignam (in the grave). Alone, what did Bloom 
hear? The double reverberation of retreating feet on the heavenborn 
earth, the double vibration of a jew’s harp in the 
resonant lane. Alone, what did Bloom feel? The cold of 
interstellar space, thousands of degrees below freezing point or the 
absolute zero of Fahrenheit, Centigrade or Réaumur : the incipient 
intimations of proximate dawn. Of what did bellchime and handtouch 
and footstep and lonechill remind him? Of companions now in 
various manners in different places defunct : Percy Apjohn (killed 
in action, Modder River), Philip Gilligan (phthisis, Jervis Street hospital), 
Matthew F. Kane (accidental drowning, Dublin Bay), Philip Moisel (pyemia, 
Heytesbury street) Michael Hart (phthisis, Mater Misericordiæ hospital), Patrick Dignam 
(apoplexy, Sandymount). What prospect of what phenomena inclined him to 
remain? The disparition of three final stars, the diffusion of 
daybreak, the apparition of a new solar disk. Had he 
ever been a spectator of those phenomena? Once, in 1887 
after a protracted performance of charades in the house of 
