round at it with his plume skeowways. Dull eye : 
collar tight on his neck, pressing on a bloodvessel or 
something. Do they know what they cart out here every 
day. Must be twenty or thirty funerals every day. Then 
Mount Jerome for the protestants. Funerals all over the world 
everywhere every minute. Shovelling them under by the cartload doublequick. 
Thousands every hour. Too many in the world. Mourners came 
out through the gates : woman and a girl. Leanjawed 
harpy, hard woman at a bargain, her bonnet awry. Girl’s 
face stained with dirt and tears, holding the woman’s arm 
looking up at her for a sign to cry. Fish’s 
face, bloodless and livid. The mutes shouldered the coffin and 
bore it in through the gates. So much dead weight. 
Felt heavier myself stepping out of that bath. First the 
stiff : then the friends of the stiff. Corny Kelleher 
and the boy followed with their wreaths. Who is that 
beside them? Ah, the brother-in-law. All walked after. Martin Cunningham 
whispered : — I was in mortal agony with you 
talking of suicide before Bloom. — What? Mr Power whispered. 
How so? — His father poisoned himself, Martin Cunningham whispered. 
Had the Queen’s hotel in Ennis. You heard him say 
he was going to Clare. Anniversary. — O God! Mr 
Power whispered. First I heard of it. Poisoned himself! He 
glanced behind him to where a face with dark thinking 
eyes followed towards the cardinal’s mausoleum. Speaking. — Was he 
insured? Mr Bloom asked. — I believe so, Mr Kernan 
answered, but the policy was heavily mortgaged. Martin is trying 
to get the youngster into Artane. — How many children 
did he leave? — Five. Ned Lambert says he’ll try 
to get one of the girls into Todd’s. — A 
sad case, Mr Bloom said gently. Five young children. — 
A great blow to the poor wife, Mr Kernan added. 
— Indeed yes, Mr Bloom agreed. Has the laugh at 
him now. He looked down at the boots he had 
blacked and polished. She had outlived him, lost her husband. 
More dead for her than for me. One must outlive 
the other. Wise men say. There are more women than 
men in the world. Condole with her. Your terrible loss. 
I hope you’ll soon follow him. For Hindu widows only. 
She would marry another. Him? No. Yet who knows after? 
Widowhood not the thing since the old queen died. Drawn 
on a guncarriage. Victoria and Albert. Frogmore memorial mourning. But 
in the end she put a few violets in her 
bonnet. Vain in her heart of hearts. All for a 
shadow. Consort not even a king. Her son was the 
substance. Something new to hope for not like the past 
she wanted back, waiting. It never comes. One must go 
first : alone under the ground : and lie no 
more in her warm bed. — How are you, Simon? 
Ned Lambert said softly, clasping hands. Haven’t seen you for 
