of Charleville Mall Father Conmee saw a turfbarge, a towhorse 
with pendent head, a bargeman with a hat of dirty 
straw seated amidships, smoking and staring at a branch of 
poplar above him. It was idyllic : and Father Conmee 
reflected on the providence of the Creator who had made 
turf to be in bogs where men might dig it 
out and bring it to town and hamlet to make 
fires in the houses of poor people. On Newcomen bridge 
the very reverend John Conmee S. J. of saint Francis 
Xavier’s church, upper Gardiner street, stepped on to an outward 
bound tram. Off an inward bound tram stepped the reverend 
Nicholas Dudley C. C. of saint Agatha’s church, north William 
street, on to Newcomen bridge. At Newcomen bridge Father Conmee 
stepped into an outward bound tram for he disliked to 
traverse on foot the dingy way past Mud Island. Father 
Conmee sat in a corner of the tramcar, a blue 
ticket tucked with care in the eye of one plump 
kid glove, while four shillings, a sixpence and five pennies 
chuted from his other plump glovepalm into his purse. Passing 
the ivy church he reflected that the ticket inspector usually 
made his visit when one had carelessly thrown away the 
ticket. The solemnity of the occupants of the car seemed 
to Father Conmee excessive for a journey so short and 
cheap. Father Conmee liked cheerful decorum. It was a peaceful 
day. The gentleman with the glasses opposite Father Conmee had 
finished explaining and looked down. His wife, Father Conmee supposed. 
A tiny yawn opened the mouth of the wife of 
the gentleman with the glasses. She raised her small gloved 
fist, yawned ever so gently, tiptapping her small gloved fist 
on her opening mouth and smiled tinily, sweetly. Father Conmee 
perceived her perfume in the car. He perceived also that 
the awkward man at the other side of her was 
sitting on the edge of the seat. Father Conmee at 
the altarrails placed the host with difficulty in the mouth 
of the awkward old man who had the shaky head. 
At Annesley bridge the tram halted and, when it was 
about to go, an old woman rose suddenly from her 
place to alight. The conductor pulled the bellstrap to stay 
the car for her. She passed out with her basket 
and a marketnet : and Father Conmee saw the conductor 
help her and net and basket down : and Father 
Conmee thought that, as she had nearly passed the end 
of the penny fare, she was one of those good 
souls who had always to be told twice bless you, 
my child, that they have been absolved, pray for me. 
But they had so many worries in life, so many 
cares, poor creatures. From the hoardings Mr Eugene Stratton grinned 
with thick niggerlips at Father Conmee. Father Conmee thought of 
the souls of black and brown and yellow men and 
of his sermon of saint Peter Claver S. J. and 
