pence. (Edy Boardman, sniffling, crouched with Bertha Supple, draws her 
shawl across her nostrils.) edy boardman (Bickering.) And say the 
one : I seen you up Faithful place with your 
squarepusher, the greaser off the railway, in his cometobed hat. 
Did you, says I. That’s not for you to say, 
says I. You never seen me in the mantrap with 
a married highlander, says I. The likes of her! Stag 
that one is. Stubborn as a mule! And her walking 
with two fellows the one time, Kildbride the enginedriver and 
lancecorporal Oliphant. stephen (Triumphaliter.) Salvi facti i sunt. (He flourishes 
his ashplant shivering the lamp image, shattering light over the 
world. A liver and white spaniel on the prowl slinks 
after him, growling. Lynch scares it with a kick.) lynch 
So that? stephen (Looks behind.) So that gesture, not music 
not odours, would be a universal language, the gift of 
tongues rendering visible not the lay sense but the first 
entelechy, the structural rhythm. lynch Pornosophical philotheology. Metaphysics in Mecklenburg 
street! stephen We have shrewridden Shakespeare and henpecked Socrates. Even 
the allwisest stagyrite was bitted, bridled and mounted by a 
light of love. lynch Ba! stephen Anyway, who wants two 
gestures to illustrate a loaf and a jug! This movement 
illustrates the loaf and jug of bread and wine in 
Omar. Hold my stick. lynch Damn your yellow stick. Where 
are we going? stephen Lecherous lynx, to la belle dame 
sans merci, Georgina Johnson, ad deam qui laetificat juventutem meam. 
(Stephen thrusts the ashplant on him and slowly holds out 
his hands, his head going back till both hands are 
a span from his breast, down turned in planes intersecting, 
the fingers about to part, the left being higher.) lynch 
Which is the jug of bread? It skills not. That 
or the customhouse. Illustrate thou. Here take your crutch and 
walk. (They pass. Tommy Caffrey scrambles to a gaslamp and, 
clasping, climbs in spasms. From the top spur he slides 
down. Jacky Caffrey clasps to climb. The navvy lurches against 
the lamp. The twins scuttle off in the dark. The 
navvy, swaying, presses a forefinger against a wing of his 
nose and ejects from the farther nostril a long liquid 
jet of snot. Shouldering the lamp he staggers away through 
the crowd with his flaring cresset. Snakes of river fog 
creep slowly. From drains, clefts, cesspools, middens arise on all 
sides stagnant fumes. A glow leaps in the south beyond 
the seaward reaches of the river. The navvy staggering forward 
cleaves the crowd and lurches towards the tramsiding. On the 
farther side under the railway bridge Bloom appears flushed, panting, 
cramming bread and chocolate into a side pocket. From Gillens 
hairdressers window a composite portrait shows him gallant Nelson’s image. 
A concave mirror at the side presents to him lovelorn 
longlost lugubru Booloohoom. Grave Gladstone sees him level, Bloom for 
Bloom. He passes, struck by the stare of truculent Wellington 
but in the convex mirror grin unstruck the bonham eyes 
