area railings, compressed his hat on his head, grasped two 
points at the lower union of rails and stiles, lowered 
his body gradually by its length of five feet nine 
inches and a half to within two feet ten inches 
of the area pavement, and allowed his body to move 
freely in space by separating himself from the railings and 
crouching in preparation for the impact of the fall. Did 
he fall? By his body’s known weight of eleven stone 
and four pounds in avoirdupois measure, as certified by the 
graduated machine for periodical selfweighing in the premises of Francis 
Frœdman, pharmaceutical chemist of 19 Frederick street, north, on the 
last feast of the Ascension, to wit, the twelfth day 
of May of the bissextile year one thousand nine hundred 
and four of the christian era, (jewish era five thousand 
six hundred and sixtyfour, mohammedan era one thousand three hundred 
and twentytwo), golden number 5, epact 13, solar cycle 9, 
dominical letters C B, Roman indication 2, Julian period 6617, 
mxmiv. Did he rise uninjured by concussion? Regaining new stable 
equilibrium he rose uninjured though concussed by the impact, raised 
the latch of the area door by the exertion of 
force at its freely moving flange and by leverage of 
the first kind applied at its fulcrum gained retarded access 
to the kitchen through the subadjacent scullery, ignited a lucifer 
match by friction, set free inflammable coal gas by turning 
on the ventcock, lit a high flame which, by regulating, 
he reduced to quiescent candescence and lit finally a portable 
candle. What discrete succession of images did Stephen meanwhile perceive? 
Reclined against the area railings he perceived through the transparent 
kitchen panes a man regulating a gasflame of 14 C 
P, a man lighting a candle, a man removing in 
turn each of his two boots, a man leaving the 
kitchen holding a candle of 1 C P. Did the 
man reappear elsewhere? Alter a lapse of four minutes the 
glimmer of his candle was discernible through the semitransparent semicircular 
glass fanlight over the halldoor. The halldoor turned gradually on 
its hinges. In the open space of the doorway the 
man reappeared without his hat, with his candle. Did Stephen 
obey his sign? Yes, entering softly, he helped to close 
and chain the door and followed softly along the hallway 
the man’s back and listed feet and lighted candle past 
a lighted crevice of doorway on the left and carefully 
down a turning staircase of more than five steps into 
the kitchen of Bloom’s house. What did Bloom do? He 
extinguished the candle by a sharp expiration of breath upon 
its flame, drew two spoonseat deal chairs to the hearthstone, 
one for Stephen with its back to the area window, 
the other for himself when necessary, knelt on one knee, 
composed in the grate a pyre of crosslaid resintipped sticks 
and various coloured papers and irregular polygons of best Abram 
coal at twentyone shillings a ton from the yard of 
