the cat. Then he put a forkful into his mouth, 
chewing with discernment the toothsome pliant meat. Done to a 
turn. A mouthful of tea. Then he cut away dies 
of bread, sopped one in the gravy and put it 
in his mouth. What was that about some young student 
and a picnic? He creased out the letter at his 
side, reading it slowly as he chewed, sopping another die 
of bread in the gravy and raising it to his 
mouth. Dearest Papli, Thanks ever so much for the lovely 
birthday present. It suits me splendid. Everyone says I’m quite 
the belle in my new tam. I got mummy’s lovely 
box of creams and am writing, They are lovely. I 
am getting on swimming in the photo business now. Mr 
Coghlan took one of me and Mrs will send when 
developed. We did great biz yesterday. Fair day and all 
the beef to the heels were in. We are going 
to lough Owel on Monday with a few friends to 
make a scrap picnic. Give my love to mummy and 
to yourself a big kiss and thanks. I hear them 
at the piano downstairs. There is to be a concert 
in the Greville Arms on Saturday. There is a young 
student comes here some evenings named Bannon his cousins or 
something are big swells he sings Boylan’s (I was on 
the pop of writing Blazes Boylan’s) song about those seaside 
girls. Tell him silly Milly sends my best respects. Must 
now close with fondest love. Your fond daughter, Milly. P. 
S. Excuse bad writing, am in a hurry. Byby. M. 
Fifteen yesterday. Curious, fifteenth of the month too. Her first 
birthday away from home. Separation. Remember the summer morning she 
was born, running to knock up Mrs Thornton in Denzille 
street. Jolly old woman. Lots of babies she must have 
helped into the world. She knew from the first poor 
little Rudy wouldn’t live. Well, God is good, sir. She 
knew at once. He would be eleven now if he 
had lived. His vacant face stared pitying at the postscript. 
Excuse bad writing. Hurry. Piano downstairs. Coming out of her 
shell. Row with her in the XL Café about the 
bracelet. Wouldn’t eat her cakes or speak or look. Saucebox. 
He sopped other dies of bread in the gravy and 
ate piece after piece of kidney. Twelve and six a 
week. Not much. Still, she might do worse. Music hall 
stage. Young student. He drank a draught of cooler tea 
to wash down his meal. Then he read the letter 
again : twice. O well : she knows how to 
mind herself. But if not? No, nothing has happened. Of 
course it might. Wait in any case till it does. 
A wild piece of goods. Her slim legs running up 
the staircase. Destiny. Ripening now. Vain : very. He smiled 
with troubled affection at the kitchen window. Day I caught 
her in the street pinching her cheeks to make them 
