long kiss. It would be like heaven. For such a 
one she yearns this balmy summer eve. With all the 
heart of her she longs to be his only, his 
affianced bride for riches for poor, in sickness in health, 
till death us two part, from this to this day 
forward. And while Edy Boardman was with little Tommy behind 
the pushcar she was just thinking would the day ever 
come when she could call herself his little wife to 
be. Then they could talk about her till they went 
blue in the face, Bertha Supple too, and Edy, the 
spitfire, because she would be twentytwo in November. She would 
care for him with creature comforts too for Gerty was 
womanly wise and knew that a mere man liked that 
feeling of hominess. Her griddlecakes done to a goldenbrown hue 
and queen Ann’s pudding of delightful creaminess had won golden 
opinions from all because she had a lucky hand also 
for lighting a fire, dredge in the fine selfraising flour 
and always stir in the same direction then cream the 
milk and sugar and whisk well the white of eggs 
though she didn’t like the eating part when there were 
any people that made her shy and often she wondered 
why you couldn’t eat something poetical like violets or roses 
and they would have a beautifully appointed drawingroom with pictures 
and engravings and the photograph of grandpapa Giltrap’s lovely dog 
Garryowen that almost talked, it was so human, and chintz 
covers for the chairs and that silver toastrack in Clery’s 
summer jumble sales like they have in rich houses. He 
would be tall with broad shoulders (she had always admired 
tall men for a husband) with glistening white teeth under 
his carefully trimmed sweeping moustache and they would go on 
the continent for their honeymoon (three wonderful weeks!) and then, 
when they settled down in a nice snug and cosy 
little homely house, every morning they would both have brekky, 
simple but perfectly served, for their own two selves and 
before he went out to business he would give his 
dear little wifey a good hearty hug and gaze for 
a moment deep down into her eyes. Edy Boardman asked 
Tommy Caffrey was he done and he said yes, so 
then she buttoned up his little knickerbockers for him and 
told him to run off and play with Jacky and 
to be good now and not to fight. But Tommy 
said he wanted the ball and Edy told him no 
that baby was playing with the ball and if he 
took it there’d be wigs on the green but Tommy 
said it was his ball and he wanted his ball 
and he pranced on the ground, if you please. The 
temper of him! O, he was a man already was 
little Tommy Caffrey since he was out of pinnies. Edy 
told him no, no and to he off now with 
him and she told Cissy Caffrey not to give in 
