Birth every year almost. That’s in their theology or the 
priest won’t give the poor woman the confession, the absolution. 
Increase and multiply. Did you ever hear such an idea? 
Eat you out of house and home. No families themselves 
to feed. Living on the fat of the land. Their 
butteries and larders. I’d like to see them do the 
black fast Yom Kippur. Crossbuns. One meal and a collation 
for fear he’d collapse on the altar. A housekeeper of 
one of those fellows if you could pick it out 
of her. Never pick it out of her. Like getting 
L. s. d. out of him. Does himself well. No 
guests. All for number one. Watching his water. Bring your 
own bread and butter. His reverence mum’s the word. Good 
Lord, that poor child’s dress is in flitters. Underfed she 
looks too. Potatoes and marge, marge and potatoes. It’s after 
they feel it. Proof of the pudding. Undermines the constitution. 
As he set foot on O’Connell bridge a puffball of 
smoke plumed up from the parapet. Brewery barge with export 
stout. England. Sea air sours it, I heard. Be interesting 
some day get a pass through Hancock to see the 
brewery. Regular world in itself. Vats of porter, wonderful. Rats 
get in too. Drink themselves bloated as big as a 
collie floating. Dead drunk on the porter. Drink till they 
puke again like christians. Imagine drinking that! Rats : vats. 
Well of course if we knew all the things. Looking 
down he saw flapping strongly, wheeling between the gaunt quay 
walls, gulls. Rough weather outside. If I threw myself down? 
Reuben J’s son must have swallowed a good bellyful of 
that sewage. One and eightpence too much. Hhhhm. It’s the 
droll way he comes out with the things. Knows how 
to tell a story too. They wheeled lower. Looking for 
grub. Wait. He threw down among them a crumpled paper 
ball. Elijah thirtytwo feet per sec is com. Not a 
bit. The ball bobbed unheeded on the wake of swells, 
floated under by the bridge piers. Not such damn fools. 
Also the day I threw that stale cake out of 
the Erin’s King picked it up in the wake fifty 
yards astern. Live by their wits. They wheeled, flapping. The 
hungry famished gull. Flaps o’er the waters dull. That is 
how poets write, the similar sounds. But then Shakespeare has 
no rhymes : blank verse. The flow of the language 
it is. The thoughts. Solemn. Hamlet, I am thy father’s 
spirit Doomed for a certain time to walk the earth. 
— Two apples a penny! Two for a penny! His 
gaze passed over the glazed apples serried on her stand. 
Australians they must be this time of year. Shiny peels 
: polishes them up with a rag or a handkerchief. 
Wait. Those poor birds. He halted again and bought from 
the old applewoman two Banbury cakes for a penny and 
broke the brittle paste and threw its fragments down into 
