and blued them when they came home from the wash 
and ironed them and she had a brickbat to keep 
the iron on because she wouldn’t trust those washerwomen as 
far as she’d see them scorching the things. She was 
wearing the blue for luck, hoping against hope, her own 
colour and the lucky colour too for a bride to 
have a bit of blue somewhere on her because the 
green she wore that day week brought grief because his 
father brought him in to study for the intermediate exhibition 
and because she thought perhaps he might be out because 
when she was dressing that morning she nearly slipped up 
the old pair on her inside out and that was 
for luck and lovers’ meetings if you put those things 
on inside out so long as it wasn’t of a 
Friday. And yet and yet! That strained look on her 
face! A gnawing sorrow is there all the time. Her 
very soul is in her eyes and she would give 
worlds to be in the privacy of her own familiar 
chamber where, giving way to tears, she could have a 
good cry and relieve her pentup feelings. Though not too 
much because she knew how to cry nicely before the 
mirror. You are lovely, Gerty, it said. The paly light 
of evening falls upon a face infinitely sad and wistful. 
Gerty MacDowell yearns in vain. Yes, she had known from 
the first that her daydream of a marriage has been 
arranged and the weddingbells ringing for Mrs Reggy Wylie T. 
C. D. (because the one who married the elder brother 
would be Mrs Wylie) and in the fashionable intelligence Mrs 
Gertrude Wylie was wearing a sumptuous confection of grey trimmed 
with expensive blue fox was not to be. He was 
too young to understand. He would not believe in love, 
a woman’s birthright. The night of the party long ago 
in Stoers’ (he was still in short trousers) when they 
were alone and he stole an arm round her waist 
she went white to the very lips. He called her 
little one in a strangely husky voice and snatched a 
half kiss (the first !) but it was only the 
end of her nose and then he hastened from the 
room with a remark about refreshments. Impetuous fellow! Strength of 
character had never been Reggy Wylie’s strong point and he 
who would woo and win Gerty MacDowell must be a 
man among men. But waiting, always waiting to be asked 
and it was leap year too and would soon be 
over. No prince charming is her beau ideal to lay 
a rare and wondrous love at her feet but rather 
a manly man with a strong quiet face who had 
not found his ideal, perhaps his hair slightly flecked with 
grey, and who would understand, take her in his sheltering 
arms, strain her to him in all the strength of 
his deep passionate nature and comfort her with a long 
