reappear reborn above delta in the constellation of Cassiopeia and 
after incalculable eons of peregrination return an estranged avenger, a 
wreaker of justice on malefactors, a dark crusader, a sleeper 
awakened, with financial resources (by supposition) surpassing those of Rothschild 
or the silver king. What would render such return irrational? 
An unsatisfactory equation between an exodus and return in time 
through reversible space and an exodus and return in space 
through irreversible time. What play of forces, inducing inertia, rendered 
departure undesirable? The lateness of the hour, rendering procrastinatory : 
the obscurity of the night, rendering invisible the uncertainty of 
thoroughfares, rendering perilous the necessity for repose, obviating movement : 
the proximity of an occupied bed, obviating research : the 
anticipation of warmth (human) tempered with coolness (linen), obviating desire 
and rendering desirable : the statue of Narcissus, sound without 
echo, desired desire. What advantages were possessed by an occupied, 
as distinct from an unoccupied bed? The removal of nocturnal 
solitude, the superior quality of human (mature female) to inhuman 
(hotwaterjar) calefaction, the stimulation of matutinal contact, the economy of 
mangling done on the premises in the case of trousers 
accurately folded and placed lengthwise between the spring mattress (striped) 
and the woollen mattress (biscuit section). What past consecutive causes, 
before rising preapprehended, of accumulated fatigue did Bloom, before rising, 
silently recapitulate? The preparation of breakfast (burnt offering) : intestinal 
congestion and premeditative defecation (holy of holies) : the bath 
(rite of John) : the funeral (rite of Samuel) : 
the advertisement of Alexander Keyes (Urim and Thummin) : the 
unsubstantial lunch (rite of Melchisedek) : the visit to museum 
and national library (holy place) : the bookhunt along Bedford 
row, Merchants Arch, Wellington Quay (Simchath Torah) : the music 
in the Ormond Hotel (Shira Shirim) : the altercation with 
a truculent troglodyte in Bernard Kiernan’s premises (holocaust) : a 
blank period of time including a cardrive, a visit to 
a house of mourning, a leavetaking (wilderness) : the eroticism 
produced by feminine exhibitionism (rite of Onan) : the prolonged 
delivery of Mrs Mina Purefoy (heave offering) : the visit 
to the disorderly house of Mrs Bella Cohen, 82 Tyrone 
street, lower, and subsequent brawl and chance medley in Beaver 
street (Armageddon) : nocturnal perambulation to and from the cabman’s 
shelter, Butt Bridge (atonement). What selfimposed enigma did Bloom about 
to rise in order to go so as to conclude 
lest he should not conclude involuntarily apprehend? The cause of 
a brief sharp unforeseen heard loud lone crack emitted by 
the insentient material of a strainveined timber table. What selfinvolved 
enigma did Bloom risen, going, gathering multicoloured multiform multitudinous garments, 
voluntarily apprehending, not comprehend? Who was M’Intosh? What selfevident enigma 
pondered with desultory constancy during 30 years did Bloom now, 
having effected natural obscurity by the extinction of artificial light, 
silently suddenly comprehend? Where was Moses when the candle went 
out? What imperfections in a perfect day did Bloom, walking, 
silently, successively, enumerate? A provisional failure to obtain renewal of 
