and warts all over it. He shot his bolt, I 
can tell you! Foot to foot, knee to knee, belly 
to belly, bubs to breast! He’s no eunuch. A shock 
of red hair he has sticking out of him behind 
like a furzebush! Wait for nine months, my lad! Holy 
ginger, it’s kicking and coughing up and down in her 
guts already! That makes you wild, don’t it? Touches the 
spot? (He spits in contempt.) Spittoon! bloom I was indecently 
treated, I… inform the police. Hundred pounds. Unmentionable. I… bello 
Would if you could, lame duck. A downpour we want 
not your drizzle. bloom To drive me mad! Moll! I 
forgot! Forgive! Moll!… We… Still… bello (Ruthlessly.) No, Leopold Bloom, 
all is changed by woman’s will since you slept horizontal 
in Sleepy Hollow your night of twenty years. Return and 
see. (Old Sleepy Hollow calls over the wold.) sleepy hollow 
Rip Van Winkle! Rip Van Winkle! bloom (In tattered mocassins 
with a rusty fowlingpiece, tiptoing, fingertipping, his haggard bony bearded 
face peering through the diamond panes, cries out.) I see 
her! It’s she! The first night at Mat Dillon’s! But 
that dress, the green! And her hair is dyed gold 
and he… bella (Laughs mockingly.) That’s your daughter, you owl, 
with a Mullingar student. (Milly Bloom, fairhaired, greenvested, slimsandalled, her 
blue scarf in the seawind simply swirling, breaks from the 
arms of her lover and calls, her young eyes wonderwide.) 
milly My! It’s Papli! But, O Papli, how old you’ve 
grown! bello Changed, eh? Our whatnot, our writing table where 
we never wrote, Aunt Hegarty’s armchair, our classic reprints of 
old masters. A man and his menfriends are living there 
in clover. The Cuckoos’ Rest! Why not? How many women 
had you, say? Following them up dark streets, flatfoot, exciting 
them by your smothered grunts. What, you male prostitute? Blameless 
dames with parcels of groceries. Turn about. Sauce for the 
goose, my gander, O. bloom They… I… bello (Cuttingly.) Their 
heelmarks will stamp the Brusselette carpet you bought at Wren’s 
auction. In their horseplay with Moll the romp to find 
the buck flea in her breeches they will deface the 
little statue you carried home in the rain for art 
for art’ sake. They will violate the secrets of your 
bottom drawer. Pages will be torn from your handbook of 
astronomy to make them pipespills. And they will spit in 
your ten shilling brass fender from Hampton Leedom’s. bloom Ten 
and six. The act of low scoundrels. Let me go. 
I will return. I will prove… a voice Swear! (Bloom 
clenches his fists and crawls forward, a bowie knife between 
his teeth.) bello As a paying guest or a kept 
man? Too late. You have made your secondbest bed and 
others must lie in it. Your epitaph is written. You 
are down and out and don’t you forget it, old 
bean. bloom Justice! All Ireland versus one! Has nobody…? (He 
bites his thumb.) bello Die and be damned to you 
