speaks with a Scotch accent. The tentacles… They passed from 
behind Mr Bloom along the curbstone. Beard and bicycle. Young 
woman. And there he is too. Now that’s really a 
coincidence : secondtime. Coming events cast their shadows before. With 
the approval of the eminent poet Mr Geo. Russell. That 
might be Lizzie Twigg with him. A. E. : what 
does that mean? Initials perhaps. Albert Edward, Arthur Edmund, Alphonsus 
Eb Ed El Esquire. What was he saying? The ends 
of the world with a Scotch accent. Tentacles : octopus. 
Something occult : symbolism. Holding forth. She’s taking it all 
in. Not saying a word. To aid gentleman in literary 
work. His eyes followed the high figure in homespun, beard 
and bicycle, a listening woman at his side. Coming from 
the vegetarian. Only weggebobbles and fruit. Don’t eat a beefsteak. 
If you do the eyes of that cow will pursue 
you through all eternity. They say it’s healthier. Wind and 
watery though. Tried it. Keep you on the run all 
day. Bad as a bloater. Dreams all night. Why do 
they call that thing they gave me nutsteak? Nutarians. Fruitarians. 
To give you the idea you are eating rumpsteak. Absurd. 
Salty too. They cook in soda. Keep you sitting by 
the tap all night. Her stockings are loose over her 
ankles. I detest that : so tasteless, Those literary etherial 
people they are all. Dreamy, cloudy, symbolistic. Esthetes they are. 
I wouldn’t be surprised if it was that kind of 
food you see produces the like waves of the brain 
the poetical. For example one of those policemen sweating Irish 
stew into their shirts; you couldn’t squeeze a line of 
poetry out of him. Don’t know what poetry is even. 
Must be in a certain mood. The dreamy cloudy gull 
Waves o’er the waters dull. He crossed at Nassau street 
corner and stood before the window of Yeates and Son, 
pricing the field glasses. Or will I drop into old 
Harris’s and have a chat with young Sinclair? Wellmannered fellow. 
Probably at his lunch. Must get those old glasses of 
mine set right. Gœrz lenses, six guineas. Germans making their 
way everywhere. Sell on easy terms to capture trade. Undercutting. 
Might chance on a pair in the railway lost property 
office. Astonishing the things people leave behind them in trains 
and cloak rooms. What do they be thinking about? Women 
too. Incredible. Last year travelling to Ennis had to pick 
up that farmer’s daughter’s bag and hand it to her 
at Limerick junction. Unclaimed money too. There’s a little watch 
up there on the roof of the bank to test 
those glasses by. His lids came down on the lower 
rims of his irides. Can’t see it. If you imagine 
it’s there you can almost see it. Can’t see it. 
He faced about and, standing between the awnings, held out 
his right hand at arm’s length towards the sun. Wanted 
to try that often. Yes : completely. The tip of 
