a shell held at their ears. He heard more faintly 
that that they heard, each for herself alone, then each 
for other, hearing the plash of waves, loudly, a silent 
roar. Bronze by a weary gold, anear, afar, they listened. 
Her ear too is a shell, the peeping lobe there. 
Been to the seaside. Lovely seaside girls. Skin tanned raw. 
Should have put on coldcream first make it brown. Buttered 
toast. O and that lotion mustn’t forget. Fever near her 
mouth. Your head it simply. Hair braided over : shell 
with seaweed. Why do they hide their ears with seaweed 
hair? And Turks their mouth, why? Her eyes over the 
sheet, a yashmak. Find the way in. A cave. No 
admittance except on business. The sea they think they hear. 
Singing. A roar. The blood is it. Souse in the 
ear sometimes. Well, it’s a sea. Corpuscle islands. Wonderful really. 
So distinct. Again. George Lidwell held its murmur, hearing : 
then laid it by, gently. — What are the wild 
waves saying? he asked her, smiled. Charming, seasmiling and unanswering 
Lydia on Lidwell smiled. Tap. By Larry O’Rourke’s, by Larry, 
bold Larry O’, Böylan swayed and Boylan turned. From the 
forsaken shell Miss Mina glided to her tankard waiting. No, 
she was not so lonely archly Miss Douce’s head let 
Mr Lidwell know. Walks in the moonlight by the sea. 
No, not alone. With whom? She nobly answered : with 
a gentleman friend. Bob Cowley’s twinkling fingers in the treble 
played again. The landlord has the prior. A little time. 
Long John. Big Ben. Lightly he played a light bright 
tinkling measure for tripping ladies, arch and smiling, and for 
their gallants, gentlemen friends. One : one, one, one : 
two, one, three, four. Sea, wind, leaves, thunder, waters, cows 
lowing, the cattle market, cocks, hens don’t crow, snakes hissss. 
There’s music everywhere. Ruttledge’s door : ee creaking. No, that’s 
noise. Minuet of Don Giovanni he’s playing now. Court dresses 
of all descriptions in castle chambers dancing. Misery. Peasants outside. 
Green starving faces eating dockleaves. Nice that is. Look : 
look, look, look, look, look : you look at us. 
That’s joyful I can feel. Never have written it. Why? 
My joy is other joy. But both are joys. Yes, 
joy it must be. Mere fact of music shows you 
are. Often thought she was in the dumps till she 
began to lilt. Then know. M’Coy valise. My wife and 
your wife. Squealing cat. Like tearing silk. When she talks 
like the clapper of a bellows. They can’t manage men’s 
intervals. Gap in their voices too. Fill me. I’m warm, 
dark, open. Molly in quis est homo : Mercadante. My 
ear against the wall to hear. Want a woman who 
can deliver the goods. Jog jig jogged stopped. Dandy tan 
shoe of dandy Boylan socks skyblue clocks came light to 
earth. O, look we are so! Chamber music. Could make 
a kind of pun on that. It is a kind 
