two quiet claws. We mustn’t be led away by words, 
by sounds of words. We think of Rome, imperial, imperious, 
imperative. He extended elocutionary arms from frayed stained shirtcuffs, pausing 
: — What was their civilisation? Vast, I allow : 
but vile. Cloacae : sewers. The Jews in the wilderness 
and on the mountaintop said : It is meet to 
be here. Let us build an altar to Jehovah. The 
Roman, like the Englishman who follows in his footsteps, brought 
to every new shore on which he set his foot 
(on our shore he never set it) only his cloacal 
obsession. He gazed about him in his toga and he 
said : Is it meet to be here. Let us 
construct a watercloset. — Which they accordingly did do, Lenehan 
said, Our old ancient ancestors, as we read in the 
first chapter of Guinness’s, were partial to the running stream. 
— They were nature’s gentlemen, J.J. O’Molloy murmured. But we 
have also Roman law. — And Pontius Pilate is its 
prophet, professor MacHugh responded. — Do you know that story 
about chief Baron Palles? J.J. O’Molloy asked. It was at 
the royal university dinner. Everything was going swimmingly… — First 
my riddle, Lenehan said. Are you ready? Mr O’Madden Burke, 
tall in copious grey of Donegal tweed, came in from 
the hallway. Stephen Dedalus, behind him, uncovered as he entered. 
— Entrez, mes enfants! Lenehan cried. — I escort a 
suppliant, M. O’Madden Burke said melodiously. Youth led by Experience 
visits Notoriety. — How do you do? the editor said, 
holding out a hand. Come in. Your governor is just 
gone. ??? Lenehan said to all : — Silence! What 
opera resembles a railway line? Reflect, ponder, excogitate, reply. Stephen 
handed over the typed sheets, pointing to the title and 
signature. — Who? the editor asked. Bit torn off. — 
Mr Garrett Deasy, Stephen said : — That old pelters, 
the editor said. Who tore it? Was he short taken? 
On swift sail flaming From storm and south He comes, 
pale vampire, Mouth to my mouth. — Good day, Stephen, 
the professor said, coming to peer over their shoulders. Foot 
and mouth? Are you turned…? Bullockbefriending bard. SHINDY IN WELLKNOWN 
RESTAURANT — Good day, sir, Stephen answered, blushing. The letter 
is not mine. Mr Garrett Deasy asked me to… — 
O, I know him, Myles Crawford said, and knew his 
wife too. The bloodiest old tartar God ever made. By 
Jesus, she had the foot and mouth disease and no 
mistake! The night she threw the soup in the waiter’s 
face in the Star and Garter. Oho! A woman brought 
sin into the world. For Helen, the runaway wife of 
Menelaus, ten years the Greeks. O’Rourke, prince of Breffni. — 
Is he a widower? Stephen asked. — Ay, a grass 
one, Myles Crawford said, his eye running down the typescript. 
Emperor’s horses. Habsburg. An Irishman saved his life on the 
ramparts of Vienna. Don’t you forget! Maximilian Karl O’Donnell, graf 
