labour. The poor man starves while they are grassing their 
royal mountain stags or shooting peasants and phartridges in their 
purblind pomp of pelf and power. But their reign is 
rover for rever and ever and ev… (Prolonged applause. Venetian 
masts, maypoles and festal arches spring up. A streamer bearing 
the legends Cead Mile Failte and Mah Ttob Melek Israel 
spans the street. All the windows are thronged with sightseers, 
chiefly ladies. Along the route the regiments of the royal 
Dublin fusiliers, the Kings own Scottish borderers, the Cameron Highlanders 
and the Welsh Fusiliers, standing to attention keep back the 
crowd. Boys from High school are perched on the lampposts, 
telegraph poles, windowsills, cornices, gutters, chimneypots, railings, rainspouts, whistling and 
cheering. The pillar of the cloud appears. A fife and 
drum band is heard in the distance playing the Kol 
Nidre. The beaters approach with imperial eagles hoisted, trailing banners 
and waving oriental palms. The chryselephantine papal standard rises high, 
surrounded by pennons of the civic flag. The van of 
the procession appears headed by John Howard Parnell, city marshal, 
in a chessboard tabard, the Athlone Poursuivant and Ulster King 
of Arms. They are followed by the Right Honourable Joseph 
Hutchinson, lord mayor of Dublin, the lord mayor of Cork, 
their worships the mayors of Limerick, Galway, Sligo and Waterford, 
twentyeight Irish representative peers, sirdars, grandees and maharajahs bearing the 
cloth of estate, the Dublin Metropolitan Fire Brigade, the chapter 
of the saints of finance in their plutocratic order of 
precedence, the bishop of Down and Connor His Eminence Michael 
cardinal Logue archbishop of Armagh, primate of all Ireland, His 
Grace, the most reverend Dr William Alexander, archbishop of Armagh, 
primate of all Ireland, the chief rabbi, the presbyterian moderator, 
the heads of the baptist, anabaptist, methodist and Moravian chapels 
and the honorary secretary of the society of friends. After 
them march the guilds and trades and trainbands with flying 
colours : coopers, bird fanciers, millwrights, newspaper canvassers, law scriveners, 
masseurs, vintners, trussmakers, chimney sweeps, lard refiners, tabinet and poplin 
weavers, farriers, Italian warehousemen, church decorators, bootjack manufacturers, undertakers, silk 
mercers, lapidaries, salesmasters, corkcutters, assessors of fire losses, dyers and 
cleaners, export bottlers, fellmongers, ticketwriters, heraldic seal engravers, horse repository 
hands, bullion brokers, cricket and archery outfitters, riddlemakers, egg and 
potato factors, hosiers and glovers, plumbing contractors. After them march 
gentlemen of the bedchamber Black Rod, Deputy Garter, Gold Stick, 
the master of horse, the lord great chamberlain, the earl 
marshal, the high constable carrying the sword of state, saint 
Stephen’s iron crown, the chalice and bible. Four buglers on 
foot blow a sennet. Beefeaters reply, winding clarions of welcome. 
Under an arch of triumph Bloom appears bareheaded, in a 
crimson velvet mantletrimmed with ermine, bearing Saint Edward’s staff, the 
orb and sceptre with the dove, the curtana. He is 
seated on a milkwhite horse with long flowing crimson tail, 
richly ɒכparisoned, with golden headstall. Wild excitement. The ladies from 
their balconies throw down rosepetals. The air is perfumed with 
