on a crimson cushion, are given to him. He shows 
all that he is wearing green socks.) tom kernan You 
deserve it, your honour. bloom On this day twenty years 
ago we overcame the hereditary enemy at Ladysmith. Our howitzers 
and camel swivel guns played on his lines with telling 
effect. Half a league onward! They charge! All is lost 
now! Do we yield? No! We drive them headlong! Lo! 
We charge! Deploying to the left our light horse swept 
across the heights of Plevna and, uttering thier warcry, Bonafide 
Sabaoth, sabred the Saracen gunners to a man. the chapel 
of freeman typesetters Hear! Hear! john wyse nolan There’s the 
man that got away James Stephens. a bluecoat schoolboy Bravo! 
an old resident You’re a credit to your country, sir, 
that’s what you are. an applewoman He’s a man like 
Ireland wants. bloom My beloved subjects, a new era is 
about to dawn. I, Bloom, tell you verily it is 
even now at hand. Yea, on the word of a 
Bloom, ye shall ere long enter into the golden city 
which is to be, the new Bloomusalem in the Nova 
Hibernia of the future. (Thirty two workmen wearing rosettes, from 
all the counties of Ireland, under the guidance of Derwan 
the builder, construct the new Bloomusalem. It is a colossal 
edifice, with crystal roof built in the shape of a 
huge pork kidney, containing forty thousand rooms. In the course 
of its extension several buildings and monuments are demolished. Government 
offices are temporarily transferred to railway sheds. Numerous houses are 
razed to the ground. The inhabitants are lodged in barrels 
and boxes, all marked in red with the letters : 
L. B. Several paupers fall from a ladder. A part 
of the walls of Dublin crowded with loyal sightseers, collapses.) 
the sightseers (Dying.) Morituri te salutant. (They die.) (A man 
in a brown macintosh springs up through a trapdoor. He 
points an elongated figure at Bloom.) the man in the 
macintosh Don’t you believe a word he says. That man 
is Leopold M’Intosh, the notorious fireraiser. His real name is 
Higgins. bloom Shoot him! Dog of a christian! So much 
for M’Intosh! (A cannonshot. The man in the macintosh disappears. 
Bloom with his sceptre strikes down poppies. The instantaneous deaths 
of many powerful enemies, graziers, members of parliament, members of 
standing committees, are reported. Bloom’s bodyguard distribute Maundy money, commemoration 
medals, loaves and fishes, temperance badges, expensive Henry Clay cigars, 
free cowbones for soup, rubber preservatives, in sealed envelopes tied 
with gold thread, butter scotch, pineapple rock, billets doux in 
the form of cocked hats, readymade suits, porringers of toad 
in the hole, bottles of Jeyes’ Fluid, purchase stamps, 40 
days’ indulgences, spurious coins, dairyfed pork sausages, theatre passes, season 
tickets available for all tram lines, coupons of the royal 
and prvileged Hungarian lottery, penny dinner counters, cheap reprints of 
the World’s Twelve Worst Books : Froggy and Fritz (politic), 
Care of the Baby (infantilic), 50 Meals for 7/6 (culinic), 
