corpus delicti, my lord, a specimen of my maturer work 
disfigured by the hallmark of the beast. a voice from 
the gallery Moses, Moses, king of the jews, Wiped his 
arse in the Daily News. bloom (Bravely.) Overdrawn. beaufoy You 
low cad! You ought to be ducked in the horsepond, 
you rotter! (To the court.) Why look at the man’s 
private life! Leading a quadruple existence! Street angel and house 
devil. Not fit to be mentioned in mixed society. The 
arch conspirator of the age. bloom (To the court.) And 
he, a bachelor, how… first watch The King versus Bloom. 
Call the woman Driscoll. the crier Mary Driscoll, scullerymaid! (Mary 
Driscoll, a slipshod servant girl, approaches. She has a bucket 
on the crook of her arm and a scouringbrush in 
her hand.) second watch Another! Are you of the unfortunate 
class? mary driscoll (Indignantly.) I’m not a bad one. I 
bear a respectable character and was four months in my 
last place. I was in a situation, six pounds a 
year and my chances with Fridays out and I had 
to leave owing to his carryings on. first watch What 
do you tax him with? mary driscoll He made a 
certain suggestion but I thought more of myself as poor 
as I am. bloom (In housejacket of ripplecloth flannel trousers, 
heelless slippers, unshaven, his hair rumpled softly.) I treated you 
white. I gave you mementos, smart emerald garters far above 
your station. Incautiously I took your part when you were 
accused of pilfering. There’s a medium in all things. Play 
cricket. mary driscoll (Excitedly.) As God is looking down on 
me this night if ever I laid a hand to 
them oysters! first watch The offence complained of? Did something 
happen? mary driscoll He surprised me in the rere of 
the premises, your honour, when the missus was out shopping 
one morning with a request for a safety pin. He 
held me and I was discoloured in four places as 
a result. And he interfered twict with my clothing. bloom 
She counterassaulted. mary driscoll (Scornfully.) I had more respect for 
the scouringbrush, so I had. I remonstrated with him, your 
lord, and he remarked : Keep it quiet! (General laughter.) 
georges fottrell (Clerk of the crown and peace, resonantly.) Order 
in court! The accused will now make a bogus statement. 
(Bloom, pleading not guilty and holding a fullblown waterlily, begins 
a long unintelligible speech. They would hear what counsel had 
to say in his stirring address to the grandjury. He 
was down and out but, through branded as a black 
sheep, if he might say so, he meant to reform, 
to retrieve the memory of the past in a purely 
sisterly way and return to nature as a purely domestic 
animal. A seven months child he had been carefully brought 
up and nurtured by an aged bedridden parent. There might 
have been lapses of an erring father but he wanted 
to turn over a new leaf and now, when at 
