advice (having taken care of pence, the pounds having taken 
care of themselves). Leopold Bloom (aged 6) had accompanied these 
narrations by constant consultation of a geographical map of Europe 
(political) and by suggestions for the establishment of affiliated business 
premises in the various centres mentioned. Had time equally but 
differently obliterated the memory of these migrations in narrator and 
listener? In narrator by the access of years and in 
consequence of the use of narcotic toxin : in listener 
by the access of years and in consequence of the 
action of distraction upon vicarious experiences. What idiosyncrasies of the 
narrator were concomitant products of amnesia? Occasionally he ate without 
having previously removed his hat. Occasionally he drank voraciously the 
juice of grooseberry fool from an inclined plate. Occasionally he 
removed from his lips the traces of food by means 
of a lacerated envelope or other accessible fragment of paper. 
What two phenomena of senescence were more frequent? The myopic 
digital calculation of coins, eructation consequent upon repletion. What object 
offered partial consolation for these reminiscences? The endowment policy, the 
bank passbook, the certificate of the possession of scrip. Reduce 
Bloom by cross multiplication of reverses of fortune, from which 
these supports protected him, and by elimination of all positive 
values to a negligible negative irrational unreal quantity. Successively, in 
descending helotic order : Poverty : that of the outdoor 
hawker of imitation jewellery, the dun for the recovery of 
bad and doubtful debts, the poor rate and deputy cess 
collector. Mendicancy : that of the fraudulent bankrupt with negligible 
assets paying 1/4d in the £, sandwichman, distributor of throwaways, 
nocturnal vagrant, insinuating sycophant, maimed sailor, blind stripling, superannuated bailiff’s 
man, marfeast, lickplate, spoilsport, pickthank, eccentric public laughingstock seated on 
bench of public park under discarded perforated umbrella. Destitution : 
the inmate of Old Man’s House (Royal Hospital), Kilmainham, the 
inmate of Simpson’s Hospital for reduced but respectable men permanently 
disabled by gout or want of sight. Nadir of misery 
: the aged impotent disfranchised ratesupported moribund lunatic pauper. With 
which attendant indignities? The unsympathetic indifference of previously amiable females, 
the contempt of muscular males, the acceptance of fragments of 
bread, the simulated ignorance of casual acquaintances, the latration of 
illegitimate unlicensed vagabond dogs, the infantile discharge of decomposed vegetable 
missiles, worth little or nothing, nothing or less than nothing. 
By what could such a situation be precluded? By decease 
(change of state), by departure (change of place). Which preferably? 
The latter, by the line of least resistance. What considerations 
rendered it not entirely undesirable? Constant cohabitation impeding mutual toleration 
of personal defects. The habit of independent purchase increasingly cultivated. 
The necessity to counteract by impermanent sojourn the permanence of 
arrest. What considerations rendered it not irrational? The parties concerned, 
uniting, had increased and multiplied, which being done, offspring produced 
and educed to maturity, the parties, if not disunited were 
obliged to reunite, for increase and multiplication which was absurd, 
to form by reunion the original couple of uniting parties, 
