shagart. Put beurla on it, littlejohn. Quoth littlejohn Eglinton : 
— I was prepared for paradoxes from what Malachi Mulligan 
told us but I may as well warn you that 
if you want to shake my belief that Shakespeare is 
Hamlet you have a stern task before you. Bear with 
me. Stephen withstood the bane of miscreant eyes, glinting stern 
under wrinkled brows. A basilisk. E quando vede l’uomo l’attosca. 
Messer Brunetto, I thank thee for the word. — As 
we, or mother Dana, weave and unweave our bodies, Stephen 
said, from day to day, their molecules shuttled to and 
fro, so does the artist weave and unweave his image. 
And as the mole on my right breast is where 
it was when I was born, though all my body 
has been woven of new stuff time after time, so 
through the ghost of the unquiet father the image of 
the unliving son looks forth. In the intense instant of 
imagination, when the mind, Shelley says, is a fading coal 
that which I was is that which I am and 
that which in possibility I may come to be. So 
in the future, the sister of the past, I may 
see myself as I sit here now but by reflection 
from that which then I shall be. Drummond of Hawthornden 
helped you at that stile. — Yes, Mr Best said 
youngly, I feel Hamlet quite young. The bitterness might be 
from the father but the passages with Ophelia are surely 
from the son. Has the wrong sow by the lug. 
He is in my father. I am in his son. 
— That mole is the last to go, Stephen said, 
laughing. John Eglinton made a nothing pleasing mow. — If 
that were the birthmark of genius, he said, genius would 
be a drug in the market. The plays of Shakespeare’s 
later years which Renan admired so much breathe another spirit. 
— The spirit of reconciliation, the quaker librarian breathed. — 
There can be no reconciliation, Stephen said, if there has 
not been a sundering. Said that. — If you want 
to know what are the events which casttheir shadow over 
the hell of time of King Lear, Othello, Hamlet, Troilus 
and Cressida, look to see when and how the shadow 
lifts. What softens the heart of a man, shipwrecked in 
storms dire, Tried, like another Ulysses, Pericles, prince of Tyre? 
Head, redconecapped, buffeted, brineblinded. — A child, a girl placed 
in his arms, Marina. — The leaning of sophists towards 
the bypaths of apocrypha is a constant quantity, John Eglinton 
detected. The highroads are dreary but they lead to the 
town. Good Bacon : gone musty. Shakespeare Bacon’s wild oats. 
Cypherjugglers going the highroads. Seekers on the great quest. What 
town, good masters? Mummed in names : A. E., eon 
: Magee, John Eglinton. East of the sun, west of 
the moon : Tir na n-og. Booted the twain and 
staved. How many miles to Dublin? Three score and ten, 
