from his fob and held it at its chain’s length. 
— Can you send them by tram? Now? A darkbacked 
figure under Merchants’ arch scanned books on the hawker’s car. 
— Certainly, sir. Is it in the city? — O, 
yes, Blazes Boylan said. Ten minutes. The blond girl handed 
him a docket and pencil. — Will you write the 
address, sir? Blazes Boylan at the counter wrote and pushed 
the docket to her. — Send it at once, will 
you? he said. It’s for an invalid. — Yes, sir. 
I will, sir. Blazes Boylan rattled merry money in his 
trousers’ pocket. — What’s the damage? he asked. The blond 
girl’s slim fingers reckoned the fruits. Blazes Boylan looked into 
the cut of her blouse. A young pullet. He took 
a red carnation from the tall stemglass. — This for 
me? he asked gallantly. The blond girl glanced sideways at 
him, got up regardless, with his tie a bit crooked, 
blushing. — Yes, sir, she said. Bending archly she reckoned 
again fat pears and blushing peaches. Blazes Boylan looked in 
her blouse with more favour, the stalk of the red 
flower between his smiling teeth. — May I say a 
word to your telephone, missy? he asked roguishly. — Ma! 
Almidano Artifoni said. He gazed over Stephen’s shoulder at Goldsmith’s 
knobby poll. Two carfuls of tourists passed slowly, their women 
sitting fore, gripping frankly the handrests. Pale faces. Men’s arms 
frankly round their stunted forms. They looked from Trinity to 
the blind columned porch of the bank of Ireland where 
pigeons roocoocooed. — Anch’io ho avuto di queste idee, Almidano 
Artifoni said, quand’ ero giovine come Lei. Eppoi mi sono 
convinto che il mondo è una bestia. E peccato. Perchè 
la sua voce… sarebbe un cespite di rendita, via. Invece, 
Lei si sacrifica. — Sacrifizio incruento, Stephen said smiling, swaying 
his ashplant in slow swingswong from its midpoint, lightly. — 
Speriamo, the round mustachioed face said pleasantly. Ma, dia retta 
a me. Ci rifletta. By the stern stone hand of 
Grattan, bidding halt, an Inchicore tram unloaded straggling Highland soldiers 
of a band. — Ci rifletteró, Stephen said, glancing down 
the solid trouserleg. — Ma, sul serio, eh? Almidano Artifoni 
said. His heavy hand took Stephen’s firmly. Human eyes. They 
gazed curiously an instant and turned quickly towards a Dalkey 
tram. — Eccolo, Almidano Artifoni said in friendly haste. Venga 
a trovarmi e ci pensi. Addio, caro. — Arrivederla, maestro, 
Stephen said, raising his hat when his hand was freed. 
E grazie. — Di che? Almidano Artifoni said. Scusi, eh? 
Tante belle cose! Almidano Artifoni, holding up a baton of 
rolled music as a signal, trotted on stout trousers after 
the Dalkey tram. In vain he trotted, signalling in vain 
among the rout of barekneed gillies smuggling implements of music 
through Trinity gates. Miss Dunne hid the Capel street library 
copy of The Woman in White far back in her 
drawer and rolled a sheet of gaudy notepaper into her 
