Mr Deasy bade his keys. But prompt ventilation of this 
important question… Where Cranly led me to get rich quick, 
hunting his winners among the mudsplashed brakes, amid the bawls 
of bookies on their pitches and reek of the canteen, 
over the motley slush. Even money Fair Rebel : ten 
to one the field. Dicers and thimbleriggers we hurried by 
after the hoofs, the vying caps and jackets and past 
the meatfaced woman, a butcher’s dame, nuzzling thirstily her clove 
of orange. Shouts rang shrill from the boys’ playfield and 
a whirring whistle. Again : a goal. I am among 
them, among their battling bodies in a medley, the joust 
of life. You mean that knockkneed mother’s darling who seems 
to be slightly crawsick? Jousts. Time shocked rebounds, shock by 
shock. Jousts, slush and uproar of battles, the frozen deathspew 
of the slain, a shout of spear spikes baited with 
men’s bloodied guts. — Now then, Mr Deasy said, rising. 
He came to the table, pinning together his sheets. Stephen 
stood up. — I have put the matter into a 
nutshell, Mr Deasy said. It’s about the foot and mouth 
disease. Just look through it. There can be no two 
opinions on the matter. May I trespass on your valuable 
space. That doctrine of laissez faire which so often in 
our history. Our cattle trade. The way of all our 
old industries. Liverpool ring which jockeyed the Galway harbour scheme. 
European conflagration. Grain supplies through the narrow waters of the 
channel. The pluterperfect imperturbability of the department of agriculture. Pardoned 
a classical allusion. Cassandra. By a woman who was no 
better than she should be. To come to the point 
at issue. — I don’t mince words, do I? Mr 
Deasy asked as Stephen read on. Foot and mouth disease. 
Known as Koch’s preparation. Serum and virus. Percentage of salted 
horses. Rinderpest. Emperor’s horses at Mürzsteg, lower Austria. Veterinary surgeons. 
Mr Henry Blackwood Price. Courteous offer a fair trial, Dictates 
of common sense. Allimportant question. In every sense of the 
word take the bull by the horns. Thanking you for 
the hospitality of your columns. — I want that to 
be printed and read, Mr Deasy said. You will see 
at the next outbreak they will put an embargo on 
Irish cattle. And it can be cured. It is cured. 
My cousin, Blackwood Price, writes to me it is regularly 
treated and cured in Austria by cattledoctors there. They offer 
to come over here. I am trying to work up 
influence with the department. Now I’m going to try publicity. 
I am surrounded by difficulties, by… intrigues, by… backstairs influence, 
by… He raised his forefinger and beat the air oldly 
before his voice spoke. — Mark my words, Mr Dedalus, 
he said. England is in the hands of the jews. 
In all the highest places : her finance, her press. 
And they are the signs of a nation’s decay. Wherever 
they gather they eat up the nation’s vital strength. I 
