pro. tem. observed, or rather, his voice speaking did : 
All must work, have to, together. — I mean, of 
course, the other hastened to affirm, work in the widest 
possible sense. Also literary labour, not merely for the kudos 
of the thing. Writing for the newspapers which is the 
readiest channel nowadays. That’s work too. Important work. After all, 
from the little I know of you, after all the 
money expended on your education, you are entitled to recoup 
yourself and command your price. You have every bit as 
much right to live by your pen in pursuit of 
your philosophy as the peasant has. What? You both belong 
to Ireland, the brain and the brawn. Each is equally 
important. — You suspect, Stephen retorted with a sort of 
a half laugh, that I may be important because I 
belong to the faubourg Saint-Patrice called Ireland for short. — 
I would go a step farther, Mr Bloom insinuated. — 
But I suspect, Stephen interrupted, that Ireland must be important 
because it belongs to me. — What belongs? queried Mr 
Bloom, bending, fancying he was perhaps under some misapprehension. Excuse 
me. Unfortunately I didn’t catch the latter portion. What was 
it you?… Stephen, patently crosstempered, repeated and shoved aside his 
mug of coffee, or whatever you like to call it, 
none too politely, adding : — We can’t change the 
country. Let us change the subject. At this pertinent suggestion, 
Mr Bloom, to change the subject, looked down, but in 
a quandary, as he couldn’t tell exactly what construction to 
put on belongs to which sounded rather a far cry. 
The rebuke of some kind was clearer than the other 
part. Needless to say, the fumes of his recent orgy 
spoke then which some asperity in a curious bitter way, 
foreign to his sober state. Probably the home life, to 
which Mr Bloom attached the utmost importance, had not been 
all that was needful or he hadn’t been familiarised with 
the right sort of people. With a touch of fear 
for the young man beside him, whom he furtively scrutinised 
with an air of some consternation, remembering he had just 
come back from Paris, the eyes more especially reminding him 
forcibly of father and sister, failing to throw much light 
on the subject, however, he brought to mind instances of 
cultured fellows that promised so brilliantly, nipped in the bud 
of premature decay, and nobody to blame but themselves. For 
instance, there was the case of O’Callaghan, for one, the 
half crazy faddist, respectably connected, though of inadequate means, with 
his mad vagaries, among whose other gay doings when rotto 
and making himself a nuisance to everybody all round he 
was in the habit of ostentatiously sporting in public a 
suit of brown paper (a fact). And then the usual 
dénouement after the fun had gone on fast and furious 
he got landed into hot water and had to be 
spirited away by a few friends, after a strong hint 
