a Tory gentleman of not much in favour with our 
ascendancy party. He proposed to set up there a national 
fertilising farm to be named Omphalos with an obelisk hewn 
and erected after the fashion of Egypt and to offer 
his dutiful yeoman services for the fecundation of any female 
of what grade of life soever who should there direct 
to him with the desire of fulfilling the functions of 
her natural. Money was no object, he said, nor would 
he take a penny for his pains. The poorest kitchenwench 
no less than the opulent lady of fashion, if so 
be their constructions and their tempers were warm persuaders for 
their petitions, would find in him their man. For his 
nutriment he shewed how he would feed himself exclusively upon 
a diet of savoury tubercles and fish and coneys there, 
the flesh of these latter prolific rodents being highly recommended 
for his purpose, both broiled and stewed with a blade 
of mace and a pod or two of capsicum chillies. 
After this homily which he delivered with much warmth of 
asseveration Mr Mulligan in a trice put off from his 
hat a kerchief with which he had shielded it. The 
both, it seems, had been overtaken by the rain and 
for all their mending their pace had taken water, as 
might be observed by Mr Mulligan’s smallclothes of a hodden 
grey which was now somewhat piebald. His project meanwhile was 
very favourably entertained by his auditors and won hearty eulogies 
from all though Mr Dixon of Mary’s excepted to it, 
asking with a finicking air did he purpose also to 
carry coals to Newcastle. Mr Mulligan however made court to 
the scholarly by an apt quotation from the classics which, 
as it dwelt upon his memory seemed to him a 
sound and tasteful support of his contention : Talis ac 
tanta depravatio hujus seculi, O quirites, ut matres familiarum nostrae 
lascivas cujuslibet semiviri libici titillationes testibus ponderosis atque excelsis erectionibus 
centurionum Romanorum magnopere anteponunt while for those of ruder wit 
he drove home his point by analogies of the animal 
kingdom more suitable to their stomach, the buck and doe 
of the forest glade, the farmyard drake and duck. Valuing 
himself not a little upon his elegance, being indeed a 
proper man of his person, this talkative now applied himself 
to his dress with animadversions of some heat upon the 
sudden whimsy of the atmospherics while the company lavished their 
encomiums upon the project he had advanced. The young gentleman, 
his friend, overjoyed as he was at a passage that 
had befallen him, could not forbear to tell it his 
nearest neighbour. Mr Mulligan, now perceiving the table, asked for 
whom were those loaves and fishes and, seeing the stranger, 
he made him a civil bow and said, Pray, sir, 
was you in need of any professional assistance we could 
give? Who, upon his offer, thanked him very heartily, though 
preserving his proper distance, and replied that he was come 
