academy and the arena produce the sixshilling novel, the musichall 
song, France produces the finest flower of corruption in Mallarmé 
but the desirable life is revealed only to the poor 
of heart, the life of Homer’s Phæacians. From these words 
Mr Best turned an unoffending face to Stephen. — Mallarmé, 
don’t you know, he said, has written those wonderful prose 
poems Stephen MacKenna used to read to me in Paris. 
The one about Hamlet. He says : il se promène, 
lisant au livre de lui-même, don’t you know, reading the 
book of himself. He describes Hamlet given in a French 
town, don’t you know, a provincial town. They advertised it. 
His free hand graciously wrote tiny signs in air. Hamlet 
ou Le Distrait Pièce de Shakespeare He repeated to John 
Eglinton’s newgathered frown : — Pièce de Shakespeare, don’t you 
know. It’s so French, the French point of view. Hamlet 
ou… — The absentminded beggar, Stephen ended. John Eglinton laughed. 
— Yes, I suppose it would be, he said. Excellent 
people, no doubt, but distressingly shortsighted in some matters. Sumptuous 
and stagnant exaggeration of murder. — A deathsman of the 
soul Robert Greene called him, Stephen said. Not for nothing 
was he a butcher’s son wielding the sledded poleaxe and 
spitting in his palm. Nine lives are taken off for 
his father’s one, Our Father who art in purgatory. Khaki 
Hamlets don’t hesitate to shoot. The bloodboltered shambles in act 
five is a forecast of the concentration camp sung by 
Mr Swinburne. Cranly, I his mute orderly, following battles from 
afar. Whelps and dams of murderous foes whom none But 
we had spared… Between the Saxon smile and yankee yawp. 
The devil and the deep sea. — He will have 
it that Hamlet is a ghoststory, John Eglinton said for 
Mr Best’s behoof. Like the fat boy in Pickwick he 
wants to make our flesh creep. List! List! O list! 
My flesh hears him : creeping, hears. If thou didst 
ever… — What is a ghost? Stephen said with tingling 
energy. One who has faded into impalpability through death, through 
absence, through change of manners. Elizabethan London lay as far 
from Stratford as corrupt Paris lies from virgin Dublin. Who 
is the ghost from limbo patrum, returning to the world 
that has forgotten him? Who is king Hamlet? John Eglinton 
shifted his spare body, leaning back to judge : Lifted. 
— It is this hour of a day in mid 
June, Stephen said, begging with a swift glance their hearing. 
The flag is up on the playhouse by the bankside. 
The bear Sackerson growls in the pit near it, Paris 
garden. Canvasclimbers who sailed with Drake chew their sausages among 
the groundlings. Local colour. Work in all you know. Make 
them accomplices. — Shakespeare has left the huguenot’s house in 
Silver street and walks by the swanmews along the riverbank. 
But he does not stay to feed the pen chivying 
her game of cygnets towards the rushes. The swan of 
