of a bluey white. Colours depend on the light you 
see. Stare the sun for example like the eagle then 
look at a shoe see a blotch blob yellowish. Wants 
to stamp his trademark on everything. Instance, that cat this 
morning on the staircase. Colour of brown turf. Say you 
never see them with three colours. Not true. That half 
tabbywhite tortoiseshell in the City Arms with the letter em 
on her forehead. Body fifty different colours. Howth a while 
ago amethyst. Glass flashing. That’s how that wise man what’s 
his name with the burning glass. Then the heather goes 
on fire. It can’t be tourists’ matches. What? Perhaps the 
sticks dry rub together in the wind and light. Or 
broken bottles in the furze act as a burning glass 
in the sun. Archimedes. I have it! My memory’s not 
so bad. Ba. Who knows what they’re always flying for. 
Insects? That bee last week got into the room playing 
with his shadow on the ceiling. Might be the one 
bit me, come back to see. Birds too never find 
out what they say. Like our small talk. And says 
she and says he. Nerve they have to fly over 
the ocean and back. Lot must be killed in storms, 
telegraph wires. Dreadful life sailors have too. Big brutes of 
oceangoing steamers floundering along in the dark, lowing out like 
seacows. Faugh a ballagh. Out of that, bloody curse to 
you. Others in vessels, bit of a handkerchief sail, pitched 
about like snuff at a wake when the stormy winds 
do blow. Married too. Sometimes away for years at the 
ends of the earth somewhere. No ends really because it’s 
round. Wife in every port they say. She has a 
good job if she minds it till Johnny comes marching 
home again. If ever he does. Smelling the tail end 
of ports. How can they like the sea? Yet they 
do. The anchor’s weighed. Off he sails with a scapular 
or a medal on him for luck. Well? And the 
tephilim no what’s this they call it poor papa’s father 
had on his door to touch. That brought us out 
of the land of Egypt and into the house of 
bondage. Something in all those superstitions because when you go 
out never know what dangers. Hanging on to a plank 
or astride of a beam for grim life, lifebelt round 
round him, gulping salt water, and that’s the last of 
his nibs till the sharks catch hold of him. Do 
fish ever get seasick? Then you have a beautiful calm 
without a cloud, smooth sea, placid, crew and cargo in 
smithereens, Davy Jones’ locker. Moon looking down. Not my fault, 
old cockalorum. A lost long candle wandered up the sky 
from Mirus bazaar in search of funds for Mercer’s hospital 
and broke, drooping, and shed a cluster of violet but 
one white stars. They floated, fell : they faded. The 
shepherd’s hour : the hour of holding : hour of 
