there : quiet dusk : let everything rip. Forget. Tell 
about places you have been, strange customs. The other one, 
jar on her head, was getting the supper : fruit, 
olives, lovely cool water out of the well stonecold like 
the hole in the wall at Ashtown. Must carry a 
paper goblet next time I go to the trottingmatches. She 
listens with big dark soft eyes. Tell her : more 
and more : all. Then a sigh : silence. Long 
long long rest. Going under the railway arch he took 
out the envelope, tore it swiftly in shreds and scattered 
them towards the road. The shreds fluttered away, sank in 
the dank air : a white flutter then all sank. 
Henry Flower. You could tear up a cheque for a 
hundred pounds in the same way. Simple bit of paper. 
Lord Iveagh once cashed a sevenfigure cheque for a million 
in the bank of Ireland. Shows you the money to 
be made out of porter. Still the other brother lord 
Ardilaun has to change his shirt four times a day, 
they say. Skin breeds lice or vermin. A million pounds, 
wait a moment. Twopence a pint, fourpence a quart, eightpence 
a gallon of porter, no, one and fourpence a gallon 
of porter. One and four into twenty : fifteen about. 
Yes, exactly. Fifteen millions of barrels of porter. What am 
I saying barrels? Gallons. About a million barrels all the 
same. An incoming train clanked heavily above his head, coach 
after coach. Barrels bumped in his head : dull porter 
slopped and churned inside. The bungholes sprang open and a 
huge dull flood leaked out, flowing together, winding through mudflats 
all over the level land, a lazy pooling swirl of 
liquor bearing along wideleaved flowers of its froth. He had 
reached the open backdoor of All Hallows. Stepping into the 
porch he doffed his hat, took the card from his 
pocket and tucked it again behind the leather headband. Damn 
it. I might have tried to work M’Coy for a 
pass to Mullingar. Same notice on the door. Sermon by 
the very reverend John Conmee S. J. on saint Peter 
Claver and the African mission. Save China’s millions. Wonder how 
they explain it to the heathen Chinee. Prefer an ounce 
of opium. Celestials. Rank heresy for them. Prayers for the 
conversion of Gladstone they had too when he was almost 
unconscious. The protestants the same. Convert Dr. William. J. Walsh 
D. D. to the true religion. Buddha their god lying 
on his side in the museum. Taking it easy with 
hand under his cheek. Josssticks burning. Not like Ecce Homo. 
Crown of thorns and cross. Clever idea Saint Patrick the 
shamrock. Chopsticks? Conmee : Martin Cunningham knows him : distinguished 
looking. Sorry I didn’t work him about getting Molly into 
the choir instead of that Father Farley who looked a 
fool but wasn’t. They’re taught that. He’s not going out 
in bluey specs whit the sweat rolling off him to 
