(Black Liz, a huge rooster hatching in a chalked circle, 
rises, stretches her wings and clucks.) black liz Gara. Klook. 
Klook. Klook. (She sidles from her newlaid egg and waddles 
off.) bloom (Points to his hand.) That weal there is 
an accident. Fell and cut it twenty two years age. 
I was sixteen. zoe I see, says the blind man. 
Tell us news. stephen See? Moves to one great goal. 
I am twentytwo too. Sixteen years ago I twentytwo tumbled, 
twentytwo years ago he sixteen fell off his hobbyhorse. (He 
winces.) Hurt my hand somewhere. Must see a dentist. Money? 
(Zoe whispers to Florry. They giggle. Bloom releases his hand 
and writes idly on the table in backhand, pencilling slow 
curves.) florry What? (A hackneycar, number three hundred and twentyfour, 
with a gallant buttocked mare, driven by James Barton, Harmony 
Avenue, Donnybrook, trots past. Blazes Boylan and Lenehan sprawl swaying 
on the sideseats. The Ormond boots crouches behind on the 
axle. Sadly over the crossblind Lydia Douce and Mina Kennedy 
gaze.) the boots (Jogging, mocks them with thumb and wriggling 
wormfingers.) Haw, haw, have you the horn? (Bronze by gold 
they whisper.) zoe (To Florry.) Whisper. (They whisper again.) (Over 
the well of the car Blazes Boylan leans, his boater 
straw, set sideways, a red flower in his mouth. Lenehan, 
in a yachtsman’s cap and white shoes, officiously detaches a 
long hair from Blazes Boylan’s shoulder.) lenehan Ho! What do 
I here behold? Were you brushing the cobwebs off a 
few quims? boylan (Seated, smiles.) Plucking a turkey. lenehan A 
good night’s work. boylan (Holding up four thick bluntungulated fingers, 
winks.) Blazes Kate! Up to sample or your money back. 
(He holds out a forefinger.) Smell that. lenehan (Smells gleefully.) 
Ah! Lobster and mayonnaise. Ah! zoe and florry (Laugh together.) 
Ha ha ha ha. boylan (Jumps surely from the car 
and calls loudly for all to hear.) Hello, Bloom! Mrs 
Bloom up yet? bloom (In a flunkey’s plum plush coat 
and kneebreeches, buff stockings and powdered wig.) I’m afraid not, 
sir, the last articles….. boylan (Tosses him sixpence.) Here, to 
buy yourself a gin and splash. (He hangs his hat 
smartly on a peg of Bloom’s autlered head.) Show me 
in. I have a little private business with your wife. 
You understand? bloom Thank you, sir. Yes, sir, Madam Tweedy 
is in her bath, sir. marion He ought to feel 
himself highly honoured. (She plops splashing out of the water.) 
Raoul, darling, come and dry me. I’m in my pelt. 
Only my new hat and a carriage sponge. boylan (A 
merry twinkle in his eye.) Topping! bella What? What is 
it? (Zoe whispers to her.) marion Let him look, the 
pishogue! Pimp! And scourge himself! I’ll write to a powerful 
prostitute or Bartholomona, the bearded woman, to raise weals out 
on him an inch thick and make him bring me 
back a signed and stamped receipt. bella (Laughing.) Ho ho 
ho ho. boylan (To Bloom, over his shoulder.) You can 
