Monsieur Moore, he said, lecturer on French letters to the 
youth of Ireland. I’ll be there. Come, Kinch, the bards 
must drink. Can you walk straight? Laughing he… Swill till 
eleven. Irish nights entertainment. Lubber… Stephen followed a lubber… One 
day in the national library we had a discussion. Shakes. 
After his lub back I followed. I gall his kibe. 
Stephen, greeting, then all amort, followed a lubber jester, a 
wellkempt head, newbarbered, out of the vaulted cell into a 
shattering daylight of no thoughts. What have I learned? Of 
them? Of me? Walk like Haines now. The constant readers’ 
room. In the readers’ book Cashel Boyle O’Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall 
Farrell parafes his polysyllables. Item : was Hamlet mad? The 
quaker’s pate godlily with a priesteen in booktalk. — O 
please do, sir… I shall be most pleased… Amused Buck 
Mulligan mused in pleasant murmur with himself, selfnodding : — 
A pleased bottom. The turnstile. Is that?… Blueribboned hat… Idly 
writing… What? Looked?… The curving balustrade ; smoothsliding Mincius. Puck 
Mulligan, panamahelmeted, went step by step, iambing, trolling : John 
Eglinton, my jo, John. Why won’t you wed a wife? 
He sputtered to the air : — O, the chinless 
Chinaman! Chin Chon Eg Lin Ton. We went over to 
their playbox, Haines and I, the plumbers’ hall. Our players 
are creating a new art for Europe like the Greeks 
or M. Maeterlinck. Abbey theatre! I smell the public sweat 
of monks. He spat blank. Forgot : any more than 
he forgot the whipping lousy Lucy gave him. And left 
the femme de trente ans. And why no other children 
born? And his first child a girl? Afterwit. Go back. 
The dour recluse still there (he has his cake) and 
the douce youngling, minion of pleasure, Phedo’s toyable fair hair. 
Eh… I just eh… wanted… I forgot… he… — Longworth 
and M’Curdy Atkinson were there… Puck Mulligan footed featly, trilling 
: I hardly hear the purlieu cry Or a Tommy 
talk as I pass one by Before my thoughts begin 
to run On F. M’Curdy Atkinson, The same that had 
the wooden leg And that filibustering filibeg That never dared 
to slake his drouth, Magee that had the chinless mouth. 
Being afraid to marry on earth They masturbated for all 
they were worth. Jest on. Know thyself. Halted below me, 
a quizzer looks at me. I halt. — Mournful mummer, 
Buck Mulligan moaned. Synge has left off wearing black to 
be like nature. Only crows, priests and English coal are 
black. A laugh tripped over his lips. Longworth is awfully 
sick, he said, after what you wrote about that old 
hake Gregory. O you inquisitional drunken jew jesuit! She gets 
you a job on the paper and then you go 
and slate her drivel to Jaysus. Couldn’t you do the 
Yeats touch? He went on and down, mopping, chanting with 
waving graceful arms : — The most beautiful book that 
has come out of our country in my time. One 
