Blazes blind coddoubled bicyclers Dilly with snowcake no fancy clothes. 
Then in last wiswitchback lumbering up and down bump mashtub 
sort of viceroy and reine relish for tublumber bumpshire rose. 
Baraabum!) (The couples fall aside. Stephen whirls giddily. Room whirls 
back. Eyes closed, he totters. Red rails fly spacewards. Stars 
all around suns turn roundabout. Bright midges dance on wall. 
He stops dead.) stephen Ho! (Stephen’s mother, emaciated, rises stark 
through the floor in leper grey with a wreath of 
faded orange blossoms and a torn bridal veil, her face 
worn and noseless, green with grave mould. Her hair is 
scant and lank. She fixes her bluecircled hollow eyesockets on 
Stephen and opens her toothless mouth uttering a silent word. 
A choir of virgins and confessors sing voicelessly.) the choir 
Liliata rutilantium te confessorum… Jubilantium te virginum… (From the top 
of a tower Buck Mulligan, in particoloured jester’s dress of 
puce and yellow and clown’s cap with curling bell, stands 
gaping at her, a smoking buttered split scone in his 
hand.) buck mulligan She’s beastly dead. The pity of it! 
Mulligan meets the afflicted mother. (He upturns his eyes.) Mercurial 
Malachi. the mother (With the subtle smile of death’s madness.) 
I was once the beautiful May Goulding. I am dead. 
stephen (Horrorstruck.) Lemur, who are you? What bogey man’s trick 
is this? buck mulligan (Shakes his curling capbell.) The mockery 
of it! Kinch killed her dogsbody bitchbody. She kicked the 
bucket. (Tears of molten butter fall from his eyes into 
the scone.) Our great sweet mother! Epi oinopa ponton. the 
mother (Comes nearer, breathing upon him softly her breath of 
wetted ashes.) All must go through it, Stephen. More women 
than men in the world. You too. Time will come. 
stephen (Choking with fright, remorse and horror.) They said I 
killed you, mother. He offended your memory. Cancer did it, 
not I. Destiny. the mother (A green rill of bile 
trickling from a side of her mouth.) You sang that 
song to me. Love’s bitter mystery. stephen (Eagerly.) Tell me 
the word, mother, if you know now. The word known 
to all men. the mother Who saved you the night 
you jumped into the train at Dalkey with Paddy Lee? 
Who had pity for you when you were sad among 
the strangers? Prayer is all powerful. Prayer for the suffering 
souls in the Ursuline manual, and forty days indulgence. Repent, 
Stephen. stephen The ghoul! Hyena! the mother I pray for 
you in my other world. Get Dilly to make you 
that boiled rice every night after your brain work. Years 
and years I loved you, O my son, my firstborn, 
when you lay in my womb. zoe (Fanning herself with 
the grate fan.) I’m melting! florry (Points to Stephen.) Look! 
He’s white. bloom (Goes to the window to open it 
more.) Giddy. the mother (With smouldering eyes.) Repent! O, the 
fire of hell! stephen (Panting.) The corpsechewer! Raw head and 
bloody bones! the mother (Her face drawing near and nearer, 
