while, ceased, ogling them : six. Lawyers of the past, 
haughty, pleading, beheld pass from the consolidated taxing office to 
Nisi Prius court Richie Goulding carrying the costbag of Goulding, 
Collis and Ward and heard rustling from the admiralty division 
of king’s bench to the court of appeal an elderly 
female with false teeth smiling incredulously and a black silk 
skirt of great amplitude. — See? he said. See now 
the last one I put in is over here. Turns 
Over. The impact. Leverage, see? He showed them the rising 
column of disks on the right. — Smart idea, Nosey 
Flynn said, snuffling. So a fellow coming in late can 
see what turn is on and what turns are over. 
— See? Tom Rochford said. He slid in a disk 
for himself : and watched it shoot, wobble, ogle, stop 
: four. Turn Now On. — I’ll see him now 
in the Ormond, Lenehan said, and sound him. One good 
turn deserves another. — Do, Tom Rochford said. Tell him 
I’m Boylan with impatience. — Goodnight, M’Coy said abruptly, when 
you two begin… Nosey Flynn stooped towards the lever, snuffling 
at it. — But how does it work here, Tommy? 
he asked. — Tooraloo, Lenehan said, see you later. He 
followed M’Coy out across the tiny square of Crampton court. 
— He’s a hero, he said simply. — I know, 
M’Coy said. The drain, you mean. — Drain? Lenehan said. 
It was down a manhole. They passed Dan Lowry’s musichall 
where Marie Kendall, charming soubrette, smiled on them from a 
poster a dauby smile. Going down the path of Sycamore 
street beside the Empire musichall Lenehan showed M’Coy how the 
whole thing was. One of those manholes like a bloody 
gaspipe and there was the poor devil stuck down in 
it half choked with sewer gas. Down went Tom Rochford 
anyhow, booky’s vest and all, with the rope round him. 
And be damned but he got the rope round the 
poor devil and the two were hauled up. — The 
act of a hero, he said. At the Dolphin they 
halted to allow the ambulance car to gallop past them 
for Jervis street. — This way, he said, walking to 
the right. I want to pop into Lynam’s to see 
Sceptre’s starting price. What’s the time by your gold watch 
and chain? M’Coy peered into Marcus Tertius Moses’ sombre office, 
then at O’Neill’s clock. — After three, he said. Who’s 
riding her? — O. Madden, Lenehan said. And a game 
filly she is. While he waited in Temple bar M’Coy 
dodged a banana peel with gentle pushes of his toe 
from the path to the gutter. Fellow might damn easy 
get a nasty fall there coming along tight in the 
dark. The gates of the drive opened wide to give 
egress to the viceregal cavalcade. — Even money, Lenehan said 
returning. I knocked against Bantam Lyons in there going to 
back a bloody horse someone gave him that hasn’t an 
