learn French? She nodded, reddening and closing tight her lips. 
Show no surprise. Quite natural. — Here, Stephen said. It’s 
all right. Mind Maggy doesn’t pawn it on you. I 
suppose all my books are gone. — Some, Dilly said. 
We had to. She is drowning. Agenbite. Save her. Agenbite. 
All against us. She will drown me with her, eyes 
and hair. Lank coils of seaweed hair around me, my 
heart, my soul. Salt green death. We. Agenbite of inwit. 
Inwit’s agenbite. Misery! Misery! — Hello, Simon, Father Cowley said. 
How are things? — Hello, Bob, old man, Mr Dedalus 
answered, stopping. They clasped hands loudly outside Reddy and Daughter’s. 
Father Cowley brushed his moustache often downward with a scooping 
hand. — What’s the best news? Mr Dedalus said. — 
Why then not much, Father Cowley said. I’m barricaded up, 
Simon, with two men prowling around the house trying to 
effect an entrance. — Jolly, Mr Dedalus said. Who is 
it? — O, Father Cowley said. A certain gombeen man 
of our acquaintance. — With a broken back, is it? 
Mr Dedalus asked. — The same, Simon, Father Cowley answered. 
Reuben of that ilk. I’m just waiting for Ben Dollard. 
He’s going to say a word to Long John to 
get him to take those two men off. All I 
want is a little time. He looked with vague hope 
up and down the quay, a big apple bulging in 
his neck. — I know, Mr Dedalus said, nodding. Poor 
old bockedy Ben! He’s always doing a good turn for 
someone. Hold hard! He put on his glasses and gazed 
towards the metal bridge an instant. — There he is, 
by God, he said, arse and pockets. Ben Dollard’s loose 
blue cutaway and square hat above large slops crossed the 
quay in full gait from the metal bridge. He came 
towards them at an amble, scratching actively behind his coattails. 
As he came near Mr Dedalus greeted : — Hold 
that fellow with the bad trousers. — Hold him now, 
Ben Dollard said. Mr Dedalus eyed with cold wandering scorn 
various points of Ben Dollard’s figure. Then, turning to Father 
Cowley with a nod, he muttered sneeringly : — That’s 
a pretty garment, isn’t it, for a summer’s day? — 
Why, God eternally curse your soul, Ben Dollard growled furiously, 
I threw out more clothes in my time than you 
ever saw. He stood beside them beaming on them first 
and on his roomy clothes from points of which Mr 
Dedalus flicked fluff, saying : — They were made for 
a man in his health, Ben, anyhow. — Bad luck 
to the jewman that made them, Ben Dollard said. Thanks 
be to God he’s not paid yet. — And how 
is that basso profondo, Benjamin, Father Cowley asked. Cashel Boyle 
O’Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell, murmuring, glasseyed, strode past the Kildare 
street club. Ben Dollard frowned and, making suddenly a chanter’s 
mouth, gave forth a deep note. — Aw! he said. 
