understanding of himself. A like fate awaits him and the 
two rages commingle in a whirlpool. They list. And in 
the porches of their ears I pour. — The soul 
has been before stricken mortally, a poison poured in the 
porch of a sleeping ear. But those who are done 
to death in sleep cannot know the manner of their 
quell unless their Creator endow their souls with that knowledge 
in the life to come. The poisoning and the beast 
with two backs that urged it king Hamlet’s ghost could 
not know of were he not endowed with knowledge by 
his creator. That is why the speech (his lean unlovely 
English) is always turned elsewhere, backward. Ravisher and ravished, what 
he would but would not, go with him from Lucrece’s 
bluecircled ivory globes to Imogen’s breast, bare, with its mole 
cinquespotted. He goes back, weary of the creation he has 
piled up to hide him from himself, an old dog 
licking an old sore. But, because loss is his gain, 
he passes on towards eternity in undiminished personality, untaught by 
the wisdom he has written or by the laws he 
has revealed. His beaver is up. He is a ghost, 
a shadow now, the wind by Elsinore’s rocks or what 
you will, the sea’s voice, a voice heard only in 
the heart of him who is the substance of his 
shadow, the son consubstantial with the father. — Amen! responded 
from the doorway. Hast thou found me, O mine enemy? 
Entr’acte. A ribald face, sullen as a dean’s, Buck Mulligan 
came forward, then blithe in motley, towards the greeting of 
their smiles. My telegram. — You were speaking of the 
gaseous vertebrate, if I mistake not? he asked of Stephen. 
Primrosevested he greeted gaily with his doffed Panama as with 
a bauble. They make him welcome. Was Du verlachst wirst 
Du noch dienen. Brood of mockers : Photius, pseudomalachi, Johann 
Most. He Who Himself begot, middler the Holy Ghost, and 
Himself sent Himself, Agenbuyer, between Himself and others, Who, put 
upon by His fiends, stripped and whipped, was nailed like 
bat to barndoor, starved on crosstree, Who let Him bury, 
stood up, harrowed hell, fared into heaven and there these 
nineteen hundred years sitteth on the right hand of His 
Own Self but yet shall come in the latter day 
to doom the quick and dead when all the quick 
shall be dead already. He lifts hands. Veils fall. O, 
flowers! Bells with bells with bells aquiring. — Yes, indeed, 
the quaker librarian said. A most instructive discussion. Mr Mulligan, 
I’ll be bound, has his theory too of the play 
and of Shakespeare. All sides of life should be represented. 
He smiled on all sides equally. Buck Mulligan thought, puzzled 
: — Shakespeare? he said. I seem to know the 
name. A flying sunny smile rayed in his loose features. 
— To be sure, he said, remembering brightly. The chap 
that writes like Synge. Mr Best turned to him : 
