the shadow of the Black Church. Unspeakable messages he telephoned 
mentally to Miss Dunn at an address in d’Olier Street 
while he presented himself indecently to the instrument in the 
callbox. By word and deed he encouraged a nocturnal strumpet 
to deposit fecal and other matter in an unsanitary outhouse 
attached to empty premises. In five public conveniences he wrote 
pencilled messages offering his nuptial partner to all strongmembered males. 
And by the offensively smelling vitriol works did he not 
pass night after night by loving courting couples to see 
if and what and how much he could see? Did 
he not lie in bed, the gross boar, gloating over 
a nauseous fragment of wellused toilet paper presented to him 
by a nasty harlot, stimulated by gingerbread and a postal 
order? bello (Whistles loudly.) Say! What was the most revolting 
piece of obscenity in all your career of crime? Go 
the whole hog. Puke it out. Be candid for once. 
(Mute inhuman faces throng forward, leering, vanishing, gibbering, Booloohoom. Poldy 
Hock, Bootlaces a penny, Cassidy’s hag, blind stripling, Larry Rhinoceros, 
the girl, the woman, the whore, the other, the…) bloom 
Don’t ask me : Our mutual faith. Pleasants street. I 
only thought the half of the… I swear on my 
sacred oath… bello (Peremptorily.) Answer. Repugnant wretch! I insist on 
knowing. Tell me something to amuse me, smut or a 
bloody good ghoststory or a line of poetry, quick, quick, 
quick! Where? How? What time? With how many? I give 
you just three seconds. One! Two! Thr…! bloom (Docile, gurgles.) 
I rererepugnosed in rerererepugnant… bello (Imperiously.) O get out, you 
skunk! Hold your tongue! Speak when you’re spoken to. bloom 
(Bows.) Master! Mistress! Mantamer! (He lifts his arms. His bangle 
bracelets fall.) bello (Satirically.) By day you will souse and 
bat our smelling underclothes, also when we ladies are unwell, 
and swab out our latrines with dress pinned up and 
a dishclout tied to your tail. Won’t that be nice? 
(He places a ruby ring on her finger.) And there 
now! With this ring I thee own. Say, thank you, 
mistress. bloom Thank you, mistress. bello You will make the 
beds, get my tub ready, empty the pisspots in the 
different rooms, including old Mrs Keogh’s the cook’s, a sandy 
one. Ay, and rinse the seven of them well, mind, 
or lap it up like champagne. Drink me piping hot. 
Hop! you will dance attendance or I’ll lecture you on 
your misdeeds, Miss Ruby, and spank your bare bot right 
well, miss, with the hairbrush. You’ll be taught the error 
of your ways. At night your wellcreamed braceletted hands will 
wear fortythreebutton gloves newpowdered with talc and having delicately scented 
fingertips. For such favours knights of old laid down their 
lives. (He chuckles.) My boys will be no end charmed 
to see you so ladylike, the colonel, above all. When 
they come here the night before the wedding to fondle 
my new attraction in gilded heels. First, I’ll have a 
