I remember only ideas and sensations. Why? What happened in 
the name of God? — You were making tea, Stephen 
said, and I went across the landing to get more 
hot water. Your mother and some visitor came out of 
the drawing room. She asked you who was in your 
room. — Yes? Buck Mulligan said. What did I say? 
I forget. — You said, Stephen answered, O, it’s only 
Dedalus whose mother is beastly dead. A flush which made 
him seem younger and more engaging rose to Buck Mulligan’s 
cheek. — Did I say that? he asked. Well? What 
harm is that? He shook his constraint from him nervously. 
— And what is death, he asked, your mother’s or 
yours or my own? You saw only your mother die. 
I see them pop off every day in the Mater 
and Richmond and cut up into tripes in the dissecting 
room. It’s a beastly thing and nothing else. It simply 
doesn’t matter. You wouldn’t kneel down to pray for your 
mother on her deathbed when she asked you. Why? Because 
you have the cursed jesuit strain in you, only it’s 
injected the wrong way. To me it’s all a mockery 
and beastly. Her cerebral lobes are not functioning. She calls 
the doctor Sir Peter Teazle and picks buttercups off the 
quilt. Humour her till it’s over. You crossed her last 
wish in death and yet you sulk with me because 
I don’t whinge like some hired mute from Lalouette’s. Absurd 
! I suppose I did say it. I didn’t mean 
to offend the memory of your mother. He had spoken 
himself into boldness. Stephen, shielding the gaping wounds which the 
words had left in his heart, said very coldly : 
— I am not thinking of the offence to my 
mother. — Of what, then? Buck Mulligan asked. — Of 
the offence to me, Stephen answered. Buck Mulligan swung round 
on his heel. — O, an impossible person! he exclaimed. 
He walked off quickly round the parapet. Stephen stood at 
his post, gazing over the calm sea towards the headland. 
Sea and headland now grew dim. Pulses were beating in 
his eyes, veiling their sight, and he felt the fever 
of his cheeks. A voice within the tower called loudly 
: — Are you up there, Mulligan? — I’m coming, 
Buck Mulligan answered. He turned towards Stephen and said : 
— Look at the sea. What does it care about 
offences? Chuck Loyola, Kinch, and come on down. The Sassenach 
wants his morning rashers. His head halted again for a 
moment at the top of the staircase, level with the 
roof. — Don’t mope over it all day, he said. 
I ’m inconsequent. Give up the moody brooding. His head 
vanished but the drone of his descending voice boomed out 
of the stairhead : And no more turn aside and 
brood Upon love’s bitter mystery For Fergus rules the brazen 
cars. Woodshadows floated silently by through the morning peace from 
