his claret waistcoat and doffed his cap to her. A 
charming soubrette, great Marie Kendall, with dauby cheeks and lifted 
skirt, smiled daubily from her poster upon William Humble, earl 
of Dudley, and upon lieutenantcolonel H. G. Hesseltine and also 
upon the honourable Gerald Ward A. D. C. From the 
window of the D. B. C. Buck Mulligan gaily, and 
Haines gravely, gazed down on the viceregal equipage over the 
shoulders of eager guests, whose mass of forms darkened the 
chessboard whereon John Howard Parnell looked intently. In Fownes’s street, 
Dilly Dedalus, straining her sight upward from Chardenal’s first French 
primer, saw sunshades spanned and wheelspokes spinning in the glare. 
John Henry Menton, filling the doorway of Commercial Buildings, stared 
from winebig oyster eyes, holding a fat gold hunter watch 
not looked at in his fat left hand not feeling 
it. Where the foreleg of King Billy’s horse pawed the 
air Mrs Breen plucked her hastening husband back from under 
the hoofs of the outriders. She shouted in his ear 
the tidings. Understanding, he shifted his tomes to his left 
breast and saluted the second carriage. The honourable Gerald Ward 
A. D. C., agreeably surprised, made haste to reply. At 
Ponsonby’s corner a jaded white flagon H. halted and four 
tallhatted white flagons halted behind him, E. L. Y’. S., 
while outriders pranced past and carriages. Opposite Pigott’s music warerooms 
Mr Denis J. Maginni professor of dancing &c, gaily apparelled, 
gravely walked, outpassed by a viceroy and unobserved. By the 
provost’s wall came jauntily Blazes Boylan, stepping in tanned shoes 
and socks with skyblue clocks to the refrain of My 
girl’s a Yorkshire girl. Blazes Boylan presented to the leaders’ 
skyblue frontlets and high action a skyblue tie, a widebrimmed 
straw hat at a rakish angle and a suit of 
indigo serge. His hands in his jacket pockets forgot to 
salute but he offered to the three ladies the bold 
admiration of his eyes and the red flower between his 
lips. As they drove along Nassau street His Excellency drew 
the attention of his bowing consort to the programme of 
music which was being discoursed in College park. Unseen brazen 
highland laddies blared and drumthumped after the cortège : But 
though she’s a factory lass And wears no fancy clothes. 
Baraabum. Yet I’ve a sort of a Yorkshire relish for 
My little Yorkshire rose Baraabum. Thither of the wall the 
quartermile flat handicappers, M. C. Green, H. Thrift, T. M. 
Patey, C. Scaife, J. B. Jeffs, G. N. Morphy, F. 
Stevenson, C. Adderly, and W. C. Huggard started in pursuit. 
Striding past Finn’s hotel, Cashel Boyle O’Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell 
stared through a fierce eyeglass across the carriages at the 
head of Mr M. E. Solomons in the window of 
the Austro-Hungarian viceconsulate. Deep in Leinster street, by Trinity’s postern, 
a loyal king’s man, Hornblower, touched his tallyho cap. As 
the glossy horses pranced by Merrion square Master Patrick Aloysius 
Dignam, waiting, saw salutes being given to the gent with 
