has it, on the Trinity college estates commission. — He 
is sitting with a sweet thing in a child’s frock, 
Myles Crawford said. Go on. Well? — It was the 
speech, mark you, the professor said, of a finished orator, 
full of courteous haughtiness and pouring in chastened diction, I 
will not say the vials of his wrath but pouring 
the proud man’s contumely upon the new movement. It was 
then a new movement. We were weak, therefore worthless. He 
closed his long thin lips an instant but, eager to 
be on, raised an outspanned hand to his spectacles and, 
with trembling thumb and ringfinger touching lightly the black rims, 
steadied them to a new focus. IMPROMPTU In ferial tone 
he addressed J.J. O’Molloy : — Taylor had come there, 
you must know, from a sick bed. That he had 
prepared his speech I do not believe for there was 
not even one shorthandwriter in the hall. His dark lean 
face had a growth of shaggy beard round it. He 
wore a loose neckcloth and altogether he looked (though he 
was not) a dying man. His gaze turned at once 
but slowly from J.J. O’Molloy’s towards Stephen’s face and then 
bent at once to the ground, seeking. His unglazed linen 
collar appeared behind his bent head, soiled by his withering 
hair. Still seeking, he said : — When Fitzgibbon’s speech 
had ended John F. Taylor rose to reply. Briefly, as 
well as I can bring them to mind, his words 
were these. He raised his head firmly. His eyes bethought 
themselves once more. Witless shellfish swam in the gross lenses 
to and fro, seeking outlet. He began : — Mr 
chairman, ladies and gentlemen : Great was my admiration in 
listening to the remarks addressed to the youth of Ireland 
a moment since by my learned friend. It senned to 
me that I had been transported into a country far 
away from this country, into an age remote from this 
age, that I stood in ancient Egypt and that I 
was listening to the speech of some highpriest of that 
land addressed to the youthful Moses. His listeners held their 
cigarettes poised to hear, their smoke ascending in frail stalks 
that flowered with his speech. And let our crooked smokes. 
Noble words coming. Look out. Could you try your hand 
at it yourself? — And it seemed to me that 
I heard the voice of that Egyptian highpriest raised in 
a tone of like haughtiness and like pride. I heard 
his words and their meaning was revealed to me. FROM 
THE FATHERS It was revealed to me that those things 
are good which yet are corrupted which neither if they 
were supremely good nor unless they were good, could be 
corrupted. Ah, curse you! That’s saint Augustine. — Why will 
you jews not accept our culture, our religion and our 
language? You are a tribe of nomad herdsmen; we are 
a mighty people. You have no cities nor no wealth 
