Mr Byrne. — Day, gentlemen. They paused at the counter. 
— Who’s standing? Paddy Leonard asked. — I’m sitting anyhow, 
Nosey Flynn answered. — Well, what’ll it be? Paddy Leonard 
asked. — I’ll take a stone ginger, Bantam Lyons said. 
— How much? Paddy Leonard cried. Since when, for God’s 
sake? What’s yours, Tom? — How is the main drainage? 
Nosey Flynn asked, sipping. For answer Tom Rochford pressed his 
hand to his breastbone and hiccupped. — Would I trouble 
you for a glass of fresh water, Mr Byrne? he 
said. — Certainly, sir. Paddy Leonard eyed his alemates. — 
Lord love a duck, he said, look at what I’m 
standing drinks to! Cold water and gingerpop! Two fellows that 
would suck whisky off a sore leg. He has some 
bloody horse up his sleeve for the Gold cup. A 
dead snip. — Zinfandel is it? Nosey Flynn asked. Tom 
Rochford spilt powder from a twisted paper into the water 
set before him. — That cursed dyspepsia, he said before 
drinking. — Breadsoda is very good, Davy Byrne said. Tom 
Rochford nodded and drank. — Is it Zinfandel? — Say 
nothing, Bantam Lyons winked. I’m going to plunge five bob 
on my own. — Tell us if you’re worth your 
salt and be damned to you, Paddy Leonard said. Who 
gave it to you? Mr Bloom on his way out 
raised three fingers in greeting. — So long, Nosey Flynn 
said. The others turned. — That’s the man now that 
gave it to me, Bantam Lyons whispered. — Prrwht! Paddy 
Leonard said with scorn. Mr Byrne, sir, we’ll take two 
of your small Jamesons after that and a… — Stone 
ginger, Davy Byrne added civilly. — Ay, Paddy Leonard said. 
A suckingbottle for the baby. Mr Bloom walked towards Dawson 
street, his tongue brushing his teeth smooth. Something green it 
would have to be : spinach say. Then with those 
Röntgen rays searchlight you could. At Duke lane a ravenous 
terrier choked up a sick knuckly cud on the cobble 
stones and lapped it with new zest. Surfeit. Returned with 
thanks having fully digested the contents. First sweet then savoury. 
Mr Bloom coasted warily. Ruminants. His second course. Their upper 
jaw they move. Wonder if Tom Rochford will do anything 
with that invention of his. Wasting time explaining it to 
Flynn’s mouth. Lean people long mouths. Ought to be a 
hall or a place where inventors could go in and 
invent free. Course then you’d have all the cranks pestering. 
He hummed, prolonging in solemn echo, the closes of the 
bars : Don Giovanni, a cenar teco M’invitasti. Feel better. 
Burgundy. Good pick me up. Who distilled first? Some chap 
in the blues. Dutch courage. That Kilkenny People in the 
national library now I must. Bare clean closestools, waiting, in 
the window of William Miller, plumber, turned back his thoughts. 
They could : and watch it all the way down, 
swallow a pin sometimes come out of the ribs years 
