night. In the darkness of the dome they wait, their 
pushedback chairs, my obelisk valise, around a board of abandoned 
platters. Who to clear it? He has the key. I 
will not sleep there when this night comes. A shut 
door of a silent tower entombing their blind bodies, the 
panthersahib and his pointer. Call : no answer. He lifted 
his feet up from the suck and turned back by 
the mole of boulders. Take all, keep all. My soul 
walks with me, form of forms. So in the moon’s 
midwatches I pace the path above the rocks, in sable 
silvered, hearing Elsinore’s tempting flood. The flood is following me. 
I can watch it flow past from here. Get back 
then by the Poolbeg road to the strand there. He 
climbed over the sedge and eely oarweeds and sat on 
a stool of rock, resting his ashplant in a grike. 
A bloated carcase of a dog lay lolled on bladderwrack. 
Before him the gunwale of a boat, sunk in sand. 
Un coche ensablé, Louis Veuillot called Gautier’s prose. These heavy 
sands are language tide and wind have silted here. And 
there, the stoneheaps of dead builders, a warren of weasel 
rats. Hide gold there. Try it. You have some. Sands 
and stones. Heavy of the past. Sir Lout’s toys. Mind 
you don’t get one bang on the ear. I’m the 
bloody well gigant rolls all them bloody well boulders, bones 
for my steppingstones. Feefawfum. I zmellz de bloodz odz an 
Iridzman. A point, live dog, grew into sight running across 
the sweep of sand. Lord, is he going to attack 
me? Respect his liberty. You will not be master of 
others or their slave. I have my stick. Sit tight. 
From farther away, walking shoreward across from the crested tide, 
figures, two. The two maries. They have tucked it safe 
mong the bulrushes. Peekaboo. I see you. No, the dog. 
He is running back to them. Who? Galleys of the 
Lochlanns ran here to beach, in quest of prey, their 
bloodbeaked prows riding low on a molten pewter surf. Dane 
vikings, torcs of tomahawks aglitter on their breasts when Malachi 
wore the collar of gold. A school of turlehide whales 
stranded in hot noon, spouting, hobbling in the shallows. Then 
from the starving cagework city a horde of jerkined dwarfs, 
my people, with flayers’ knives, running, scaling, hacking in green 
blubbery whalemeat. Famine, plague and slaughters. Their blood is in 
me, their lusts my waves. I moved among them on 
the frozen Liffey, that I, a changeling, among the spluttering 
resin fires. I spoke to no-one : none to me. 
The dog’s bark ran towards him, stopped, ran back. Dog 
of my enemy. I just simply stood pale, silent, bayed 
about. Terribilia meditans. A primrose doublet, fortune’s knave, smiled on 
my fear. For that are you pining, the bark of 
their applause? Pretenders : live their lives. The Bruce’s brother, 
Thomas Fitzgerald, silken knight, Perkin Warbeck, York’s false scion, in 
