he cat-walked thru the door about two hours to curfew, 
toting a shopping bag with something long cradled to one 
side. he doffed his hunting jacket with a shiver and 
laid it across the butt-end of the counter as he 
took a stool at the bar. he waited as one 
by one the other customers headed home, certain i'd be 
the only one to be his ear he was grayed 
at the temples, buff and straight-backed. bronze eyes swam in 
memory/an emptied bottle of sweet lady of the vine--- laid 
his fate on the counter top---an embittered tarot. the moon 
turned up its face/a chorus of bad cards. i tried 
to avoid him but he beckoned "miss, you look like 
one who understands, young though you may be. and having 
no one on earth to talk to, i will tell 
you my hard fortune and hope you will profit if 
profit's to be gotten "a northern negro gentleman was i, 
well educated by wit and a nose for game---a slick 
in pin-stripe suits and fedora hats. being black i knew 
i'd have to do it all hard and fast. my 
code of conduct do before done to ---a young successful 
salesman and entrepreneur in upper state no-matter-where. i made grand 
theft dough, kept a new short every year. i was 
doing the do . but the dues i had to 
pay were bustin' my nuts. a nigger in a snow 
white world can cause quite a stir and i didn't 
have sense enough to keep my cadillac off the parking 
lot. "black power and civil rights were a decade ahead. 
slowly they began to break me, finding fault with my 
practiced perfection. i knew i could do no wrong. but 
they whined i could do no right and as i 
had no one to back me up, doubt took hold 
of my mind, infected my heart and hands. error began 
in earnest. i could no longer judge. no other black 
man in that circle had achieved my lofty height. my 
buddies gasped in awe and wondered why i complained---after all, 
i was in heaven and wore winged bucks to prove 
it "to ease my plight between any woman's thighs worked 
at first. but talk? to beauteous eyes that giggled with 
embarrassment when they could not understand? or bubbled with fear 
when they did? i was ripe for the fall and 
needed help. clutching my toe-hold, i could not bear to 
lose the choice scraps i'd snatched from massa's table. each 
night i prowled the streets looking for that higher high--- 
gambling drink drugs. absences on the job and debts accumulated. 
and no matter how bad i got them white folks 
fed my rot. it amus- ed, diverted. gave color . 
when they tired of me, i was fired "petty theft. 
jail. my life became another man's---one i did not know. 
i had no pride. begged. cheated. did anything until self- 
esteem ebbed so low i was too weak to fend 
off the final blow. one saturday night drunk out of 
my head, i got into an argument. i killed a 
man black as me. eighty-sixed his ass with a shotgun 
blast over a junky bitch that wouldn't let me scratch 
her itch. that was twenty years ago. they let me 
out last week. "but here i sit, still not a 
free man. still stewing in my own pot-likker for what 
i didn't have courage to do. i could have kept 
my self respect---do what we should of up and done 
centuries ago before confusion entered our seed." and then he 
paused. his long silence compelled me to ask, "what do 
you mean?" he reached down into the bag, unsheathed the 
double-ought and laid it on the counter top. with a 
broad strange smile, half grin, half grit he patted it 
fondly as though a long lost friend. "i'm gon- na 
kill me some white meat" careful and determined he put 
it back in its sheath and returned it to the 
bag. he pulled on his jacket, rose and stumbled out 
into the fog of that february night i dropped a 
quarter in the juke and played a scream 