there's thangs and thangs we all sittin' around in a 
circle. we all come to the workshop to get down 
and do the thang. and so the leader say "go." 
then they all start to pull out their thangs. one-by-one 
each thang is discussed and somehow, because i'm foreign/new to 
the circle they keep skippin'/passin' over me. at first i 
think this is an over- sight but after two or 
three passes i know it is deliberate. they are afraid 
of my thang. they ain't even seen it yet so 
i know that sooner or later they gonna have to 
get down to dealin' with my thang. and when they 
do i intend to make them regret how they've ignored 
my thang some of 'em start jerkin' their thangs and 
some are just diddlin' with they thangs. their thangs are 
cute and precious but they are little thangs. in fact, 
wee-wees. soon they are tired of playing among their own 
thangs. so at last they turn to me and say 
"show us what you got" so i reach down and 
expose my thang. i have a very big thang. i 
have the biggest thang on a woman they ever did 
see. they are not only upset and embarrassed but envious 
because they think anyone with a thang that big got 
to feel more than a person with a little thang. 
and because they have treated me so nastily i flaunt 
my thang outrageously i brag about its copious cum. then 
i say how many who've put their lips to my 
thang say it is sweeter than honey and twice as 
runny. and since we's all naked and looking at each 
other's thangs they hard-put to argue. somebody says some bull 
about the merits of subtlety. well i can't help what 
the thang looks like. i was born with it. one 
woman she say the larger the thang the smaller the 
brain. but by now everybody know the lie done been 
put to that myth. somebody say something about quality over 
quantity. but in my thang they come together i proceed 
to put a spotlight on it to make sure my 
thang is unforgettable. i say how my thang can get 
so stinky it'll clear a room in less than a 
minute if i don't wash it proper and i cap 
it off by saying it takes a big thang to 
do a big thang. they faces turn red. and then 
i point at all their little thangs and laugh till 
i crack 