1 i was choking her 2 she begged for mercy 
3 a problem unresolved 4 i was waiting for the 
end of the story 5 the big zeros of my 
eyes mirroring belief in a friend friend. what is that? 
the dog that trails me home each afternoon from school. 
a big brown german shepherd. i give it no name. 
no food except the occasional remains of my sack lunch. 
it never leaps upon me, but tags along happily and 
barks when it first sees me. and i smile, pat 
it a little. but when i reach home it cannot 
go past the porch. it knows. mama won't allow. dog 
turns away. some mornings i smuggle breakfast to dog who 
waits and then walks along beside me on my way 
to school. three weeks pass. one day dog is no 
longer there. i never staked a claim. lonely walk home. 
i miss dog. hope it has found a better friend. 
maybe a home there was a married one who talked 
with me. the animation of our eyes gray blue darts 
striking a black board one by one hard fast tongues 
coming out intermittently, quickly. the tongue of marx/lenin. the tongue 
of guns and overthrow. the tongue of want/possession. over the 
lips. a thirst for self-determining. youthful spit that burned images 
into rose palms. i thought we would talk like that 
always. but he had a better job than i and 
over the years traveled a lot. i married and lost 
my job. i call once in a while or drop 
a line but there is no response. something about letting 
sleeping dogs lie 8 arf arf you dog you dog 
bitch 9 i'd like to run over you in the 
streets we were on our way somewhere when i spotted 
her beneath the wig on a chilly afternoon's bus stop 
wait. sight took me back. back to that shabby rear 
house she rented. back to the draw- ings she did---the 
ones i tore into pieces. back to his arms/their arms/arms 
strangling my mind with ideas too mean to speak, my 
eyes bulging at what i was commanded to do---out of 
my skull; the pressure pushing pulsing my skull the two 
of them/her teeth like needles, my tongue thick as baked 
fish moving against my lips. niggah why don't you die? 
and i wanted to stop the car and get out. 
my heart was in my fist. all i could do 
was stare. "what are you staring at?" he asked. "nothing. 
i thought i saw someone i used to know." 11 
babies, i wanted to get them a dog 12 but 
pets are against the lease worse than jackals they sponge 
and i work for them. shuffling papers that total more 
than six figures per month/ghouls/they go in and out and 
ignore me/one of the filing cabinets. this double duty is 
breaking my ass---headaches, backaches, blood. a mass of tissue expelled. 
work dog work sprint around the track. feel the curve. 
scent---pick up that scent. rabbit ahead. rabbit ahead. slave niggah, 
slave. eyes find my back. the timid sniffing of a 
poodle. i am big and black as a doberman and 
if i come up sud- denly in the night, not 
easily seen 14 i would curl up on 15 the 
floor and allow 16 no one to pass bones are 
scarce these days. the trot down zeon lit cement lanes 
among the hungry gets me little. sometimes the half-eaten body 
of a cold hamburger or a warm night's lay on 
a castaway throw rug. pat pat pat. the losses form 
rhythms as my eyes search the faces for a kind 
one. getting too old to meander. time to find one 
with a fire. one who hunts for pleasure instead of 
game. one to go home with 