The economically stimulated thirst for blood; the unrelent- ing climate 
of national apathy and fear was the basic thrust of 
American society circa 1980. In and about the 1960s almost 
80 percent of the Black population was living in the 
major "urban centers." From 1973 on, during the then called 
"Energy Crisis Years" and the awakening "Energy Conservation Movement," Blacks 
were prevented from increasing their economic class related imita- tion 
of non-Black migration into suburban communities. It was during these 
years of American currency devaluation, spending restraint, inflation, oil shortages 
and zero population growth that the Black birthrate startlingly increased 
while that of non- minority citizenry dropped drastically. There was 
never any open acknowledgment about the evacuation of the Blacks, 
i.e., the extermination of the negro people. Few non-Black Americans 
could afford to recognize the plight of nearly a quarter 
of their population being slowly, systematically "starved," in the profoundest 
political/economic sense "to death," and remain respectable. It was the 
dominant Anglo-Saxon Protestant desire to rid its society of a 
"darker" people who represented the clear threat of racial extinction. 
During these two significant decades Black and non- Black regulations 
became more and more stringent. Civil Rights reversals took place. 
Blacks were allowed neither separate-but-equal nor minimally adequate public and/or 
private education. They were forbidden to excel in almost all 
professions. No Black was allowed to head a major corporate 
entity or sit (functionally) on its board of directors. Food 
could be obtained primarily by the use of Federal food 
stamps issued through the then Department of Health, Education and 
Welfare (HEW). During and following the Viet Nam conflict, greater 
police and drug inducement activity (the opiate/somnambulant social equations of 
alcohol, heroin, and the animal tranquilizer PCP popularly termed booze, 
skagg and angel dust) took place in the Urban Camp 
and steadily increased throughout the 70s as drugs would become 
a major issue in the coming decades. While various historians 
have pointed out that the oppres- sion of colored peoples 
was, in part, the responsibility of those oppressed (in their 
failure to unite against/fight said oppressor), others have labeled the 
extermination of millions of Blacks as an "inexcusable atrocity." Black 
Writers (creative as well as professional---poets as well as journalists) 
of the period were at the mercy of a tacit 
proclamation adhered to voraciously (in many instances and subconsciously in 
others) by television, motion pictures, newspapers and magazines as well 
as major publishing houses and, to a slightly lesser extent, 
the art world: a) Language and literature are the purest 
expression of a people. b) There is, at present, an 
antagonism between American literature and the nature of Black people. 
This situation is degenerative. c) Purity of language and literature 
is our national duty. d) Our most dangerous adversary, in 
the performance of this duty is the Black. e) Blacks 
are only able to think like Blacks. When they "write 
white" they are lying. f) We want to root out 
these lies. g) We consider Blacks alien and take the 
characters of our non-Black people seriously. Therefore, we demand censorship: 
Black works must be monitored. If they appear on television 
they must appear only in comic or fantastic form. The 
"Black way" of life must not be allowed to clutter 
the public air, public libraries or other public communication media. 
The dominant culture used every possible means to bring non-Blacks 
to consider Blacks their great inferiors. Latent anti- Black sentiment 
was formed into a powerful political weapon. Measures were taken 
to ban Blacks from further participation in the dominant American 
society, condemning Blacks to hopeless economic struggle and inevitable death 
in the subculture of the Urban Camp. 16 Approximate number 
of victims 17 of the major Urban Concentration Camps: 18 
Atlanta, Georgia 50,000 bergen-belsen 19 Jackson, Mississippi 92,000 ravensbruck 20 
Miami, Florida 63,500 buchenwald 21 San Francisco/Oakland, California 70,000 dachau 
22 New Orleans, Louisiana 138,000 mauthausen 23 Houston, Texas 74,000 
flossenburg 24 Seattle, Washington 35,000 theresienstadt 25 Boston, Massachusetts 100,000 
sachsenhausen 26 Harlem/New York City 2,000,000 auschwitz 27 Washington, D.C. 
1,380,000 maidenek 28 Chicago, Illinois 600,000 belzec 29 Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
280,000 sobibor 30 Los Angeles, California 731,800 treblinka 31 Detroit, 
Michigan 600,000 chelmno 32 Newark, New Jersey 67,500 stuthof 33 
Puerto Rico 2,350,000 34 Jonestown, Guyana 934 