She was flattered to be invited to perform on campus. 
There were several big names on program. She hoped for 
enough spill- over to give her a little bit of 
a crowd. When she got to the room where she 
was to give her recital, there was no audience. The 
event was to start in fifteen minutes. People began to 
straggle in at five minutes to the hour. Gratefully, she 
counted twelve rather lethargic listeners. The woman who was to 
introduce her was late, and so at ten minutes after 
the hour she rose and in- troduced herself. She groaned 
inwardly. The acoustics were very raspy as they tended to 
be in classrooms. There was no microphone. She would have 
to project. As she was about to start, an old 
Hasid entered the room. He looked out-of-place and she wondered 
why he had come; surely, not to hear her? And 
so she went into her thang quite intensely, expecting half 
of the audience to walk out---particularly the old man who 
had lodged himself against a wall in the back. When 
he showed no sign of budging, she relaxed and got 
into her groove. She finish- ed to enthusiastic applause and 
smiles on the faces of her listeners---all but the Hasid. 
As she gave out autographs and accepted warm hugs, he 
watched mutely as if bearing witness. She collected her honorarium 
from the embarrassed hostess who had tiptoed into the room 
after everything was over. As she said goodbye to her 
last convert the Hasid rose from his seat and approached 
her. She turned to him, curious. "Yes?" He owl- eyed 
her. "As I sat and listened to you, I tried 
to decide what kind of woman you are." He shook 
an ancient forefinger at her. "And then I looked at 
that and that and that." He pointed at her bracelets 
of copper and silver and the rings---she wore one or 
two on each finger of both hands. "And I know 
what kind of woman you are." He about-faced and indignantly 
stomped off. She stood wondering, briefly stung. She had absolutely 
no idea what he had meant and dismissed it as 
something cultural. 