he checks in at midnight to complete his peace. thoughts 
and feelings are chaotic; an unspeakable loathing, remorse, rage which 
alternate with numbness, blistering shame and an odd serenity nearing 
bliss. his young taut muscular frame speaks of love of 
the gym and working out. he fills the cramped, musty, 
aged hotel cor- ridor. the tiny room borders on clean 
and is as drab as imagined; single bed with thin 
sheets, brass fixtures tinged with green, light bulb sans shade 
casting an uncomfortable glare over the dinginess. the bathroom is 
a closet; basin of chipped enamel, stool stinking of a 
multitude of overloads, shower of cement and tile with heavy 
brown plastic drape concealing a stainless steel nozzle. there's a 
mirror in a cream-colored frame poised over the basin. in 
it he tallies stolen years. it throws back his mahogany 
skin and close-cut nappy hair. negro but nevertheless good- looking. 
that was the discount. he hasn't had his chance. if 
he'd had the money he'd be at the Hilton instead. 
there's no air conditioning. a tightly screened window faces the 
street two stories below. he opens it and soaks in 
the hustling sounds of despair: distant shrieks of sirens, the 
muted fhupp- fhupp of police copter blades, the lyrical hyperchatter 
of needle freaks, crack dealers and winos who prowl this 
turf punctuated by the periodic squeal of brakes as someone 
curbs to score. this is Hollywood in throes. his choice. 
to break clean; become evi- dent. no fear and no 
pity. there are too many begging for understanding; too many 
doing talk-show interviews; too many swamping charities in pursuit of 
dignity. he anticipates discovery: she'll enter his room with her 
passkey; a middle-aged, heavyset "sistuh" in work gloves, dungarees and 
sneakers; she won't cry out because life has, at last, 
inured her to shock. her heart will embrace him as 
if he were her own. she'll blow her labored breath 
and descend three flights of stairs to the front desk. 
she'll tell what she's seen. then she'll go on to 
complete her shift. the investigation will be brief. no identification. 
one young black male, approximately twenty-years old, depressed, good guess 
that he had the virus. cut his own throat. kkkkrist 
whatta mess. looka this he left a note. unfuckin' believable. 
what's it say? two words: pardon me. 