weaned on adversity

and epithets

answers are all i have. all signs read closed. i glide through the mist

high on Black Mountain Road, imagine going down as smoothly as

52-year-old Scotch. the imbibe is half satori, half righteous indignation.

(sie kennen was das little brown jug was, nicht wahr?) i cling to God

with sticky hands. when he shakes, i shimmy. i say yeah, DaddyMan,

sock dat thang. i say yeah to hot lattes, yeah to tightly rolled jeans,

yeah to the amens, yeah dis da way we emarginate in SoCal, yeah to

the dude with the drab olive rat tattoo crawlin' his radius. o what ugly

has seized the airwaves nixing those seven words and anything else

of interest or depth? whatever happened to the concept of a free press?

o the words are closed off and truth suffocated. a stinking something

rattles around its tomb. (there is a welcome for evil and insanity, but no

welcome for poetry.) could that be what remains of the left? think about

the rain of concrete

and flesh

onto the port authority. today's trickle—tomorrow's downpour (quiet

is kept, they flew those 747s through Fort Knox) remember—there were

no niggahs fishing nuggets out of the rubble. there is no such thing as

invisibility, only being ignored. i'm getting my daily dose of the censored

War of the Sons of Bitches on newsvision. quickly, perhaps, quicker than

i can say Cassius Clay, i find myself La Jolla surf watching. the tide

kisses my eyes, the gulls sway, the palms glisten—listening to the pulse

in my ear, the spin of wheels, the clatter of knives and forks: my soul is

engorged, my veins are rolling, my E-ticket is punched, and my discs are

degenerating—these the results of lust under pressure. when, i wonder,

will the stars drop from firmament to enshine me? when will the moon

become my halo? when will the neon drape and enfold me? in which

when will my sweet boy and i reunite? perhaps up on Black Mountain

Road, where the signs read “closed, no detour,” canyon meets sky, and

The Lost Dutchman is, at last, found

all i have, all

the answers