the dance of fire across eyelids

nude kisses—the moon revealed, hanging by a hope

infinitely round full kissables, the smack of time,

as red as rosy as purple as brown as the vistas

of mesas and canyons walking the soul

as softly as if in mules or moccasins or the coolfool

flesh of feet exposed in exquisite surrender

moody embouchures with tongue and sweet spittle

going down hot and fast and maybe

kisses on tippytoes, backdoor kisses

right under their roses the rebellion led by

rambunctious neckers in flurries of fat lips

bee-stung and bold

Eskimos and butterflies

sleepytimes and nursery rhymes

Mr. & Mrs./a marriage made of kisses

osculations along the jugular

warm and rhythmic and sloppy as all git-out

kissing with a vengeance, reinventing jawlock, loopy kissing

along the elbow and beyond

smooches cantatas percolations

suction in production

lipstick and lollipops—so languid

mug to mug mouth action—all pears and grapes

and dreamy sour cream

historical centers of gravity

night kisses day kisses

black kisses white kisses

blue kisses gray kisses

calling all kisses

in the connection between

the indomitable and the spiritual

(kiss the wind it kisses back)

flesh on flesh in flesh we salute ourselves

kisses of champagne, blood, and reason

oooooh teenagers again. Frenching

and oh and oh and oh it was the woo come true

making sparks. cherished. like—

New York City needs noise

Paris needs poets

the Mojave needs rain

like morning needs the sun

like heartbreak needs the blues

like midnight needs moans

pucker up. plant ’em. juicy—antiseptic or wise—oh

mountains of … chocolate. strawberry. caramel. lemon.

atomic kisses cuz i'm unsimply blown

kisser and kissee/the spin and the dizziness

sealed, signed, and delicioso

rising from the lips of Venus Vesta Voluptas

congratulatory exchanges after our team takes the

cup/upward go the lips riding sky and passion, the

forever promised comes with luggage, and here it is

on the doorstep on the nightstand under the topsheet

tart as green apples/the culture dish in which wishes

proliferate, the scope of a romance stretched across aeons

rude kisses—between songs, movies, the pages of books

and bibles, traveling on the wings of a smskkk, first

angelic then a picnic basket is opened and a feast

delights with devilish litanies of lost lusts, purloined

busses all pink lavender amber (gimmie some face

cruel one, lavish wit da ravish)

you kiss and fall into an abyss, torrid and

timeless mergings of the thick the thin, a medium

thru which the heart flows in all directions

joins the great river of beckonings (don't let ‘em take

you). phantoms and layerings and gropings

between movements in the dark of dawn

kisses that stain the skin, so deep, down in the

bowels they settle and sprout thru to memory

like the dead need the living

this is the kiss that cannot be/forgotten

(as if each is our last)

(as if each is our first)

(as if our lips are never parted)

(as if … )
