we ate till we could

eat no more. we ate till we

were old and poor

he weeps and snots. today he's facing reality for the zillionth

time/has grown up and old simultaneously. today he knows what

he wants to do with the rest of his life/so much time wasted.

he admits lack of foresight, neglect of responsibilities; not hating

himself but seeing himself clearly

she sees him. she listens. she lets him cry it out, does not berate

or demean him. she lets him talk it thru in part out of respect

for his ability to cry, in part for knowing how quickly his tears

turn to rages, rants, and recriminations

the crying man knows her greatest fears greatest desires. he will

use them against her if she gives him the slightest opening

the crying man is into fucking. she is into fucking. but so much

fucking under survival stress deadens her lust. she needs every

umph to carry the weight of household, job, body. she has too

little time for herself. he takes up so much of it talking, crying,

or both. rarely is he his own silence

the crying man spoils whenever the opportunity comes to her.

she's tired of reminding him how hard she's earned what little

she gets. he is taking all the luck out of her life. she doesn't know

how to tell him. she knows he's smart enough to know exactly

what he's doing

she wishes she could kill him, then, like Isis, resurrect him to

rule her underworld. perhaps he'd be happy at last, powerful

in that realm. he would have her yet not have her. like now

except more so. no. she doesn't want to kill him. she only wants

to kill the pain he causes

my bittesang my rotacock my soulnik

if she were rich she'd put as much distance as possible between

them without destroying their bond/a regenerative offing to serve

them both, bring them closer to being who they wish to be

because they are poor she is reduced to getting thru each day

with as little friction as possible

he exhausts her yet she loves him. would not be without him.

therefore, cries as much as he
