man, or state, known or unknown, We seeming solid wealth, 
strength, beauty build, But really build eidólons. The ostent evanescent, 
The substance of an artist's mood or savan's studies long, 
Or warrior's, martyr's, hero's toils, To fashion his eidólon. Of 
every human life, (The units gather'd, posted, not a thought, 
emotion, deed, left out,) The whole or large or small 
summ'd, added up, In its eidólon. The old, old urge, 
Based on the ancient pinnacles, lo, newer, higher pinnacles, From 
science and the modern still impell'd, The old, old urge, 
eidólons. The present now and here, America's busy, teeming, intricate 
whirl, Of aggregate and segregate for only thence releasing, To-day's 
eidólons. These with the past, Of vanish'd lands, of all 
the reigns of kings across the sea, Old conquerors, old 
campaigns, old sailors' voyages, Joining eidólons. Densities, growth, façades, Strata 
of mountains, soils, rocks, giant trees, Far-born, far-dying, living long, 
to leave, Eidólons everlasting. Exaltè, rapt, ecstatic, The visible but 
their womb of birth, Of orbic tendencies to shape and 
shape and shape, The mighty earth-eidólon. All space, all time, 
(The stars, the terrible perturbations of the suns, Swelling, collapsing, 
ending, serving their longer, shorter use,)Fill'd with eidólons only. The 
noiseless myriads, The infinite oceans where the rivers empty, The 
separate countless free identities, like eyesight, The true realities, eidólons. 
Not this the world, Nor these the universes, they the 
universes, Purport and end, ever the permanent life of life, 
Eidólons, eidólons. Beyond thy lectures learn'd professor, Beyond thy telescope 
or spectroscope observer keen, beyond all mathematics, Beyond the doctor's 
surgery, anatomy, beyond the chemist with his chemistry, The entities 
of entities, eidólons. Unfix'd yet fix'd, Ever shall be, ever 
have been and are, Sweeping the present to the infinite 
future, Eidólons, eidólons, eidólons. The prophet and the bard, Shall 
