race are we, from Missouri, with the continental blood intervein'd;All 
the hands of comrades clasping, all the Southern, all the 
Northern,Pioneers! O pioneers!10O resistless, restless race!O beloved race in all! 
O my breast aches with tender love for all!O I 
mourn and yet exult—I am rapt with love for all,Pioneers! 
O pioneers!11Raise the mighty mother mistress,Waving high the delicate mistress, 
over all the starry mistress, (bend your heads all,)Raise the 
fang'd and warlike mistress, stern, impassive, weapon'd mistress,Pioneers! O pioneers!12See, 
my children, resolute children,By those swarms upon our rear, we 
must never yield or falter,Ages back in ghostly millions, frowning 
there behind us urging,Pioneers! O pioneers!13On and on, the compact 
ranks,With accessions ever waiting, with the places of the dead 
quickly fill'd,Through the battle, through defeat, moving yet and never 
stopping,Pioneers! O pioneers!14O to die advancing on!Are there some of 
us to droop and die? has the hour come?Then upon 
the march we fittest die, soon and sure the gap 
is fill'd,Pioneers! O pioneers!15All the pulses of the world,Falling in, 
they beat for us, with the western move- ment beat;Holding 
single or together, steady moving, to the front, all for 
us,Pioneers! O pioneers!16Life's involv'd and varied pageants,All the forms and 
shows, all the workmen at their work,All the seamen and 
the landsmen, all the masters with their slaves,Pioneers! O pioneers!17All 
the hapless silent lovers,All the prisoners in the prisons, all 
the righteous and the wicked,All the joyous, all the sorrowing, 
all the living, all the dying,Pioneers! O pioneers!18I too with 
my soul and body,We, a curious trio, picking, wandering on 
our way,Through these shores, amid the shadows, with the ap- 
paritions pressing,Pioneers! O pioneers!19Lo! the darting bowling orb!Lo! the brother 
orbs around! all the clustering suns and planets;All the dazzling 
days, all the mystic nights with dreams,Pioneers! O pioneers!20These are 
