years a hundred, since from my parents sun- der'd, A 
little child, they caught me as the savage beast is 
caught; Then hither me, across the sea, the cruel slaver 
brought .4No further does she say, but lingering all the 
day,Her high-borne turban'd head she wags, and rolls her darkling 
eye,And curtseys to the regiments, the guidons moving by.5What is 
it, fateful woman—so blear, hardly human?Why wag your head, with 
turban bound—yellow, red and green?Are the things so strange and 
marvelous, you see or have seen? Lo! Victress on the 
Peaks!Lo! Victress on the peaks!Where thou, with mighty brow, regarding 
the world,(The world, O Libertad, that vainly conspired against thee;)Out 
of its countless, beleaguering toils, after thwarting them all;)Dominant, with 
the dazzling sun around thee,Flauntest now unharm'd, in immortal soundness 
and bloom—lo! in these hours supreme,No poem proud, I, chanting, 
bring to thee—nor mastery's rapturous verse;But a book, containing night's 
darkness, and blood- dripping wounds,And psalms of the dead. World, 
Take Good Notice.WORLD, take good notice, silver stars fading,Milky hue 
ript, weft of white detaching,Coals thirty-eight, baleful and burning,Scarlet, significant, 
hands off warning,Now and henceforth flaunt from these shores. 360 
Germs.FORMS, qualities, lives, humanity, language, thoughts,The ones known, and the 
ones unknown—the ones on the stars,The stars themselves, some shaped, 
others unshaped,Wonders as of those countries—the soil, trees, cities, inhabitants, 
whatever they may be,Splendid suns, the moons and rings, the 
countless com- binations and effects;Such-like, and as good as such-like, 
visible here or any- where, stand provided for in a 
handful of space, which I extend my arm and half 
enclose with my hand;That contains the start of each and 
all—the virtue, the germs of all. LEAVES OF GRASS. O 
ME! O LIFE!O ME! O life!…of the questions of these 
recurring;Of the endless trains of the faithless—of cities fill'd with 
