the swarms of Pekin, Canton, Benares, Delhi, Calcutta, Yedo;I see 
the Kruman in his hut, and the Dahoman and Ashantee-man 
in their huts;I see the Turk smoking opium in Aleppo;I 
see the picturesque crowds at the fairs of Khiva, and 
those of Herat;I see Teheran—I see Muscat and Medina, and 
the inter- vening sands—I see the caravans toiling onward;I see 
Egypt and the Egyptians—I see the pyramids and obelisks;I look 
on chisel'd histories, songs, philosophies, cut in slabs of sand-stone, 
or on granite-blocks;I see at Memphis mummy-pits, containing mummies, embalm'd, 
swathed in linen cloth, lying there many centuries;I look on 
the fall'n Theban, the large-ball'd eyes, the side-drooping neck, the 
hands folded across the breast.29 I see the menials of 
the earth, laboring;I see the prisoners in the prisons;I see 
the defective human bodies of the earth;I see the blind, 
the deaf and dumb, idiots, hunchbacks, lunatics;I see the pirates, 
thieves, betrayers, murderers, slave- makers of the earth;I see the 
helpless infants, and the helpless old men and women.30 I 
see male and female everywhere;I see the serene brotherhood of 
philosophs;I see the constructiveness of my race;I see the results 
of the perseverance and industry of my race;I see ranks, 
colors, barbarisms, civilizations—I go among them—I mix indiscriminately,And I salute 
all the inhabitants of the earth.1131 You, whoever you are!You 
daughter or son of England!You of the mighty Slavic tribes 
and empires! you Russ in Russia!You dim-descended, black, divine-soul'd African, 
large, fine-headed, nobly-form'd, superbly destin'd, on equal terms with me!You 
Norwegian! Swede! Dane! Icelander! you Prus- sian!You Spaniard of Spain! 
you Portuguese!You Frenchwoman and Frenchman of France!You Belge! you liberty-lover 
of the Netherlands!You sturdy Austrian! you Lombard! Hun! Bohemian! farmer 
of Styria!You neighbor of the Danube!You working-man of the Rhine, 
the Elbe, or the Weser! you working-woman too!You Sardinian! you 
