latent armies—a million soldiers wait- ing ever-ready,Bards towering like hills—(no 
more these dots, these pigmies, these little piping straws, these 
gnats, that fill the hour, to pass for poets;)Bards with 
songs as from burning coals, or the light- ning's fork'd 
stripes!Ample Ohio's bards—bards for California! inland bards—bards of the war;)(As 
a wheel turns on its axle, so I find my 
chants turn- ing finally on the war;)Bards of pride! Bards 
tallying the ocean's roar, and the swooping eagle's scream!You, by 
my charm, I invoke! PIONEERS! O PIONEERS!1COME, my tan-faced children,Follow 
well in order, get your weapons ready;Have you your pistols? 
have you your sharp edged axes?Pioneers! O pioneers!2For we cannot 
tarry here,We must march my darlings, we must bear the 
brunt of danger,We, the youthful sinewy races, all the rest 
on us depend, Pioneers! O pioneers!3O you youths, western youths,So 
impatient, full of action, full of manly pride and friendship,Plain 
I see you, western youths, see you tramping with the 
foremost,Pioneers! O pioneers!4Have the elder races halted?Do they droop and 
end their lesson, wearied, over there beyond the seas?We take 
up the task eternal, and the burden, and the lesson,Pioneers! 
O pioneers!5All the past we leave behind;We debouch upon a 
newer, mightier world, varied world;Fresh and strong the world we 
seize, world of labor and the march,Pioneers! O pioneers!6We detachments 
steady throwing,Down the edges, through the passes, up the mountains 
steep,Conquering, holding, daring, venturing, as we go, the unknown ways,Pioneers! 
O pioneers!7We primeval forests felling,We the rivers stemming, vexing we, 
and piercing deep the mines within;We the surface broad surveying, 
we the virgin soil up- heaving,Pioneers! O pioneers!8Colorado men are 
we,From the peaks gigantic, from the great sierras and the 
high plateaus,From the mine and from the gully, from the 
hunting trail we come,Pioneers! O pioneers!9From Nebraska, from Arkansas,Central inland 
