To keep the weakness secret. To deny it and break 
through. In the dream of chieftains, the corn distinct again 
in gold-white tuft-feathers. The roads all paved, stony, savage; the 
knocking in the chest resumed. 2 Your father has a 
passion for freedom 3 Rang and rang in the small 
boy's head. I will go to the doorstep of a 
woman will keep me secret. He stands, in Rushville, on 
the threshold of Mary Sleeth's house. I've known her long, 
he thinks; she speaks out, she'll keep a secret; and 
stares at her out of his cloud.---Take me in and 
keep me here. 5 ---What's the matter, Wendell? Come in. 
6 Thanks. Nothing. At all. 7 ---You look as though 
you need a doctor, Wendell, 8 ---Swear to me now. 
9 The man sits in the rocking bedroom, claws 10 
Hooked in his heart : anger denying rage, 11 Pain 
and refusal of pain, an image of himself. 12 Chill, 
and renewed, the animal, predatory, 13 Grips a stone statue 
of a stone hero. 14 ---Swear to me you will 
not call a doctor, Mary. 15 A woman hiding the 
exposed hidden man, whisper of green in 16 the night, 
weakness like blood over the green night, 17 Seed blown 
by the wind over rock. Cracks in the rock. 18 
A great flight of clouds. The cry of meteors falling. 
19 In a rich sunny autumn, this implacable cold. 20 
Mary, Mary, hide me! 21 Concealing what the man has 
always concealed 22 From his own eyes. 23 Now that 
the sunburst throws over him its sack of nails, 24 
Torture and a jungle of kings and monkeys, 25 And 
pain prepared in darkness so the muscles lock 26 Flowing 
away in confusion. My wounded king, 27 Father of pain. 
He will not think of the man 28 Finding a 
newborn son, himself in the pool. 29 Hide me, he 
hears his stripped heart wanting said. 30 Hide me from 
eyes and voices. 31 I am the man hidden in 
incident, 32 The boy as fluid as the tulip tree, 
33 The angel, his glowing shoulder to the stone, 34 
About to roll away all dead things. 35 Wounded. Now 
hide me, Mary. 36 I cannot be that man, boy, 
angel, stone. 37 There is a hunting animal on my 
soul. 38 I refuse the smell of his breath! 39 
You hide me now. I am not done for yet. 
40 She swears. She turns down the bed and draws 
the blinds. 