Day lilies, yellow daisies, Queen Anne's lace. A barrel, a 
box of sand, a bucket of water. There is a 
child. He looks up into the young woman's eyes, and 
away down the path. Toward him is walking a broad 
tall man, broader than the bear, smiling and blue-eyed. Willkie 
is walking between two girls in their clear summer colors, 
on his way up the college hill. He sees the 
little knotted boy, and the young woman, dark, in her 
dress of the most deep rose, color of inner petals. 
He smiles at the girl and the child. They look 
up at him, their faces lit from everywhere. The child 
goes on playing in the sandbox. The man stops. Did 
you want to speak to me? he says, abruptly. Yes, 
says the girl. Did you believe what you said in 
your speech? That's right, he says. Maybe there should be 
other words for these things, says the girl, half smiling. 
The students watch his face. I'll tell you, he says 
heavily, I never have held with those who blame our 
troubles on words. But you used to say things that 
were---slightly different. Didn't you? I guess I am---slightly different, by 
now, he says. But I still like people to disagree 
with me. What a pity, she answers, and her smile 
opens to him. This time, I've been agreeing. I'd like 
to talk to you more about this, he says. Later? 
Perhaps later. Fine boy, says Willkie. Although, for him, the 
child is too thin and pointed, his haircut outlandish, his 
look not really direct. Your brother? He's my friend Paul, 
says the girl, touching the child's arm. A gleam passes 
over the shallow-featured face. Where do you come from? the 
child asks Willkie. He speaks very quickly, with a curious, 
aggressive charm, like a trace of accent. Indiana. And just 
now England. Indiana? What country is that? America. The U.S.A. 
Right in the middle of it. He recognizes suddenly: the 
child's a refugee, of course. But all my people came 
from Germany. Mine too; yes, Miss Lorence? says the child. 
And through England, too. Yours ... why did they come 
here? he asks the man. Partly to come away from 
there; mostly to live here. Oh, says the boy. He 
is finished talking. He looks down at the sand, and 
picks up the bucket of water. In a curve of 
motion, he pours out the water, brilliant under sunlight, upon 
the yellow sand. Willkie looks down. The water is traveling 
over; the sight hits him with a shock like pain; 
as if his heart were turning against him and attacking. 
The sand, with the streams running through it, is striking 
his sight with the shape of a tree of rivers. 
Gullies, branches, the widened valleys down. Glinting on water. The 
shadows beside the grains, in his clear sudden sight. Ground 
coming up, and his sight, swinging through the precise air, 
until he looks down again at the sand. He sees 
it as a field under his fall when he fell 
with a parachute, a long time ago; he sees it 
as a bowl of food, a small boy staring down 
at the creases of a landscape, hills, juices, and islands 
where a small strange child is playing. Waiting before him, 
strong and running bright. As a bowl of food; as 
the earth seen far-off; as sand in a box; brown 
branches traced wet in a strong symbol, where a child 
plays, pouring out his summer. 